Let's take our Bibles and turn to John chapter 5. Alright, John chapter 5 and You do not have a sermon outline printed, but I did provide those blank sheets. I wonder if there will be door prizes for anyone who's able to get all seven points. Of the sermon. I don't know. We'll have to find out. But you have that sheet. If you are a note taker, that's for your benefit. John chapter five, and we're talking tonight about the deity of Christ. All right, the deity of Christ. Another way you could say that is the divinity of Christ. Looking at the fact that Jesus is God. If there's anything We stand on as Christians. If there's anything that can describe us as Christians, it's we believe that Jesus is God. And therefore we strive to love him above all things. That's where we are. That's who we are. We believe Jesus is God, and therefore we strive to love him. Above all things, to love him with all that we are, to love him most. We trust him as our Savior, we serve him as our master, and we worship him. As our Creator and King, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our topic. It's a pretty good topic, pretty central topic, right? The deity of Christ from John Chapter 5. Now, our passage actually is going to go from verse 1 to verse 29. Instead of reading the whole thing at the beginning, We'll just read portions as we go through. But I do want to begin with verse 18, because verse 18. Focuses us in on the main point. So let's begin with that. John 5, verse 18. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath , But he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. There's two key elements in that verse. That can summarize the doctrine of Christ. First is the personal distinction between Jesus the Son and God the Father. That's number one. The distinction between the Son and the Father, and here's how you see that in the phrase, he was even calling God his own father. So you have the Son addressing the Father. The Son making a distinction between himself and the person of the Father. So that's one key component of The person of Christ is the personal distinction between the Son and the Father. But you also see this phrase at the end of verse 18 Making himself equal with God. Making himself equal with God. And when the unbelieving Jews discerned That Jesus was making himself equal with God, it says that's why they were seeking all the more to kill him So you have equality with God the Father at the same time as you have personal distinction from God the Father. Distinction, but you also have equality, or it's been called identity. Essential identity. That's his deity, the deity of Christ. So verse 18 is a really good verse to begin with, not only because it summarizes and encapsulates those two key components of the person of Christ, but also that's the hinge of the chapter. as we'll see when we get into it. The first part of this chapter, we'll see a sign that Jesus is God, or as we like to call them, miracles. Alright, we'll see a sign that Jesus is God. And then in the second part of the chapter, you'll have teaching from Jesus himself, teaching that he is God. Oftentimes you'll have that, especially in John, where you'll have the sign, so it's a story that describes the event. It's a story that explains the miracle that happened. But then you'll have after that you'll have teaching that gives further interpretation and further explanation to what that sign really meant. For example, you the huge example. will be the feeding of the 5,000. And then the teaching that follows from that sign miracle giving further explanation and further application. So, verse 18, the central verse, shows us personal distinction between the Father and the Son. We all need to know that. We all need to be grounded in that doctrine. But it also shows us the equality. of the Son to the Father. We definitely all need to be grounded in that because that's the doctrine of the deity of Christ. We believe that Jesus is God Jesus taught that he was God. The scriptures teach that Jesus is God. Therefore we strive to love him above all things as our God. As I've already said, we trust him as our Savior, we serve him as our master, and we worship him as our Creator King. Now, let's look at this section. There'll be a few points underneath this, but this is the first section, this sign that Jesus is God, or this miracle. This shows Jesus is God. And so for point number one, note takers, point number one, we'll see the power of his word. Alright, the power of his word from verses 1 to 9. After this there was a feast of the Jews. Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda, which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I am going, another steps down before me. We can pause there for just a second. Apparently there's some kind of um myth, some kind of belief about Healing powers, maybe angelic powers in this pool that when it was stirred up there could be healing. So when Jesus asks him, Do you want to be healed? He it says he's no one to help him get in the pool to be healed when it's stirred up. And he tries to go in, but people go in before him, and he can't get there. Verse 8 and 9. Verses 8 and 9, Jesus said to him, Get up, take your bed, and walk, and at once the man was healed. And he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. It's such a vivid picture of the power of the word of Jesus Christ. He gives the command, get up, take up your bed and walk, and at once the man was healed And he took up his bed and walked. There's nothing in between. It's the power of Christ's word to speak. Into existence, the ability to walk, into a man whose body had been he had been an invalid for 38 years, but at the word of Jesus Christ, he's instantaneously fully healed. And it's meant to show us the power of his word. The power of his word to heal this man. What could possibly be the application for us? Is the application a mere superficial physical healing point? No, it is not. The signs, the miracles, have a theological lesson behind them. And the theological lesson here is obvious. It was the point, the power of his word. The power of Christ's word to us. Is his word living and active in your heart? Is his word shaping and reshaping and fine-tuning the thinking and the thought process of your mind? Christ's word is equally powerful today. Our biggest need is Christ's word in our lives. Jesus Christ is not just an idea. He is alive. He is a living Savior. And through Amen. Through His Word and by the work of His Spirit, Christ. Gives us everything we need for life and godliness. He encourages us when we're down. He teaches us and gives us guidance when we're confused. He convicts us when we're in sin, but we're turning a blind eye to it. He Brings us to repentance and enables us to turn away from that sin and find restoration. God 's word coming from Christ through the power of the Spirit. Is that it needs to be living and active in our own hearts and in our own minds. Brothers and sisters, that's a real thing. Not just a theory, it's not just a box to check on an exam that we believe God's word is living and active. What I'm asking myself and then asking you also, is his word living and active? in Matt's heart, in your heart, in your Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. The Word of Christ The power of his word is incredible. The power of his word is amazing. The power of his word is everything for us if we want to live for God. Do you want to live for God? We need Christ's word. And then you see number two, point take note takers, point number two. We see persecution from his people. Persecution from his people. You would think they would throw a parade for him, right? You would think they'd be really happy, at least high-fiving him. Look at verses 10 to 16. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your bed. First of all. Wrong. Absolutely wrong. God never said that. Read the Old Testament a thousand times. God never said to an invalid, you can't pick up your bed on the Sabbath. Never. That's a man -made lol. That was a nice little mini rant, wasn't it? Is it good? As far as rants go. Nine point five. I have to step up my rant game for Pastor John. Uh but it but isn't it uh it can be frustrating when you see so-called righteous, so-called religious making up rules and saying that God made that rule. God didn't make that rule, that was preached on this morning. That's Using God's name in vain, even though they don't use the name of God here. Verse 11, but he answered them, the man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. Seems like they don't know Jesus' name yet, which is pr which uh if you look if you look back at the last verse of chapter four, this This appears to be really, really early in Jesus' ministry. Possibly we don't know this for sure, but possibly even before John the Baptist was put in prison, when you had this overlap time with John the Baptist ministry. in Jesus' ministry, which John is the only one who records that time frame. But you see right at the end of chapter 4, this was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea To Galilee. So this is really early, because Jesus did a multitude of signs. Once he got into his Galilean ministry, he everywhere he goes, he's doing a lot of healings, a lot of exercise exorcisms. So it it I'm saying that 'cause it looks like they don't really know even his name, which would have been incredible. I mean that would have been out of the question once Jesus was into his ministry, they would have known who he was, especially in Jerusalem. So they asked him, Who is this man? They said to you, Take up your bed and walk Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in the place. Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you see, you are well Sin no more that nothing worse may happen to you. It looks like it looks pretty clear that This man had been living in a pattern of sin. Maybe was continuing to live in that pattern of sin. And if he doesn't repent, there could be some kind of historical judgment, some kind of providential judgment or discipline that will come his way. We don't know all the details But it's pretty hard to avoid something along those lines when you read this in verse fourteen. See your well, but sin no more that nothing worse may happen to you. Verse fifteen The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this is why the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. Persecuting Jesus. Verse 6. 16. He has persecution from his own people because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. He was not breaking God's law. It's not against God's law to do good on the Sabbath. It's not against God's law to show mercy on the Sabbath. It's not against God's law to heal an invalid. on the Sabbath. It's not against God's law for someone to pick up their mat, their bed that they sleep on and walk on the Sabbath. It's not against The law of God. But they were persecuting Jesus because he was doing his ministry on the Sabbath. Makes me think of John 1:11. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. I think there's a good application here, too, because Jesus is doing a good deed. And he's getting persecuted for it. And we need to remember that. Just because we have good news for the world, doesn't mean the world is going to love us. You bring the good news of the gospel, the world's not they're not going to be throwing you a parade either. They didn't throw Jesus a parade They're not giving him high fives for healing on the Sabbath. And the world is not going to have that, always is not going to have that positive we love you reaction for bringing what is good. You bring what is good, but you get persecution. Unless God changes the heart. That's what we're trusting. We're trusting that God will change hearts by his truth and by his gospel. But the world's natural reaction, the unbelieving, hostile world's natural reaction is to persecute and to come in hostility and opposition against that which is good. This is amazing, isn't it? That which they need most is what they most reject. And that's where we all were apart from the grace of God. All of us in the flesh oppose the very thing that we need most, which is the truth and the grace of God. You see the power of his word, that was number one. Then you see number two, persecution from his people. Rather than being received, rather than being happy for this man. They're angry, and they're self-righteous persecutors of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, number three, number three, point number three, we see That the person of Christ is equal to God. His person, who he that means who he is, his identity, is equal to God. And this is from verses 17 and 18. But Jesus answered them, he's answering their persecution, persecution and rejection. Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now. And I am working. And this was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him. Because not only Was he breaking the Sabbath, at least in their minds, he was breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God? There was something about Jesus' teaching where he was claiming God was his father in a unique way. Because we would say that we're children of God, and we would say that God is our father, and God teaches us In the Bible, to pray to him as our Father, our Father in heaven. That's not wrong, but then there's a uniqueness to the Messiah. There's a uniqueness to the office of Christ, where God is your Father in a In a special way, in a unique way. And that's what the Jews were discerning in what Jesus was saying. And that's exactly what the text says. Jesus says, My Father is working until now, and I am working There's something in this, and Jesus will flesh this out in the coming paragraphs, that Jesus is making his work on the same par as God the Father's work. You have the work of God and the work of Christ, and they're overlapping that He is sharing in the work of God. He is doing the works of God. God is his Father in that special way. And the Jews, the unbelieving Jews at least, saw this, and it says This, verse 18, this is why they were seeking to kill him, not only because he was breaking the Sabbath, but calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So don't be afraid to say that God is your father. Don't be afraid to pray, our Father who art in heaven. Just don't make God your father in the unique way that only Jesus can. He is equal to God. Now why is this important? Well this, brothers and sisters, this is core Christian doctrine This is absolutely without question essential Christian doctrine. This is not like different views on end times This is absolutely essential Christian doctrine, understanding the doctrine of the deity of Christ, that the Son is equal to the Father, and that the Son is personally distinct from the Father and the Holy Spirit. As well, but that really doesn't come into this passage, so we'll focus on the Father and Son. So one doctrine that comes up is the doctrine of the Trinity. The three in oneness of God, that God is one in essence, but three in person. One divine essence with three distinct persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. spirit. But if you deny that Jesus is God, then you lose the doctrine of the Trinity. You can say that Jesus is God, but if you deny the personal distinction between Jesus and the Father, you also lose the doctrine of the Trinity. So, this is core Christian doctrine. One doctrine it touches is the doctrine of the Trinity. God is one in essence, three in persons. But it also connects immediately with the doctrine of the incarnation. of the incarnation that Jesus is truly man and at the same time truly God. You have to have that in your doctrine. It's got to be in your theology. This is not a debatable matter. This is a matter where groups would divide over. If there's a group that believes Jesus is truly man but not truly God, we are a different group. We believe Jesus is truly man and truly God. The doctrine of the incarnation and the doctrine of the Trinity Pillars, foundations , center of Christian doctrine. It's not just enough to believe the facts about what Jesus did on earth. You have to know who he is He is. You have to know who he is. He is God. Mormons believe that Jesus was a created being. They'll use the language of divine, but they use it in a way that's different from us and different from the Bible. It's a divinity that he receives from the Father. He's created. He's not equal to the Father in the Mormon religion. Jehovah's Witnesses, same thing, articulated in a different way with different details, but they also believe that Jesus Is a created being not equal to the Father. Muslim religion do not believe that Jesus is divine in any sense. He was merely human. He was a prophet. They would say, but he is not to be worshipped. Judaism do not believe in any way that Jesus is divine. He is merely human. He is a false prophet. He is a blasphemer. He is certainly not to be worshipped. Within some professing Christian groups, emphasis on the professing Christian groups is taught the doctrine of modalism. Just keep your mind on the the root word of mode, different mode. And the the heresy, the unbiblical error heresy of modalism is that you don't have distinct persons of a Trinity. Rather you have one divine essence that changes modes of expression. Changes from one form to the other form in different modes of expression. That's a heresy. That denies the doctrine of the Trinity, that rejects the biblical teaching of the Trinity, that God is one essence and three eternally distinct persons. Now, the biblical view, the Christian view, is that Jesus is God. He's the second person of the Trinity, second person co-equal with the Father, co-eternal with the Father. He's a distinctive person, but equally divine. And that's what the Jews, the unbelieving Jews of that generation and of our generation, reject. Reject that. They can't have that. Philippians 2:8 says that G 2. 7 and 8 says that Jesus emptied himself by taking the form of a servant. Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. That's talking about the incarnation and the work of redemption. The eternal Son of God took on the form of a man, the form of a servant, Philippians 2. 7, being born in the likeness of men, Philippians 2. 7, being found in human form, Philippians 2. two eight. Eternal God, the person of the Son, in human form. Why would he do that? Here's why. To be obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. And if I were to ask you why would he die on a cross, you would already know. To save sinners. Like us, to save sinners like us and reconcile us to God. This sign, this miracle of Jesus to heal this invalid by the power of his word, and then number two, the persecution that came from his people. Not only because of doing this on the Sabbath, but then claiming, claiming to be equal with God. Then you also see Jesus clarifies in his words, in his person. His personhood, his identity, he is equal to God the Father. And now the rest of the chapter We get into teaching from Jesus Himself, flushing out this point about the works So look, before we get into this next section, look into what Jesus says again, one more time in verse 17. He says, His father is working until now, and I am working. And what he's going to do is flesh out that idea that he does the works of the Father. He does the works of God. When you see the works of Jesus, you see the works of God. That's essentially what he was saying to the To the audience, and that's why they wanted to kill him, but now he's going to flesh that out. Teaching that Jesus is God. So point number four, Jesus will teach that he knows And he does the works of the Father. All right? He knows, and he does the works of the Father. That's point four on your outline. And this comes from verses 19 and 20. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing, and greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel He knows and he does the works of the Father of the Father. Now in his human nature, you do see Jesus submitting to the Father and obeying the Father, but this is saying something deeper. At the same time, he as God, he has a unique insight into the works of the Father that nobody else has. He has a unique role in the works of the Father that nobody else has. Why? Because he's God the Son. So you have the incarnate Christ in his human nature in the work of redemption. Submitting to the Father, obeying the Father, crying out in prayer to the Father and other things, but at the same time, he is God. He is truly God. And he has a unique insight and a unique role in the works of God. And it's connected to the Father loving him in a unique way, too. And you see that in John 3. 35 as well. Not only this verse, but John 3. 35. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. Now We can't say that about ourselves. We could say that the Father loves us, but we cannot say, I hope you wouldn't say, that the Father has given all things into your hand. Only Jesus can say that. Only Jesus can say that the Father has delegated the governance of everything to me. Only Jesus can say that, that he's handed the universe over. To the Son. John 3:35. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. He knows. Jesus knows, and Jesus does the works of the Father. And that is connected to his equality with the Father and being God. You know, when we think of the work of God in our lives. We can't think about that properly unless we're thinking about Jesus' ministry to us. God ministers to us always through the Son and always in the power of the Spirit God doesn't divide himself up when he does his works in the world. He didn't do it in creation. He doesn't do it in his providence. He didn't do it in all of his working with Israel. And he doesn't do it in our lives. God doesn't The Father splits off and the Spirit splits off and the Son splits off. They're all unified in their work in our lives. The Father is working in your heart. Through the Son and in the power of the Spirit. And when we go to God in prayer, we're going to God in prayer in the name of the Son and with the aid and help of the Holy Spirit. We have to have a Trinitarian view of salvation. We have to have a Trinitarian view of sanctification, of God's work in our lives, because Jesus knows and Jesus does the works of the Father. You know John 1. 1, famous verse. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God And the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. That's verse 2. And then verse 3 is about creation. All things were made through him. All things were made through the Son, and apart from him nothing was made that has been made. The Father created, but the Son also created. In fact, the Father created through the Son. In Hebrews 1 3, it says of the Son that he upholds the universe by the word of his power. So the Father sustains the world, but the Son also sustains the world. In fact, the Father sustains the world through the Son. Just like you created the world through the Son. The Father saved Israel from Egypt. Do you remember that story? It's kind of an important story in the Bible, right? The Father saved Israel from Egypt, but likewise the Son saved Israel from Egypt. Jude, verse 5. Jude writes of Jesus who saved the people out of the land of Egypt. The Father saved Israel. The Son saves Israel. In fact, the Father saved Israel through the working of his son. And the father led Israel in the desert and watched over Israel in the desert. And guess what? Hopefully you can guess what I'm going to say next. So also did the son. 1 Corinthians 10 4, talking about Israel in the wilderness after the Exodus. 1 Corinthians 10 4, they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. The Father saving, the Father leading, the Father protecting, and it's also the Son redeeming, the Son guiding, the Son protecting, it's the Father working. through the ministry of the Son, in the power of the Holy Spirit, in the manifest power of the Holy Spirit for the Exodus. Though he knows the works of God He does the works of God because he is God. And now what Jesus will do, and this will be the rest of our points, Jesus will give some very important examples of this. How his works are the works of God. God has delegated to the Son specific divine works that only the Son can do because the Son, too, is divine. And so this would be point number five. He gives life to the dead. The Son gives life to the dead. Only God can do that. Only God can give life to the dead. Verse 21. For as the Father raises the dead, and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father raises the dead, the Son raises the dead. The Father gives them life The Son gives them life. The Father does this for whom he will, and the Son also to whom He will. The Son does the works of the Father. The Son knows the works of the Father intimately. The Son is God. Now, when we think of that point that the Son gives life to the dead, the first application that we can think of is when we just think about our salvation. How we were dead in sin. We were dead in trespasses and sin. And God the Son came into our lives with the truth, the Bible truth. God the Son opened our hearts to the gospel, and God the Son saved us He saved us. He gave us life. We were spiritually dead, and the Son brought us to life. This is such an important thing in the Bible. It's such a main theme in John. You can look at John 4 14, flip back just one page, maybe two pages. John 4, 14, this classic story of Jesus talking with the woman at the well. And he says, But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life Jesus gives the water that gives eternal life. That's just an elaborate way, a detailed way of saying that Jesus Himself gives eternal life because He's the one that gives the water. You can't get this water anywhere else. And the water will come to represent, will come to symbolize in John the indwelling Holy Spirit. And that only comes from Jesus So Jesus gives life. He gives the water that leads to life. And then if you want to flip a few pages forward, this comes after our passage, John 6, 27. And this he says to his disciples when they found him on the other side of the sea. After walking on water, he'll say, in 627 , do not work for the food that perishes. But for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. He's uh set his seal, he's authenticated him, this is the Christ, this is my son, this is the Savior. That's what means the Father has set his seal on the Son Here it's similar to the water. This is another elaborate and detailed way of saying only Jesus can give the eternal life. Why? Because the food Gives eternal life, but where does the food come from? The food comes from Jesus. Labor or work for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. You can't get that food anywhere else And the food he's referring to is himself. The food is the metaphor for Jesus. He'll say this later in John, very shortly after this They'll say you need to eat his flesh and drink his blood in order to be saved. But that's symbolizing believing in him. as the Savior. Believing in Him on the basis of His life, on the basis of His death, you believe in Him and you have eternal life. So that's whereas the water is a symbol for the indwelling spirit that comes from Christ, the food is a symbol of Jesus himself and the benefits of his death. Obviously that also comes from Christ. John ten, flip a few more pages. John ten twenty -eight. In this right after this classic section on Jesus as the Good Shepherd, Jesus says in 1028, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Now, is that security or is that security? Is that assurance or is that assurance? I give them eternal life. Now that's pretty clear there. There's no metaphor there. That's just I give them eternal life. And on the basis of that eternal life, it says, they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. That's assurance of salvation. Because eternal life lasts forever. So if you have eternal life, you are forever secure in the hands of God. No one can snatch you out of Christ's hand And then he says in verse 28, My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hands. So, I mean, this is just assurance on top of security, on top of confidence. Because you're in the hands of the Father and you're safe there, but also you're in the hands of the Son and you're safe there. No one can snatch you out of The hands of God. Again, he says, I give them eternal life. And just one more in the high priestly prayer, John 17, 2 Jesus now is praying to the Father, and he says, He's talking about Himself, the Son, since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. To give eternal life to all whom you have given him. That's talking about the elect. That's talking about the people whom God has purposed to save. God has given a people to the Son. And the Son will give those people eternal life. That's what he says. To give eternal life to all whom you have given him. That's a pretty neat picture. It's supposed to fill us with confidence and assurance and security. One more from 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians 15:45. Thus it is written: The first man, Adam, became a living being. You remember that right? When God formed Adam and then God breathed into Adam and gave Adam life. So the first man Adam became a living being. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. James says quickening, a quickening spirit. The last Adam refers to who? Somebody preached about this recently. Jesus Christ. You had the first Adam and the last Adam. The first Adam is Adam. God breathed life into him so that he would live. But the last Adam is Christ. He breathes life into sinners so that sinners would live. He's a life-giving spirit. He's a quickening spirit. He doesn't need to be quickened by the Father. He doesn't need to have Life breathed into him like the first Adam, he breathes life into dead sinners. It's Jesus that gives eternal life. And Jesus is our message Our message is Jesus, that sinners would come to Jesus and receive the gift of eternal life on the basis of his sacrifice. Well, we have just two more points here. Number one, we saw the power of his word and that incredible sign, that incredible miracle. Number two, we saw persecution from his people. They should have been happy. Can I get an amen on this? They should have been glad. They should have been doing backflips and somersaults. And cartwheels in the streets at the power and kindness of Jesus. And they wanted to kill him Number three, his personhood, his identity is equal to God. Number four, he knows and does the works of the Father in a unique way. Number five, prime example, top example. Number five, one of those works that he does. Is he gives life to the dead. Number six, he also judges the world. He judges the world and will judge the world. This comes from verses 22. We're back in chapter 5. 22 to 23. For the father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the son. So that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Now, there's a whole sermon in those verses. For the Father judges no one. Now, there's a specific reason why that's the case. Because he's delegated that judgment to the son. That's the only reason you say the father judges no one. The father judges no one because he's given all judgment to the son. If he didn't delegate that judgment over to the son, the father would Still have that job on his plate. He's delegated the judgment of the world to the incarnate Son. And on the final day of judgment, it will be the incarnate and exalted Son presiding over the judgment, judgment of the world, judgment of the nations. Judgment of every individual who's ever lived will come under the judgment, the judgment seat of Christ. The Father has delegated that job. to Christ. And here's here's one of the implications, the main reason he says in verse 22, 23 So that all may honor the Son. Honor him as what? Honor him as the judge. Honor the Son as the judge. Honor the Son as the authority over the universe. You're supposed to have that honor for Christ. We're supposed to acknowledge, humbly acknowledge. Zealously acknowledge the authority of Christ over us, which is the last thing we wanted to acknowledge when we were living in sin. Amen? But now we acknowledge it. We honor the Son just as they honor the Father. That's what was supposed to be happening. That's what's supposed to happen when you see the miracles of Jesus And when you hear the teaching of Jesus, you're not supposed to reject him, you're not supposed to persecute him, you're not supposed to accuse him of breaking God's law, you're not supposed to call him a blasphemer. You're supposed to honor him in the way that you supposedly honor the Father. But when you don't honor him, what does it expose about the heart? It peels back the veil and it exposes that in your heart you don't really honor the Father. You may think you do, you may say that you do, you may feel that you do, but if you don't honor Christ the way that you say you honor the Father, you're not honoring the Father. That's a pretty simple picture. The Father wants you to honor the Son as God. And he wants you to love His Son above all things. And so if you're not loving the Son, if you're rejecting the Son, if you're not submitting to the Son, what are you doing? You're rejecting the Father. That's the first thing God wants us to do. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. We can't say it any clearer than that. He judges the world and he will judge the world. That's why we have to be right with Christ. He's the Savior now, but he is coming a second time. Not to make payment for sins. But to save his people in the ultimate sense and to judge the world, that's going to happen And now finally, he speaks the words of eternal life, which is connected to the earlier point that he gives life to the dead. But here, this is number seven, he speaks words of eternal life. Alright, again. He knows the works of the Father. He does the works of the Father. He does the works of God because he is God He gives life to the dead, he judges the world, and finally he speaks words of eternal life. He speaks words that on the basis of these words you can be saved. Isn't that incredible? Words spoken That on the basis of those words spoken, you can have eternal life. Jesus speaks them. This is verses 25 all the way to 29. Alright? Truly, truly I say to you, in our No, I was supposed to start at 24, I believe. Verse 24. Truly, truly, I say to you. Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here. when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself And he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, and those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment Verses 24 to 29 really give you a good paradigm, a good picture. Yeah, that's that's perfect. A good picture of how to understand history. Right now we're in the era, era, era, the um the age of history where the word of Christ is going forth. And those who believe the word of Christ Are saved and they're forgiven, and they have life in the sun. They've passed from death into life On the basis of the word of Christ, they believe in that word, they are saved from their sins, they will be saved from judgment, they are in right relationship with God. But what else is this passage drawing our attention to? It is not drawing our attention just to being saved now by hearing the word of Christ. It's also drawing our attention to what? To the coming resurrection and the coming judgment. And you saw the idea of judgment is all that wasn't just the last point, that's all throughout this section. You saw that, right? The judgment is coming, Jesus is coming in judgment. And the only way to be saved in the future is to pass from death into life now. You have to live before you die in order to be saved from the coming judgment. You have to have life in Christ before you die in order to be saved from the coming judgment. judgment. And that's the urgency we need to have as Christians. That's the urgency we need to have as a church. And as to was was preached this morning. So clearly, that's why we're not trying to use other things to draw people in or to draw people to Christ We use Christ. We use the message of Christ, and we're trusting God to bring sinners from death into life through the word of Christ, the words of eternal life. That's the only hope any sinner has. It's the only way anyone can be saved from the coming judgment. If you want sinners to be saved from the coming judgment, would you say amen? And so that's why we plant our feet on the gospel and we're never ashamed of it We're always going to be clear about it, always going to be bold about it by the grace of God, not by our own merits or our own strengths, but by God's grace, that's what He's called us to. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. Apart from him, we have nothing. We are nothing but sin and corruption and guilt, pathetic weak rebels. But with him we are your children. We are forgiven, cleansed, justified, adopted, made holy, set apart Your mercy rests upon us. Your grace rests upon us. Your spirit lives within us. You brought us from death to life. You've saved us from the coming judgment. We pray that you would sustain us, strengthen us, teach us, and encourage us greatly in our time of need. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.