Anthony, today we are in Romans chapter 8. So I'll give a second for listeners to open their Bibles to Romans 8. And we've been talking about the power of God's word. How God uses his word in our lives and the world. We've talked about the power of the law to convict us, show us we are sinners, show us we're guilty, show us we need a savior. We've talked about the power of the gospel to bring us to faith, birth, new life within us. We've talked about the power of God's word in general to accomplish God's will in the world. And today I want to talk about the Holy Spirit. I want to talk about the Spirit of the risen Christ living within us. And that's part of what it means to be united to Christ by faith. That's how we get saved and reconciled to God. But that also is how we Live for God because of the spirit within us. And so we have the word outside of us that God brings into our lives. By His Word, by the power of His Word, God is working in our hearts and minds. But that can't be divorced from, or that can't be severed from the work of the Spirit within us. Is that cool? Absolutely. Alright, so I'll get us started here with a little reading of Romans 8, and then we'll just go back and forth with discussions and questions and applications. So Romans 8, starting in verse 5. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law. Indeed it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit are sons of God. If you or I were to preach a sermon on that, the two key words would be so easy to pick out. The f the flesh on the one hand versus the spirit on the other hand. There's a lot of stuff in there. So where do you want to start in breaking this open? Who let's start with the idea of how the spirit um brings life and that we're living by the spirit. So there's the action aspect of it, which I think is The focal point of this is that in Christ, so when we come to faith in Christ, we're born again, now we're living uh as Christians. And we are called to live in obedience to God and in Christ's likeness. And we're able to do that because we're a new creation in the Spirit. You know, from the outside looking at it, uh, and often we hear this from the world of, well, Christianity is just a bunch of rules and a do's and don'ts list. No, it's that we are new creatures in Christ, and because of that newness, now we're not living like we did in the flesh. Um and we're able to do that because of the spirit. So it's important to have that distinction. How we were in the flesh, what we desire in the flesh, who we are in the spirit, and what we desire in the spirit are significantly different. So you're saying that We're not the same people we've always been. Now we're just following outward rules. But we've been changed internally. If all Christianity is, is commandments and laws, which aren't bad if they're God's commandments and laws, but if that's all Christianity is, to your point, It w it cannot produce life. The life that's a gift of grace. The life that's because of the spirit, which he said. That enables us to obey God. But the commandments could never do that. Yeah. That's what Paul says in verse 3. I know we didn't read it, but it says, for God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do, and that's the spring of life. So the law isn't bad, but in our flesh it uh it's we corrupt it, it's it shows our sinfulness. But in the spirit, the law is very good because we we then see our brokenness and we see our forgiveness in Christ. we see our desire and have the desire to be obedient to the law because of the spirit. So yeah, we can't. Can't look at the law as a bad thing, and we must be amazed at what the Spirit uh empowers us to do. Amen to that. Um verse five sets this contrast of those who quote live according to the flesh. And those who are living according to the flesh are setting their minds on the things of the flesh. Uh the flesh represents the sinful part of us. It's just living in these bodies um that are sinful, that are part of this corrupt order of creation. As long as we live in these bodies, these mortal flesh, sinful bodies, we'll always have sin. But that's different than just straight up living according to the flesh. That's being given over to sin. That's being a slave to sin. And so when we're someone's living according to the flesh, their mind is set on Things of the flesh, set on corruption. But here's the contrast: those who live according to the Spirit, those who are walking in the Spirit, filled with the Spirit, seeking the guidance of the Spirit. Those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on things of the Spirit. Um love, joy, peace, patience from Galatians 5, the fruit of the Spirit, um Delighting in God's law, which you said earlier, well, which we don't do and we're walking according to the flesh. But we delight in his law. We want to learn his commandments. We want to obey his commandments. We know that we can't do that on our own. Now one more quick thought before I shoot it back over to you. You mentioned that idea of life, that we have life in the spirit. And so just to clarify for the listener, that's spiritual life. We already obviously have physical life. Whether you're walking according to the flesh or walking according to the spirit, you have physical life. This is spiritual life This is life in communion with God. And so that's a that's a key point. And that's what we want for people. The gospel alone has the power to give us that kind of life. Um and it fills us with the spirit. Yeah. So how how would you address the problem that we can have of You always ask me these how would I adjust the problem? I want you to solve my life. That's what I'm asking you to do. Not to put you on the spot or anything, but how would you solve this incredibly difficult theological problem? Yeah, go ahead. see you as a pastor. That's what we're asking. But all right, so I'm a Christian, but I'm struggling, like y I still do struggle with sin. Um I don't see the spirit. Yeah. Why? What's the Am I jumping your question? No, you agree. I I agree, but why is that good? Because when people hear that like Castro just told someone it's good that they struggle with sin. Yeah. I mean you're gonna have some qualifications, um, because you can struggle against sin from a wrong motive for the wrong reasons. But let's just assume that it's It's the right kind of struggling against sin. That's great. Praise God for that. The alternative is that you love sin, that you're indifferent to sin, that you don't care at all about getting rid of it. If your sin is grieving your heart, if you hate it because it dishonors God, therefore you're waging war against your sin. That's great. Now if if that's keeping you from believing in God's grace and forgiveness, now you're out of balance because there's different aspects to discipleship. Sorry, I feel like I totally hijacked your question. No, that's where I was going that's where I'm going though, that we can we can draw that out. And that's what Paul is doing. set their minds on the things of the Spirit. So our minds, the fact that I'm burdened by, convicted by my sin, have this desire to fight against temptation. is living by the Spirit because my mind is set on things of the Spirit. What are spiritual? What is righteous? What is God honoring? Um so it it's actually A part of what we gotta recognize that while we do live in the flesh, in the physical sense and still in this broken world We can start to see the work of the Spirit within our lives because we're convicted by sin. We don't like that we're sinning. We want to deal with our sins. We want to please God. These are all signs of the Spirit. uh at work within us. Right, that's the key. Signs of the spirit at work within us. Now there's all you can get unbalanced in A couple different ways. Uh uh let me I'll come back to that though. I would just want to read Second Corinthians ten three because I don't want anybody to get hung up on the prepositional fla phrases. like in the flesh and we say we live in the flesh, that that sometimes can mean that you're walking according to the flesh and that you're lost and you don't have the spirit. But what you just said and you did clarify it that that's the physical reality And the Bible talks that way. So this is 2 Corinthians 10, 3, for though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh. Yeah. And so he's she's talking about Christians, people who are filled with the Spirit, and they're walking according to the Spirit, but he literally says For though we walk in the flesh. That's a physical sense. We cannot escape living physically in the flesh. Spiritually, we don't walk according to the flesh when we don't have our minds set on the corruption and corrupt values and principles of the flesh. Um, yeah, so grieving sin And hating sin for the believer is an important part of sanctification because it's supposed to drive us back to Christ, back to the gospel. To find rest in Him and to be transformed by Him. That's what sanctifies us, a sight of Christ in the gospel. So if you're grieved by your sin and you're hating your sin and you're real torn up and you're struggling against it But if it's not driving you to the gospel, believing that you are forgiven. believing that you are loved, right, then there needs to be repentance. That is unbelief in the gospel. So it's not just the struggle against sin in the abstract. Because you can struggle against sin according to the flesh and according to the principles of the flesh, trying to earn God's love, trying to earn your way to heaven, trying to fix yourself and make yourself more presentable to God just to make yourself feel better. So there's all kinds of ways that you can struggle against sin in the wrong way. But I hope this could be an encouragement for believers who are struggling against sin. That's the only way you'll ever repent from sin. Just there's got to be rest in Christ if you want to move forward, though. Yeah So why is it important or how's it yeah, why is it important that we live by the Spirit and not by flesh? Can we just say like the I'll just wait till I get ahead of it? Let's give a whole let's do a whole list of those. All right. It glorifies God. Yeah. God gave us the Spirit so that our lives would be a showcase of his grace. power, wisdom, and on and on and on. So he saved us ultimately for his glory. So walk according to the flesh dishonors God and defames God and is ungrateful and it doesn't glorify God. And walking according to the Spirit brings glory to God. It also is the evidence of our salvation , the new birth that we we talk a lot about, the newness that This is the evidence that we have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. As we can see, we're walking by the Spirit. So it's a nice evidence of that. Yep. So glorifies God, evidence of our salvation. I think, and then third, thinking in terms of walking in the Spirit. keeps keeps at the forefront of our mind that uh the relationship aspect of Christian living. Yeah. We have been united to Jesus. We're filled with the Spirit. We're reconciled to God the Father, and we're living in daily communion with God. And we're daily striving to enjoy the blessings of his grace. And so walking in the Spirit highlights the relational component of of this. So that Christian living isn't just doing things. And it's not just filling our heads with Bible knowledge. Yeah. Um What are some other things that I'm trying to think of common misconceptions of the Christian life? I it's not just a theory or philosophy that I I believe this is my worldview. I have a Christian worldview. Yeah. Are you it's great? Are you walking daily with Christ? Yeah. So Uh walking by the spirit is how we live according to how God designed us. So this is our this is the original design of humanity. which is to live and walk by the Spirit, which then means living by the Spirit brings fruitfulness, meaning, and purpose behind uh our existence here on earth. And uh Paul says that I I believe that's what Paul's saying in verse six. For to set the mind on the flesh is death But to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. Well everyone's alive. I mean look around. If you see if you're talking to them, they're alive. Yeah. But plenty of people and that and this is where you divided the flesh prepositions. In the flesh They're not really living. Like yeah, they they breathe, they they have life, but the purpose is is not there. There's not the ex reason of existence not there. You're alienated from God. Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's essentially a meaningless existence, except in the flesh or excuse me, in the spirit, we have true life and true peace. Yeah, and um what's the way you phrased it at the beginning of that point where we in the spirit we are living and beginning to live How we were designed or something like that. How did you say it? God's design. It was perfect, however said the first time. Whatever you said was perfect. Well, that's in scripture too, where Paul will talk about our sanctification in terms of we're being it's the image of God being restored in us. That original design, the design for human life. is to live in accordance with God's will as a reflection of God's character that was lost in the fall into sin. And so Colossians 3 10, picking it up in the middle of a sentence here Um you put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. That's a powerful verse. And that's use the word design. That's what that is. That's the design to live in the image of God. There's a cross-reference. Um In Ephesians, I think he uses almost exactly the same language. Ephesians 4 24. Be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and put on the new self, created after the likeness of God, in true righteousness and holiness. So true righteousness, true holiness. true knowledge, the image of God being restored, the likeness of God being renewed. That all goes back to God 's design for mankind. And As you said, that's only possible because of the Spirit. Yeah. So th what we call the dominion mandate in Genesis for God tells Adam to be fruitful, multiply, take dominion. We're not just talking about you could do that in a flesh. You can have a whole bunch of babies not living by the spirit, and I guess you can wrangle animals. And and take too many garden and not be in the spirit. Those things are good and we should be doing that, but when we're in the spirit th that's genuine, like us raising our children, it doesn't matter the number of children, but the fruitfulness of what you're raising your children in. Yeah. Um when we're operating and running businesses and working in uh society, walking by the Spirit, living by the Spirit, that's taking dominion because it's ours. Like we're it's we are victorious in Christ. We're we're living and conducting ourselves according to God's law. And that's spreading out in society. That's taking dominion. Are you telling me that living in the spirit and walking in the spirit is more Than just stuff I do at church. Yeah, I think majority of the church. But that's the formal, religious , public I have a title. Yeah. I have a ministry. This is the work of the Spirit. I think we can see the true walking of the Spirit in the private, quiet moments in our minds Where does your mind go and wander? That can reveal how genuine and how close we are walking with the Spirit, living in the Spirit. Right. I think a lot of what I've seen and read and approaches to discipleship is is very limited and it essentially discipleship can get reduced down to your involvement at church. And not that that's bad. If it's if it's biblical, if it if it's from the right heart, if you're coming for the right reason, which would be God and His Word and to experience His grace through Christ. But if discipleship doesn't um make its way to every area of life Um and when you were talking about dominion and giving all these examples, it made me think of this. If discipleship isn't making its way to our secret thoughts. What we do when we're alone, how we treat our families, friends, at work, the way we think of ourselves as a citizen and how we interact with society, what we think of the civil government, you know, all these areas of life, uh our finances, our dealings, um, our interaction with culture, the arts. whatever it is, um, there's there's a huge problem. I mean w we're to give all areas of our life over to Christ as Lord. Yeah. In the spirit. Yeah. Now the church and the ministry is often a lot of training ground for that. It's It's where we grow in our understanding, but if that's where we limit the expression and the living by the spirit, we are failing. It's everything else that's Let's just take time. Let's be honest. Even as pastors, we probably spend the most amount of time in the church building, but in ministry context. Mm-hmm. But it's not the majority of our lives. Nope. It's not. And so then how about the lay person that's here when they're here on Sundays? Like it can't be the m that can't be where you say you're you're living by the spirit. It's just in that context. That's less than 1% of your entire life is in that context. Yeah. Well that's not living. That's that's existing for a moment in the spirit. So that's why we want it to spread everywhere else outside of Just the church context and ministry context. It's not the only purpose of church, but one of the huge purposes of the congregational worship and of the ministries of the church is to encourage us and equip us to go back out into life. Yeah. 'Cause it's it is such a small portion of the week. But it it should um remind us of God and his goodness and all that he's done and just give us so many reminders and it should build us up in the word and build us up in the spirit. So now we're ready and excited to go back out in the world and Yeah, we we're renewed for whatever we face tomorrow. Yeah, and we all need it. Yeah. We all need that encouragement. We all need guidance. We all need correction. Yeah. Um So I wanted to just point out something of the of the exegesis here in Romans 8 It's looking at the different ways where Paul talks about the Spirit dwelling in us because let me see where, let's see. Verse 9, we could start, would be a good one. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. Now, here's the only way that's true. Here's what he says. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. So that's the first phrase. And believers need to Believe and appreciate that the Spirit of God dwells in us. And then he goes on: anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Him. It's the same Spirit. Because Christ is God. The Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. Just different phrases. The Spirit of God dwells in you, and then the Spirit of Christ. You have the Spirit of Christ. And then verse 10, if Christ is in you, which is pretty pretty cool, right? Because I thought Christ was in heaven. Reigning at the right hand of God. Yes, but spiritually he dwells in you. And though your body is on earth and his resurrection body is in heaven. You are united to him. You're joined to him. And then in verse 11, if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. And then at the end of verse 11, through his spirit Who dwells in you? And so there you have it. All different ways of talking about the Spirit of God dwelling in us, the Spirit of the Father, Spirit of Christ. the Holy Spirit is dwelling in us. Thought that was pretty neat. Yeah. And what that means. Because okay, cool, the Spirit's living in me. So what? Now what do I do? Yeah. What's so special about that? First thing you do is say thank you. I appre I appreciate that, God. Thanks. Well the the first aspect is in there in verse eleven is that same spirit is who raised Christ Jesus. So then what's that mean for us? We too are raised from the dead. And then jump down to verse 15, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. I think you need to put some more cry into Abba Father, because it says we cry, Abba Father. I mean he is emphasizing because that's an amazing There's an exclamation point there. Two of 'em It's an amazing reality. Next time you preach that, really lean and just start crying, Abba Father. Sorry. I keep doing that to you. Go on, I don't know where I'm at now. I don't know where you're at either. But how important it is that we are children, that's how we can that that's how we can live in a spirit of peace is because we're now not enemies of God, which we were before Christ. Right. So of course we were enemies of God. And now, because of the spirit living within us, we're now children. There's not a war. There's not fighting, there's not anger, there's love and union and peace. That's great. Yeah, I think that's great. You so you go from the reality of the indwelling spirit to the identity, children of God. Yeah , spirit of adoption. Yeah, that's great. Um I think the last thing I want to do is And on the note of practical application, what does this look like? Obviously, in just a closing segment of one episode, we can't break down every aspect of Christian life. But the spirit within us sanctifies us, which means this means the Spirit conforms us to the likeness of Christ. And I want to end on this note of there's Two overarching parts of that. One is the Spirit putting sin to death in us. And the other component is the Spirit cultivating holiness within us. And we need both of those. I'll read verse 13, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if By the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. So if you're trying to put to death the deeds of the body on your own strength, But not by the Spirit, you're on the wrong road. Anyway, the point is this is one of the things we're enabled to do by the Spirit is to put to death the sinful, selfish, greedy. vile deeds of the body and also to cultivate holiness back up to verse um Uh eight seven and eight. The walking according to the flesh, you're hostile to God. You can't submit to God's law. Um you don't submit, you can't submit, and you can't please God. However, walking according to the Spirit We're not hostile to God, but we love God. Not perfectly, but we do love God because of the Spirit. We submit to His law. And we're able to submit to his law, we're able to hear his commands and obey him. And we can be pleasing to God. Not perfectly. But you've got to believe those things about yourself. If you have a spirit, if you're a child of God. Because that's God's work in us. That's not our work for God, that's God's work in us. Yeah, and that's important because we are we're weak, we're incapable of doing it on our own. In that same chapter, verse 8, or chapter 8, and verse 26. I know, once again, we didn't read it, but it says, likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. So yeah, we're not asking to get strong and have it all figured out. We're saying You have to be broken and weak and humbled before God to recognize that you have to have the spirit to live. And that can be you maybe this is your first day as a Christian, or this could be your 80th year as a Christian. It doesn't change. Your weakness. um magnifies God's glory and the work of the Spirit and our need for the Spirit in everything. It's so uh it's ironic too as we as we mature we sense our weakness more. We see our weakness more. Um even though we're more mature in the spirit Probably sinning less, we're grieved more by our sin. So it's just all the fruit and the result of sanctification. And so Just end on a couple concrete practical application points. I'll throw a few out there and then you can throw a few out there and then and pray for us. So I would say first um just pray every day for the work of the Spirit in your life. Not saying that to you, Anthony, but say saying that to all of us. Saying that to the listener, saying that to myself Cry out for the work of the Spirit daily. Pray simple prayers that are meaningful in the heart and sincere. Um pray, God, sanctify me, purify me, strengthen me by your spirit. And the list could go on and on. Once you start crying out and praying for the work of the Spirit daily, um you over over time you'll learn the specific and very simple things you need to be asking God for. Yeah. Self-control and things like that. But That would be my one practical applic my first practical application is just pray daily for the work of the Spirit within you. And then just be consistent on Availing yourself of the means of grace. Read the Bible, meditate on the Bible, take notes, study it, go to church, worship. Hear the preached word. Go with a heart that's hungry for the word. Hungry. A good sermon is like a syringe. It's to administer God's grace, to give us this injection, this medicine of God's grace in our hearts as we receive that sermon. By faith. So hear the word, read the word, contemplate the word, and trust that God by his word and spirit will do a mighty, mighty work in you. Yeah. I also think we gotta we gotta think of and thank God for the work of the Spirit in our lives. Sometimes we overlook that, we've cried out, we've prayed for the guidance of the Spirit. And then ten years later we look back and realize some temptation, some sin we had in our lives is completely gone. Or the reality that he has brought us to a church. um that loves his word. Like let's just be joyful in that and thank him. Thank God for the work of the Spirit in our lives, in even small things in our lives. that we can recognize, oh yeah, God's at work there. He's matured me in this. He's he's guided me in this. Um and then yeah, the simple things like To recognize that we don't have an option, that some things we can live by the flesh in this area of my life, but in this area I'll live by the spirit. Like get rid of that mindset and seeks to live by the Spirit in every area of your life, it'll cause us to think more about it and to seek the Lord in his wisdom. Amen. Pose this out in prayer? Yes, sir. All right. Holy God, we thank you. We thank you that we have been redeemed. And forgiven by the blood of Christ, we thank you that we have been brought to new life by the work of the Spirit within us. So Lord, I ask that you guide us. May we seek the Spirit. May we recognize the Spiritual work within us. that we are nothing without you. Lord, I pray for anyone that's listening that has not received the Spirit, does not know you. May they be convicted. May they see their needs. May they see the glory of who you are and what you have done. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.