This morning in John 11 and this evening, finishing the message, we will come to an end of this series in the Gospel of John. It was my intent to go through chapter eleven we will do that. And um we've done uh the the end of John in other ways uh more recently So we'll move on next week. And let me tell you the way we're going to move on. Pastor Matt will be preaching in the morning, beginning the book of Jonah. And then Matt will transition to a Sunday night series on the successive weeks. I will begin in two weeks a series in the Psalms, and that has not taken final shape yet, so don't ask me what the first one will be. I've preached through the Psalms Up to chapter forty. This time I'm I'm not sure. I'm thinking psalms of praise. Uh you can interject any thought you want to today. I don't guarantee that I will take your advice, but I will be glad to listen if there's a way that you would love the psalms to miss. minister to you, I'll make sure that we do that in this series. It'll probably go through the summer months. Next Sunday night, uh we hope, we have heard that Jeff Kelly, Jeff and Jamie might be able to and family. So I hope that uh that is the case, and we certainly will send him on his way uh with prayer to a new ministry as pastor of a church. In Florida. So John Eleven. You you've heard the expression uh that someone can be so heavenly minded they are no earthly good. It's not from Scripture, but there is an example of it in Scripture. Those at the church in Thessalonica, because of their expectation of the Lord's immediate return, some of them had stopped working. And they were becoming a burden to the church, so much so that Paul mentions it in the letter and says, If you don't work, you don't eat, basically, in his letter to the church at Thessalonica, waking them up to the fact that we don't know the day or the The more common danger, I think , is that of being too earthly-minded. That is, and you can relate to this, we get so caught up in the earthly circumstances of our lives. That we fail to think about the higher purposes of God. And I don't mean that in a year-by-year way. I'm talking about a moment-by-moment way through the day Earthly circumstances in our sin -tarnished world. When I say sin-tarnished, I mean a world fallen and no longer working perfectly as God created it So our circumstances, a sin-tarnish world, it is certainly an up and down, unpredictable ride. And when life gets difficult, when a day gets difficult, Whether sickness or trouble or bigger things like death, the temptation is to lose hope and become depressed. But the Bible says, we believe, God is working all things together for good for the believer. For good doesn't always mean our happiness, but rather God's glory And our maturity conforming us into the image of Jesus Christ, we know from the context of that passage in Romans chapter 8. In our passage today, there is much sadness and much grief, but ultimately there is glory. And I think this chapter of the Bible causes us, well, first and foremost, of course, to look at Jesus and think of who he is. We'll do that. But it also causes us to look beyond the physical and temporal roller coaster ride that is light and points us and our view and our hearts. Toward recognizing the spiritual and eternal realities of God's point of view. So in this account You can see the outline. In this account of the resurrection of Lazarus, we're going to see through God the Son that God's glory is the main issue. That God's love is constant, that God has authority over life and death. God sympathizes with our grief That God's purpose is evangelistic, and that God is accomplishing His will. So this morning and this evening, I trust we will be able to cover all six of those. First of all, God's glory is the main issue And this we see in verses 1 through 16. Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany. the village of Mary and her sister Martha. And John assumes some knowledge of this family because in verse 2 he says it was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped her feet with her hair. But you see, that incident comes in John chapter 3 12. We haven't if you're the reading the gospel for the first time, you haven't read that yet. So John is assuming there's some knowledge in those he was writing to of this family. And that they would recognize Mary as the one who anointed Jesus for his burial, as Jesus put it. Whose brother, verse 2, Lazarus, was sick. So the sisters sent word to him to Jesus, saying, Lord, behold He whom you love, your friend. Jesus was close to these three. Your friend, the one you love, is sick. I think it's good that they turned to Jesus in a time of need, a time of trouble. I think it is an example for us. We should turn to Jesus. In our times of trouble. Verse four. When Jesus heard this, he said, The sickness is not to end in death. And I think the way we take that, because we know Lazarus did die physically, we take that Jesus means, obviously, death will not have the final word. The sickness doesn't end in death. Something else will take place. But for the glory of God So that the Son of God may be glorified by it. So notice here God's glory, and in this case, Jesus' glory, Is the main issue. It supersedes the desires of Lazarus, who's sick, and of Mary and Martha, who care deeply for their brother The terminal sickness was not their desire, no. But in this case, their desire had to take a back seat to God's glory. When life gets difficult, when things happen that we don't desire, God's glory is the higher purpose. It gives reason and purpose to life. Now we can pray that something go away. And if God would bless in that way, He's glorified in the answer to that prayer. But sometimes those things don't go away. And I'm encouraging us to have this faith that God's glory is the higher purpose that gives reason and purpose to the things we go through in life. According to Jesus in verse 4. God's glory is the reason for Lazarus' sickness. We also saw this concerning sickness back in John chapter 9 verses 1 through 3. Just flip back to that passage so you can read along with me. John 9, verse 1 As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth, and his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? this man or his parents that he would be born blind. Jesus answered, it was neither that this man sinned nor his parents, but it was so that the works of God might be displayed in him. Display is related to the word glory, manifested excellence. God's glory can be the reason for sickness today. That God might bring healing, or that God might be glorified through one's faith in the midst of sickness. God doesn't always heal Or even that God might use sickness to bring a Christian to their heavenly home. God 's glory is the reason for all sorts of trials. God might design the trial to make you more like Christ, Romans 8:29. God might design the trial to use your witness. Of Christ's reality. God might design the trial to give a glorious answer to your prayers. God can bring good Out of any bad situation, a couple of testimonies on that. One we already read, Romans 8. 28. We know that God causes all things. To work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. So there's the general principle. But a specific example of it would be Joseph Who said to his brothers, As for me, you meant evil against me. They had sold him as a slave. They wanted to be rid of him. You meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about this present result. Joseph had risen to a place where he He not only saved Egypt, but would save God's people Israel, to preserve many people alive. So God's glory is the reason for Lazarus' sickness. God's glory is the reason for delay in answering Mary and Martha's petition. The message delivered to Jesus in verse 3 is an obvious plea and expectation that Jesus will come. And come quickly. But notice verse 6, so when he heard that he was sick, he then stayed two days longer in the place where he was. And then after this, his dis he then after this he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. How do you explain the delay? I I believe the only way we can explain The delay is to recognize that Jesus intended to arrive several days after Lazarus died. Because part of the glory of this event is the timing. Look at verse 11. This he said, and after that he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep. And he meant has died. But I go that I may awaken him out of sleep. The disciples then said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death. But they thought he was speaking of literal sleep. So Jesus then said to them plainly, Lazarus is dead. Jesus in his omniscience knew death had come to Lazarus. In verse 15, I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. See, one of the purposes of this miracle was to strengthen the faith of the disciples. But let us go to him. Jesus had raised two individuals on the day that they had died. But never after decay had set in will find that that's the case. The Jews believe that the soul stayed around the body for three days. Fourth day it'd be gone. We're going to find Jesus raising Lazarus on that fourth day. And think about how Martha and Mary must have felt From their perspective, when Jesus did not come in time, at least in their thought And maybe you've had similar conversations with the Lord as they had. Look down at verse 21 and 32. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you'd been here, my brother would not have died. Mary had the same response. Verse 32, when Mary came where Jesus was, she saw him, fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. In this case, and in our case, God's timing and what God allows is more glorious We see that here. We need to trust it in our lives. Someone has said And I thought it was good because I wrote it down, put quotes around it, but I don't have who said it. But someone has said, how apt are we all to think that if the Lord were with us, we should not be in trouble. Whereas it is in affliction that he is most graciously manifest. I think Bob Kelly testified to that in that video he sent to our church recently. I hope you don't mind. Mike Smith testified to that that to me on the phone Thursday, I think it was. Praise God for your testimony, Mike. May you encourage us. Others with it. We also see here that God's glory is shown as the reason for life on earth. Just a general way. Look at it in verses eight through ten. When Jesus spoke of returning to Judea, the disciples said to him Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. That's where we were in chapter 10. And you were going there again? Jesus answered. Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. In other words, Jesus is saying each day has a fixed amount of daylight when work is done. And he's saying that his time to accomplish earthly ministry is fixed just like the hours of the day. Doing God's will is compared to the confidence that we have in the daylight. If we walk in the light of God's will, walk in the light of God's plan. Willingly submit to it. We have nothing to worry about. If suffering comes, it is for God's glory. Jesus knew it was going to come to him. So doing one's own will then is compared to darkness and the uncertainty of night, it will lead to stumbling in life. And look at what we see in Thomas. I know we've skipped around just a bit, but back to verse 16. Thomas, always thought of as doubting Thomas. shows, I think, in verse 16, the confidence of one whose reason to live is following Jesus Christ. And if God is glorified in death, so be it. Look at what he says. Therefore, Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples , Let us also go, so that we may die with him. I take that at face value and say that it was a statement of courage. What an example. If following Jesus meant dying, Thomas was ready to die. Brethren, God's glory is the main issue. Always will be. It's the answer to lots of questions that you have in life as to why things happen. God's glory. We need to have a phrase from verse four etched on our hearts. Look at it again. When Jesus heard this about Lazarus, he said the sickness is not to end in death Death, but for the glory of God. That's the phrase. So that the Son of God may be glorified by it. Just as important that we live and exist to serve Christ and bring glory to Him. So in life's difficult events, for the glory of God and Christ. My time on earth for the glory of God in Christ. Next we see that God's love is constant. Verses 3 through 6. Sickness, I want you to know, did not mean God didn't love Lazarus. Look at verse three. So the sisters sent word to him to Jesus, saying, Lord, behold, he whom you love Is sick. But when Jesus heard this, he said, This sickness is not to end in death. But for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it. Now Jesus notice Notice, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that he was sick, he then stayed two days longer in the place where he was. No lack of love was responsible for Lazarus' sickness, but rather God's glory was the driving force. And hear me well. Your trial, I think you know this, but it helps to say it. Your trial does not mean God doesn't love you. His love for you is constant. Think of Romans chapter 8, a chapter of great promises to the believer. And I read a few of those verses, 35, 38, and 39. Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will tribulation or distress or persecution or famine Or nakedness, or peril, or sword. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, verse 38, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present Nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creative thing will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. Jesus our Lord. His love for you is constant. He expresses that Paul does so well by the inspiration of the Spirit in Romans chapter five. Verses 1 through 5. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand and we exalt in hope of the glory of God. All of that is great news. And not only this, but we exalt in our tribulations. Do you see the connection of Scripture that tribulation is a part of life in this sin-tarnished world, but it is meant For exaltation. It is meant for maturing. It is meant for the glory of God. So not only this, but we exalt in our tribulation, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. And perseverance, proven character, and proven character, hope. And hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit. who is given to us. Some of you know, many of you know, the times you have felt the love of God most deeply have been times of trial in your life Think about it in Scripture. Did God love Job? Yes. But God used Job's trial to show that Job's devotion was motivated by more than how he had been blessed. Did God love Paul? Yes. But Paul was arrested and beaten so that a Philippian jailer and his family might be saved. Does God love you? Yes. But he allows your life to be touched by trial, to mature you, to use your faith as an example to others, to put you in a position to minister to others. God's love is constant. Thirdly, God has authority over life and death. Verse seventeen and following So when Jesus came, he found that he had already, Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Now Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Mary, to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. Martha, therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet him, but Mary stayed at the house. Martha then said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died So the messengers sent to Jesus would have reported his response that we read in in verse 4, certainly, that the sickness was not to him End in death, and yet according to the timing revealed in verse thirty-nine, by the time these messengers got back, saying The sickness is not to end in death, Lazarus would have already died. So just put yourself in Mary and Martha's position. They might not have understood that message. What could Jesus, who spoke that truth, who always spoke truth and sent that message to them, what could he have meant? It seems to me that she's searching for what he might have meant by what she says next in verse 22. Even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God. will give you. Seems to be, at least to some extent, an expression of hope that Jesus would bring her brother to life again. What she would soon learn is that Jesus is not only Lord of the living, not only could he have prevented death, but also Lord of the dead, he can restore. Life. And thus, verse 23, Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. So she was a part of Israel's camp that believed in a resurrection. Not all did. Perhaps she had thought when Lazarus died that Jesus' word to the messengers must have meant that his sickness wouldn't keep him dead, that he will rise again in the last day So it's hard for us to completely understand what she was thinking, what's behind her statements, but Jesus' statements we can focus on And understand verse 25, Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even if he dies, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. How could he speak this way? Well, because of who he is. He is equal with God the Father. He is. I am. This is one of the I am statements. using the phrase that God gave to Moses as his name. I am who I am. So he says, I am the one who resurrects on that day. And I am the one who gives eternal life on that day. And all who believe the truth about him, about Jesus, not just in their head, but in their heart, these are given the promise of eternal life John 6. 47, we saw it there and other places in the Gospel of John. But truly, truly, Jesus said, I say to you, he who believes has eternal life Doesn't mean that the believer will never die physically, but they will never die in the sense of being separated from God. And they will not stay dead physically, but be raised from the dead when Jesus returns. Jesus asked verse 26, do you believe this? Do you believe that I have such authority? Only God can resurrect life. Only God can give life. Jesus is God. That's essentially what he's asking. Do you believe? Do you believe I have such authority, Martha, right now? Do you believe I have such authority? Those gathered here this morning, I ask. You do you believe Jesus has such authority that I am, that He is the resurrection and the life? Yes. We believe. Verse 27 She said to him, Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world. If you're familiar with the Gospels, this will remind you of another great confession. It's very much like Peter's in Matthew 16, when Jesus asks, who do people say that I am? Who do you say that I am? And Peter says words very similar to this. So I want you to hear that and understand the strength of what Martha is saying. Jesus is impressing upon her that Son of God means equal power with God the Father and equal authority in the here and now. Her here and now, to say, Lazarus, come forth. Only God has authority over life and death. Jesus here has authority over life and death. Jesus is equal with God the Father. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. And so we believe in Jesus, God the Son. So far, we've seen that when trials come our way, God's glory is the main issue. God 's love is constant. God has authority over life and death. Let me mention the other points of the outline. Uh but as I do, I want you to be considering what might God be accomplishing through your trial Or through the next one. You can be thinking and preparing your heart to look at trials this way. I want you to know In the next point that we'll deal with tonight, God sympathizes with our grief. He makes it makes it okay to have grief in this passage. Because Jesus grieves. And we'll see that God's purpose Is evangelistic because some come to faith because of what happens here. It's an example of trials being used in that way. And finally, this evening we'll see that Just a statement we can trust. God is accomplishing his will. In this case, we'll see that he accomplishes at the end of the chapter through the Pharisees. And that'll be interesting to see his sovereignty there. Let's think together about what we see and what we will see. I'm going to mention some of the practical things tonight as well, but what a precious chapter this is, showing us that God's glory is the main issue. Prevailing through sorrow in this chapter. Let me just exhort you and I What wherever you have that unrushed time with the Lord, you can remind yourself of it when you have that in your schedule. But when you wake up in the morning , Oh God, help me to remember to say this day is for your glory. And look at it that way. So often we look at Life and the day from our point of view. And I make a list, maybe you make a list of things that should be accomplished that day. I do that in prayer, but it's still a list and I should realize this can explode if God wants it to, and I can do other things, but God, your glory is the main issue. This chapter shows us that God's love is constant. I know I need to know that at times. In trials I've gone through, I know you need to know it. God's love is constant no matter what we're going through. If you're If you trust in Christ. This chapter shows us that the authority of God, shows us the authority of God in the midst of our lives. Jesus was expressing that to Martha. That's what we do. just saw. We're going to see tonight his sympathy for our sorrow and our grief. And we can grieve in faith. I think that's one of the lessons. There. We'll see that God uses our life experiences to draw other people to faith in Christ. Now I realize When trial is going on, the sorrow that's involved there, the difficulty that's involved there, decisions that need to be made there , it's probably not our first thought. How might God use my example in this but it is an important truth and so we'll look at that and we'll also see that God accomplishes his accomplishes his will regardless of how things appear. So these lessons taken together, this chapter in the Gospel of John compels us to lift our eyes from the physical, temporal life. and recognize, prepare for, live for that which is spiritual and eternal, so that we are not so earthly minded that we are no heavenly mind. Good. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for what we see of Jesus. Another sign, another miracle that we will complete seeing tonight, knowing that He is your Son, knowing that He Came to die upon the cross for sin. I pray for any who have yet to receive him personally As their Lord and Savior, Father, would you just show them their need right now? Show them that their sin separates them from you. Show them that if they die in that state, the separation is eternal death. And then show them Jesus. Who came to die upon the cross, taking the guilt, taking the wrath of sin upon himself. That you might punish sin there and not punish for eternity the individual who believes in Jesus. Oh Lord, bring people to that faith we pray. And then, Father, we thank you that your spirit can remind us of these lessons in the midst of whatever kind of day we're having. You can remind us to be encouragers to others of these truths, others who are going through trial. And you can encourage those going through trial to remember these things and come to them again in Scripture. Father, teach us the importance of waking up with a desire for your glory in all the aspects of our day. It's in Jesus' name that we pray.