Alright, let's pray together and we're continue looking at Jesus, our great high priest, in the book of Hebrews. This is our second message, and we're actually looking at verses one through four. We did extend it on verses. One and two last time. This time we'll look at uh one through four because it does go together. That is a singular unit. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your word to us. Thank you for your grace. Toward us in Christ, I pray that you would help us in our study. Help me to slow down and to trust in you and to enjoy your word and the truth of Christ. Help us to slow down. To listen to your Holy Spirit, to be attentive to your Spirit's leading, to listen, to see and read. The written word to be built up by it. Father, we pray. We pray for your mercy toward us tonight. Show us Christ Give us a stronger appetite for Him and Him alone. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. All right. Hebrews 1 1 through 4 Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. You could circle that. God spoke. That's a major, major point. It's not just that God exists, but that God, an eternal being, who exists outside of time. Condescends, he comes down, enters, and speaks in time to us. God spoke. But in these last days, which we're in, we're in the last days. He has spoken to us by his son. His final climactic Revelation of himself, he's spoken to us by his son. Now, the rest of the book of Hebrews is about that and the significance of that. Whom he appointed the heir of all things. Let's talk, it's pointing us toward the future. What that means is God's going to, I mean this is a summary, right? Wrap up his All of his purposes from all of eternity, they'll be wrapped up in Christ. They'll be brought together in Christ. Ephesians 1. All things will be unified in Christ. Um the heir, he's appointed him the heir of all things, through whom he also created the world. So now he points us backwards. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he, the Son, upholds the universe by the word of his power. The word of his power. The word of his power. Again, the idea of speech. But speech in um understood as the way God does something. God's word is the way he does something. He judges by his word. He saves by his word. He creates by his word And here is uh upholding and sustaining the universe by the word of his power. Here that's the sun, after making purification for sins. And aren't you glad he did that? He sat down at the right hand of majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels As the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. Again, the series is our great high priest in Hebrews 4. 14. The author speaks of our great high priest who has passed through the heavens. He's passed through the heavens And it's not for his own sake that he passed through the heavens. He passed through the heavens to present an offering before God in heaven the offering of himself in order to make a way for us to pass through the heavens and be with God forever. That's why Jesus passed through the heavens He didn't pass through for himself, for his own benefit. He passed through the heavens as our great high priest that we in him may pass through the heavens. And dwell in the presence of God. And in 414, where the author says, our great high priest who has passed through the heavens, he's writing that specifically in that verse that Since Jesus passed through the heavens, we ought to hold fast to our confession. That's the admonition he's giving there. Hold fast to our confession. And it's based upon the facts, the historical fact that Jesus, as our great high priest, passed through the heavens. Therefore, hold fast our confession. So Christ as our high priest is the foundation of our profession of faith and our assurance, our assurance of salvation. He's alive in heaven. We do not preach a dead Savior. We preach a Savior who died to save us, but who rose again from the dead and who lives. He lives in heaven, but not only does he live in heaven, he lives in heaven at the right hand of God. He's alive in heaven, he's ministering in heaven, hearing our prayers. And he's alive in heaven, ministering in heaven, and he has already made his offering as a priest. He's already priests make offerings To atone for sins in order that those sinners might be reconciled to God and might be received by God. That's what a priest does. He makes an offering to atone for sins so that those sinners can have a relationship with God. Jesus has already made his offering, and this arguably is the central point in Hebrews. His offering is sufficient. His offering is enough. No other offering of atonement must be made to reconcile us to God. The offering that Jesus, our great high priest, brought before God and laid on the altar before God was enough to atone for all of the sins of all of his people. He's already made the offering, which implies you don't need to make any additional offering Or to do any additional work in order for God to accept you. He accepts you, He accepts a C C E T T S accepts you based on the offering of Jesus Christ alone. And so that's Hebrews. And in the context where there was persecution for the first audience and the temptation To leave the faith, a temptation to forsake the assembling with the church, a temptation to go back and fall back into the old ways of Judaism They need to hear this admonition that to leave this would be nonsense, to leave Christ would be nonsense because he is not only the most excellent way to God, he's the only way to God. He's the only high priest in heaven. He's the only one who presented an atoning sacrifice offering before God That would buy us access into heaven. He's our great high priest. The Christian life is all about this. Every morning we wake up should be about it. Every night when we go to sleep should be about this. Because apart from Christ we cannot have a share of God. We cannot have entrance into heaven. This is everything. Okay, that's the overview for the series. Is that okay? Was that too long of an overview? We good? Because we're supposed to be in the first paragraph of the book. Hebrews 1, 1 through 4, we're going to see three things that Jesus does. Okay, three things that Jesus does. You can call these roles. R-O-L -E-S. Rolls. You could call these duties that he fulfills. You could call these tasks or jobs that are given to him by the Father, that he obediently carries out three things that Jesus does. To keep it short, I'll just call them works. Works. And how many are we going to see tonight? Three. Three works. And we're also going to see Hebrews 1, 1 through 4. What he does is based on who he is. What he does is based on who he is. If we can get these two points, we'll understand The basic point of Hebrews 1, 1 through 4. There are three things Jesus does. That summarize his works. But they're based on who he is. And so to give a little bit more on that, the only way he's able to do these things is because of who he is. It's because of his identity, or you could say it's because of his dignity, or even better, the dignity of his person. So we'll call these this point for short. The person of the Son or the person of Christ. So Hebrews 1, 1 through 4, we're going to see Works of the Sun. How many? Three primarily. Now, those are broad works, and within each of them are different aspects of those works But three works, they're all based on who he is. Not anyone can do these things. Only one can do these works. So the only reason he can do what he does is because of who he is. And when we think about Christology or the study of Christ or what you believe about Jesus, Both of these are essential. What he did is essential. We must understand what he did, but we must understand who he is. who he is. Because apart from who he is, he can't do those things. He does what he does perfectly, and he does what he does exclusively. Exclusively. So for instance, the forgiveness of sins. He does that exclusively. He offers and provides the forgiveness of sins to sins That means there's nowhere else to go to get that. He's it. He's the period. Three works. And then um based on his person. Does that make sense? You can you can think of all kinds of illustrations for this, uh where somebody can do something based on who they are or their skills or their gifts that I uh that I or you maybe couldn't do. So I just came up with a few examples here. You could come up with examples on the spot. I'm sure we all could come up with the list. An expert carpenter. Can do things I cannot do. He can do things based on who he is or who she is, the skills they've acquired, the knowledge that they've acquired. A guitarist. Again the ge the guitar right here. I have I have no idea what to do with this thing when I pick it up. I mean how to hold it generally speaking, but I cannot Do the work of producing music. With that, the person playing it must have the skills, must have the knowledge. I thought one more A painter, an oil painter, pain them off. They can do what they can do because of who they are, because of the gifts that God has given them, because of the person God has given them. because of the vision that they have and the ability and the skill that they have. So those are all faint illustrations. I mean very, very, very very small illustrations, but they can help understand what we're saying about Christ tonight in the most general sense. The first thing he does is he reveals God. Now this specifically is that he reveals God's will. He reveals God's will. He reveals God's word. Uh I'm getting this from one And the first part of two, and then also in verse four, the this has to do with the sun as climactic revelation. The sun is climactic Speech from God. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son. The Son reveals God. He communicates. He communicates God's will. And then in verse 4, having become as much superior to the angels. As the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. Angels were messengers, they were revealers, they were heralds, they were agents of revelation. Think of an agent. Sometimes that's a weird word to hear in church or theology, and it can throw us. But you can think of a real estate agent. A real estate agent puts you in contact with something else. Puts you in contact with a house. Put you in contact with a buyer or a seller. It's the go-between. It's the one that makes things happen. It's the one that gets things going. There are sports agents, the same It makes the sports agent put this person in contact with this person or puts this athlete in contact with this person. Or vice versa. Makes things happen. It's a go-between. But the word agent is also used in another sense in our language that uh can help us to understand. So the real estate agent and the sports agent is a good illustration. It's a good use when we say he's the agent of revelation. He brings God's will, he brings God's word to another party, to mankind. And um trying to give you time so you can brainstorm and see if you can think of any other ways the word agent is used in our language. I thought of cleaning agents. A cleaning agent is some kind of chemical that you use to clean or a bonding agent. Like a glue is a bonding agent. You use it to accomplish something else. And so when we say that the Son is the agent of revelation, the person of the Son is how God makes Himself. No. It's how he brings himself, an eternal being, into contact with and in creation. And if you take the Son of God out, there is no revelation. That's a hypothetical strictly theoretical. But uh we talked about this a lot last year or maybe two years ago Wednesday night when we talked about God as Father, Son, Holy Spirit, God as Trinity and everything He does. He does as himself, as Trinity, as Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And the Father, Son, and Spirit have different roles, but the works of God are all Trinitarian works of God. And so, for instance, there's nothing that the Son does that's not an expression of the Father's will. And there's nothing that the Son does that's not in the power of the Holy Spirit. So the Son is the agent of revelation. He's the ultimate messenger of God. Any questions or comments on this? We can call this point the book ends of the passage. Because he starts with this at the in verse 2. Yeah, verse 2a. And then he finishes with this in verse four. So now he's given us bookends about the sun as climactic revelation or the sun as climactic speech from God. That's one thing God does. Well, both. One thing God does through the Sun. Comments or questions on this Pastor John, you usually have a brain buster, but you were away last week. You may need some time to get the juices flowing, get back into character. We'll give you that grave period. All right. The second thing that the son does here, he saves sinners. He saved sinners. So if you are a sinner and you want to be saved from sin, from the guilt of sin, from the corruption of sin in our heart, from the penalty, the eternal consequences of sin. What's your option? Where do you go? You must go to The sun. You must go to the sun. God sent the sun to save sinners. He reveals God and He saves sinners. And I'll see before I get to this of the text See the connection between these two things. Because they are connected. They are, they go together in God. Purpose and in the way God accomplishes his purpose. God's purpose for all things is to create a people for himself in Christ. As a showcase of his glory. I'll repeat that. It's multifaceted, but this is this is God's eternal purpose, so we need to know this. His eternal purpose is to create a people holy unto himself in Christ, in Christ, as a manifestation of his glory Which includes uh his glory manifestation of his glory. So think of that as a shining light of who God is. So it's it includes a manifestation of his kindness. mercy, of his grace, of his power, of his patience, and on and on and on. So he reveals himself through the Son as a way of saving sinners to fulfill his eternal purpose. So these aren't disconnected, abstract thoughts This is life. This is life. This is what God is doing. And it all centers on the sun. It all centers on the sun. So let's get from the text God Save Sinners. This comes from the The second part of verse 2, the air of all things. The air of all things. I got ahead of myself. That's if you if you want to rewind in your mind the last uh minute, uh minute and a half or two minutes when I was talking about God fulfilling his eternal purpose in Christ to create a people for himself as an eternal showcase of his glory That's what this means. Christ is the heir of all things. He's the heir of all things. He's the one in whom God fulfills his eternal purpose. He's the one in whom God fulfills his eternal purpose. You see this in the book of Revelation. No one can open his role. No one can break its seal. Yes, someone can. The line from the tribe of Judah. This lamb who looks like he was swung. But he's living and reigning. He can approach God. He can take the scroll. He can open its seal. He can bring about God's purposes for all things. That's what that means. He's the one who announces And brings about God's purposes for all things. He's the heir of all things. And so when we see this phrase, the heir of all things, brothers and sisters, that's redemption. That's redemption. That's the one who created he himself personally comes to earth and by his work based on his personality. creates a people holy unto God. It's a glorious thing. It's a glorious, glorious thing. Boy, it puts in perspective when you get up in the in the morning and there's no more milk left and you start flooding. It puts in perspective when someone pulls out in front of you. Because maybe they didn't see you, but you don't even give them the benefit of the doubt. They're just It puts into perspective the the little itty bitty things that tend to bother us. Twist and turn our hearts upside down and calls us to speak things we shouldn't and speak in ways we shouldn't and on and on and on. It puts into perspective that Jesus saves sinners. He's the heir of all things. Look also at verse 3, the last part of verse three, the second half of it I should say. After making purification for sin. What's that? That's salvation. After making purification for sin He sat down at the right hand of majesty on high. He puts our eyes into heaven there. He wants us to be looking at Christ in heaven when he says that. After making purification for sins. Now where did he do that? He did that on On earth. Yes, someone said the cross. That's right. In his life and in his death, he made purification for sins. His blood. His blood. An offering to God that atones for sins. That real it's not just a lesson. It's not just a symbol of love. He really and truly bore the sins of his people on the cross. He bore the guilt of those sins in his body on the tree in order that we might not have to bear that judgment, that penalty, that guilt, that wrath. He made for purification for sins On earth, and then he sat down at the right hand of majesty on high. That's summarizing what happened after he made pure It's summarizing. It's including his resurrection in a glorious body of new creation. And his ascension into heaven. And he's not just walking around in heaven, just kind of doing random things, celebrating. No, he's he sat down at the right hand of majesty on high, signifying the completion of of his work, the the perfect sufficiency of his work He 's exalted and enthroned as our great heavenly high priest and king. He sat down at the right hand of Majesty. So when we pray to Christ, we're not praying to the idea. idea of Christ. And we're not praying to a Christ who only once lived, but we're praying to a Christ who lives. When do you lift your petition? To God in Christ's name. You lift your petitions to God. Christ hears them And he hears him as one who could not sit any closer to God the Father in heaven. And he hears and receives, and when the Father hears your petition, He hears them from and through his son and the Father and the Son in the love of the Holy Spirit community of the Holy Spirit have the closest relationship that there ever was and ever could be. So there's that's where your prayers are going. And He's setting your sights. And Hebrews as a whole, this is what Hebrews as a whole does. It sets your sights on Christ. Christ in heaven. On your behalf. That's so important. Not just Christ in heaven. Christ in Christ in heaven. On your behalf. On your behalf. Pleading your case, hearing your prayers, empathizing and sympathizing with you. He sat down at the right hand of Majesty. So I'm going to throw it out there for uh any questions or any But so we started with our bookends of it begins with that the sun reveals God and the ends with uh the sun reveals God. And then we come closer into the another set of bookends working it working its way inward that he saves sinners he's the heir of all things that's God's eternal purpose of redemption. That's talking about the work of Christ in saving sinners. And he made purification for sins, and then he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty. So he's given us another set of bookends. It's almost like an arrowhead what we're going to see here. It starts with he reveals God, and it ends with he reveals God. That's the first set of bookends. Then he comes in closer, he's narrowing in that he is the son who saves sinners, top and bottom, just a little closer, and he's working his way in, he's working his way In to the central point. And we'll get there. Any questions on this or insights We'll just push through. I'll keep going. So then uh when we move the airball things Yeah, that's a great point. The point was that when we see this phrase heir of all things, it's a reminder of what scripture says we are co-heirs with Christ. We've been made children, we've been adopted as children, and we are co-heirs, we will inherit heavenly glory as his children. Yes. Great point. Thank you for sharing that. And that's gospel, we should be we should be gospel thinkers. Whenever you're thinking of what Christ did it. Always be thinking He's doing it on your behalf, doing it on your behalf as a believer, as a child of God. He's doing it for me. He did it for me. He did it for us, for his church, for his people. But we are co-heirs. Co-heirs with him. Okay, let's press on. Before we move on, just wanted to read a few No, I'm gonna move that I'm gonna move these two cross-references down later. And uh when I get there, make sure that I refer back. Point number two. So you'll be able to read my mind of what I'm what I'm talking about. I think I'll remember. Uh I did want to look at Hebrews 10, 12 before we go to this third point. This third thing, the sun does. Hebrews ten twelve. But when Christ had offered For all time, or once for all, a single sacrifice for sins. That's the cross, right? He sat down at the right hand of God. The idea there in the context is he didn't have to get up again like Levitical priests. would have to. He didn't have to offer another sacrifice and offer another sacrifice. He never had to offer a sacrifice to atone for his own sins because he committed no sins. He offered one sacrifice and it was enough to atone for all the sins of all his people. And so he sat down. As a priest who had completed his work. And he didn't sit down in the earthly copy of heaven, the tabernacle or the temple. He sat down in heaven itself at the right hand of God. And if you want to persevere in the faith, fix your eyes on it. You want to grow in holiness. Fix your eyes on him. Self-help and self-effort will not be enough. It will not be enough. We must fix our gaze on Christ who lives and reigns in heaven. By His Spirit, the transforming power of His Spirit will purchase of Jesus. And by his spirit we'll grow in sanctification. By his spirit we'll grow in unity one to another. By his spirit we'll cultivate servant hearts. Cultivate love. We'll find rest in this world in Christ and peace and joy. And we could go on and on and on with these different spiritual blessings. Fruit of the Spirit, anything that would conform us into the likeness of Christ, we must go to Him. That's a real thing. That's a real thing. real thing. He's invisible. He's in heaven. We're visible. We're on earth. But he exists and he's living. And I believe the Holy Spirit. And you believe The Holy Spirit. And so we go to Him for help in our time of need. Third thing He does, He created and sustains the world. I'm cheating there. There's two things, but they go together. He created and he sustains or it says upholds the world. So here's a creation Pretty basic stuff if you think about it. Um the Son is the agent of revelation. This is how God speaks. By magic way, God makes his will know, you know that. The agent of redemption is the agent of salvation, is how God saves. He saves through Christ. He saves through Christ. He's the agent of of creation and sustaining creation. And so now there's another set of bookends. The arrowhead is getting narrower. And look at what this says in the last part of verse 2 through whom also he created the world. It should remind you right off the bat of John chapter 1, the first paragraph. It is through the Son, here in John 1, it's the word, capital W, the personal word. Through the Son, God created the world and then connected to that point related to that point is uh the second phrase in Verse 3. Let's see. Yeah, the second phrase in verse 3. Upholds the universe by the word of his power. So He's worked inward from the from the top and the bottom now. It's another set of bookends. He's God's agent of creation and agent of upholding the universe after it's created. So those two points are related. Creating the universe through the sun and upholding or sustaining, holding together, keeping it working. keep it keeping it operating in the right way through the ongoing power of the Son by the word of his power God created everything. Sometimes we uh we forget about that thing. We forget about it on a daily basis. Or we walk into creation that's Beautiful, profound, the power to create a universe It's mind-blowing. But we walk we walk through uh not in awe of our Creator We need to remember our creator. We need to remember that he is creator, but he created with a purpose. He created with a purpose to save sinners, and he saves sinners. to his revelation of his son. Although I think he's gonna have more to say about uh the Son as the creator Let me check my time. No, we'll have to we'll have to press on. But so now these are the three things. The three works. The sun reveals God, the Sun saves sinners, and the Sun created and sustains the world. Now you've made things before, or if you made a sandwich, or some of the guys you made made something with Wood. But uh when I don't know, what do you think? Make something of wood. Yeah, the COVID map. Or a scrapbook or something, who knows. Um But we can only make things when we have material You can make things out of other things, but you can't make things. God created the world out of nothing. He spoke it into existence. There's two kinds of things that exist. There's God, and then there's everything else. God is uncreated. Everything else Created. God is eternal. Everything else temporal. It had a beginning. It came into existence at a point in time. We can't make things like that. But you can't make one atom, let alone a sun in the sky, let alone millions, billions of suns. Scattered out in a universe, let alone a universe. We don't even know how to where to begin to start to comprehend these things that God created And so if uh if you've ever struggled with uh the idea that We owe him obedience. We owe him worship. We owe him honor. This is why. Because he created the world out of nothing and he created you. He created your soul out of nothing when you didn't exist. So it's through the Sun that God did that. It's through the Sun that God did that. Okay. And uh all of these works that the Son did The Agent of Revelation, the Agent of Salvation, and the Agent of Creation and sustained providence in the universe are based on He is God himself. He is God. The Son is God. And now we're at the tip of our arrow. Bookends of Revelation, bookends of Revelation. Book ends of salvation, bookends of creation. Now we're in the middle. The the the uh the central point, the tip of this arrow He is, he is, this is who he is, he is the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature. He is equal to God. He is God. The word here for radiance is the idea of a bright shining or a bright glaring forth of radiant magnificent lights He's the shining forth of who God is. How can he do that? Because he is God. He can reveal God perfectly because he is God. He saves sinners because he is God. That's the one I wanted to circle back to. I'll do it in just a second. And he created because he is God. And he sustains the world because he is God. He is the radiance of the glory of God. In the exact imprint of his nature. That's who he is. And then who he is is revealed to us through what he does. Does that make sense? And so you can get to know the character of a person by listening listening to them and watching them and getting to know them. Sometimes they have um a good character and they're trustworthy, for example, or sometimes they have a bad character and they're not trustworthy. But it's through what they do that you can get a window into who they are And it's through the works of the Son that God reveals Himself. So the point I wanted to circle back to. on here number two and connecting it with what I just said that um he he could do these things because of who he is. This is so important especially when we think of Christ as the savior of sinners. Christ is God and man. He's both truly He's fully God. He's fully man. He's God and man. Supernaturally. One person, the person of the eternal Son, in how many natures? Two natures, a divine nature from eternity, and in his incarnation, a human nature. that he took onto himself. He's God and man. Now this is this is important because if he's not God, he cannot save you from your sins. Because only God saves. Only God saves. Jonah 2. 9. Salvation belongs to God to the Lord. Isaiah 43, 11. I, yes, I am the Lord. And besides me, there is no Savior. Speaking throughout through Isaiah to Israel. Only God saved. Only God saved. Without help from the outside. Amen? Without our help in the matter. God saves, only God saves. Jesus is God. Jesus must be God, or he cannot save. And He must be man, or he could not save men. Because to save from sin , you're representing sinners. before God. You and you must represent the sinners as they are. This is going to be a silly goofball um almost irreverent illustration, but I want to I think it'll hopefully it'll help to make this point. He doesn't save worship. He doesn't save chickens. He saves human beings who are unique in God's creation as made in the image of God. And who are rebellious sinners guilty before God? Jesus became one of us. A human being. The Son became a human being, Jesus. So he must be God and man to meet the qualifications of a Redeemer. He is the mediator. He literally represents God on earth to man. And right now he literally represents man, men and women. I'm saying that in a general mankind He truly represents man in heaven before God. Okay, he brings God to man, to sinners who don't deserve that at all. And he wasn't obligated to do it. He did it out of grace and mercy. And now in heaven, where Christ lives and reigns, he represents his people, human beings, sinful human beings, to God. Questions or insights on that? It has to be a formal that literally science yet without formal liberates the matter. In other words, you don't understand. Yeah, the question was, does Jesus have to be a perfect human without sin in order to pay for sin? Well , to be a perfect human and and be tempted in every way to be or in order for essence to the five years. Yeah, because he's fulfilling the law. What do you have to be tempted in every way? And um And go through that and ob and uh i in order to save us yes. Because if if he uh was tempted as we are and sinned, he would disqualify. He fulfills the law. See, there's an obedience to God's law that must be met. Salvation is not God just forgetting about his law or forgetting about the requirement of obedience. Obedience really is required of you to be saved. You must have a righteousness. You must have fulfilled the law at every point in order to be accessible to God. And Christ provides that for us. And so yes, hi uh he does that. I guess the question is is if I treat this function that it can't be everywhere you have about two, that it can't be every way you have about 10 members and I I'm not sure I get the question, but uh let me just say, yes, you have to do it work perfectly also. Yes. Yes, and and so um There's questions about the priesthood, his high priesthood in heaven. This is the question. I'm repeating it for the record, okay? As best I can. The question is about the relationship of Christ's high priesthood in heaven to his work on earth. So the book of Hebrews is unique in this because Christ on earth function in a priestly way and offer the sacrifice on earth, but Hebrews takes the priesthood theology to heaven and wants us to see his heavenly priesthood. Our great high priest in heaven. And so he makes his offering as priest on earth. He's the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And he um Moses in his people, he dies, he's buried, he's risen, and then he's ascended and seated as a great high priest in heaven. The offering he's making there is the merit of his life on earth, basically. The worth of his sacrifice. The um the sin debt is an infinite debt. Because we sinned against an infinite being. And so the worth of the one we sinned against requires an infinite Instant payment. The merit of Christ is what we're talking about here. The sacrifice offered, his perfect obedience to the law, but also just Just the worth of who he is as a person. Um but yeah, just summing it up, yes, his obedience in life is part of what saves us, and it is necessary. to save us. But before that, he mu he must be God. He must be, he is God. And so it's who he is that's the foundation. of all that he does. Alright, let me let me press through. We're going to finish. And then we're going to sing two songs together. Alright. Let me Well here we go. Pastor, ready? Three works. He revealed God. So if you want to know God's will for your life, you go to Jesus as revealed in Scripture. He saves sinners. If you want to be saved from sin, you go to Jesus with faith for repentance. He created the world. He sustains the world. If you want to know who you owe obedience to, who you owe, who has all rights over all things, who owns everything, some Worth father, son, and spirit. But here the point is the son. Because he is God. He is God. And the point I want to close on uh you know it's uh we are middle of winter and it was freezing cold out I wouldn't do this. But uh I think it'll wait enough. I I don't think it's confusing. It definitely will require you to put your maybe putting your thinking cap on. Because I want to make a point about the Trinity. Because when we talk about who God is, this is fundamental. To who God is. He is eternally Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And that's who we worship. That's who saves us. The Son reveals God , Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. But the thing I wanted to say about that tonight was how sometimes we are charged, the Bible is charged, with being illogical about things. saying that it is it is illogical to believe that there 's one God exists in three persons. And so they might say you can um you you could believe in three gods or you can believe in one God, but you Can't believe in a one God who exists in three persons because what you then have is three gods. That's the chart. God is one. Where's my eraser? Here it is God is one in essence and three in person. One in essence and three in person. And I want to take the last few moments. I'm not going to give an exact uh amount of minutes, Pastor. Matt would have said I'm gonna take the last four and a half minutes, but We're not going to go into that. God is one in essence and uh three in person. So uh Christ in the flesh is one person in two natures. God, from all eternity, before he did anything else, before he created, is eternally one in essence is three persons. And what I want to take the last four and a half minutes to to show you is that that is not illogical. That is not illogical. It transcends, definitely transcends what we grasp of logic. It transcends the uh the abilities of logic that God has given us, but it's not illogical. It's very easy to understand how it's not illogical. It's very easy to show how it's not illogical. Because essence and personhood are two different things. Okay? Essence and personhood are two different things. And so this is our You think of anything outside. Think of a rock. Or think of a tree. A rock has an essence. You can call it the essence of rockness or whatever you want to call it. It exists. It's there. It has an essence of what it is. It has being. It's a created thing. It doesn't have a mind of its own. Does it have personhood? No. So it has one essence, zero persons. It's one in essence, zero in persons. Now think of yourself. You have an essence. You're not like a rock. You're not like a tree. You're not like a I was gonna say you're not like a bumblebee. That would make enough from a poem. You're not like a rock, you're not like a tree, you're not like a buzzy buzzy bubble bee. You exist. You have an essence. You have con you are there You are a created being. Do you have a mind of your own? Yes. Do you have personhood? Yes. So Rock, one in essence, zero in person. You, one in essence, one in person. God also has an essence. God exists, but his essence is even more different than You, then you are different than a bumblebee. Because you and a bumblebee are both created things. You have a limited created essence. God's essence is infinite It's infinite, not just that it goes on forever, but it's a completely different kind of thing. He's holy, holy, holy. He's categorically different than us. He's infinitely completely Superior infinitely to us, we do not even have the words or categories or the ability to fully comprehend. We can know what God has revealed with the Spirit of God But his essence is infinite. Therefore It's perfectly logical to think that if a rock you can have a thing with one essence And you 're a person. And you can have a thing with one essence and one person. Both of those are creative things, limited things. Perfectly within the bounds of logic as far as God. To believe that one infinite essence can exist in three persons, whole equal persons. Well that's not why we believe in Trinity. That's just an illustration. We would say it's illogical if we disagree with this. We believe the Trinity because that's how God has revealed Himself. We believe the Trinity because God has revealed Himself as Trinity. That's our foundation. That's the reason. I'm not getting you the reason. The reason for what we believe doesn't come from philosophy or arguments about logic. Um, but it's not theological. It's very, very easy to show because essence and person are two different things. things. And the rock is the example at the other end of the spectrum, how you can have one uh but the other is not equal. We are right in the middle, we have one of each. God is infinite. God is eternal. One eternal infinite essence. God, the God of Scripture, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. He's revealed his will to us through his son. And he saves us from our sins through his Son. Let's pray together. Father, we bless your name. We bless your name in Jesus Christ. Fill us with your Holy Spirit. Guide us by your Spirit. Lead us by your Spirit that we would walk in your ways and love you and cherish you and adore you. and seek you and know you through Jesus Christ. Father, we pray. In his name. Amen. God bless you. Thank you for coming.