Well, let's turn to first Peter chapter one verses thirteen to twenty. First Peter one thirteen to twenty uh thirteen to twenty-one. Rather. And um the message is called to be holy. Called to be holy. And that simply means called to be different in the world. Alright, called to be different in the world. Set apart. That's what holy means. It means God has set us apart. Picture the world as the as a large swimming pool. filled to the brim with tiny pebbles, and the Lord comes, God comes, and He picks you out, and He lifts you up and He puts you over here. He sets you apart from the world. That's what holy means. Set apart to the Lord in our hearts. Set apart to the Lord and our minds and what we believe and how we think. Set apart to the Lord and our words and how we speak. How we speak to people, how we speak about people. Set apart unto the Lord, by the Lord, for the Lord in our lives, to honor Him and to seek His glory, not our own. When we were in the swimming pool of the world, one of those pebbles, we were seeking our own glory. We were living according to our own opinions. But now that God has set us apart, He's made us holy. He's called us to be different. We're living for his glory. We're living for his truth. Called to be holy. 1 Peter 1. 13 to 21. Just one more word of introduction before I pray and we read this passage. So important. Every single Christian needs to know this like the back of their hands, that holiness and obedience comes after salvation. And we need to know that, frontward and backward, and to be able to articulate that in our own words naturally and comfortably, that holiness and obedience to God comes after salvation. Salvation is a free gift. Salvation is a free gift. It's a gift of God's grace that we receive. It's 100% free, 100% by God's grace. We put our faith in Jesus Christ. based on his death, based on his resurrection, and we are saved. God gives us a new destiny. God wipes the slate clean and he forgives all of our sins and God gives us a new heart. And it's because of that new heart that now that we have been saved, By grace as a free gift. Now we can live holy and obedient unto the Lord. And if we get that mixed up, we lose the gospel. If we get that mixed up, all of a sudden what we have is ourselves earning God's favor. We have ourselves working to earn salvation. And that's the opposite of Christianity. Salvation is a free gift. Holiness and obedience is one of the results of that gift. So let's just get that settled in our hearts and in our minds doctrinally. That's where we need to be. And brother and sister, that's part of our witness and testimony. to the world around us. You know, the world around us doesn't know that. I didn't know that when I was lost. Someone had to tell me that. Christian friends, Christian people had to tell me that That salvation was a free gift, and holiness and obedience comes from that. Let's pray for our time in the Word, and then we'll read the passage. Father, we ask that you'd open our hearts to your word, lift our minds to a higher plane this evening, to the plane of Christ. Where he reigns over all things from heaven. Where he offers a free salvation to lowly sinners who can do nothing to save ourselves. Show us your glory. Show us your grace. And as the passage talks about, show us your holiness, that we too might be holy for your honor. Father, we pray that you help us by your word and by your spirit. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. First Peter 1, verses 13 to 21. Peter writes, Therefore Preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, Conduct yourselves with fear throughout your time of exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb, without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times. For the sake of you, who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. I always tell Anthony it's what it's so difficult for me to teach and preach through Peter because it's so dense. It's so densely richly packed with wonderful things. These rich words and phrases and concepts. It's just so dense. One of the things I love in verse 21 is this The first phrase where it says, through him were believers in God. I love this imagery of through him. It pictures Christ as a doorway. It pictures Christ as the gateway. And Scripture says that. Jesus says in John chapter ten, I am the door for the sheep. And we are believers in God through Jesus Christ. He's the only way to be a true believer in God. Amen? He's the only way to be a true believer. in God. I just love that imagery. We come through him to be believers. What we're focusing on tonight is Our call to be holy. And make no mistake about it, beloved of God. God has called us to be holy. And we must, we must humbly and zealously pursue a holy mindset. And the holy mindset is, number one, a mind set on eternity. A mind set on eternity. God has set us apart to have our minds set on eternity, not just The temporal. Um this comes from verse thirteen. Therefore, preparing your minds for action, not just for thinking. That's an interesting phrase, isn't it? It's not prepare your mind for thinking, because that's what the mind does. Prepare your mind for action. It's the idea of Getting mentally prepared for a task ahead. We all know what that is. When you have an interview coming up, or for an athlete, a big game coming up, or something important coming up. You know how important it is to get mentally prepared. Ahead of time to get your mind right ahead of time before the task. And here's the task of living for living for God. So he says, prepare your mind for action and be sober-minded. Don't be all over the place. Be sober-minded. Be focused. Be clear-minded. And he says this. Set your hope. Fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now, we've already received grace. Yes? Anybody? We got one. We've already received grace. Somebody take coffee orders. We'll give somebody come around. We need We've already received grace, but this is talking about grace we'll receive in the future. This is culminative grace. This is mountaintop grace. This is consummate grace The full eschatological grace. That means ultimate. That means last, final. He says, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the day of his return. That's his appearance, his second coming. Whenever this happens, it will be when you receive this final and full expression of saving grace. And that will be Two things primarily. One being spared from the final judgment. That's the last being saved. There's a judgment coming. And the question, the great question of Scripture is when that judgment comes, who will be spared? Who will be saved? Who will be delivered? Who will make it through safely? Those who put their faith in Jesus Christ. And you'll receive that grace. The judgment will happen, but you'll be spared. You'll be delivered. And secondly, the second part is you'll receive a resurrection body. You will receive a glorious, imperishable, fully, completely, holy resurrection body on this day of the revelation of the Of Jesus Christ. body That's a mindset on eternity. We all know it's true that a long-term goal keeps you on track. Having that, keeping your eyes on the long-term goal. Keeps you on the right track. Keep your eyes on the finish line, or at least the dir the racetrack, the direction heading toward the finish line. You're going in the right direction If you ignore that and set your eyes somewhere else, you'll be disqualified from the race. So it doesn't matter if you circle back around and get there before other people you're lost. You're disqualified. You take your eyes off. Think of the importance of a landing strip. And our pilots need to see the lights and see the landing strip. You need to keep your eyes, keep your goals, the instruments aligned, calibrated to that goal. That long-term goal will keep you on the right track, and Christians who lose sight of where they're headed will lose sight of how they ought to be living. Christians who lose sight of where they are headed and what is theirs in Christ, their glorious inheritance, will lose sight, will get off track of how they ought to be living. Galatians 6. 8, Paul writes, The one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. What are you sowing to? What are you gardening up? What are you cultivating up? Things of the flesh or things of the spirit? Things of heaven and the eternity or things of the earth, and this is the temporal fleeting things of this creation Brothers and sisters, let's set our mind on eternity. That's the thing that will situate us properly and teach us how to live properly in the midst of the temporal, in the midst of this life. Those who are called to be holy, those who want to have a mind set of holiness, must have their mind set on eternity. We must, in the words of Peter, set our hope fully on the grace that will be brought to us. at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I cannot wait for that day. That's a wonderful day. I mean day of days when Christ returns And he eradicates all sin and puts a final and complete end to all of his enemies and all unrighteousness. Does away with all the causes of sin. Does away with all of the effects of sin. Does away with all the temptations to sin. Is it sounding any bit good yet? I mean, this is wonderful stuff. And does away with all sin. You won't have to battle sin anymore. A mindset on eternity. Secondly, humbly and zealously pursuing a holy mindset. Is pursuing a mind set on repentance. Set on repentance. That means turning to God, turning from sin. And this comes from verse 14. As obedient children. Do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. The passions are the passions of the flesh, the natural sinful inclinations of humanity. Now before we were saved, that's all we had to um to animate us in the way we thought and felt, spoke, and lived. The flesh, the passions of the flesh. We were enslaved to them. But now that we're saved, we still Have sin living within us. We still possess the passions of the flesh, but there's a major difference. We're no longer enslaved to the passions of the flesh. Amen. Indeed. Passage of your former ignorance. That's the former ignorance when we were lost. Specifically, this ignorant of the gospel. Ignorance of the gospel, which gospel, brothers and sisters, is the light of salvation. The light of salvation that God shined into our hearts. And saved us. A mindset on repentance, turning from the passions and the deeds And the carnality and the selfishness and the bickering and the greed and the materialism. And you can make a list just as long as I can make on this. Turning from those things. Those things belong to the former ignorance, but no longer. Repentance is very simple. It's a picture of turning around. You're driving north. To Canada, and you think, what am I doing? So you turn around and you start driving south to Florida. Now you're going somewhere. That's where repentance is Repentance is you're looking into the sun, and it's hurting you, and you know it's hurting you. If you keep looking, you'll go blind, and so you come to your senses and you turn away. That's repentance. You turn away. You turn. First Peter, well, the whole New Testament, right? Not just First Peter, but the whole New Testament is written to first century Christians. And they're surrounded by paganism. And they're surrounded by pluralism. And they're surrounded by abortion. And they're surrounded by rampant sexual immorality of all sorts. And there's this is the culture. Surrounded by greed, surrounded by selfishness, surrounded by cultural upheaval and angst. And they're called to turn away from all that and live simple lives of contentment and godliness in fellowship with God. And to pursue holiness, and to turn away from the passions of the flesh, and walk in the spirit Every morning we should wake up and ask God in a humble prayer, God, would you help me walk in the Spirit today? Do you need to do that? Am I the only one who needs to do that? And if we don't do that, we won't make one millimeter with the Lord. Now that's that's the audience of 1 Peter in the whole New Testament. First century Christians. Now who are we? Well, we're 21st century Christians. And what are we surrounded by? Paganism, pluralism, same thing. Abortion, rampant sexual immorality of all sorts, greed, selfishness, cultural upheaval, and angst And we have the very same calling to be holy. Turn away from all that. Turn away from all that. There's no peace in that. There's no future in that. There's no destiny in that. There's maybe the approval of the world in that, which is one of the the biggest idols of our culture, is the approval of others. We have the same calling. Isn't that a Really cool phrase in verse 14, obedient children. As obedient children. That's who we are in Christ. We have to strive to be that more and more. Ephesians 5. 1, Paul writes, therefore be imitators of God. as beloved children. The imitators of God as beloved children. I love that because you have the charge, but then you have the fact That the charge is based on. The charge is be imitators of God. But the fact is you are his beloved children. It's not the imitators of God that you might become his beloved children. Is to be imitators of God because you are his beloved children. And if you put your faith in Christ, you are a beloved child of God irreversibly. A mindset on repentance. A mindset on eternity. And number three, a mindset on godly behavior, humbly, zealously pursuing a holy mindset And that would be a mind that is set on godly behavior. Verses fifteen and sixteen. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all of your conduct. AKA behavior. Behavior. I remember there's that was one of our grades in elementary school, conduct I didn't do too well in conduct. That was always my lowest grade. Always my lowest grade. Went gym, art, the other grades, lunch, recess Actually, that's probably where most of my conduct issues came to the surface. But it says, behold in all of your conduct, which is behavior. And then verse 16, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. Now the for this point the key word is conduct in verse 15. And in verse 16, for this point the key word is be, be holy Right. This is a mind that's set on godly behavior. Godliness and obedience to God is not just theoretical. You know, learning guitar is not something uh that's only that only kit can happen in your mind. It requires practice. It requires putting hands to it. Picking up a guitar, picking up the instrument. It requires an action. Any instrument. Learning tennis. It's not something that can happen only in your mind. Learning how to tie a tie is not something that can happen only in your mind. If you've never done it before, it's It's strange, it's difficult, there's this new thing. You gotta put hands to it, you gotta put fingers to it, you've got to put hand in the tennis racket, you've got to put it into practice, practice, practice, practice And that's the kind of faith that Christianity is. It's a faith of practice. It's a faith of conduct. It's a faith of behavior. It's not theoretical. And this mindset on godly behavior really comes out in verses 15 to 16. Holy in all of your conduct. That's wherever you are in life, whether you're home, behold in your conduct and how you're treating your siblings and treating your parents and treating your spouse, whether you're at work, or whether you're at school, or whether you're out at your hobbies. Alright, where you're treating other people, where you're representing God. That's part of our discipleship, right? Representing God in the world. This is conduct. All of your conduct. Be holy. Then he says this Old Testament reference and the foundation for this, since it is written, verse 16, since it is written, you shall be holy. For I am holy. Um holiness that's a result of salvation, not the cause of salvation. But once you get to holiness, it begins with the root of inward devotion. It begins with the roots of inward devotion. Inward love. Giving my heart to love God. Do you feel that? Inside yourself, inside your soul, could you say that? I'm giving my heart to love God. God, I love you with my heart. That's the root of holiness. That's the first obedience. It's a result of faith. It's the first practical obedience. Love God. Love his word. But that root of inward devotion will grow and bear the fruit of outward obedience and God-honoring speech. And God honoring attitude. And God honoring work ethic and example. God honoring words. God honoring actions in all spheres of life. You have the inward root of devotion to God, the inward root of holiness. Then you have the outward fruit of holiness, practical godliness, practical righteousness, a mindset on behavior. Conduct. Circle that last word in verse 15. Circle it. Photocopy it. Cut it out. Paste it on your paste it somewhere. Put it on your fridge with a magnet. Put it on a piece of scotch tape on your mirror. Conduct. God has called us to holy conduct. Number four. Number four. A mindset on God's holiness. humbly, zealously pursuing a holy mindset. And that number one is a mind that's set on eternity. And number two, that's a mind that is set on repentance, turning from those old ways. And number three, that's a mind that's set on godly behavior. I'm giving my heart to God and and saying, God, bear fruit outwardly, but I'm giving my heart to you. Number four, a mindset on God's holiness. Now, for this, we're still in verses 15 to 16, and you probably saw this coming. There's two things going on in verse 15 and 16. One is the command of being holy, but two is Why? And where that comes from. And it's God's holiness. So verse 15 and 16 again. But as he who called you is holy You also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. Obviously the key phrase, verse 15, is He who called you is holy. That's just making a fact stating a fact about God. He who called you is holy. What does called mean? That means he called you into fellowship with himself. He called you out of sin. He calls you from a state of lostness to be saved, to have eternal life. We were alienated from God when we were lost, when we didn't believe in Christ We were alienated from God. God's way over there. We're way over here. We're in sin. We're loving sin. But then God intervenes. And God convicts us of our sin. And God shows us the gospel. And God Sets us apart. He changes our hearts. He brings us over here, reconciling us to himself. That's what salvation is. Alienated, but then we put our faith in Christ. We are reconciled. That's The power, that's the force. Let this press into our hearts where it says, He who called you. He who called you. He called you out of darkness into fellowship with himself. And the th the statement that's being made here is he is holy. And then verse 16. The end of it says, I am holy. God is holy. And he's the source of all holiness. He's the pattern of holiness. He's the source of all holiness. If we're ever to pursue a holy mindset, brothers and sisters, if we're ever to grow in holiness, inwardly or outwardly, we have to set our minds And set our hearts on holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. God is holy. The reason for loving holiness If you've been asleep, wake up now. If the person next to you is asleep, nudge them. Let me tell you the reason for why we love holiness and not wickedness. The world thinks we're crazy for that. Like what's the problem? Just join the party. You're not hurting anybody. Just live it up, party it up. These lies of this lies of Satan. Now don't go rip that part. Don't go Strip that part from the sermon and quote it out of context. The reason for loving holiness, brothers and sisters, is we love God and God is holy. This is not Rocket surgery. Or brain science. My wife is laughing at me like I didn't do that on purpose. The reason we love holiness is we love God, and God is holy. We love Him, brothers and sisters, we love God. And since we love him, we want to honor him. And we know that holiness honors God, and that wickedness dishonors God. It's the difference between encouraging someone and building them up versus spitting in their face and telling lies about them. One honors, one dishonors. We do not obey God to earn His love or to earn forgiveness or to earn a resurrection body. We love God because God is worthy of our love. He's worthy of our love. He's most valuable of all things and all beings He's most beautiful of all things and all beings. He's most wonderful of all things and all beings. And he deserves, beloved. He deserves the best and the highest of our affections. And he deserves the best and the highest of our adoration Singing his praises. And he received, he deserves the best and the highest of our admiration, admiring him for who he is and for what he's done. In other words, he's worthy. He is most worthy. He's worthy of a perfect love. He's an infinite being of infinite perfections. In everything. He's perfect in all of his ways. Perfect in all of his attributes. He deserves our love. And That's just who he is. We haven't even talked about the fact that he's given this gracious salvation of infinite value Now you add that on top of the infinite perfection of who he is. You add on top of that the infinite love of his great salvation And what love, what admiration, what adoration does he deserve in response to who he is and to what he's done? An infinite love. We can never love him in a way, such a way that measures up to who he is. But praise God by his mercy, because of the Holy Spirit, we do love him. And we do love him truly, though not perfectly. But we love God. Now, if holiness is a reflection of God's character, and holiness is a reflection of God's character, holiness, if it's a reflection of God's character, And we love God, how can we not love holiness? Does that make sense? It reflects who He is You can't say, I love that painting, and then also say that is ugly and absolute garbage You can't say that. You're a liar or hypocrite or delusional in some way. You cannot say, I love pizza. And also, pizza is disgusting, and it grosses me out just to smell it Like that doesn't measure up. You can't say to a person, I love you, and also I never want to hear from you or see you again. Right, and you can't say I love God, but do not care for holiness. It's the same kind of contradiction. It doesn't match up, it doesn't measure up Holiness is a reflection of who God is, and so if we love God, we love holiness. And that's why we love his commandments. We love it the commands of God, the holy law of God we love because it's a reflection of who God is and his righteousness. And his justice and his mercy and his holiness. A mind set on God 's holiness Must be a part of our lives. Must be a thread that's woven into whatever the fabric of our lives is. There's got to be a love for God and a love for His holiness. 1 John, does the cross-references for this? Lorna does. She's taking notes. If we ever do have a final exam, Lorna's gonna ace it. So sorry about that. She'll ruin the curve for everybody else. First John 2, 4-6, 4-6 John writes, whoever says I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a, any guesses, liar. And the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word in him truly the love of God is perfected. In other words, the love of God resides in that person and is growing to maturity. How do we know? How do we know? Because he's Keeping God's word. He's keeping God's word. Um going on. Uh verse five again. But whoever keeps his word in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know that we are in him. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. That's obedience. That's holiness. That's practical righteousness. It's a sign, it's evidence that you've been brought into fellowship with Christ. By this we may know that we are in Him. In Him. In the fellowship with God, in communion with Jesus, in communion with the Holy Spirit. It's the best way to live. I lived in the darkness. I know the domain of sin. And I'm so happy to be in the domain of light through fellowship in Christ. Amen, brother? I don't want to go back at all to the sin. And it's all a result , hundred percent result of God 's grace God's mercy and God's love and I get no credit and you get no credit. God gets all the glory. God gets all the credit. But I'm happy to be a sharer in his salvation. 1 John 4, 20 and 21. If anyone says I love God, and yet he hates his brother, he is a Liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen. And this commandment we've we have from him, whoever loves God must also love his brother. So it's another verse about hypocrisy. Someone says I know God, but he's not keeping his commandments. Now someone says I love God, but he's hating his brother. And he's and the first one's a liar, and the second one's a liar. And it's a hypocrite, it's a religious hypocrite. You love God but you hate your brother. Now, that's wicked. That's unholy living. To live in hatred for your brother or sister in Christ. And that's the context here, the local church. What's going on in the local church? The law of God, and how we're to live it out, the law of God is fulfilled in one word, Scripture says, and that word is love. But so it is not like there's a lot we love over here or we obey God's commandments over here. That's the world wants us to think like that We don't follow commandments. We don't follow God's holy law. We just love each other. Scripture teaches that the very definition and the very essence of God's holy law is love. Love for God, love for each other. Love. So when so when he says, if if anyone says I love God and hates his brother, that's a really, really big deal. That's wickedness. And that's why he says he's a liar. And one more on this, Psalm 119, verses 97 and 98. The psalmist writes, Oh, how I love your law. Is my meditation all the day? Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me. I'm going to read that again. Oh, how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies. For it is ever with me. Now you know it's true. We live in an anti-law culture. Anti-God culture. Anti-law. Anti-commandment. In fact, our culture's definition of of love will be the opposite of God's definition of love. Our culture's definition of love is let me do whatever I want, let you do whatever you want, everybody's good. God's definition of love is to love each other according to his precepts and holy commandments, and to love him according to his precepts and holy commandments. Oh how I love your law. This if this were to say, oh how I love your gospel Oh, how I love your salvation. I meditate on that. That would resonate pretty quickly with us. But this is loving God's law. And we need to be reminded that God's law is good. And God's law is holy. God's commandments are spiritual. They're the things that show us that we're sinners. And since they show us that we're sinners, they point us to Christ so that we can be saved. And then once we are saved, they function like a guide, like a pattern for how we're to act, for how we're to live, how to treat each other, and how we're to conduct ourselves in the world for true righteousness, justice, and mercy. And love. So the psalmist says, Oh, how I love your law. It's my meditation all the day, contemplating God's law, contemplating his commandments, contemplating what holiness is. And when he says, Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever. Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning, the foundation, the fountain of knowledge and wisdom. But once we have the fear of the Lord, how do we grow in wisdom? How do we grow in practical wisdom and living godly lives? He says, your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies. Wisdom will increase in our minds and discernment will increase in our minds as we grow in the commandments of God or understanding. And proper application of the commandments of God. Of course, the transformative power comes from the gospel. But the concepts and the constructs and the commands of what it looks like come from God's law and God's commandments That all comes from having a mindset on God's holiness, the holy character of God. There's two um two aspects of God's holiness. Number one, his exalted greatness. Right, just his hi th I'm making this phrase up, his high aboveness, like his otherness, his exalted greatness over and above all things. That's one aspect of God's holiness. He's highly exalted, his majesty is above all things. You know those Bible verses. His exalted greatness is one aspect of God's holiness, but the other aspect of God's holiness is moral purity. Moral purity. He's the standard of moral perfection. He's the standard of ethical perfection. True ethics and true right versus true wrong is not a matter for popular vote. It's not a matter for popular opinion. It's not a matter for personal preference It's grounded, it's based on the character of God. Who God is is the standard of ethics and morality. Moral perfection. and exalted greatness. Let's fix our minds on God's holiness. Let's have God by His Spirit and by His Word and through the congregational worship. Let's have God consistently lifting our minds to the holiness of who He is. His exalted greatness and his moral purity, moral perfection. We must humbly And we must zealously pursue a holy mindset. And that holy mindset is number one a mind that's set on eternity. We're not living just for the here and now. And number two, it's a mind that's set on repentance, turning away from the passions of our former ignorance. Number three, it's a mindset on godly behavior. We're not just robotic thinkers who think theology and think spiritual things, but we're putting it into practice. Number four, it's a mindset on God's holiness, his exalted greatness. His moral purity as revealed in his perfect commandments and holy law. And number five, it's a mind that's set on final judgment Final judgment. Now this comes from verse 17. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds. Conduct yourselves with fear throughout your time of exile. Now just like verse 13, this also is pointing us to that day of Uh the revelation of Christ. This too is pointing us to that final day of judgment. A father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds. You n basically saying you know that's coming. You know we serve this God and that the judgment day is coming. No matter what the culture says, the judgment day is coming. We are accountable to God. By the way, that's part of our witness too, just to re just to tell people, we are accountable to God. He made the world. He made us. He rules over the world. And we are accountable to God. And there's a day of judgment coming on that basis. Mindset on the final judgment gives us the fear of the Lord, helps us to walk in the fear of the Lord. You know, no lawyer, no lawyer would tell you if you're facing charges, ah, don't worry about the judge. Who's he? No lawyer would tell you, don't worry about the trial. Everything's gonna be okay. Don't worry about it. No loy no good lawyer No would uh would do that. No friend would tell you uh about your behavior and you're about to do you're about to do some things that are that are illegal. No good friend would tell you, don't worry about the law. Ah, penalty smilte. Don't worry about it. If you want to do it, you do it. No good friend would tell you those things, like no good lawyer would tell you, ah don't worry about the judge's authority over you. Don't worry about the authority of the state. Jail. No biggie. Right. And what what we've by and large completely forgotten in our culture. Is that there is a a legal situation between humanity and God. And God has called and requires all people to love Him and worship Him and obey Him. And live for him. And we know that naturally nobody does that. So that we're guilty before him and facing final judgment. And this Helps us to walk in the fear of the Lord, which reminds us to persuade others. Because since you since God has sent us to love others and love the world, We don't delight in the fact that people are going to stand before God and be guilty. We're not doing cartwheels about that. It should break our hearts. We want people to be saved on that day. We want people to be there with us in the resurrection. And look at listen to this verse. Intriguing verse, 2 Corinthians 5. 11, Paul says. Therefore, knowing to fear the Lord, we persuade others. Knowing to fear of the Lord, we persuade others. He says, knowing to fear of the Lord, says we know that God is the authority over us. Since we know there's going to be a final judgment, we're working to persuade others so that they can be saved from that judgment. Knowing the fear of the Lord. We know what the fear of the Lord is. Therefore, we work to persuade others. If you're to zoom out, I know there's so many aspects to our message, so many different aspects to what the Bible teaches and to our message. But if you just really zoom out, We have a two-part message for the world. Two part message for the world. Number one, there's a coming judgment. Number two, there's an offer of a free salvation. There's a coming judgment, there's a free salvation. There's a coming Touchume And all will be held accountable before a holy God. But there's an offer of salvation. And through Jesus Christ, on the basis of his death, on the basis of his resurrection, if you put your faith in him, you now are saved. And you will be saved. A mindset on the final judgment. And finally, at least for this passage, we have a mindset on the gospel of our salvation. A mind that is set on the gospel of our salvation. This is verse 18 to 21. Knowing that you were ransomed, that means purchased out of, bought out of. The futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. Mindset in the gospel of our salvation. And the first thing he puts under this, the first subheading is we have a mindset on the priceless sacrifice of Christ. The priceless sacrifice of Christ. That of a lamb without blemish or spot, the precious blood of Christ. Man, let that ring in your ears for a couple minutes here The precious blood of Christ. The precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. It is that blood, brothers and sisters, that ransomed us from the darkness of sin. It's that blood that gave us our exodus from slavery to sin. Yeah, it would have been bad to be enslaved to Pharaoh, but it's worse to be enslaved to sin. You can be enslaved to Pharaoh and still be a believer and be saved ultimately. But if you're still enslaved to sin, you need to be saved. You need to put your faith in Christ. You put your faith in Christ. It's not just like this random arbitrary feeling or spiritual feeling that you get in church or something like that, or by doing good deeds and feeling good about it. Um it's based on his sacrifice. It's based on his sacrifice. The warrant of faith is Christ. It's not original to me. That's from Charles Spurgeon. But we're putting our faith in Christ on the ground of his sacrifice. That's eighteen, nineteen. And the point for tonight, central point for tonight is if we want to live holy lives, we must always have our minds set on the sacrifice. You can never take your eye off Christ. We can never turn our heart away from Christ. I mean if that domino falls over, it's going to be bad news ahead. Bad news ahead. And um then next verse 20. The mindset on the gospel is the mindset on the sacrifice of Christ, but then also set on the eternal plan of God's grace. Verse 20. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but then was made manifest in the last times for your sake. This plan began before the foundation of the world. God had this plan before the foundation of the world And to come to his fulfillment in Christ. And that's what he says. He, Christ, He was foreknown before the foundation of the world. In other words, this was God's purpose from before creation. And now he's brought us to fulfillment in creation so that we could be brought into fellowship with God. For us to be in fellowship with God is not enough that he just creates us, he must save us. He must save us from our sin. And if you have faith in Christ, that's what God is. There's two greatest things God has done for you. He's created you and He saved you. He's created you and He saved you. And finally, we must know not only his priceless sacrifice, have our mindset on that, but also the plan of his grace, the eternal plan of his sovereign grace, have our mindset on that. Finally, last but not least, a mindset on the power of his resurrection. The power of his resurrection. Verse 21: who through him are believers in God. Who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. He raised him from the dead and gave him glory. That's talking about his ascension and enthronement in heaven. Because he died for our sins, he died as a substitute for our sins. But just theoretical, I almost hate saying this because it's hypothetical, it's theoretical, so almost part, a small part of me feels blasphemous. But I hope it'll exaggerate and make the point. If he remained dead, how can you go to him and receive salvation from him? This is an utterly practical point that Jesus was risen to attain eternal life, and then he ascended into heaven, so that he's a living savior. It's important that he's a living savior. So that people can go to him in faith. You go to him in faith because he's invisible. He's in heaven. You're on earth. This is a spiritual reality. We go to him in faith and receive his great salvation. That's why I always say, when I I try to always say it, on the basis of his death and on the basis of his resurrection, we put our faith in him We come to Jesus Christ, the living Lord, and that's how we're saved. Brethren, I hope I hope it's been driven a little bit more into each one of our hearts tonight that we are called to be holy. God has plucked us up from the world, and he set us apart to give our lives to him in all areas of life. In a heart, mind, word, and deed. Let us strive for holiness. Scripture says, without which no one will see the Lord But let us always remember, I'm going to bookend this thing really, try to bookend this thing real nicely for you. The same way I began, I'll end. Always remember, holiness and obedience comes after salvation. Not before. Salvation is a free gift. It's a hundred percent free gift of grace, and one of the things that results from that is a desire for holiness, a desire for for obedience in our lives. And where do we go to get that? Well we go to God. By his word and by his spirit. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your word. Continue in each one of our lives. We're all at different places. I imagine we're going through different things. Battling different temptations, different decisions and trials we're working through, different stages of life. But I pray that for each one of us, we would trust in you as our helper. That we would put our faith in Jesus as our Savior. And that whatever the next step you have for us in our walk of faith, that you'd give us the strength to take that one little step. Father, help us more and more to give ourselves to you and to your word and to your kingdom. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.