Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Now we're ready. Alright, we're taking a break from Daniel to talk about something that's relevant. The central prophecy in Daniel Has been the promise of a coming kingdom that God Himself will set up in the days of the Roman Empire. That kingdom will be eternal. That kingdom will be powerful, so powerful it will grow. How big will that kingdom that God sets up grow? To be half the size of the earth? Whole earth. It's a stone that becomes a mountain that grows and covers the whole earth. And nothing will stop God from doing that. Seek the secrets of the kingdom. of God and today just looking at one of them. I'm not looking at them in order that they're presented in Scripture. This is Just the first one we're doing. We're not looking at all of the secrets of the kingdom of God tonight. Unless you want to stay till 3 a. m. but I don't think you do. So we'll look at just one, the parable of the weeds, and then the interpretation that Jesus gives of the parable of the weeds. Matthew thirteen twenty four and following We'll you'll get the verses as we get there I did something at the request of my wife. It's something I used to do a lot. I'd say two out of every five classes when we used to meet across the fellowship hall down in the corner, and I've just done this over the years. Try to teach in different ways and I used to you ha use handouts and fill in the blanks uh a lot. You know, haven't I haven't been doing them in Daniel because I've been trying to cover Huge portions of Daniel at a time. And I thought the handouts would be distracting and take too long and kind of break up the continuity of that. But for this, I want to be clear and explicit and have give you some resource to keep with you. Let's read Matthew 13 24 through 30. And 36 through 43. And then I'll pray for a time and we'll work through the sheet together. How's that sound? Becky, does that sound good? All right He put another parable before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his Field. In his field, not in it. But while his men were sleeping, his enemy came And sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. Now who whose field is it It's the man. It's the man. There's the it's not the enemy. The enemy sneaks into the man's field. It doesn't change the fact that it's the man's Field. Alright? Man's field. Not enemy's field. He owns it. It's his. Alright Verse 26. So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also, and the servants of the master of the house. Came and said to him, Master, did you not sow good seed in your in your field? How then does it have weeds? He said to them, An enemy has done this So the servants said to him, Then you then do you want us to go and gather them? But he said, No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them. Let both grow together until the harvest. And at the harvest time, I will tell the reapers, gather the weeds first. and bind them into bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn. I'll give you a little preview of of the secret and I'm gonna try to I'm gonna I'm going to wait to give the supporting points and look at them closely. But the kingdom here Is mixed until the final harvest. The kingdom is the world. Not everyone interprets it that way. The temptation may be to say, well, this is the church. Well, let's read Jesus' interpretation of it. Verse 36. Then he left the crowds and went into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying, Explain the parable of the weeds of the field. I thought that was an interesting title that they give it, The Parable of the Weeds of the Field. Because in the parable it sa it's he says, verse twenty four, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field, but then they refer to it as the parable of the weeds of the field. Because this is the issue, this is the question. What's the deal with the weeds? He answered them, the one who sows the good seed is the son of man. Alright. So who's the son of man? The Lord, Jesus. The field is the church. The world. Alright? So let's just stop right here. What's the field? The field's the world. And the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. All right, the sons of the kingdom. So not everyone who's in this field is a son of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one. The enemy, if you sowed them, is the devil. And the harvest is the end of the age. And the reapers are angels, just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so it will be at the end of the age. All unbelievers. All unbelievers. It's not just unbelievers in the church. It's all unbelievers in the what's the field? In the world. Okay. Verse 41. The Son of Man will send his angels and they will gather out of his kingdoms. Okay. He's gathering something out of his kingdom, which is the field, which is the world, which is mixed. Okay? Out of his kingdom. All causes of sin and all lawbreakers. That's the key, it's a key verse right here. Can you gather causes of sin and lawbreakers out of a kingdom if there's never causes of sin or lawbreakers in a kingdom. Okay, so are we getting the picture here? The kingdom of the Son of Man in the world in this age is mixed. It will not be mixed on the other side of the final harvest at the judgment. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom, out of the kingdom, all causes of sin and all lawbreakers, and throw them into the fiery furnace, which is an i image of final judgment and eternal destruction. In that place where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. Who he who has ears let him hear. And in 1 Corinthians 15, we learn that when Jesus completes his kingdom and returns and gathers and glorifies and resurrects and bodies his kingdom, he presents it back to the Father. First Corinthians 15, 24. And 25. Well really 24 through 27, but that whole section is about that. It's then, after the judgment, after that final harvest, that the righteous will shine like the sun. They'll shine in full glory. There'll be no more weeds. Mixed in with their shining on the earth. Because all causes of sin, not only outside of them, but in them, inside them themselves, all causes of sin. will be eradicated as they're gathered and glorified and completely sanctified in every way It will shine like the sun. Perfect, that's an imagery for a perfect reflection of God's holy character coming through the redeemed sons of the kingdom. It's exciting stuff. So there's two stages of the Messianic kingdom Since the day of Pentecost. Now you can argue that Christ's earthly ministry was the arrival of the kingdom and he established it in his death and resurrection. But since the day of Pentecost, there's two stages of the kingdom right now uh and then on the other side of the harvest, the consummate king Right now it's mixed, then it will not be mixed. Alright, the purpose of parables, let's look at this first section. I think this is important. Every word of every scripture is profitable for teaching. And the secret the parables of the kingdom have a unique place in Scripture, pulling back the veil and really giving us a A clear understanding of the nature of Christ's kingdom. The purpose of parables, number one, parables teach disciples the secrets or the mysteries of God's kingdom. Matthew 13, 10. And 11. It's one of those interesting things and very helpful that as Jesus is telling parables, he's also teaching About the nature of parables and how to hear parables and what the purpose of parables is. And they teach disciples the secrets of God's kingdom. Matthew 13 ten and eleven. Then the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? And he answered, To you it has been given To know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. And you can read the rest of it, the rest of that uh paragraph For those who aren't getting it, parables conceal the true nature of the kingdom. But for those with ears to hear and eyes to see, by faith, hearts to understand, enabled of course by the Spirit of God. Parables reveal the mysteries or the secrets of the kingdom. Number two, parables explain the fulfillment of God's promises. Fulfillment of God's promises. Same chapter, Matthew 13, 16, and 17. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For truly I say to you, Many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see and did not see it. Why did they not see it? Because they did not live in the age of fulfillment. They lived in the age of anticipation. They lived in the age of foreshadowing. They lived in the age of the kingdom being prophesied and promised. You live in the age of fulfillment. They lived in the age of fulfillment To hear what you hear and did not hear it. Number three, parables clarify God's eternal plan. Hopefully you notice that all of these are connected. All these are connected. That the secrets of the kingdom of God are taught. Well, what is the kingdom of God? Well, that is the fulfillment of God's promises. And at the same time, it's The coming together, the coming to fruition of his eternal plan for all things. God creating a people for himself through Christ to worship him and love him and be with him forever. That's it. Put a period there. That's God's plan. Matthew 13, 34 and 35. All these things Jesus said to the crowds in parables. Indeed, he said nothing to them without a parable. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet. I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter what has been hidden since the foundation of the world. It 's been hidden from the foundation of the world and now revealed and taught and explained and fulfilled in the coming of Christ, the kingdom of God, the messianic kingdom of God. Tonight's secret. I put this in bold. God's kingdom in Christ includes the world, that is the whole earth. Sometimes the word world refers specifically to the realm of unbelief and darkness that is currently under the dominion of Satan. That's not the only way world is used. Sometimes it just means the whole realm of earth. All nations. God so loved the world. Right? This redemption is to go to all nations, languages, and tribes. That's what I'm saying here. His kingdom includes the whole earth, the world, and the reason that I'm not, you know. Afraid to put world there, that's what Jesus says in the interpretation of this parable. The field is the world. It is out of that kingdom, out of that field, out of that world, he'll take all causes of sin and lawbreakers. And therefore is mixed into the final judgment and renewal of all things. That's the secret that's clarified in this kingdom for those who have ears to hear and eyes to see, right? By the Spirit of God. Will be taught this secret that God's kingdom in Christ includes the whole earth and is therefore mixed into the final judgment and renewal of all things. Now let's go through these one, two, three And look at the key verses, although I think I already highlighted them in our reading, but just to drive the point home, we'll look at them again Number one , Christ's kingdom currently has causes of sin and lawbreakers within it that will be removed in the final judgment. If you think about the kingdom of Israel, Israel was a kingdom It was a typological kingdom. It was an earthly nation, but it was a kingdom. The fact that not everyone in Israel was a true believer does not change that. It was a kingdom established by God and for God, and he had a special authority. And blessing upon that nation as a kingdom. But that was a mixed kingdom. Well, that's a foreshadowing, an anticipation, a preview. Of the Messianic kingdom. Now Christ's authority is not just over one nation. He has all authority In heaven and on earth. Therefore, go make disciples. It's a question of his authority in the realm over which he exercises that authority. In the Exodus, how much of Israel was saved out of Egypt? All of them. That was their redemption. They were all redeemed. They were all saved. How many of them were true children of God? Not all of them. We don't even need to know a percentage. I think it was pretty small. If you keep reading what happens after the Exodus, that bears out. God had true children in Israel. So salvation was broader than the individual salvation of souls of people who lived in Israel. The whole nation was redeemed. The whole nation was saved. And in the conquest of Joshua and Israel, the next generation, into promised land. How much of Israel, that kingdom, inherited the land? All of them. They all went in Does that mean they were all saved? No, but they were all there in that kingdom. God made them a kingdom. He really did that. They were a kingdom of priests to the living God on earth. But it was mixed. The key verse again is thinking about that same idea, the messianic kingdom, in a different way, on a different scale, in a heavenly kingdom, not an earthly typological kingdom like Israel. But a kingdom nonetheless that was foreshadowed in Israel. Matthew 13, 41. The Son of Man will send his angels. Angels of harvest, angels of judgment. And they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all lawbreakers Now don't overthink this. Here's the point. Jesus Christ is Lord, and he's Lord over all the earth. It all belongs to him. You have a human being, your brother, my brother, Jesus Christ who reigns in heaven with the authority of God. This is Christianity. And he is the sovereign God and Lord over all things, over all nations. That's why when his final judgment, he's the judge. All judgment has been given to the Son. It's a man, a human being in a risen and glorified body who reigns in heaven with the authority of Almighty God. It's incredible. It's incredible. Number two, this does not mean that all things have submitted to Christ's authority, but that Christ truly has authority over all things. Do I lose the authority in my household if my kids disobey me? No, it's just disobedient kids. The governing authorities. Are called authorities because they have authority to govern a particular realm. Do they not have authority over that realm just because there's lawbreakers? In that nation, in that realm? No, of course not. It's an issue of authority over a realm. Key verse, Matthew 13, 24 25 he put another parable before them saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who showed good seed in his field. So the kingdom of heaven is like this. Picture a field that belongs to a man and he sows seed in it. But then what happens next? You know the story. An enemy comes in to the field of the man which represents the kingdom of heaven. It doesn't make it not his kingdom. It doesn't take away from his authority over his kingdom. It's his kingdom. And verse 25. But while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. Verse 38. The field is the world. The good seed is the sons of the kingdom. And the weeds are those of the evil one. Number three We're talking about the realm of Christ's authority. One of the reasons one of the reasons I'm not saying it's the biggest reason I think one of the reasons you have, I'm this is not unknown to you, like this isn't going to be like newsflash. Thanks, Pastor. I didn't know that. One of the reasons we have so many people who profess To know Christ the Savior and Lord, but their lives are not lived in submission to Him is because they don't understand the nature of Christ's Lordship. And the authority that He really has over them. And I think it connects back to this doctrine Christ has sovereign authority over the world. The world is his kingdom. You are accountable to him to bring all things into submission to his will. We preach the Lordship of Christ as part of our message. Because that's who Christ is right now. The cross is the center of the Christian message, but Jesus is not hanging on a cross right now. Jesus is reigning in heaven right now. We preach a living Christ. It's the word of God preached in the power of the Spirit. Through that, Christ is the one who makes himself known to sinners and draws sinners to himself to love him and dwell with him forever. And he has authority to do that just in Israel, right? No, he has authority to do that in all the world. Therefore go and make disciples. It's an issue of authority in the spiritual realm, but it's exercised and manifest on earth, on the planet. Christianity, I'll say this over and over again, is not just ideas we believe. It's proclaiming a state of affairs, the state of affairs of the world that Jesus Christ is Lord. And one day, praise God, all things will be brought into submission to him Including the words that we speak and the thoughts that we think and the desires of our heart and the actions of our lives, everything about us will be sanctified in full measure of the Holy Spirit. The realm of his authority, not how many things in that realm have submitted to his authority. Key verse, Matthew 28, 18 Matthew is so clearly about Christ is King, Christ is Lord. He established the kingdom. And what great parting words. I mean it would be Unbelievable if we read the Gospel of Matthew, paying any bit of attention to it, and not be and not get that central message that Christ has come to establish the kingdom of God and Save sinners from all over the world. But he gives this parting note. Jesus came and said to them, All authority. Uh trivia question. Vitch is laughing because he knows what I'm gonna ask. He knows what I'm going to ask. How much authority is all authority? All authority There's no ruling authority in the earth or in the spiritual realm that is higher than Jesus Christ. None All authority in heaven, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. That's because invisible spiritual forces and authorities manifest their power in the earthly realm, in the lives of people, in nations In governing authorities, in false religions. Spiritual things are real things. That bring to bear their character in the world, working and exercising authority. Before Jesus came, Satan had been given, if this was in judgment to the nations for their sin, had been given authority and dominion over all the nations to keep them in darkness. That changed, that changed in the coming of Christ. We'll talk about that in another secrets of the kingdom of God class. But that was the change, that is the global change, the earthly change now. And there weren't saved people in Maryland until when? I mean it earliest what? 1600s? I mean when you picture the earth before Christ, don't don't picture children of God scattered all over the earth. This was not the case. It was it was in Generally speaking, you had some exceptions, but like Nineveh, right? But you uh you had, and maybe Job, you had one nation, and then within that nation a minority, a minority of true believers. And now you have true believers all over the place and still increasing. This is this is massive. And all that's because of Christ taking this authority that was given to him. On earth has been given to me. Go therefore make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe. All that I command you, obedience, obedience in the nations. Obedience among the nations. How in the world, how in the world can people do that job? Behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age. He's with his church and working through his church Not just to encourage and sanctify us, yes, praise the Lord to do that, but to advance his kingdom and bring about the obedience of the nations. Which is the bookends of the book of Romans. Paul is called to bring about the obedience of faith in all the nations. Number one, Christ's kingdom currently has causes of sin and lawbreakers within it that will be removed in the final judgment. Number two, this does not mean all things that submitted to Christ's authority, but that Christ truly has authority over all things. Number three, we're talking about the realm of Christ's authority, not how many things in that realm have already submitted to it. I'm gonna do a drawing. It's been a while. Kingdom of Israel. Heavenly kingdom or earthly kingdom? Earthly kingdom. Eschatological kingdom, which end times kingdoms that means, or um kingdom of anticipation of the end times Anticipation, foreshadowing, right? Foreshadowing anticipates the fulfillment of God's redemptive kingdom. It looks forward, it prophesies, it promises. You anticipate the fulfillment of the promises to Abraham and the promises to Israel, the promises to David. Now this is going to be Messianic kingdom, which means kingdom of Christ. This is the harvest at the end of the age When all causes of sin and all what else will be taken out of this? You remember from the passage? Yeah. Lawlessness, yep. Lawbreakers and lawlessness, all causes of sin. Not just sin, but all causes of sentence. Good news, right? All right. Same kingdom here and here. Church age, which is the last days. We are in the last days. Hebrews 1, Acts 2. And this is just going to be the consummate form. Consummate just finalized, glorified. But it's the consummate form of the same kingdom. Because the uh the Son of Man who owns this field All right, and the earth where he's building this field, the earth will be redeemed like like you and I will be redeemed, right? But it'll still be the earth, and you'll still be you. It'll just be glorified you in the glorified earth, but it'll still be the earth And the sons of the kingdom will still be on that earth and will still belong and be under the authority of Christ the Messiah, just in consummate form. Well we could just put here fulfillment. This is God's plan for the fullness of time. This is his this is his plan. Well, you know, I shouldn't even have uh I shouldn't even have done that. It's not really going to be a box. Because that is nothing after that. And this really I think that helps. But that that didn't technically, technically , outwardly, not only from a covenant standpoint. But outwardly also, you know, there was some overlap here until A. D. 70, when the temple was destroyed. By the Lord Christ as judgment upon Israel. And Jerusalem, and we may do a study on that, but that I mean that's explicitly clear in the Gospels. And um we don't have time to look at that tonight. But there was some overlap. But you see, the kingdom of Israel was a kingdom. Just uh an earthly kingdom, a typological kingdom that foreshadowed and anticipated the kingdom of God which came in Christ. All right. We do have points of clarity. I think this will help us, and then a lot of verses on the back. But let me pause to see if you have any questions. Not that I'll be able to answer everything. Uh perfectly or answer it at all. I may have to get back to you on it. But anything come to mind that you'd like to ask or talk more about? Oh we got a lot. Let's go let's go from right to left. We'll go Vince, then Donnie, then Becky. So in your testament, like You were saying you got minorities, you got like like no uh the whole world was rocking eight people and then you have then so on and so forth. So like now there are believers All over the place. Um so there's light shining that wasn't shining then, right? That's right. Mm-hmm. So in a way you could slide messianic kingdom because it's actually the light's growing. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Of the increase of his rule there will there will be no end. During this age. And he even Noah, right, and his family, they were saved by grace. So it's not like they were inherently good, and God said, You know what They get it. Let me save them on an ark. No, they were saved by grace, just like we're saved by grace. It's all about God saving sinners by grace is a manifestation of his glory. Yeah. Yeah, Don, who are we gonna ask? is about the seeds and the weeds. I mean the wheat and the weeds. So when Christ comes back again, the believers will be left on earth and And the wickedness will be snatched off. As I understand it from Thessalonians and uh First Corinthians and and other other passages too. When Christ returns, there'll be uh a general resurrection and a general judgment and the renewal of all things. There's a lot of cross-references we've need to look at for that I I figured he would need the new believers here for the new heaven to the other thing. So isn't the way a lot of Yeah, we're we're raptured when Christ returns. We we do meet him in the air, um, like you would meet go out to meet a guest who's arriving. Uh we receive a resurrection bodies, and then there's the final judgment, and he separates the sheep from the goats. Matthew twenty five. That's how we know there's one general resurrection and and Jesus teaches that too in the Gospel of John. So there he returns, we're lifted up and glorified and gathered. That's really the key picture we want to understand that when Christ comes, he comes to gather and glorify. His church. Those who have already died bodily, and those those who are still alive bodily in the air for the final judgment, whatever that's going to look like, you know, but and then after he removes All causes of sin and all lawbreakers from his kingdom the meek will inherit the earth. Yeah, taken in judgment. Just like those in the days of Noel were taken away in judgment. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, 'cause it likens it compares it to in the days of Noah when they're taken in judgment. And the idea is people are going to be just going on with their lives like everything's okay and everything's fine and I'm you know That's right, celebrating, feasting. Becky. Um also in the parable, why were you making it so clear that the field is the world And not a sound that's kind of like sounds like you were saying not the church, not writing over the channel. Yeah, because not everyone believes that. And that's one of the key points, one of the central points of the parable. Not everyone believes that S not everyone believes that the kingdom of God exists today on earth. Um some people do believe that refers to the church, but Jesus clearly says it's It's the world. Now you do have weeds that infiltrate the church, of course. Um, but that's why I was making a big deal about it, because that is is crucial to understanding the nature of Christ's lordship. He rules over this world. Yeah. Does that a hold on for does that answer or I'm gonna give you some help here, I think. Okay. Yes, the field is the world. But there's the sense of man in that field sowing God's word. so that you can grow the church. In this parable, it's the Son of Man who shows believers. So in the parable of the sower, which is how Matthew 13 starts, it's the believers that sow the word of the kingdom. And that creates believers. So that is that is in a secret of the kingdom, what you just said. That's the parable of the sower. In this, where's the verse? 30 The one who sows the s the good seed is the son of man. And the good seed keep reading, verse 38, the field is the world and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. So in this parable, you're the seed. You're the seed. In other words, we always saw this in missiology as a mission type thing. And so there were G Jesus sows the seed in the people's hearts. The man sows the seed by the gospel. Yeah, you're combining, and that's okay, what you're saying is absolutely true. Absolutely true. But you're more on the parable of the sower. Where we s the word is sown in our hearts and by God's grace makes us children of God. It births new life within us. And then we participate in that We sow the word. We're ministers of the word. It goes into other people's hearts. The field is the heart, the human heart in the parable of the sower. But here the picture is of Jesus. Planting believers. So it is missions and it does have to do with the word, but here it's Jesus putting believers in the world, sowing believers. Then you have to sow the net, the basic Yeah, the parable of the net is the other other one that relates to this. We can read that since you brought it up. Uh I had it on the outline but we just didn't I didn't think we'd have enough time. But we I think we do. Verse 47. Matthew 13, 47. It's a similar teaching. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea. So the kingdom is a what? It's a net. The kingdom is the net. The king the sea is not the kingdom. The net is the kingdom. It's just an illustration, but the net is the kingdom When it was full, Manju went ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers that threw away the bad. So was there only good in the kingdom or was there good and bad? Both. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of tears teeth. So this is one of the lesser known, not historically, but I think in recent history and lesser appreciated teachings about the kingdom, that it is mixed. And that's so important because it connects directly to Christ's Lordship, the nature of his reign. This is everything for us, Christ as Lord and Christ as Savior. And so basically it just gives us comfort that that Christ is in charge of the entire world. I mean are there people that that view it differently, I guess. Yeah, a little bit. I just want to focus on the constructive. I think in general, you know, if you look at the decline of Christianity in America in recent decades, and I would not say um You know, not I wouldn't say it just hasn't had an impact or just I just don't want to get wrapped up in judging by appearances. Right. We walk by faith. God's true church is having an impact. But by and large, if you look at the decline of the churches, I I think We don't understand our place in the world, and I think we don't really understand our place in the world and have an urgency about it 'cause again we don't understand Christ's Lordship, the nature of his lordship. That's what will give us a comfort and a confidence. He is going to do this. He's going to take that stone And it is turned into a mountain and fill the earth. The whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of God as the waters cover the sea. How do the waters cover the sea? Like here and there? Sporadically? No, pervasively, all over. That's a that's a prophecy and a promise about the kingdom of heaven. It will be successful. Victorious battles rather than it's competed. Nailed it. Nailed it. Yep. It's having a confidence in the conquest and victory of the Lord Jesus Christ over against forces of evil and over against Satan. Satan is not the sovereign lord over the earth. He is not. And I had I had a third page on that, that I might do uh if I don't do it next week, I'm gonna see what's heaviest on my heart, getting back to Daniel or doing one more week on this. But that's that's the direction I go Alright, nine minutes, let's do points of clarity, and I do want to look at those verses on the back. Points of clarity, number one, the authority. I think I've said this a thousand times. At least I've tried to. The authority of Christ is the defining reality of existence. Ephesians 1, 20 to 23. Let's go ahead and turn there I mean listen, Paul is about to really, really pour it on here, so if you're not comfortable with the With the idea of Christ having authority, this m this may make you squirm a little bit. I say that tongue in cheek. So we see the strength of this language. I'm picking up in the middle of a sentence. Paul is praying for believers. He's praying for the church at Ephesus. And then this particular section is um is reminding reminding them of the power that's at work within us. And it's the same power, verse twenty, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Now, is there higher seat of authority in the universe? This is what I mean when I tell you there's a man who reigns in heaven with the authority of God. That's not hyperbole. That's really true. And where where does he see them far above all rule and authority and power and dominion And above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. He's already seated far above. His authority blows out of the water all other authorities in the spiritual realm and the earthly realm. Not only in this age, but in the age to come. And he's put all things under his feet just in case we didn't get seated just you know, seated as the right hand and far above all these authorities, also put all things under his feet, all things in submission to him. And gave him as head over all things To the church. He gave Christ to the church as head, Lord, Prince over all things. The church which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. Now, get John getting back to what you were saying, is we participate with God in this. What seat of authority, spiritually speaking, do we hold? Go down to Ephesians. 2. Verse 4. 1 through 3 talks about us in our lost estate. 4 onward talks about us being saved. But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. And he's raised us up with him. And he's Seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Now, where is Christ Jesus seated? What's his seat like in the heavenly places? The reign of the Father, all authority, far above. All things under his feet, all things in submission to him. And it says here, in the spiritual sense, seated us With him. Seated us with him. God seated us with himself in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. We're united to Jesus Christ spiritually. We're the arm of his authority, his dominion on earth. The church is the manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth. The sons of the kingdom, the heirs of the kingdom, the focal point of God's kingdom, advancing in power on earth. Through the gospel, through the church. We're seated with him. We already reign with him in this sense. Not in glory. Not here. Not here. Don't reign with him there yet, because that doesn't exist yet. But here. He's made us a kingdom and priests, Revelation 1. The uh the kingdom of God, verse uh number two, the kingdom of God Of heaven and of Christ are the same kingdom. Now there's some good study we could do on that, but just to summarize the two main points, the parallel parables in Mark and Luke Say kingdom of God. And in Matthew says kingdom of heaven. And where we would go next on that Bible study is looking at some other verses where you can see in the Jewish culture at that time to use that some of them used heaven as a representative for God. So, the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven. And we know that in the parables, the kingdom belongs to the Son of Man who is Christ. So it's one messianic kingdom. Messiah means Christ, uh anointed one. Christ, Messiah, just means anointed. It refers to God's anointed King who redeems his people and defeats his enemies and establishes his kingdom forever and ever. That's the Christ. It's through the Son of Man AKA through the Son of God that God establishes this kingdom. Number three, Jesus is the Savior of the world. Verses on back. We have four minutes. I'll read as many as I can, but understanding What we've been talking about helps us to understand some traditionally difficult and often confusing verses of Scripture. Some have used these, some of these verses to teach universalism. Some just don't know what to do with them. And we often just tend to make them about uh individual people when it's actually about the whole world or the elect of God. When it's about but it's about the whole world. If we can begin to get what we've been talking about, what this means will come into clear view. John 3, 17 and 16. Of course, right? God so loved the world. But John 3:17, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. So, in some sense, we have to say this: the world is saved through him. And some sense you have to say that. He sent him to that the world might be saved through him. You have to think of it in a parallel fashion that you think about the Exodus. Israel was saved through Moses. God saved Israel through Moses. Does that mean everyone in Israel had personal salvation? No, of course not. But he redeemed them The world as before Christ came was in was really truly was the nations under the judgment of God was in the grip of Satan. Right. That's not true anymore. You can no longer keep the nations in darkness. John four, forty-two. And then they said to the woman, It's no longer Because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. It's uh the message of the Bible is not so much that God has a wonderful plan for your life If you define that in the proper biblical sense, yeah, you know, knowing him and loving him. But the message really is God is a wonderful plan for the world. To save sinners from all over the world. He has a wonderful plan to create a people for himself in Christ. John 8 12, again, Jesus spoke to them. Saying, I'm the light of the world. Vince, you brought this up earlier. It's the light that shines all over the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. John 12, 47. If anyone hears my words, And does not keep them, I do not judge him. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. Uh uh an easy way to remember this, and usually if I'm preaching on a Sunday morning or something, or uh on a Sunday evening, I'll I'll just say that what world refers to there is God's saving work in Christ is for Israel and all the nations, which covers what? It covers the world. But it's more than just An intent. It's something that actually happened. And Jesus attaining to eternal life and being enthroned in heaven to receive this authority. This authority over the world. All authority was what? Was given to him. It was given to him as he was enthroned in heaven. What are we on? 1 Timothy 4 10, or did we already do that? 1 Timothy 4. 10. For to this end we toil and strive, because we have set our hope, or we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people. Especially of those who believe. I told you there's some verses that traditionally sometimes you just don't know what to do with them. And they can be confusing. Again, just think of the parallel. God was the The Savior of Israel. He saved all of Israel. He took all of them out from under the reigning authority of Pharaoh. But that doesn't mean all of them have personal salvation. But in like fashion, parallel fashion, not identical fashion, Christ has delivered the whole world from the reigning authority of Satan over them. He has that authority over the nations now. Titus 2. 11, the grace of God. Because how else would you interpret 1 Timothy 4. 7? Well Everybody's going to heaven. But but Christians are really going to heaven. Like what would that even mean, right? So you have so you have to understand the broader scope of Christ's work for the earth, the spiritual implications of his work and victory of the work. But that's what it says the savior of all people, but especially of those who believe. What? So So he's not talking about being born again and going to heaven. Titus 2. 11, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. First John 2. 2 He's the propitiation for our sins, and not only for for ours, but also for the sins of the world. 1 John 4. 14, we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be Savior of the world. Do you think like they failed in that? Of course they didn't. He is the savior of the world. We preach a savior of the world It's that because he has authority over you, you must repent and turn to him for salvation, because he he will be our judge one day. John 12 32 And I, when I'm lifted up from earth, will draw all people to myself. That's been gradually happening. Ever since Christ's first coming. And drawing people to himself. That's one of the verses I'll be preaching on that passage this Sunday. Uh pray for that if you have the opportunity for not only a Palm Sunday service, but the Easter concert we're doing Sunday night and then Easter services. John 1. 29, Good Friday service and then Easter service. John 1. 29, the next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Matthew 4:15 and 17 The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, which means nations. The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region in shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And it was at hand, and it arrived in full power and full force. It's a heavenly kingdom, it's a spiritual kingdom, but don't get it twisted. The power, the heavenly spiritual power of the kingdom of Christ is advancing through all through the world like leaven works through a lump of dough. Let's pray.