Well, greetings, brothers and sisters, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I bring you greetings from the First Baptist Church of Perryville, across that great body of water, the Susquehanna. It's a joy to be gathered with you this Lord's Day. It's a joy to be preaching the Word of God to you this Lord's Day. Thank you to Pastor Matt and to Pastor Anthony for inviting me. to do so you have brethren two wonderful godly pastors in mat and anthony they are my good friends and i'm grateful to be co-workers with them in gospel ministry. And you should know this, saints, you all are often in the prayers of First Baptist Church of Perryville. We love you in the Lord. We stand with you in the Lord and let's keep pressing on in the Faith together until we're all together with the Lord in the new world. God willing, I'll be preaching from Romans 12, 9 to 21. So in your Bibles, go to Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12, and we're going to start with verse 9. We're going to go down to verse 21. This is the word of God. Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slaughter in zeal. Be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints. And seek to show hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it's written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. This is God speaking, brothers and sisters. And as this text is unfolded in your hearing, know this for certain. This is the word of the Lord, God Himself speaking. And so let's pray again and ask Him for His help to see and savor and Submit to what he says. Father, help me now as I preach your word. Help the saints here at North Harford Baptist to hear your word To have their eyes open to it, to respond in faith and then obedience. Help us, O God, to live genuine, godly Christian lives that please and glorify you. And I ask this in the strong name. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. This text, brothers and sisters, is about the Christian life the Christian life. In this text, God, through the inspired Apostle Paul, instructs Christians on how to live. How to live. And so this is a very helpful and orienting text then. How so? Because there there may be a young believer in here. You've only recently come out of darkness and into his marvelous light as you've thrown yourself upon Christ in faith. And the question for you, young believer, is now what? Well where do I go from here? What's my life going to look like? You you won't be returning to the life from whence you were saved. Surely something will change. Well, young believer, here God instructs you on how you're to walk now, what your life is to look like from here on out. This text it It's helpful and orienting even to veteran Christians, those who have been in the Lord for some time now, for all the true people of God, for all those who are united to Christ and saved. to the uttermost in him, because here we have course setting, even course correcting instructions. Here we are clearly and plainly show how shown how to live. This text is eye-opening too. Eye-opening. Because there are many who claim to be Christians and yet they are not. They claim Christianity, but they bear no fruit. They have no marks. There's no evidence. When measured against the biblical data, they're found wanting. Well, here in this text, beloved, we see the marks of the true Christian, of true Christianity. What does the Christian life look like? Here we see the fruit that will surely burst forth from the genuine. Christian. What an eye-opening text, then. And we have here a clarifying text. Because how many have a misunderstanding or even a shallow understanding of the Christian life? You know, pray every once in a while, show up to the Lord's Day here and there when it's convenient. Maybe even serve on a church committee as long as it doesn't meet too much, and there you go. That's it. That's Christianity. But this text shows us something deeper and higher and greater. This text clarifies for us what genuine Christianity is and looks like And so being a helpful and orienting text and an eye-opening text and a clarifying text, we rightly say this text is vital. How important is it for us to look closely at it then and lay it to heart? And if you're thinking to yourself, well, Sam, I'm already aware of these things. I'm I'm familiar with this. Well, friend, I would ask you, are you putting what you know into practice? It's not merely about knowing the Christian life, isn't it? It's about doing, living, obeying. Knowing will surely, if it's true, lead to living. Moreover, friend, even if these things be but basic to you I would ask, do we ever move past the basics? Or do we only go deeper into the basics and seek to master them, seeing that they are the foundational things? Does the professional basketball player ever say, you know, I'm just not going to focus on dribbling anymore? I'm just done with that. No, by no means. And so God help us then. Pay close attention to his word. Now look at the text with me, glance down at it, and notice something. Notice these are commands, aren't they? These are commands. These these are imperatives. That's what we have here. The Apostle Paul is telling the church in Rome how to live And since the Apostle Paul was inspired by the Holy Spirit when he wrote this letter, what he wrote is for us as well. This is God's word to us. These commands are to us, church. And so , noting then that what we have here are commands to us, the first thing we should note, these aren't suggestions. What we have here in this text is not, ah, just take it or leave it. What we have here is not, well, some Christians will do this, but it's not for me. No, what we have here are instructions from God, commands of God to us. They must be submitted to. What we have here is how true Christians should Must and will live in the power and grace of God. But seeing that what we have here are commands, there's a second thing we should quickly note, and it's this Christians do not earn salvation by these commands, but they obey these commands out of their salvation. They do not earn heaven, eternal life, by obedience to what we have here. No, they're on their way to heaven. They're of heaven. They're in Christ. They're saved. And that's That's why they obey. It's of paramount importance that we understand this, beloved. You see, these instructions here, this list of commands, comes at a certain point in Paul's letter to the Romans. And we must have an understanding of what Paul has written up until this point. And what he's written is that sinners Sinners who have broken God's law, who are not in a good standing with God, are only saved by one way. Believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, who lived a perfectly righteous life in the place of his people. Who died on the cross in the place of his people. That's the only way sinners can be right with God by believing in Christ Faith in Christ. Apart from that, we have no right standing with God. In fact, Paul has said, we'll never get to God by obedience to the law. The law only exposes us as what we are: sinners. Paul has been very clear up to this point in the letter. Salvation comes in Christ alone. And by placing your faith in him alone and nothing else. And so when we get to Romans twelve to sixteen, what we see then in these commands instruction and instructions Concerning how we ought to live, it's not a way of earning salvation, but what those who have been saved do, how they respond to their God. and how they live out their glorious salvation. Romans 12. 1. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God. To present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do you see it? We've received the mercy of God in Christ And we respond in love, worship, and obedience. We respond by giving our whole life over to God So, as we see all these commands and instructions in Romans 12, 9 to 21, know that the Christian gives himself to this. Because of what Christ has done for them, because they're already saved in and by Christ, because they are dead to sin and alive to God, because they're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. There will be no such thing as perfection. No one perfectly obeys God in this life. But the true Christian is continually repenting and sincerely giving himself to obedience. more and more. And by the powerful and efficacious Holy Spirit, He is making progress in these things. And so let me say quickly here then, if you're an unbeliever in here this day, you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not a Christian friend, it would be a mistake for you to leave this day thinking, okay. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna try harder, be better, obey, and that will do it for me. If I just if I just work a little bit harder, I think then God will be okay with me. No. You need Christ. You need to throw yourself upon the Savior because you are a helpless and hell-bound sinner apart from Christ. But Jesus saves Throw yourself upon him in faith and then be saved under this kind of life that we're seeing here in Romans 12. Be empowered for that kind of life that we see here. In Romans 12, throw yourself upon Christ. That's where salvation is. With all that said, let us now take up our text There are over 30 commands here, thus I'm not going to be able to cover everything equally. But what I think we can do here is just point out some themes and even group some things together. And there will be some overlap and connections, no doubt. I trust that will be fine with you. But here's what we see in our text. We see that Christians are to do seven things. They are to love. They are to hate evil and stay away from it. They are to zealously and fervently serve the Lord. They are to constantly pray. They are to care about and bless their brothers and sisters. They are to be humble. They are to trust God with those who wrong them. We'll see how many of these I can get. So first, Christians are to love. Look at verse 9 with me. Let love be genuine. And then look at verse 10. Love one another with brotherly affection. Okay, so I think it's clear Christians are to love right away. That jumps out at us. You know, it's not super surprising to have Paul start off with love. If you're even slightly familiar with the writings of Paul, you know that he places love at the heart of the Christian life, doesn't he? At the center of the Christian life, according to Paul, is love. It's no surprise then that he kicks off all these instructions and commands with love. Indeed, all of what we see here in this text ultimately is rooted in and flows from love. So we've got to begin here. We've got to get this right. It all stems from here Well let's ask four questions. Question one, who do Christians love? Who do Christians love? It's clear from this text and the rest of the biblical data that Christians love God and love their neighbor, especially their brothers and sisters in Christ. That's clear right here in this text. And actually, looking at the rest of Scripture, we know love for God produces and fuels and spills over into love for others. Listen to these texts. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Deuteronomy 6. 5 Matthew 22, 37 to 39. Jesus says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, your soul, and your mind This is the great and first commandment, and a second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. And here's 1 John 4, 7 to 8. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. And whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. And here's 1 John 4, 19 to 21. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God, and yet he hates his brother, he's a liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother. So do you see? Christians are to love God and to love others, love neighbor. Moreover, Christians are to especially love the brethren, those in Christ. And this love for others, this love for the brethren Is produced by and flows from and is actually the evidence of love for God. Well, question two: what does it mean to love? What does it look like to love? Well, to love God means to desire and treasure and adore and esteem Him above all, supremely, and therefore to worship and obey Him And it's very important that we understand that last part. If we love God, we will obey Him. If you love me, Jesus says, you will keep my commandments. John 14, 15. That's the loving God. What does it mean to love others? What does it mean to love the brethren? The world gets love so horribly wrong, doesn't it? Horribly wrong. The world calls all kinds of lust love. And the world often reduces love to only affections. Well, listen, love often includes affections. True. But to love others is more than affections, according to the Bible. To love others, first of all, is to not sin against them. This is so clear in Romans 13, 8-10. Owe no one anything except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor. Therefore, love is a fulfilling of the law. And so, loving others, then, brethren, means keeping God's commandments concerning them, not sinning against them, doing them no harm But we can also flip this around and look at it positively. We can also say this, loving others means desiring and seeking the good of another and sacrificially working to bless them. This is very clear, for example, in John 13, 1 to 20, and 1 Corinthians 13. So here's what it means to love others: you desire their good. And therefore you don't sin against them, but you do good to them and for them. You work to bless them, even if it comes a cost. And lastly, let me just say here, loving the brethren. Well, it means all of that, what I just said, but it's A, intensified. Seeing that they are our spiritual family and be spiritual duties and responsibilities and blessings are also in play. Well, question three. How do Christians love? How do Christians love? Look at the text, verse 9. Notice the apostle says, let love be what? Genuine. Genuine. Christians love genuinely, brothers and sisters. Your translation might say, let love be without hypocrisy. And so what does that tell us? That tells us there is a kind of love that's hypocritical. There is a kind of love that is ungenuine. It's not the real deal. And Christian Paul says, are not to love that way, no, we love the genuine way, really, truly. Genuine love for God means that we're not merely walking in externalism or formalism. Meanwhile, we have no adoration or treasuring or esteem or delight for God in our hearts. Beloved, there are many that do that. That's not true love. And to flip it around, genuine love for God means that we don't walk in disobedience, but that we walk in worship and In other words, a life of obedience to God, a life of zealously and fervently serving God, verse 11, backs up our profession of love for God. Well, what does it mean to genuinely love others and especially the brethren? It means this. It means we're not merely going through the motions and externals, meanwhile, harboring hatred against others or ill-will towards them. No. But moreover, it means that we aren't loving others in word only, but indeed, in action. And I think this is what Paul's focus especially is here in this text. Because in the rest of this text, he unfolds what genuine love for others and especially the brethren looks like. And notice, notice in the text, it's about our actions. Our behavior towards other, how we treat them. Outdo one another in showing honor, verse 10. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality, verse 13. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Verse 15. Live in harmony with one another. Don't be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Verse 16. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. Verse 17. And if possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Verse 18. This is what genuine love looks like, says Paul. Genuine love for others and especially the brethren. It's more than words. Rather, it's not doing evil against them and actually doing good to them and for them, blessing them. Imagine that I said to you, I'm a huge Orioles fan. Huge, I'm a massive Orioles fan. And yet, as you examined my life, you saw that I knew no players. Went to no games, had no jerseys, and never talked about them. You 'd say, you're no fan at all. Beloved, we don't want our love to be like that. We don't want our love to be words only and thus ungenuine. We want to love genuinely. That's what we're called to here. Which includes desiring the good of others and then doing good to others, especially our brethren. Genuine love, it talks and it walks. Notice something else in the text concerning how we are to love. Notice verse 10. Love one another with brotherly affection. Brotherly affection. Do you see that? How should Christians love their brothers and sisters in Christ? With brotherly affection. Dear Christian. You are to see your fellow Christian as your spiritual sibling, as one who belongs to your Savior too, as one who has and shares the same heavenly Father that you do. And you are to care for them and delight in them as such. Do we do that? Do we see our fellow Christians Fellow church members, as brothers and sisters in Christ, my family and the Lord Jesus. You're to do good to them and bless them as such. You see, our brethren, for the true Christian, Our brethren have a special place in our heart. They are most directly in the crosshairs of our love. There's more I'd like to say, but I need to move on. Question four: Why do Christians love? Why do Christians love? The answer is because God loves them. God loves them, and his love for them has caused and moved them to love him, which then produces love for others. You see, it starts with God loving us. Do you notice, dear saints? In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. Ephesians 1. 3 But God chose his love for us in that while we were sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 5. 8. In this is love, not that we've loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. 1 John 4:10. See what kind of love the Father has given us that we should be called the children of God. And so we are. 1 John 3:1. Saints, he has loved us and he does love us in the Lord Jesus Christ. And for all those who have tasted and embraced this love of God in Christ. Indeed, for all those who have had God's love poured into their hearts through the Holy Spirit, Romans 5:5, they now love Him. And they love others, especially their brothers and sisters in Christ. And so what have we seen thus far? Christians are to love. Therefore, North Harford, give yourselves to that. Love, love God, adoring, treasuring, esteeming Him above all things, and then worshiping and obeying Him. That's the Christian life. And love, love your neighbor Love especially your brothers and sisters. What might that look like practically speaking? Well it's putting this list into play, isn't it? We've seen that now. But to spell it out a bit more, just to make it more practical for you, loving looks like this. Not coveting your neighbor 's things, but being thankful that God has blessed them and even praying for them. Not stealing from that person, but but blessing them in some way. It looks like doing good and honest work for the boss instead of stealing time and money by being lazy and unfruitful. It looks like honoring, honoring your brothers and sisters, walking with them in trouble, weeping with them as they weep. Praying for them, meeting their needs, helping them follow Jesus more and more, being humble. That's what genuine love looks like. And God help us. to love. And I would say if your life, friend, seems a bit dry of love, you need to gaze longer and Harder at the love of God for you in Christ Jesus. It's then that your heart will be melted into love. It's then that a fountain in your heart will burst forth and love will come. Flowing out. Well, we need to move on, and I will be quicker with these next points. Number two, Christians are to hate evil and stay away from it. Or we could put it this way: Christians love good and do good. Verse 9. Let love be genuine. Now here it is: abhor what's evil, hold fast to what's good. Abhor, he says, what is evil. You see that? What does that mean? That means loathe, detest, hate. Paul's telling us to hate and detest evil. So yes, Christians are to be a loving people indeed. Which means then that they'll actually be also a hating people, a people who hate evil, who hate wickedness. And note too that Christians are on the opposite end of evil. They hold fast to what is good. And so what are the instructions here? The instructions here to simply put, we're to hate what's evil and to stay away from it. Don't let evil have a place in your life. Don't commit evil. Or to flip this around, we could say it this way: we're to love what's good, do what's good in our lives. The question immediately arises: what is evil? What is good? Well, it's God's word that defines good and evil. God's word is the standard. Whereby we know what good and evil are. And so what is good according to the Lord? God Himself, His design, His law, His gospel, His wisdom, His Word, which is truth. And what's evil then is whatever is against God, against his design, against his law, against his gospel, against his wisdom, against his word. The Bible instructs us on good and evil. How important is it then for you to drink from God's word every day How important then too to be gathered on the Lord's day, wherein you sit under your pastors preaching what? The word of God to you. You need to be shaped by the Word of God. You need to know more and more. You need to understand more and more what is good and what is evil so that you know how you ought to live. Christians are to hate evil and stay away from it. By the way, I need to note here: we as Christians are to hate the evil out there, the world, that's true, but we're also to hate the evil in here. That pops up in our own lives and hearts. We should, and rightly do, hate the evil that we see out in the world. We hate what happened to Charlie Kirk. We hate millions of children being slaughtered in the womb. We hate the LGBTQ movement. We hate the rampant idolatry that surrounds us. And we should be resolved, saints. We should be resolved to not partake of such evil. Absolutely. And we also must hate the evil that can pop up in our own hearts and lives: pride, covetousness, lust. Unlawful anger. We must hate that evil as well and root that evil out. Get rid of that evil. Give it no place in our lives. Put to death what is earthly in you, Paul says in Colossians 3. So we should hate all evil then: the evil out there, the evil in here, and we should wage war on the sin that we see in our very. Own lives. Christians are to hate evil. They're to hold fast to what is good. This is how Christians live. Thirdly, Christians are to zealously and fervently serve the Lord. Verse 11: Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. You see that? And notice that in Christians, they serve the Lord, don't they? What does it mean to serve the Lord? It means to recognize God as Lord, as King, as master. And therefore over our entire lives. And it means to serve Him, to submit our entire lives to His will and His Word. My entire life is for my Lord's service, and my entire life is for my Lord's honor and glory, is the heart cry of the Christian And boy, what a wonderful way to sum up the Christian life. We serve the true and living God and none other. Indeed, we serve his son, even the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, notice too, Christians not only serve the Lord, but notice we're to have zeal. We're to have fervency, aren't we? Do not be slothful in zeal. Be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. That's what Paul says. How should Christians serve the Lord? With zeal and with fervency We're not to serve the Lord lazily or inconsistently, or here and there as we're distracted by the things of the world, or are with the leftovers as if God is only worthy of our leftovers. And we're not to serve the Lord mechanically or goldly. No. No, we are to serve the Lord with great passion And desire and intensity and consistency, making every moment count. I have no time to waste, the true servant of the Lord says I want to give every moment and every area of my life to my Lord. Christian, is that you? Is that you? It should be. And it will be to the degree that you are awestruck by your glorious God. And it will be to the degree that you realize herein is life, herein is joy, herein is true satisfaction to know and serve the Lord. There's a fourth thing Christians do. Christians constantly pray. Christians constantly pray. Look at verse 12. Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer. Now, one of the things that this verse implies is that there will be times of trouble and seasons of suffering. in the Christian life. Indeed, that there will be. The scriptures make this clear. What are Christians to do during these times? Paul says, rejoice in hope. Be patient. And here's the wonderful thing, beloved. We can rejoice in hope because we do, in fact. have this glorious hope of a breathtaking future inheritance that is surely coming and which is unshakable and unlosable. And therefore we're always rejoicing, because our hope is always sure. Even during trouble. And we can be patient in tribulation saints. Because God is sovereign Works all things together for our good. And not a hair falls from our head unless it be his will. And he keeps us until he brings us home to glory. So the very thing we're commanded to do, we can do because of God and because of who we are in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's glorious. But I think Paul is also saying here that Christians are to be constant in prayer during trouble. Constant in prayer during trouble. Dear Saints, our first response to tribulation, whatever it is. Must be to pray. And must be to pray. And we must then pray our way through tribulation We're not getting off this train. We are staying on it. We're going to keep on coming to the Lord through every single trial. Constantly knocking on his door, constantly seeking his face. Whatever our trouble may be, we must bathe it in prayer. But of course we should pray in any and every season, shouldn't we? Our lives should be filled with prayer. In fact, notice the command again: be constant in prayer. This reminds me of Paul in 1 Thessalonians 5:17. He says there, pray without ceasing. All too often, if we're being honest, prayer for us it's it's seasonal and it's it's inconsistent. But according to God, the prayer life of the Christian, the genuine Christian, is consistent and persistent and continual and ongoing. It's non-stop. Is that us? Rather than we are to be praying for our church, for our families, for our pastors, for our needs. To be met concerning our troubles and cares and personal holiness and salvation and for the lost and for God's name to be hallowed. All of this constantly, constantly. How many churches and Christians are limping along, seeing no glory, having desires unmet, lacking joy and peace? Lacking sanctification because they're not constant in prayer. Well, beloved, may it not be so for us. May we hear the Word of God this day. Let us pray constantly. As the baby cries, as the dog barks, so Christians pray. May the Lord help us. There's a fifth thing Christians are to do. Christians are to care about and bless one another. Christians are to care about and bless one another. How do one another in showing honor? Verse 10. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. Verse 13. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. It's verse 15. I mean, this is just this is just wonderful. How can we summarize this? Christians care about others, especially the brethren. And they look around, and where there are needs, they help. And where they can bless, they bless. Indeed, they care so deeply and walk so closely that another's rejoicing is their rejoicing. Another's weeping is their weeping. That's amazing. But of course, what's implied here is that Christians are not to be self-focused. Concerned only for themselves. No. You know, if we're honest, we can often be like horses with blinders on. And the path that we're walking while we see nothing else is the path called me, my, and mine. But Romans 12, 9 to 21 calls Christians to get those blinders off and to be others focused. Outward pointing. We're called to care about and bless others, especially the brethren. There's a sixth thing here that we're instructed to do. It's this: Christians are to be humble, they're to be humble. Verse 16. Live in harmony with one another. Don't be haughty, but associate with the low. Never be wise in your own sight. What powerful sobering instructions we have here. Beloved, we are called by God to keep getting lower while Christ. keeps getting higher. Indeed, we must all continually take pages from the Baptist's book. He must increase and I must decrease. You know what humility is? Humility, it's a right recognition of who and what God is and who and what you are. Humility is understanding you are just a wretched sinner saved by grace and you owe everything to God. And along with every other Christian. Humility is knowing it's not all about you. It's not. It's about Christ getting his glory. And that's where humility wants the spotlight. Humility does not want to be in the spotlight. Humility is constantly directing the spotlight where it belongs. The glorious Lord Jesus Christ. That's what humility does. That's what it is. And let me just say, when you have a church full of humble Christians, that's when you have peace. That's when you have harmony. That's when you have unity. That's when you see wonderful fruit. And so, friend, if you're if you're looking for those things and wondering where to start, start with your own heart. Humble yourself before the Lord. Humble yourself before the Lord Jesus Christ. Now there's a last thing But I am not going to unpack this in full, for the time has escaped. Seven Christians are to trust God with those who wrong them. Glorious verse is down there in verses 17 to 19, and I trust you can Look at those and meditate on those in due time, and your pastors no doubt will be walking you through those things. But let me conclude this way, brothers and sisters. We've heard the word of God. We have heard this day what it looks like to be a Christian Christian, what the Christian life is. We've been instructed, have we not? And so what then is there left to do for the genuine Christian but to obey? Beloved, let us not be doer hearers of the word only, as we read in James 1:22. No, let us be doers because we're true hearers and believers. Let's be doers, since our God has spoken clearly. And since he has saved us, hasn't he? in the Lord Jesus Christ. And since we are united to Christ and empowered to this life of killing sin and putting on righteousness, and because this is the way we glorify our God by obeying him. Therefore. Let's obey. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we are grateful for your word. We are grateful that You speak so clearly, and you enlighten our minds and our hearts. You open our eyes to what we ought to believe and do. Lord, we would have nothing. We'd be nowhere if we didn't have your word. But you're so good to us and kind to us that you speak us and guide us and counsel us and show us the way. Lord, we've been shown the way even this Lord's Day morning now by your Holy Spirit. Yes, even the Spirit of Christ, who is in all those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ alone, by that Spirit empower us for this life. It is you working in us. It is you that powerfully and efficaciously guides and moves us unto these things. So help us, Lord, for the glory of your name, and it's in Christ's name. Amen.