Well, church, let me invite you to turn with me to the book of James. James chapter 1. We'll be looking at verses 19 through 20. We're going to be thinking from this text together about the way that we speak as followers of Jesus. And as I think about that, I'm reminded of my attempts at learning how to speak. speak a foreign language. When Patty Lynn and I lived in the Middle East, a great deal of our time, especially in the beginning, was spent learning Arabic. We'd ha we had a tutor, we'd spend a few hours every single weekday morning in lessons, learning the new words, uh new phrases, kind of practicing the interactions that that we would need to be able to survive in a foreign city. And early on I started to pick it up pretty quickly. Language learning is one of those things that just my brain seems to be wired for. And so in the first few months I found myself more and more able to remember vocab words, vocab phrases. When I was out and around, I was able to pick up more and more bits and pieces of conversation that I was overhearing. Early on, I was gaining quite a bit of confidence in my knowledge of this new language. And then it came time to use it. And quickly my confidence was a little bit shattered. I remember one time I was uh Patty Lynn and I were coming back from a trip to IKEA, which if you're married is already a stressful situation. And I was on the phone with our Uber driver, just desperately trying to explain to him where we were in this parking lot so he could come Come and pick us up. And I'm pretty sure all I able to get out. The most terrifying thing was when someone would speak to you in Arabic, assuming you know more than you actually do. And I'm pretty sure I just said over and over again, like, I hear. I hear front building. Come pick up Up please. It's about all I got out. Or or another time I was at the deli counter at the grocery store and I was just laboring in Arabic to try to get this deli order out of my mouth that I had been practicing. all the way on the cab ride over. I'm laboring, I finally finish, I finally get it all out. And this guy at the deli counter, he looks at me for a second. second he kind of leans back and then in just perfect clear english he's like oh so you want a half kilo of cheese and a half kilo turkey Great. I mean he could have at least like done me the dignity of responding back in Arabic just to give me a shred of confidence left. But but no, he he didn't do that. Here's the point. I had learned the words to say in Arabic, but I hadn't yet learned how to speak. I knew what some words meant, but I couldn't speak like a local. See, there's a difference between knowing words and knowing how to speak. And this morning, as we turn to the book of James together, what we're going to see from this text is that the gospel of Jesus Christ Transforms not only what we say, but the way that we speak. As those who have come under the saving reign of King Jesus Jesus, not only are that we those who confess by faith with our words that Jesus is Lord, but the way that we speak. Our tone, our posture, our demeanor, our goals, ultimately our heart are to reflect our identity as citizens of Christ's Kingdom. It's to reflect the fact that we are those who represent Jesus on this earth. The words we speak and the way we speak we're going to see matter to King Jesus. James is writing this letter to a group of Christians who had been dispersed by persecution. They were in the heat of suffering and trials. Many of them, we know from other parts of the letter, were being unjustly oppressed by these wealthy landowners, being dragged even into court. And I wonder if we were writing a letter to such a group, what kind of things would we think important to write about? No doubt we want to include lots of different things. Lots of encouragements, lots of reminders of God's faithfulness. But I'd wager that on the top of our list probably wouldn't be reminders to speak with kindness and self-control. And yet, what we see in James' letter is that in this short letter, he dedicates a significant amount of space to talking about the way we talk. You see it here. You also see it in chapter 1, verse 26, chapter 3, verses 1 through 12, chapter 4, verses 11 through 17. In chapter 5, verse 9, and verse 12. In this letter, there's this outsized emphasis on speaking in a certain way. And what this reveals to us is that our speech In the heat of life's trials, it reveals what's in our hearts. And what's in our hearts, friends, is meant to be a reflection. Of the God who has saved us, the God who has made us new creatures. And so as we consider this morning how King Jesus calls us to speak, We need to see that we're not merely being given some practical tips here for how not to, you know, blow up at people who annoy us. No, friends, we're being reminded of our identity. We're being called to remember who we are and who it is we represent in this world. We're being called here to learn how to speak like locals in the kingdom of heaven. Now I realize there is an inherent danger to speaking publicly about the way we're supposed to speak There's a certain kind of irony and scrutiny that that invites. Kind of like a couple months ago, Anthony preached a sermon about preaching. It's kind of like you're you're inviting scrutiny upon yourself. Uh so let me simply say from the outset that I'm standing before you today as one person. Deeply and continually convicted by this text, and I'm inviting you to be convicted here right along with me. So that God can minister his grace to us, and so that God can mold us together into the likeness of Jesus. So let's look now at James chapter 1, beginning in verse 19. Know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness. the implanted word which is able to save your souls. As we walk through this passage together, I want us to see four things that James gives us in this text about Christ honoring speech. If you have a bulletin, you have an outline. We're going to see a who, a what, a why, and a how from this passage. Well, first we consider the who. Who is it that James is addressing here? Who's this command for? Or more accurately, perhaps, why is it that we are called to speak in certain And how is that even possible? And what I want us to see from the outset is that the foundation for how we speak is who we are. Look at the first words of verse 19. He says, Know this, my beloved brothers. Now we tend to kind of just skip a little bit past that and get right to the command. As though it's just kind of a fancier way of saying, you know, hey guys, listen up. But if we miss this statement, this identity statement, we'll miss the entire point of the text. Friends, we are called to be quick to give Hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger, because we are beloved brothers. And we are able to do these things. Because we are beloved brothers. It's the identity that we share in Christ Jesus that stands as the foundation of this entire passage. Oh, friends, to miss this is to fall into a mere moralism, not Christian obedience. So then we have to consider what does it mean to be a beloved brother? Well, in this text, James is saying that these brothers are beloved by him fundamentally because they are beloved of God. And he calls them brothers, not because they're physically related, but because they have been together adopted into God's spiritual family. Through the work of Jesus Christ. Well, friends, to be a beloved brother is to be a sinner saved by grace It's to be one united to Jesus by faith. It's to be one who sees that on our own we are sinners before an Almighty God, that we deserve justly his wrath and his condemnation. That we're incapable of doing anything to save ourselves from the penalty that our sins have warranted. But it's to see that God is a merciful God. And in his great mercy, he has pursued us. He has rescued us. He sent his son Christ Jesus to live and to die and to rise again. So that you might be forgiven of all your sins, so that you might be reconciled to the God of the universe, so that you might be made alive when you were spiritually dead, and so that you might be adopted into the universe. Oh friends, to be a beloved brother is to be united to Jesus by faith. And we have to see that this gospel identity is fundamental. It's foundational to the command that follows it. It's the basis upon which this command comes to us. And as we're going to see under the final point, it's how we are able to obey this command. It's the means by which we grow in obedience. Everything, friends, not just about our speech, but about how we live as followers of Jesus. It's rooted in the gospel that has saved us and has made us new creations. To use James's own words just one verse earlier in chapter 1, verse 18. It's by this good news, by this word of truth, that James says, of his own will, he, God, brought us forth. That we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Your status, Christian As a first fruit of a brand new creation, your identity as a beloved brother, that is the basis upon which you are called to be quick to hear. It's slow to speak. It's slow to anger. Now, if you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, or maybe you're not sure, you're still considering the claims of Jesus, the fundamental application of this sermon for you is to repent of your sins and to look to Christ Jesus by faith. Oh, it will do you no ultimate good If you learn how to be a little more considerate and a little kinder in your communication, that will do you no ultimate good if you remain outside of Jesus. There might be some temporary benefits to your life. People might like you a little more. Your home life might be a little more peaceful. But before a holy God outside of Christ Jesus, you will still stand condemned. All your efforts at self-improvement can do nothing to make you right before Him. So let me invite you, put your faith in Jesus. Be forgiven of your sins. Receive the gift of eternal life. Look to Jesus Christ that you might become a beloved brother or sister in him Now, for those of us who are here this morning and who are hoping in Jesus, again, this identity is essential because it reminds us of who we represent in this world. World. As those who are united to Jesus by faith, we are those who are now called to represent the kingly reign of Christ Jesus here on earth until he returns. Earlier in the service, we read 1 Peter 2, verses 9 through 12, which reminds us that we are a called-out people. We are a people for God's own possession. So that we might proclaim his excellencies in the world. We're called to be this glorious display of a brand new humanity That Christ Jesus is building through his gospel. Jesus intends to show forth, Christian. The power of his gospel in every single area of your life, including what comes out and what does not come out of your mouth. So, Christian, before you speak , Remember who you are. Moreover, this identity is essential because it's how we grow in obedience to Jesus. We're going to see this further under the final point, but before we get to the what. We need to see that the call to obedience here is not simply a call to kind of muscle it out on our own, as though to be a Christian is now to be the under the thumb of this overbearing taskmaster who's always out to get us. Oh no, what we're going to see is that Jesus himself gives us all that we need for life and godliness. It's by looking to him, and it's by receiving his word that we learn to speak as he would have us speak. So, what is our speech to sound like? How do we speak like locals? Well, this brings us to point number two: the what. Point number two, the what ought to characterize the way that we speak. Well in verse 19 see that it says three things. Be quick to hear, be slow to speak, and be slow to anger. And notice here that he addresses both the ears, be quick to ear, and the mouth, slow to speak. Which really are just two ways of addressing the heart, just two different points of entry. We are called as followers of Jesus to communicate in a way with one another and with the world. just so often and so naturally flow out of us when our tongues are unrestrained. See here that James is reflecting the basic wisdom of Scripture. Regarding the kind of speech that honors God and is rooted in the fear of the Lord. Consider just a few passages with me Proverbs chapter 13 verse 3. Whoever guards his mouth preserves life. He who opens his lips wide comes to ruin. 1727 Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding 18 verse 2. A fool takes no delight in counsel, but only in expressing his opinion. 10 19 When words are many, transgression is not lacking. But whoever restrains his lips is prudent. Friends wise speech, and therefore Christ honoring speech. is thoughtful, controlled speech. Now this works against, if we're honest, our basic impulses, doesn't it? Left to our own devices in our sin, we're prone to basically do the opposite. To be quick to speak, quick to anger, and slow to listen. We can identify that in our own lives and hearts, can't we? In conversations, how often are we just so concerned with getting our own point across that we fail to even hear what's being said back to us? This exhortation from James, it's a call to reorient and to retrain our hearts. And this is a command that actually calls us to view other people with whom we speak and interact with Differently. We're called by this not to see people merely as kind of potential arguments to win, but as image-bearers of Almighty God. as those who have inherent dignity and value, which we show by listening to what they say. Now that doesn't mean we're gonna agree with everything that we hear. Doesn't mean that we let fools speak foolishly without ever being challenged. But we are taught here by James and by all of Scripture that Christ-honoring wisdom is cultivated by an impulse, friends, to listen first and to listen well. And then we see that when we do speak, oh, we speak with great care and thought given not only to what we say, but to how we say it. We're more concerned with clarity on truth and charity in our tone than we are with winning the interaction. Well friends, vital that we see that conversations are not competitions. You might be the kind of sadist who really enjoys watching debates. I don't understand you people. But we are not called to live our lives as if every conversation is a debate that you have to win. Now, yes, we contend for truth. Yes, we point out error. And yes, in a fallen world, we have to call wickedness what it is. But we do all these things, friends, to bless and to build up others by pointing them to Jesus Not to tear down. Not just to score points and dunk on the people that we disagree with. So, friends, sometimes the thing that we are called to do in faith-fueled obedience to Jesus is simply to stop, to take a breath, and to think before we speak. To ask ourselves, what from my mouth will bless the other person I'm talking to and point them To Jesus. And friends, this is vital because we see here this connection. We see that quick speech is often angry speech. Many of us know this to be true just by experience, don't we? Words that we let fly in the heat of the moment are rarely the ones that we would like to have thrown back at us, aren't they? We need to see that when we are careless with our words, when we just let anything fly, not only does it harm, not only does it tear down, but it actually has a shaping influence on our own heart. When we let angry, unrestrained words fly out, what we're doing is we're training our hearts that whatever's in there, even if it's anger, has a right to come in. out. Just speaking my mind. I'm just telling it like it is. It's just who I am. Oh, but friends, when we let angry words fly, we tell our hearts that it's okay to be angry. We tell ourselves that we have a right to feel this way, and we have a right to say whatever it is that we feel. Oh, but friends, James calls us here. Scripture calls us here as followers of Jesus to refuse to give anger what it wants, but instead to bring our speech. And ultimately our hearts under the good lordship and shepherding care of Jesus Christ. Jesus is calling us here to adopt a different set of priorities for the way that we speak. So let's ask ourselves honestly, how are we doing? How are our interactions Reflecting Jesus. What is our manner of speech saying about who we represent? In our interactions with one another, our families, our co-workers, classmates? The things we have shared or posted online, which is part of our speech? The things that we've thought while driving or while watching the news. Are we speaking? and thinking like citizens of Christ's kingdom. Wherever you are in this, know that God's grace is sufficient for you. Know that in Christ your speech cannot condemn you But at the same time, we need to see from this passage that the stakes are high. This brings us to point number three, the why of this passage. Why does the way that we govern our mouths matter so much? Why dedicate so much space in this letter on this point? I mean we read this and we think man Aren't there just bigger fish to fry in the Christian life than the way that we speak? Well, look at verse twenty. It says, For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Angry speech, Christian, does not make you righteous. It does not make you more like Jesus. And therefore, see that it is out of line, it's out of order with God's goal and God's priority for your life as a follower of Jesus, which is to be whole. As he is holy. We need to see this clearly, friends. See clearly that our God is perfectly holy and righteous. And see that we are not. We are sinners. We are unrighteous. But through faith in the person and work of Jesus, we've been declared righteous. In him. And that's an objective reality that the Bible calls justification. We have been declared righteous, given the perfect righteousness of Jesus as a Free gifts. And now, in light of that reality that's objective, our justification, God 's goal for our life is to progressively make us righteous. Through the work of his spirit. This is the work that we call sanctification. This is God's work in our lives, in the reality, in the lived experience of our hearts. To make us less like our old sin nature and more like Jesus. So see this. We've been declared righteous in Jesus. God's Spirit is now continually making us righteous. Through the ongoing work of sanctification. One person has described the Christian life as a process of becoming what you already are in Jesus And the point we need to see is that as followers of Jesus, our lives have a trajectory. They have a direction. God's righteousness. In fact, this trajectory is part of how we're told our story as followers of Jesus is going to end. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 22, we're told that Jesus has reconciled us in his body of flesh by his death. And it says, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him Your story as a follower of Jesus ends with Jesus, the Son of God, presenting you before his Father, holy, blameless, above reproach. Righteous as this prize that he has won by his blood and that he is sanctified by his spirit. Well friend, that's the glorious trajectory of the Christian life. Jesus presenting us blameless and spotless before the Father. So see then if that's the goal and if that's the trajectory. James is telling us that our anger sprints in the other direction. Anger and angry speech is inconsistent with God's priorities for our lives. It doesn't produce a God reflecting righteousness in our lives. And therefore, it does not magnify God's glory in our lives. And moreover, we need to see something that we often have trouble recognizing in the moment, which is that it doesn't satisfy either. This is part of the lie that our anger and so many sins can often present to us. We think, we believe that expressing our anger to this or that person is going to make us Feel better. We think it's gonna kind of be the the release valve that just keeps us going and that will satisfy and make us feel righteous and justified. But does that ever feeling ever really last? Like all sin, angry, uncontrolled speech over promises and under-delivers. It doesn't make us righteous, and therefore it doesn't lead to life and to flourishing for the people of God. And friends, there is an urgency that I want us to see on this point because we are living in an age in which anger has been made to look attractive and productive. Turn on any major news network if you need evidence of that. Anger in our day can draw a crowd. Anger can get people committed. You get enough people fed up about something in society, you play to people's frustrations, you get them all riled up, suddenly you can have a massive movement of dedicated followers. And we see that going on all around in the world. And as the people of God, we can face this temptation to adopt the world's tactics. We can buy into the lie that our anger is this productive thing. And we can try to build a community based on everything that we don't like in the world. We can try to draw a crowd based on societal outrage. Can you believe what these or those people are doing over here? Well, join us. We're not doing these or those things. And here's the thing. When we're in a cultural climate where everyone is just yelling and angry all the time, which I don't know if it's ever not been like that, but my whole lifetime it's basically been like that. It can almost feel like we have to be angry and we have to be yelling just to be heard, doesn't it? Being quick to hear and being slow to speak can almost feel like compromise, can't it? Oh, but friends, we must not use the world's tactics to advance Christ's kingdom. What's presented to us by these tactics, ultimately, if we embrace them, is a competing vision of reality. But Jesus calls us to another way. He calls us to be a community built fundamentally upon his word and upon his gospel. And yet, that will mean that we are very clear about where we stand and what in the culture is wicked and abhorrent to God. But fundamentally, we're not defined by the things we don't like, we're fine defined by the gospel of Jesus Christ. We are a community built fundamentally upon his word and upon his gospel. So friends, let us trust that his word is a sufficient source not only for what we say to the world, but for how we say it. Christian, you need to hear and you need to believe that meekness is not weakness. A tone and a demeanor that is quick to hear and slow to speak Is not evidence that we have somehow gone soft. It's actually evidence of our confidence in the power of the gospel. Because we believe that the gospel alone is sufficient to save sinners and to transform hearts. Jesus does not need our sinful anger to advance his kingdom. He doesn't need us to manufacture outrage. He needs us to have confidence in his gospel and to speak it with clarity. Now you might be hearing me on this point, and you might be thinking, okay, well, great, I'm tracking with you, but what about righteous anger? Let me say that yes, such a thing exists. We see it in the life of Jesus. And we should, friends, be angered by wickedness and by idolatry and by injustice in a fallen world. But let me just say, if there's ever a category that has just been way overblown and expanded beyond the capacity Scripture means for it to have, I think it's that one. Consider that even when we're angry about something we should be angry about, even when we're angry about the right things, we can still be angry about the right things in the wrong way. As redeemed sinners, we are still under construction. And so often aren't we just mixed in our motives? An illustration of this when my kids, not that they ever do this, but when they sin against God and against me by disobeying, again, not that they ever do this. I their their sin angers God. Sin is abhorrent to God. And often, if you can believe it, it angers me too. And therefore, I can often just allow myself to feel justified in that anger and justified in expressing it however it comes out in my heart. But let's be honest, in that moment, am I really angry about their rebellion against God? Or am I angry about the fact that I've been inconvenienced and disrespected? My point here is simply: let's not use a legitimate category such as righteous anger as this kind of shield against ever examining our own hearts. Let's safely assume from Scripture that most of the anger that comes out of our hearts and out of our mouths is not as righteous as we think it is. Oh friends, man's anger does not produce God's righteousness. See that that's what's at stake in the way that we speak. A right reflection of the righteousness of God that is ours objectively in the gospel, and that is being progressively shaped in our lives through the power of the gospel. So then the question for us is: well, how do we learn to cultivate what James calls us to? This brings us to point number four, the how. How is it that we grow in being quick to hear, being slow to speak, being slow to anger Really, more broadly in this section of James, how is it that we live our lives as doers of the word and not as hearers only? Well, look with me at verse 21. It says, Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word. Which is able to save your souls. There's a call here to put away and a call to receive. There's something we are called to cast aside. And something we're called to humbly embrace. Maybe to use more familiar language, there's something we're called to repent and turn from, something we're called to turn. toward and embrace. So we're called here to put away, says all filthiness and rampant wickedness. That is, we turn away from all the things which belong to our old sin nature. All the muck and the mire that Jesus died to cleanse us of. We see it for what it is. We see it with all its false promises that it holds out to us, the false vision of prosperity and happiness that it tries to present, and by God's grace we turn away from it. But here's the thing that we need to see clearly. We don't put these things away, we don't get rid of them, and then just turn inward to a kind of self-effort or self-improvement. Let's be honest, sometimes that's the way we live the Christian life. We think I've got to get away from this, and I've just got to get my life together. Oh, James isn't calling you here to turn from sin and just get your life together. No, he says, receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your soul. Oh friends, the way that we grow in our speech, but in every area of our lives, it's by receiving the word of God. God. And notice that he calls this the implanted word. That is, the word that we receive, isn't just sort of this standard that's outside of us and that we see and that we try desperately to live up to. No, as one commentator says it's the word that takes up residence in our souls and in our hearts. Friends, this word that we receive is the word of the gospel. It's the same word in verse 18 of chapter 1 that has brought us forth and made us first fruits of a new creation. That's why he says here that it's the implanted word which is able to save your souls. If we want to grow in the way that we speak, if we want to grow in battling anger in our hearts. But we receive the word of the gospel. So, how is it that we grow as a people, quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger? Well, friends, we look to Jesus Christ as He is received Revealed in his word. Now this happens when we first come to faith in Jesus, but it's also an ongoing reality in the life of a believer. It's not a one-time thing. Okay, I've received the implanted word, now I'm good. No, it's a continual reality. As heirs of the new covenant, we're told that God's word is actually written on our hearts. And it's by his word, friends, that we are now nourished and strengthened as followers of Jesus Christ. To see this, to be a doer of the word in all areas of life. Including the way we speak, we must first and we must continually be hearers of the word. We must hear and receive and be nourished by the Word of God, which points us to Jesus Christ. So, Christian, do you want to grow in likeness to Jesus? I hope your answer is Do you want the way you speak to reflect the righteousness and the wisdom of your God? You need God's word. You need to drink daily from this fountain of life. You need to be regularly assembling to sit under biblical, Christ-centered preaching and teaching And you need the whole body of Christ to minister God's word to you and just see the ordinary life-on-life fellowship and discipleship that happens In the body. Well, friends, God works in his people through the power of his word, proclaimed in gospel community. That's his plan to make you like Jesus. And there just aren't any shortcuts to Christian maturity, and we shouldn't want shortcuts. No, what we see is that the steady, ongoing ministry of the Word in the life of the church And the life of every area of the church. That's what King Jesus uses to accomplish his will in his people. And so as we learn to speak like citizens in the kingdom of heaven, we are called to continually receive what God has already spoken to us. His word has brought us forth from death to life. His word is now shaping us into the likeness of Jesus. And friends, we are called to see and have confidence in the fact that His Word has the power to bring all of our lives, even our mouths, which are so often full of anger. Under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. So the call of this sermon and the call of this text is a call that we ought to see every single week. Just let us look to God and receive his word in Christ Jesus that we might be built up into his likeness. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for the call to holiness and righteousness. And we thank you, God, that you equip us to walk in faithfulness to this call. God, we thank you that you have not left us to our own strength. But that you give us all that we need in Christ Jesus. And so I pray, God, that we would continually be nourished by your word. Help us to look to your word, help us to receive it. Help us to be shaped and fashioned into the likeness of Jesus Christ. Help us, God, to be built up. We pray, Lord, that you would bring even our mouths under the Lordship and the saving reign of Jesus. That you would root out quick, thoughtless, angry speech Both in our own midst and in how we speak to the world around us, and that we would reflect your wisdom for your glory and for the furtherance of your kingdom according to your methods. For all this in Jesus' name. Amen.