I have to start my sermon in a way that's different than every other sermon I've ever started. Usually I say Something like let's take our Bibles and open to. But today I have to say, let's look at this pamphlet that says the way of salvation. Typically We at this church are committed to a steady diet of preaching through the Bible with a focus on God's glory, with a focus on Jesus Christ, with a focus on personal spiritual growth in our relationship. With God. That's our steady diet. That's what you could call our main stay at the pulpit, is preaching passages of scripture focused on Christ. But what I wanted to do is preach through our churches. gospel tract called The Way of Salvation. Let's go to the Lord in prayer before we look at it. Father, we pray that you open our hearts and minds to your gospel for those who are unbelievers. God, we pray For them, we pray that you would convict them, convince them that they need a Savior, and then also bring them to faith in Jesus, that they would hear the gospel, receive it, believe it, and find rest for their souls in Christ God, for those who are believers, I pray that by preaching the gospel to our hearts, that you would grow us up all the more in the knowledge. and grace and love of Jesus. We pray that as we sit under the gospel and revel in the incredible love that you've shown, we pray that our hearts will be filled with love and gratitude and joy and humility. Father, sanctify us, strengthen us for each one of us. Help us to receive your word with faith. And it's in Christ we ask. Amen. Now the title on this pamphlet is The Way of Salvation. I'll tell you in just a second why I chose that as a title for this pamphlet. This is from a company that prints these tracks, but you can customize it for your own church. One of the things you can do is create your own cover, create your own title for it. So I'll get to that title in just a second. But if you look inside In the middle, the top middle, it says what is the Romans Road. So what this tract is, is a classic way of sharing the gospel called the Romans Road. Now the gospel is the good news of salvation. It means glad tidings. It's uh almost like if if you were in a village because your nation was invaded and the army goes out to uh to battle to protect your village. your your cousins are going off, your uncles are going off to war because the invasion has come. Well at some point if you see a messenger An official messenger of the king coming to your village and he announces that you have won. They have defeated the invaders. The invaders have turned around who are left and they have left. Victory is yours. That's good news. That's good tidings of a victory that's been won. It's been completed. The good news, the glad tidings, the gospel is that Jesus Christ has won the victory. He has gone out, he has defeated the enemy, he's defeated the foe, he's defeated sin, he's defeated death He brings us into relationship with God. He gives us the gift of eternal life. It's the victory over our biggest enemies, sin and death. And Jesus gives us that victory. So that's what good news is. That's what gospel means. The Romans Road is a classic way of sharing the gospel. It just goes through select verses in Romans. that tells you the story of the gospel. It tells you the story of how Jesus accomplished salvation and then also how can you receive that salvation. Because we don't want you just to know that salvation was accomplished. We do want that. But we want you to receive that salvation into your heart and life. And that's what the pamphlet is. The Romans Road. Now I chose the way of salvation. That phrase that is in the Bible in Acts 16, 17, it's used as a way to summarize the church's message, the way of salvation. But also from Jesus' teaching in John 14, 6. It's a verse that most of you know where Jesus says, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. He is the way. He's the way of salvation. He's the way to be reconciled to God. He's the way to forgiveness of sins. He's the way to the gift of eternal life. How do I get there? Jesus Christ. He's the way. You have to go through him. So the way of salvation or Jesus being the way, in fact, if you read the book of Acts, the Acts of the Apostles, the church came to be known as the way. Just as a group. The church was known as the way. Christians belonged to the way. Now where did that come from? It came from their message. Because the church was birthed from the gospel, from the message, the power that Jesus is the way of salvation. Now what is the way? What does it boil down to? What is it all about? Well, to put it in a nutshell, since Jesus died and rose again, salvation can be ours. Salvation can be ours. If salvation can be ours, then salvation can be yours since Jesus died and rose again. Not because we're well-intentioned people, not because we're good people, not because we're able to save ourselves Not because we're able to do enough good deeds, not because we're able to go through all the hoops of religion. Only because of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection can we be saved. Are you with me, church? Only because of Jesus. Then when you come to Jesus, your salvation is 1,000% secure. Why do I say that? Well, because many of us, even if we don't think it, we can feel it, we can feel like we need to add something to Jesus so that we can finally feel like we are saved. And I'm telling you, you do not need to add anything to Jesus You do not need to supplement what Jesus has done to gain you access to heaven. What Jesus did is complete and utter victory for the sinner. That's why it's good news. Good news. The Romans road, the way of salvation, since Jesus died and rose again, salvation can be ours. We've all done things we're not proud of. We've all done things that we wish we could take back. How many do-overs do you wish you could have Words we wish we didn't say. Thoughts we wish we didn't think. Desires we wish did not reside in our hearts. We all have sinned Now the question is, can we be forgiven? Is there a way to erase the guilt of our sin? Is there a way to cleanse our hearts Is there a way, brothers and sisters? Is there a way to make this right? Is there a way? Is there a way of salvation? We've all done things that have brought harm to ourselves. And we've all done things that have brought harm to others We've all done things that have violated God's will. Is there a way of forgiveness? Is there a way out of this? And the answer is: yeah. There's one way: Jesus Christ. The Savior, the way of salvation. And since Jesus died and rose again, salvation can be ours. If salvation can be ours, salvation can be yours. As we listen to, we go through this pamphlet today, I pray that you would be convinced that you do need a Savior. Because you have sinned. And I pray that this gospel message of Jesus Christ, this way of salvation, I pray it will penetrate and come into your heart and bring you to faith in Jesus Christ because I want you to be saved. That's just where my headspace is today. Thinking about your soul, thinking about eternal destiny, the condition of your soul in relation to God, and that's why we're going through the way of salvation. Now, what I'll do is go through Go through this. We're just going to loop around that road one to six, but I'm going to tell you, I'm going to spend the majority of time on number one. And number two, because that's where the meat is, that's where the substance is. Everything else is important. It's critically important. But it starts, but those last steps get you into how to you how do you respond? But you can't respond the proper way until you get the meat of it, until you get the substance of it. And so numbers one and numbers number numbers one and two is the core. This is what needs to, this is like a seed that needs to be planted in our hearts. So let's look at number one. Everyone needs salvation. And then you see from Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. All have sinned, all fall short of the glory of God. And therefore, that's why number one is everyone needs salvation. What is salvation? Salvation is being rescued. It's being delivered. Salvation is being helped out of a horrible situation. That's what salvation is. This is a spiritual salvation. Spiritual salvation. Salvation from sin. The guilt of our sin. And it's salvation from the consequences, the eternal consequences of our sin, which is the judgment of God. It's salvation from the reign of sin in our hearts. And sin being our master, to follow our own pride and our own desires instead of following God's will. We need to be saved from sin. It says here, fall short of the glory of God. Fall short of the glory of God. Now there's a couple different ways that that's been interpreted There's a couple different ways you can take that. To fall short of God's glory means that we don't properly reflect God's glory. Humankind was designed, was created to reflect God's character in the world. But as we've fallen into sins, we no longer reflect his character, i. e. we fall short of his glory. But there's another aspect to God's glory. In Scripture, God's glory is just God's presence And that's what mankind lost when we fell into sin. We lost access to God 's presence We fall short of entering his glory. God is glorious. God is holy. God is majestic and pure and beautiful and perfect in every way. And we cannot enter his presence. We fall short. We fall short of his glory. God is all-powerful and he created the world God is all wise, and He created mankind in his image and likeness to love him and to know him and to serve him and to have a relationship with him and to reflect his goodness and character in the world. He's all powerful creator. He's all-wise making us in his image God is good. He gave the world to mankind. And he gave everything in the world to mankind for sustenance and for enjoyment. Here, have the world. God is good. God's been good to us. He gives us so much. Every day, God gives us food. And water, and clothing, and shelter, and a measure of health. Now, we all people may have these things in differing degrees, but God has provided for us And if you're in this room, I know God has provided for you richly, wise because God's good. One of the things God reveals about Himself is He's good. Here, have this. It'll help you. Here, have this. It'll be a blessing to you. Here, have this. You'll enjoy it. Here, have this. This will sustain you. Have this. This will strengthen you. Have this. It will encourage you. God is good. Now in our natural state, in our natural sinful state, what's our response to God's revelation of his goodness? Nothing to see here. Nothing to see here. There's better things, better things, created things that I could live for rather than the creator. Because we fall short of the glory of God. God is holy. He's pure. God is just. His judgments and his decisions are right. He's not like a corrupt judge who takes bribes and makes unjust decisions because someone gave him money. And a bribe. God is just. He makes the right judgments. He makes the right decisions. And God will hold mankind accountable We are accountable to God. We're accountable before God because He made the world and He made us. And therefore we're accountable to God. Now, the world will disagree with that. And the pride that lives within us will disagree with that. But the truth is, it's very simple. You don't have to go very deep here for this. God made the world. God made us, therefore we are accountable to God. We will answer to Him He says, All have sinned, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Sin, one of the words that's translated sin in the Bible, literally just means miss the mark. Here's the target, here's the bullseye. You throw the dart, you're way off. It hits the wall, way off three feet to the right. What happened? You missed the mark. You sinned God's called us to live this way. God created man to live this way. What happens? We're way off. Three feet to the right, if not more. Miss the mark. Sin is essentially just disobedience. It's lawbreaking. You can think of a child who's rebellious and disobedient, ignores his parents, does whatever he wants. That's sin. That's a picture of that's what sin is. It's disobedience, or it's lawbreaking. They could grow up a criminal who just completely disregards the law. Doesn't care at all. Gets up and just plotting his next robbery. That's what sin is. In the spiritual realm, a spiritual sphere, disobedience to God, law breaking, rebellion against God's authority, rebellion breaking, violating God's law. And where there's a breaking of the law, there will be a judgment. That's what we need to be saved from. Saved from the coming judgment. Saved from the guilt of our sin. Saved from the power of sin within us. And saved from God's judgment against our sin. We need to be delivered. We need to be rescued. God 's two greatest commandments, number one, is to love God with all that we are. Love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. To love God with all that we are, to love God most. And the second greatest commandment is to love others As ourselves, or to do unto others as we would have them do to us. To love others. Not to love ourselves at the expense of others. We know what that's like. That's the natural inclination. The natural inclination of all people is not to love God with all that we are above all things, but to love things above God. And to disregard him. And the natural inclination is not to love others as myself, but to love myself at the expense of others. So now what do we do? We're guilty. What do we do? We've disobeyed. What do we do? We sinned. We fall short of the glory of God. Since Jesus died and rose again, salvation can be ours. The picture is bleak without Jesus. It's supposed to be. It's supposed to be bleak. You're supposed to feel the darkness in your heart when you hear of the true situation apart from Jesus Christ We're supposed to be convicted. You're supposed to feel the spiritual gravity pressed down upon you of our miserable situation apart from Jesus Christ. And then we come in with the good news. Then we come in with the glad tidings. What we want to do is skip over the bleakness and just get to the pep talk. But the truth is, apart from Jesus Christ, we are in the worst situation we could ever imagine. We are lost in sin. And the reason God sent Jesus was to get us up out of that situation. Everyone needs salvation, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Now one more thing on one. If you don't understand this point number one about sin, you cannot understand what's coming up, Jesus dying in the place of sinners. You have to understand sin. You have to understand divine judgment. You have to understand the reality of guilt, the misery of sin, in order to properly understand Jesus dying on the cross. You have to you have to see both. Number one is that everyone needs salvation. It's such a painful but glorious thing. If you've experienced this, you know that it's true. It's simultaneously painful. Piercing like a spear right through your heart. It's simultaneously painful and extraordinarily joyful. For the first time when God shows us the reality of our own sin, but then also is pointing us to Christ to find relief. And both of those things are happening. We're being convicted of our sin. We're being convinced of our guilt. We're being shown the darkness that resides within our hearts. We're being shown not only the prospect of coming judgment, but that I, Matt, deserve a coming judgment. We're being shown that by the Spirit of God, and He's pressing that down upon our hearts. But he also is shining the light of Jesus Christ that we might find relief and find refuge in Christ, so that we might be what? Saved. The word saved is used so much today, it's completely lost its meaning. I'm telling you what the Bible teaches about being saved. Saved from your sin. Saved from the guilt of your sin. Saved from the reigning power of sin within your heart. Saved from the coming judgment of God against sin. Saved, saved, saved. Only Because Christ died and rose. Christianity is not everywhere, not everybody, but you've seen enough to know That a lot of it is so watered down and so superficial to render it powerless in people's lives What we want and what we need in this nation, in the world, is a revival of the real thing, a bringing back of the real thing. And we don't need shows and we don't need concerts. We don't need more friend groups or social clubs, fun events. We need the message of salvation to be heralded clearly. and joyfully and zealously for God's glory. That's what Christianity is, brothers and sisters. And that's what we're about. Everyone needs salvation. Now, number two, Jesus died for our salvation. Jesus died for our salvation. And then it gives you some from Romans 5. 8. Romans 5. 8. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. God showed what? Love? This doesn't sound loving. This absolutely sounds loving. Did you want God to leave us in the misery of sin? This is the definition of love. This is the greatest love you'll ever hear about. What's love is seeking someone's well-being. Hate is seeking their harm. Love is seeking their good. It's seeking their well-being. It 's sacrificial love. To do what's good for your children, even when you need to make sacrifices. To do what's for the well-being of your spouse, even when you have to make sacrifices. And you don't feel like it. And you don't have the energy. Yes, but you love them. So love them, serve them, seek their well-being. This is the definition of love. This is the brightest. light of love you could ever hear about is God sending Jesus to save us from our sin. Jesus died for our salvation. God shows his love. I love that phrase is a big reveal. He manifests. He unveils. He sets the table with his love. He's showing you his love. And while we were sinners, all that point number one. Christ died for us. Christ died for us. If you only remember one phrase, I'd like you to remember at least five phrases, but if you only remember one phrase. Remember that Jesus died as a sin -bearing substitute. Alright, a sin -bearing substitute. To bear something is to carry something. And what Jesus did in dying on the cross is he carried the guilt of our sin. He bore The guilt of our sin, he bore, he received, he carried God's judgment against our sin in our place So that we would never have to bear those things on our own. He's a sin-bearing substitute. That's why it says Christ died for us. 1 Peter 2. 24 says he bore our sins in his body. He's a sin-bearing substitute. He died in the place of sinners. He bore their guilt. Before a holy God. He bore, he carried the punishment that we deserve from God. He's a sin-bearing substitute. To bear is just a carry. If you're driving down the road and you see someone who maybe is feeble And maybe it's really struggling and they're they're trying to lift up these drunk bags of sand and they're trying to lug them across and you decide that you want to pull over and help them and you come over and you get these bags and you bear it up. And you carry it in their place. And you come back and you get another one. And you bear it up and you carry it in their place. And you're bearing the burden, you're bearing the weight on your body in their place. So that they would not have to. That's the cross of Jesus Christ. Bearing, carrying the guilt of our sin, God's wrath against our sin, so that we would never have to. That's what Jesus did. Praise God. Glory. Hallelujah. Jesus takes our guilt away. Jesus takes the punishment we deserved. So that we can be saved. So that you can be saved. Jesus died for our salvation as a sin -bearing substitute, a sin-bearing substitute. I asked my son one time, just just testing him, just to see if he knew, do you know what do you know what a substitute is? What's a substitute? And he he Gave uh what I think is a pretty good answer. He's uh someone who takes someone's place. I can't say it better. That's what a substitute substitute teacher takes to the other teacher's place You're playing a basketball game, the starters come out, the subs come in. The subs are the substitutes. They take the starter's place. Jesus died as a substitute. We're sinners We deserve God's punishment. We deserve to be condemned for our guilt. What does Jesus do? He takes our place. He takes our place on the cross. You get really going on and on about this Jesus dying on the cross. Yeah. Well, yeah. Because I want you to go to heaven. I want your guilt to be erased. I want your heart to be filled with a joy and a gratitude that you can't even imagine before it happens. I want you to put your faith in Jesus Christ so that you would be saved. We are all accountable to God. We are not promised another week. We are not promised another day. We don't know what our future is. But we do know this part about our future. We know we will answer to God for the lives that we've lived. And on that day, what am I going to do? What is Matt going to do? When he stands before God and has to give account for his life, am I going to point to the good things that I have done? The holy things that what things? What good things? What can I offer to God that would be good enough that God would grant me entrance into his glory when I have sinned and fall short of his glory? My only hope is Jesus Christ. All I have is Jesus Christ. Because He died in Rose, I can be saved. Because He died in Rose, you can be saved. Because we will stand before God. Have an urgency about the you know we get urgent about so many things. Urgent about this new movie, urging about this new book, urging about this appointment, urging about there's lots of things in the world. Where we do need to be urgent about. If you're bleeding profusely, urgently call 911. All right. So urgency isn't bad. But there's so many trivial things that we have an urgency about. And then the things of God come into our minds, and we can be totally asleep. And we need to have an urgency about these things. This life in these bodies on this earth is not forever. This is a snap. This is a breath. The older we get, the more we realize that. Amen? This is a vapor. The Bible says this is a vapor. This is a flash. Poof. It's gone. And then what? And then what? We will all answer to God, and so I am pleading with you, if you couldn't tell. I am pleading with you. Put your faith in Jesus Christ so that when you stand before God, you will not be there based on your own life by yourself before God with no Savior. Have the Savior there, pleading, presenting, arguing your case for you. Jesus would say one thing, this one's mine That's all he has to say. This one is mine. This one belongs to me. I died for his sin. I died for her sin. This one is mine. And that's all you need to be right with God and to dwell forever in God's glory. In eternity. Everyone needs salvation. Jesus died for our salvation. Now, number three, and I told you those were the two biggest points So don't try to like do the math here and be like, okay. She's got through two points. It's 1136. Lunch is at 2. How is this? How is this going to work? How is this going to work? The burden of my heart is to preach the truth of what the gospel is, because that's what there can be a famine of. E even within what's Christian circles and churches, there can be a famine of the meat, of the real food, of the substance, the gospel. That's the seed. That needs to get planted in the heart. And once the seed of the truth of the gospel is planted in the heart properly, at any time, God can spring forth eternal life from that seed of the gospel. Number three, salvation is a gift. Number three, salvation is a gift, and it gives from Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now, eternal life Eternal life is life in communion with God that will never end. It's life in fellowship with God that will never end. It begins now. Inwardly and it lasts into eternity in God's presence. Eternal life, eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord What does in Christ Jesus mean? It means in a relationship with Him. It means in fellowship with Him. In Christ Jesus is where we find eternal life. Now it contrasts. The wages of sin, which is death, with the free gift of God. Now, you could teach a class on this. Anybody in here, Christian or not, anybody. Child or adult, if I said, I want you to come up here for 10 minutes, tell people the difference between a paycheck and a gift, anybody could do it. A paycheck is something you work for. On the basis of your work, you're paid. That's your wage. That's your due. You earned it. You deserve it. The gift is something you didn't work for. People show up to your party, give you a gift. Someone surprises you on your anniversary, gives you a gift. Someone is just thinking of you because you're going through a hard time, gives you a gift You have a paycheck, something earned, something worked for. Over here you have salvation, which is a free gift. You do not have to work for God to love you. Would you let that sink in? You do not have to be a good person for God to love you and offer you salvation. Which is a nice arrangement because that ship has already sailed. It's gone. It fell off. God has an inexplicable, profound love for defiled sinners like this preacher. You've got to get that. You've got to get that. And the the reason you've got to get that is because that's the primary way God has chosen To demonstrate his love and grace to mankind. So it's God's centerpiece of this glorious feast that He set Who am I to come in, take the centerpiece away, and get rid of it and replace it with something else? God's primary way of manifesting his glory, of demonstrating his love and his grace. is by saving sinners, giving a love to sinners. God shows his love. Salvation is a gift. It's a gift of love Receive the gift. Don't work for it. Now some of you, some of you already are saved, but maybe you've slipped into a mindset. Of you've got to keep working to keep that salvation. Now maybe at first you understood you didn't need to earn it. At first you understood you didn't need to work for it, but then you kind of maybe got into a rut where now you're in the mindset of works. I've got to keep working, I've got to keep earning. And because of that, you'd lack assurance. Because you're looking to yourself, or because you're looking to your feelings, or because you're looking, I have to put the G on those ing words. That's the South Jersey of me coming coming back. Because you're looking to yourself. Not looking. Because you're looking to your works. Because you're looking to your feelings. You can have like this chronic condition of not being sure if you're really saved or not. But wait a minute, do you believe in Jesus? You're saved. Are you trusting in Christ for forgiveness? You're saved. And so understand that salvation is a gift. Not asking you to earn it, not asking you to work for it, asking you to receive it. Number 4 basically says the same thing. We are saved by grace. And then it gives Romans 11, 6. If it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. This is interesting. In most gospel tracts, you don't have this many steps. You don't have this many points, but he's he is including this point, really he's including this point twice. Because we do all naturally have the tendency to think that we need to work for salvation, especially if you grew up in a certain church or a certain tradition where that literally is taught. Yes, salvation is by grace, also by works, and also through sacraments, also through the authority of the church. No , no , Salvation comes directly from Jesus to the sinner. As the sinner looks to Jesus and believes in Jesus for salvation, you're saved. That's it as a gift. So he goes, salvation is a gift, and then he says, we're saved by grace. Grace is undeserved favor. Grace is undeserved kindness. A rebellious child that you still forgive and you still love. Alright? Grace. We're saved by grace. And then number five, salvation comes through faith. Salvation comes through faith. And he gives Romans 4. 5, the one who believes in him, who justifies the ungodly. His faith is counted as righteousness. Now counted as righteousness just means that a perfect record of obedience is transferred to your account before God. You know what a bank transfer is, right? You take one from one account, $1,000. You transfer it to the other account, $1,000. Well here we're not talking ING. We're not talking about money being transferred from one account to another account. We're talking about the obedience of Christ. The righteousness of Christ being transferred into our account before God, our standing before God. That's what counted as righteousness means. And that comes to the one who believes, to believe in him who justifies the ungodly. Believe. Do you believe? Would you believe? You may have come in here today. You may have never heard the true gospel ever before. That's fine. You can believe it today. You don't have to go out and become an expert on it. You can believe in Jesus based on the gospel today. Receive the gift of eternal life. You can be saved. Because Jesus died and rose. You can be saved. Believe. The one who believes, that's called faith. Now, did you see this phrase in Romans 4. 5? Believes in him who what? Justifies the ungodly. Justifies the ungodly. I like that because that applies to me. That applies to me. And he says justifies. And what that means is God declares the ungodly godly in his sight God declares the unrighteous righteous in his sight. Is this picture coming across? God declares the disobedient obedient in his sight It's a legal declaration. When you see this phrase justifies the ungodly, just picture God bringing down a gavel. a gavel, and he's declaring his judgment, and he says of this ungodly person, sorry, it's over here. I always go over here. He's of this ungodly person This ungodly person, ungodly, and God brings down the gavel and says, righteous in my sight. That's what justifies the ungodly means. The ungodly person, the defendant. It's a spiritual criminal in God's heavenly courtroom. And because of faith in Christ, only because of faith in Christ, God brings down the gavel. This is the only time I ever pound the pulpit, is when I'm doing this illustration. Brings down the gavel and declares you innocent and righteous in his sight. And it's an irreversible verdict. Brother and sister, does that not fill your heart with joy? This is being saved. Number six, God saves all who call upon him. Romans 10, 13, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Now the only ones who will call upon him are those who believe in him. You can't call upon him unless you believe in him. Romans 10, that can be your homework, that can be your devotional tonight. You have to hear the gospel, you have to believe in Jesus based on the gospel, and when you believe in him, you call upon him, and it says you will be saved. Will be saved. So that's looking forward. Who this is one of the great questions of the Bible, if not the great question. On that day of judgment, who will be saved? All who call upon the name of the Lord. All who put their faith in Jesus Christ and from that heart of faith they call upon the Lord for salvation. They will all be saved. There's no elite group of Christians somewhere who, well, well, no, they'll be saved, but us, we're just we're just lowly country people. No, all who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. You cannot receive salvation from somebody who's dead and in the grave. And so we talked a lot about the death of Jesus, the sin-bearing substitute. But that's not the whole story, is it? Because Jesus rose again to be a living source of salvation, to be a living Lord over all things. And Jesus is the one who saves sinners. Sners don't save sinners. Pastors don't save sinners. Churches don't save sinners. Jesus saves sinners. So as you're hearing these gospel truths, these great and glorious gospel truths, and you're you're taking breaks out of them and you're receiving them into your heart, please know that these are not just abstract ideas. We are preaching about a living Savior, Jesus Christ, who reigns in heaven and who is, mark this down, write it on your arm, he's always available to sinners. Always available. This maybe is not getting through to you right now, but maybe you're driving down the road later this week, later this month, later this year. The Spirit brings it back to you. It convicts your heart. And based on these truths, you look to Christ for salvation. That's perfectly fine. Because He's always available to sinners wherever you are. I'm just trying to plant a seed this morning God saves all who call upon him. That's because Jesus not only died, but he also rose again. And because he rose again, salvation can be ours. If salvation can be ours, salvation can be yours. If you look to Christ And believe you will be saved