As we come to our time in the Word, we'll be in Colossians 1 verses 3. And I won't be doing a verse-by-verse exposition through the passage, but there's a phrase in here that I want to use sort of as a as the starting blocks or the diving board to launch into our topic. Colossians 1, 3 to 8, this morning talking about the glorious inheritance of those in Christ. Really two questions I want us to ask and answer with the scriptures this morning. What happens to the believers spirit when their body dies. And then secondly, what happens to their body when The Spirit returns with Christ. Now there's a lot there, but that's why it's on your outline and it's on the slide. Two questions. What happens to the believer's spirit? When their body dies, and then what happens to that body when the Spirit returns with Christ. And by the way, there's a cross reference for you to check out later on in your devotions on that, returning with Christ. First Thessalonians four fourteen. When Christ returns, he returns. That's a whole exposition in itself. But it's a really clear verse. 14. So on board, we're on board with these questions, and thank God that He's answered these questions for us so that we have no need for speculation on the matter. What happens to the believers? Spirit when this body dies, and then what happens to the body when that spirit returns with the exalted Christ our living Lord? Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. I pray that it would be preached and received in a spirit of repentance and faith, in a spirit of humility. In a spirit of joy, the joy that you have seen fit to be our master, to be our teacher, and to be our guide and our wisdom in life. We pray, Father, that your word would be administered to our minds and our hearts in such a way that shows us Christ and changes us into his likeness. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Let's go ahead with the reading of Colossians 1, 3 to 8. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing, as it also does among you. Since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God and truth, just as you learned it from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ Christ on your behalf, and has made known to us your love in the Spirit. Now it's not the main point of this sermon, but something that really stands out to me in Captures my heart is the very end of verse 6, where it's the picture of the gospel coming to the church, and it says, Understood the grace of God and truth. And that's what we want for everyone. To understand the grace of God in truth, the grace of God that comes to us in the gospel, to have a firm grasp on God's grace. As a church, we're heralds of the grace of God, but that must be according to his truth. I love that phrase. Understood the grace of God and truth. Now, brothers and sisters in the Lord, if that didn't happen to us, we would not know God. The reason we know God is because the gospel came to our hearts and God gave us repentance. And brought us to faith and brought us to understand his grace according to the truth. Can't pick grace against the truth. And you cannot pit the truth against God's grace. The two go together. The phrase that I am picking out of here for this sermon is in verse 5. Hopefully that stood out to you. Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. The hope laid up for you in heaven. Child of God, that's what I want to talk about this morning. That's what I want us to contemplate this morning of the hope that's laid up for you in heaven. The hope that's laid up for me in heaven The hope that is laid up in heaven for any sinner who will repent and put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The hope that is laid up for you in heaven. Verse 5. It's a picture of an inheritance. It's the picture of an inheritance that's been stored away. It's the picture of an inheritance that's being kept safe for you. That's legally yours, but you've not taken possession of it yet. You can think of a small child whose grandfather passes away, but that grandfather leaves the trust fund for that child. The only thing is that child cannot receive that trust fund until they turn 21. That's the way it's been drawn up. Legally, it's theirs. They will inherit it. It belongs to them. It's their inheritance And once they become 21, they'll take possession of this grand inheritance, whatever it is. That's the picture here. The hope laid up for you in heaven. And that's what I want us to think about. Because you too have an inheritance that's waiting for you. You are an heir. We are heirs. Titus 3. 7 refers to believers as heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Romans 817 refers to believers as heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. Heirs of eternal and heavenly glory. There could be no greater inheritance. Heirs of eternal and heavenly glory. The hope that's laid up for you in heaven. Oh, how I pray that this Would captivate our hearts. This is what will keep us on the right track. This is what will keep our perspective in life in the midst of thousands of distractions. In the midst of the weakness of our own flesh and our proneness to wander off the path, in the allurements of sin. The hope that we have laid up for us in heaven, the inheritance that Christ has secured for us will be our anchor. He will be our anchor. Now there's a few things to notice about this hope in the text. First of all, number one, it's linked to faith in Christ Look at verse 4. This hope is linked to faith in Christ. Verse 4, since we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus. Since we've heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, because if there's no faith, there's no inheritance. If there's no faith, I'm not an heir If there's no faith, there's no secure, glorious, heavenly inheritance that's mine. I can repent and come to faith, and then it will be mine. But this hope is linked to faith in Christ. And of course, you must ask the question at that point, what is faith in Christ based on? It's based on the gospel. It's based on the preaching of his sacrificial death on the cross, by his blood, by his dying in the place of sinners The debt of our sin is canceled, and we can become children of God. Faith based on the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ, but essentially the sin-bearing death of Christ. So, hope is linked to faith. And I would invite anyone here this morning who's outside of Christ. I would invite you, we would invite you. The scriptures invite you. God invites you. The Holy Spirit invites you. Put your faith in Christ based on his death. And you too will be an heir of a hope that's laid up in heaven. And number two about this hope, notice that it's birthed by the gospel. It's birthed by the gospel. Look at the end of verse 5. Right after he says the hope laid up for you in heaven, he says this, of this you have heard before in the word of truth the gospel, which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing. Where did you learn about this hope? You learned about this hope in the preaching of the gospel. The preaching of the gospel must include the heralding of eternal hope. It must include putting forth This glorious inheritance that Christ has secured for sinners. Something we could never secure for ourselves. Something we could never accomplish on our own. is being righteous in the sight of God, inheriting heaven, being granted entrance into heaven only on the basis of Christ. His obedient life, his sacrificial death, his glorious and powerful resurrection, and then his giving us his Holy Spirit to reconcile us to God, therefore we have a hope laid up for us in heaven. Amen? This is what life is about. And of course, this is what worship is about. To worship the God who made us and who saved us by the blood of Christ. This hope. Is linked to faith, it's birthed by the gospel, finally, it produces spiritual love. It produces spiritual love. Look at verse 8. And has made known to us your love in the The spirit, your love in the spirit. Paul's referencing the brotherly love of the church in Colossae And that love is in the Spirit. That's what he says. It's love in the Spirit. Now you can't have that love unless you have the Holy Spirit. It's a spiritual love. And that's produced by coming to faith in Christ. But he also had said that before in verse 4, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints. So, verse 4, the love that you have for all the saints. Verse 8, your love in the Spirit. Christians must love each other. Christians must shine the love of Christ. We must be walking in the Spirit, and if we're walking in the Spirit, we'll be walking in love. Sacrificial love. And love is that which Seeks the blessing of another. Hate seeks to harm another. Love seeks to bless the other. And Christian love is seeking to bless each other even at cost. to ourselves. That's what sacrificial love is. That's the love of Christ. Sacrificing of himself for the blessing of sinners. Is that love thriving in your hearts? Is that love flourishing in our hearts? Are we praying to God that He would cultivate that kind of love in our hearts? So, this hope that's laid up for us in heaven is not an abstract idea of religion. It's linked to faith in Christ. It is birthed by the gospel of Christ and the preaching of his sacrificial death, and it produces a Spiritual love among other things, the other fruit of the Spirit, and holy obedience to God is produced by Faith in Christ and this hope that we have. So that's the hope laid up for us in heaven And there's some just some other details from this passage that we're starting with. But now let's come back to those two. questions. What happens to our spirits when our bodies die? And what happens to our bodies when our spirit Spirits return. Well, let's go to the first question. And let's personalize it. Let's just talk about our spirits. Our spirits. Well, our spirits I think this is letter A on your outline. Sometimes I forget what what is in my notes if that's the form I put it on in your handout as well. But it should be A on your outline. Our spirits will leave the body and go home to be with Jesus. Jesus. And I'm I'm choosing that word home very carefully for a very specific reason you'll find out in just a second. Our spirits will leave the body and go home to be with Jesus. Jesus. This comes from 2 Corinthians 5. 8. Alright? 2 Corinthians 5. 8, where Paul writes Yes, we are of good courage. And we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. Many of you heard that verse before. We'd rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. What is he talking about? He's talking about what happens to the spirit when this mortal body dies. The spirit then goes to be, and I quote, away from the body, and again, quote, at home with the Lord, our true home, our eternal home. with the Lord. That's the purpose of our salvation. That God, for his own name and for his own glory, as a show of his own grace and power and wisdom, has brought us into communion with himself. Our home is with God. Right now we're not with God. We're reconciled to God. But God's in heaven and we're on earth. And so we walk by faith, not by sight. But that won't always be the case. One day, brother and sister, you'll be with God, your true heavenly, eternal home. And your soul, your spirit will be away from the body when you go to be home with the Lord. This is conscious Fellowship with God. A contrary doctrine that you'll hear if you do enough listening to so-called versions of Christianity. A contrary doctrine That's not taught in scripture is the doctrine of what's called soul sleep. Is conscious fellowship with God in heaven. That's your hope. That's where your spirit is going, when your body, when this mortal body dies. If you've been united to Christ. Philippians 1 23, Paul writes this: I am hard pressed Between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. He's contemplating his own death. And he says, Depart and be with Christ. Depart from dwelling on this earth. Depart this mortal body and what? Be with Christ. Another contrary doctrine is the doctrine of purgatory. Purgatory is not the doctrine of heaven. It's a different doctrine. It's a man-made doctrine. It's a place where you go and finish paying for your sins. And you go through suffering to finish paying for your sins. And then at some indeterminate point, on some arbitrary basis, when enough payment is made, when enough prayers are said, you'll make it to heaven. That's not what the Bible teaches us. And that is not hope and peace for the soul. You will go to heaven. You will have conscious fellowship with God, and you will be enjoying the peace. and rest and perfect joy and perfect glory of heaven. That's your inheritance. Our spirits will leave the body and go home with Jesus. If I'm getting excited about it, it is because I can't wait for it. This is what we were made for: to be with God. This is not the final chapter. Living in these sinful bodies with these sinful minds and these sinful lips and these sinful hearts. And the weakness of the flesh in this sin cursed world is not the final chapter. That's not what we were ultimately created for. We were created to be holy in the glory of the presence of God, in the likeness of Christ, forever and ever. That's where our minds need to be fixed. I mean that'll put life in perspective. That'll put life into that'll put our collectibles into perspective. That'll put our bank accounts into perspective. That'll put this election into perspective. We have a heavenly home. That none can take away from us. And when you enter there, when you enter there, well I'm getting ahead of my notes now. We'll tell you later when you enter there. Right now, right now, here's where we are, conscious fellowship with God, not soul sleep, and And the peace and rest and joy and glory of heaven, not the suffering of purgatory, to finish the work of your redemption. Are you with me on that? The work is done. That's what we proclaim. The work is done. Now come and receive the free gift. Never, ever, you know when the glasses come off. Never in any part of our message anywhere can be some form of us working to finish our salvation. Never Jesus Christ 100% finished the work of our redemption. Amen? And we receive that free gift. We receive the free gift by turning and believing, by repenting in our hearts and believing. Belief is the first repentance. We repent from rejecting God to accepting God in faith. So no work, no work here, no work after here in purgatory to earn our redemption Someone said earlier, shave a little time off the preaching time. I don't know how I'm going to do that, but I'm going to go for it. All right, this is we're still in what happens to the believer's spirit when the body dies. The spirits leave the body and go home to be with Jesus. Um B, B, when that happens, our spirits will be perfected in holiness. Our spirits will be perfected in holiness. In other words, when the spirit departs and goes to heaven, it would be totally conformed to the character of Jesus Christ. Christ. We won't lust anymore. And we won't be greedy anymore. And we won't slander others. anymore. We won't be so impatient anymore. And on and on and on. The corruption of sin will be gone will be Um, perfected in holiness. This comes from Hebrews 12, 23. Alright? Hebrews 12, 23. And in this passage, the author of Hebrews is uh is talking about the scene in heaven. And he's actually talking about us now, believers now, we're citizens of heaven, and by faith we've joined this heavenly assembly. And what the author of Hebrews does in this paragraph is just talk about the different parties who are at this heavenly assembly. Assembly, surrounded by God and holy worship. And in Hebrews twelve, twenty-three, he says, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to The spirits of the righteous made perfect. That's talking about believers who've already died. And their spirits have gone to be with God in heaven. And here's what the author of Hebrews says: the spirits of the righteous made perfect. The spirits of the righteous perfected. The spirits of the righteous brought to perfect holiness. The spirits of the righteous brought into total conformity with the likeness of Christ. No more sin in their hearts. Won't this be glorious? No more sinful thoughts No more motives tainted and corrupted by sin and selfishness and pride and the lust of the flesh. No more. No more. No more. But that great work of sanctification that God has already begun in your life, brother, sister, will be perfected and completed one day when this body dies. Your soul, your spirit will depart from that body, not only go to heaven, but as it's going to heaven, it's perfected in righteousness, perfected in holiness. You'll no more be uh be um plagued by the fear of man. And uh you'll no more be craving the approval of others You no more be plagued by the insecurities of the flesh. No more be plagued by doubting your salvation. No one's going to doubt their salvation when they get to heaven. All that struggling with your assurance, all that struggling over, does God really love a sinner like me? All that battle will be done. The victory will be won. Hallelujah indeed. I mean think about the struggles and the weakness and the sin of the flesh, and it'll all be gone. All be gone Um that's what happens to the believer's spirit when their body dies. Now what happens to the body when the soul returns with Christ? What have what will happen to our bodies? Put your seatbelts on. Our bodies will be risen anew in the likeness of the risen Lord. Our bodies will be risen anew in the likeness of the risen Lord. If you just want word for this point, just put resurrection. Resurrection. Our bodies will be risen anew in the likeness of Christ, the risen Lord. Letter A, this is what Scripture calls the redemption of our bodies. The redemption of our bodies. That comes from Romans 8. 23. Paul's talking about the resurrection. He's talking about the future resurrection of believers. In Romans 8. 23, he calls it the redemption of our bodies. Now we don't have time to go here, and I've already given you this chapter and verse. But 1 Thessalonians 4, this is your homework. 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 to 17 , this resurrection body will be given to all believers. Whether they've already died bodily or if they're still living on earth when Christ returns, everybody gets a resurrection body. We don't have time to flesh that out, but I feel like I at least need to give you that concept and give you the main paragraph where we get that from. 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 to 17. This resurrection is called the redemption of our bodies, is what scripture calls it. Now that's important because our souls, our souls, have already been redeemed. If you've put your faith in Christ, our souls have been redeemed. If this moment you repent and put your faith in Christ, your soul is redeemed. And what that means, the guilt of your sin is canceled. And it can never come back. Amen? The guilt of your sin is canceled and it can never come back. That means that sin is no longer your master. Now we all have sin in our lives. We're all plagued with sin. Inwardly and outwardly and and the mouth, the amount of the amount of sin that that I commit with my mouth is just preposterous. We all have sin in our lives, but by the grace of God, sin is not our master. teaches that. It's an objective truth about believers. Sin is no longer our master because our soul has been redeemed. The guilt of our sin is canceled. Sin is no longer our master, and we've been born of the Holy Spirit. We still have the sin nature. We still have the flesh, the sinful flesh, but we also have the Holy Spirit. Spirit. That's why there's this battle in the Christian life, is a battle, this inward battle, the sinful flesh waging war against the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit waging war against the sinful flesh. That's a sign. Now if you're in that battle, that's a sign that your soul has been redeemed. If you're not in that battle at all, you don't even care about that battle. That's a sign your soul has not been redeemed. Or you redeemed, but you you've fallen into a pattern of sin where you've just hardened to the these truths. Either way calls for turning and repentance. Repenting, walk walking in the spirit. So the soul has been redeemed, but these bodies have not been redeemed. These bodies are aging. These bodies are aching and hurting and breaking and dying. But these bodies are temporary. So this will be the redemption of our bodies when we receive this resurrection body. Let it be this will happen when Christ returns 1 Corinthians 15, 23. 1 Corinthians 15, 23. Again, the entire context is the resurrection. Here he's talking about the resurrection of believers. And in 1 Corinthians 15, 23, Paul says this happens, quote, at his coming, end quote. At his coming. We know when this will happen, this redemption of our bodies. It happens when Christ returns. Let us see these bodies, these resurrection bodies will be like his body And this is a good one to turn to so you can get your eyes on this. 1 John 3. 2. 1 John 3-2. on the point that our bodies, our future resurrection bodies, will be like Christ's body, which was a bodily resurrection. Christ's bodily resurrection is the proof of his completed work. completed work of salvation. Testimony to the world that he is the Son of God. He is God. He is the Savior. He is the mediator. His resurrection body. But that resurrection body is also evidence of the body that will receive at the end. And uh first John uh the first John three to Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him. Because we shall see him as he is. Those are really the two main things that's going to happen when Christ returns. We'll see him in the fullness of his resurrection. And then we'll also receive resurrection bodies to be like him when we see him as he is. When he appears, we shall be like him. So, our bodies being risen anew in the likeness of Christ, letter A. Scripture calls that the redemption of our bodies. Let it be this will happen when Christ returns. Or as Paul says, at his coming. Let us see our bodies. These bodies will be like his body. 1 John 3. 2. We shall be like him. And also that supplements the point about when Christ returns, because 1 John 3. 2 also says, when he appears, we shall be like him And letter D. Letter D. This resurrection is not merely a reanimation. There are some resurrection miracles in Scripture. Think of Lazarus from John chapter 11 as the classic. one, but he's reanimated, but he still has a mortal body. This resurrection is not merely a reanimation or a resuscitation. It's a transformation. Transformation to have a body like Christ has. So Philippians 3, I say this all the time. It's one of my favorite verses. I don't know how many times you can say that when like if they're all your favorite, maybe none of them are your favorite, they're all like a just a a tie. Philippians 3 20 and 21 is a credible passage. Philippians 3 20 and 21. Our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Oh, there's a lot there. There's three sermons right there. But look at verse 21. Who will transform our lowly bodies to be like his glorious body? Again, that supplements what we de point the point Previous point. We shall be like him. This is saying the same thing, just with some more detail. Who will transform our lowly body? It means transfigure. It means change the figure. or change the form, transform what is lowly to be like what is glorious by the power that enables him. It's a supernatural, transformative work of resurrection by the Spirit Of God. First Corinthians fifteen forty two to forty-four Is where God, I think most clearly, challenge me on this if you find a better passage, I think most clearly gives us the different attributes of this resurrection body. 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 40. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable, but what is raised is imperishable. What is sown in dishonor is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. It is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. If there's a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. And you see the attributes of our current bodies of this current order of things. Perishable, dishonorable, weak, and natural But praise God, we also see the attributes of that future resurrection body. Imperishable, glorious, powerful, and spiritual. God's creative power and God's redemptive power will be on its greatest display on the day of resurrection. When all believers from all ages, whether they've gone to be with God in heaven or whether they're still on earth, will receive resurrection bodies, this final inheritance. When Christ returns. All this is just bringing our hearts into line with Colossians 1:5, where we started, the hope that's laid up for you in heaven. The hope that is laid up for anyone who puts their faith in Christ for the salvation of their soul now and for the redemption of their body when Christ returns. What is some practical application? Why, why, why talk about this? Because I understand for a lot of you this is review. A lot of you, this is review, and you know these things, and you love these things. But it's always good once you agree to reaffirm and reassure based on the promises of God, to realign ourselves into things of God. I 'll give you five quick. I've got to do this in three minutes so I don't make a liar out of myself. To Pastor Anthony, I said, 1145, I'm out. It's yours Um some practical application on why to preach this, um just grounding ourselves in the hope laid up for us in heaven. It helps us to refocus our minds on Temporal and earthly matters are so easy to get wrapped up into and we need We need to discipline ourselves and come back to Scripture to discipline us to focus our minds on eternal and spiritual matters. Secondly, it's not just an issue of the mind, it also can revitalize our hearts. This can revitalize our hearts into a deep Gratitude toward God. This can build us up in our love for God when we contemplate what He's provided for us. It's incredible what God has given us. We don't deserve anything, we don't deserve heaven, we don't deserve resurrection. Bodies. We don't deserve to inherit the new heavens and new earth, which we haven't even gotten into today. But it should fill our hearts and revitalize our hearts with gratitude. to God above. Third, this should also revive within us a burden for the lost, with a deep burden, deep desire, genuine desire that they too would Become heirs of this glory. That they too would see that this world is not the end. There is a God. We do have souls. Our souls are accountable to God. There's a future. There's a heaven and there's a hell. We want them to be with God. Number four Number four, the preaching of this is practical because it's simply to remind us that this world is not our final home. Isn't it true? So often we treat it like it is. And if something doesn't quite line up in the world. We're filled with discontent or we're filled with unrest in our souls. We're so worried about the approval of the world, the opinion of the of others, but this war the treasures and the pleasures of this world, but this world is not our final home. It's our home now, and that's real, and that's true. We have a real calling in this world, but it's not our final home And I need to be reminded of that, and so do you, so does every believer. Number five, in preaching this Refocus our minds, revitalize our hearts, revive a burden for the lost, remind us of our final home. Number five, and final Along with preaching this, we should always be inviting those who are outside of Christ to turn to Christ in faith. This is a reminder of invitation. And this is an actual invitation. God invites sinners to come into fellowship with him by his free grace. as a free gift. God's not putting out there the sinners now. You work yourself into heaven. You earn your seat in heaven. That's not the message. The message is we don't deserve heaven. We actually deserve public Punishment, but Jesus took our punishment on the cross so that by faith you would receive entrance into heaven. That's our message. That's the invitation. There's hope that's held out. It's real. It's not a fantasy. This is real life stuff. An invitation to a glorious inheritance of those in Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for the hope of heaven. We thank you for the hope of resurrection. And we acknowledge here as a body of Christ. We acknowledge it's all for your glory, all by your mercy, all by your power. Father, we're thankful to be. Be a part of it. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.