Well beloved, it is good to be with you. Has twenty twenty been uh what you expected? Well, I hope and pray that by God's Spirit you're continuing to walk that walk of faith and keep that eternal perspective. And uh the only way we do that is through the spirit, through God's grace. But I pray you're fighting that battle and striving um to keep the faith in these trying and different times. And also keep things in perspective. Uh because these trials are relatively speaking, although there are trials um relatively speaking compared to what we could be going through. Not that big. So. All right. Ready to pray? Yeah? A few of you? I think four. Ready to pray? All right, let's pray together. Father, we confess here, though we maybe haven't thought about it for four, five, six, or seven days, we confess that we need your word. We need your word into our hearts and minds to transform the way we uh live. That we would live for your glory. Father, it's our collective prayer right now that you would bless us through your word and spirit. Show us your kindness to us in Christ. For those who are outside of Christ, I pray that you would. Would stir up their hearts, awaken them, that they would be born again and come to faith in Christ. Show then your kindness toward them in Christ, expressed through his death and resurrection. And Father, for those of us who are in Christ. Sanctify us. It is your will that we be sanctified. If only you can do that work, we confess. We confess our sin. We confess our guilt. We confess our struggles. And we ask for your help. Dear Lord, help us. By your word and spirit, Father, would you humble us this morning? Would you humble us and sanctify us according to your purpose? It's in Christ we pray. Amen. I want you to imagine it's a Saturday morning and I send out an email asking for your help at the house and if you come and help me for the full day I'll give you two hundred dollars. And so let's just say for instance all of you in this row answer that call and you come to work the full day for two hundred dollars. Around lunchtime I see that there's no way we're going to get the work done, so I send out a second email. Please come and help. Can you help for the second half of the day? So let's just say the people in the middle row came in the middle of the day. And then it's around dinner time, and I look at the work and I think there's no way we're getting this done. And so I send out a third email. Please come and help. It will just be an hour. But if you can help, come and help. And so let's say the people in these Come and help for that last hour. And we get the work done, and at the end of the day, I line everyone up to receive their pay. Now I want you to pay attention carefully. The people who came last, I have them line up first. And the people who came first and have you line up last. And so now where are the people who came last? They're lined up. And where are the people who came first, you are lined up last. And I begin to pay. And the people who came last, who are lined up first, I pay two hundred dollars. I pay two hundred dollars. And then they go on their way. The people who came in the middle of the day get paid $200. And as the people who came first, who had been lined up, as they observe that I'm paying The ones who came last and the ones who came in the middle, $200 what they were promised, they get very, very excited. Surely he's going to give us more than that. If they only got two two hundred dollars or if they got two hundred dollars, not only, and if they got two hundred dollars, yeah, he promised us two hundred dollars for the for the full day. But obviously those standards have changed, we're going to get three hundred dollars or four hundred dollars or six hundred. Who knows? And they get paid $200. And their excitement turns to grumbling and complaining, thinking that I was unfair. Was I unfair to them or not? Do they have a reasonable grounds for grumbling and complaining against me? Well, that's what happens in our story. This morning. And it happens because the disciples needed to learn a lesson, and I'm guessing and thinking, each one of us, maybe in a different way in the details, need to hear that same message. Matthew twenty. Please, Matthew chapter twenty, verses one through sixteen is our text this morning. This is nearing the end of Christ's ministry. Traditionally it's called the parable of the laborers in the vineyard, and brother, that's what we are. We are laborers, we are workers in the Lord's vineyard. Matthew Beginning of verse 1. For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner or a master of the house. It's literally what it says there, house master. And that it this is a landowner. He has the means to employ others. Okay? Who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. Guys, that's most likely around 6 a. m. okay? When he had agreed. With the laborers for a denarius for a day. A denarius, forget about the exact amount, that's a day's wage. Okay? That's a day's wage. He agreed to them with a to work for denarius for the whole day. He sent them into his vineyard. And then he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. That's around 9 a. m. Okay? 9 a. m. three hours later. And to those he said, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you. And so they went. Verse 5. And again he went after. About the sixth and the ninth hour. That's around noon and around three p. m. And he did the same thing. What's the same thing? He brought others to work in his vineyard, whatever portion of the day was left, and he said, I'll tell you what's right. Verse six. And about the eleventh. Hour. Now if you're tracking, you should be able to guess that. That's 5 p. m. Okay. He went out and found others standing around him. He said to them, Why have you been standing here idle all Well they said to him, Because no one hired us. Well he said to them, You go into the vineyard too. When evening came, the owner of the vineyard said Now even we'll find that we'll see exactly uh how we know this in a moment, but that's six o'clock. So that last group only worked how many hours? One group. And again we'll see in the text how we know that in just a moment, okay? When the evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to the foreman, Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last group. First. Last group to the first. Alright. Verse 9. When those hired about the eleventh hour came, each one received a denarius. Child of God, they received a full denarius. days wage for working one hour in the master's vineyard. When those hired first six A. M. came, they thought that they would receive More, but each of them also received a denarius. When they received it, they grumbled. At the landowner. They're attacking him. They're not just grumbling about him, although I'm sure they're doing that. They're grumbling at him, saying, These last men have worked only Only one hour that's why we know. They came at five, they worked till six. And you have made them equal to us. And see now that's what's really got them upset. Who have brought the burden and the scorching heat of the day. But he answered and said to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me? Take what is yours and go. But I I wish to give to this last man the same as to you. Is it not lawful? For me to do what I wish with what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous? Or because I am good? Verse. 16. So the last shall be, and the first last. Now I've called this sermon the generosity of God because his generosity is the takeaway point. Okay? It's underneath every other lesson and truth and application that uh will come from this passage. Verse fifteen Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish With what is my own, or you are envious because I am generous. The generosity of the Master who represents Christ, who is God, the generosity of God, the goodness of the God. We're going to see that God's generosity brings us into a glorious kingdom. His generosity is brought to us by a generous master. It's the only way we can be brought into the kingdom is if the kingdom is brought to us by a generous master, Christ, and we're also going to see that God's generosity is our only hope and assurance of a gracious reward. And hopefully it's implied we hear that that our work in the kingdom and the amount of our work in the kingdom is not our hope and assurance of a gracious reward. So he brings. us into a glorious kingdom. He brings that kingdom to us through a generous master, Christ, and this generosity of God is our only hope and assurance of a gracious reward. But first, we've got to look at the concept Context. And also, I want us to spend some time meditating on this key truth of God's generosity. Alright, the context. The context is this. There's a big problem in the heart of the disciples. See if you can figure out what it was. In chapter 14, they told Jesus, send the crowds away so they could go and get their own food. In chapter nineteen they turned away children and they rebuked people who were bringing children. In chapter nineteen they say this Jesus, we've left everything for you. Will we get? What will we get in the kingdom? And they're thinking they're land, houses, wealth, influence. In chapter 20, right after this, James and John 's mother, along with James. James and John, looking at the cross references in the other gospels, James and John's mother makes a special request that her sons would have the two highest positions in the kingdom. It's a problem in their heart be Becoming clear to you. In Mark chapter 9, somebody was doing ministry in the name of Jesus Christ, and John the apostle said, and I quote We tried to stop him because he was not following us. In Luke 9, 46, the disciples argued about Something. I quote Luke nine forty six. An argument arose among them as to who was the greatest. Have you ever had an argument with someone? Well, maybe not explicitly, but often in our hearts. What's the problem? They're so concerned with themselves. What they're going to get, their status, their authority, their desires, their personality Preferences. They're so concerned with themselves that they wanted good things for themselves, but not so much for others. Selfish pride. Specifically, selfish pride regarding their status and position in the world. The kingdom of heaven. And that's a problem, that's a major problem because the kingdom of heaven is not about status and position, it's about service Not status. It's about giving, not taking and holding. It is about righteousness, but not self-righteousness. And this is why they didn't grasp it when Jesus would predict to them and teach. Teach to them that he was going to suffer and be rejected and die and then be risen. Because they didn't get this about the kingdom. That what defines the kingdom of heaven is sacrificial. Love for the sake of others. That's how the kingdom is established through Christ. And that's how the kingdom lives and is manifested and perseveres in this age, sacrificial love for the good of others. The disciples didn't Get that. Some of you are further along in that than the rest of us. But have patience and grace with us. Sometimes the flesh is ruining, but the spirit is weak. But is your life defined by sacrificial love for the good of others? Is that how you think of church? Is that how you think of your place in the community? At work? The kingdom way. But now here's what happened. They had walked with Jesus longer. They were with him from the beginning. They had a more intimate relationship with Jesus. They were with them all the time. time, they traveled with him, they were closer to him. And they were given a much more prominent role in the kingdom than other followers or disciples. They were called and made apostles, sent out mission trips. So they were there longer, they knew him better. and were closer to him and had a more prominent role. So in their hearts, what they struggled with and what they came to think is that uh they should be first and they wanted to be first and they deserved To be first. But now, if they are first, what does that mean about everyone else? It necessarily makes everyone else last. Last. And so this parable is Jesus' way of saying You must become last, and you must make others first. Now it's probably a good time to give you a fair warning about parables. Okay? Parables are stories or illustrations from the Real world that teach truths about the kingdom of heaven. Those truths are surprising. They turn our understanding of things upside down and inside out. And they're often these truths. Told in parables are often shocking and often offensive. Sometimes parables are speaking judgment against those outside of the kingdom. And they are offensive to those outside of the kingdom. Think Pharisees. But sometimes Sometimes parables are to those inside the kingdom to give an offensive word of fatherly discipline. And that's the category of this parable. Parables, here's that fair warning. Show us things inside of our hearts that we do not want to see. But can we just collectively agree? Hopefully you agree with this. Can we collectively agree today that it's good when God shows us our sin? Sin Sin that is not seen will never be grieved. Sin that is not grieved will never be repented of. And brethren, that's what we want. To see and to be grieved and to repent and to be transformed all the more into the likeness of Christ. Christ. Kingdom hearts are not me first, you last hearts. In fact, if you want to look down at verse twenty-six, Matthew. Matthew 20 It is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever wishes to be First among you shall be your slave. You see the definitions of first and last, get turned inside out and upside down in the kingdom of heaven. This is a matter below. Of seeking out, not shutting out, of welcoming, not refusing. We're here to help others toward blessing, whether each other Whether those at home in your family or whether those in the community. We're here as ambassadors of the kingdom of heaven to help others move toward blessing, not to put up barriers metaphorically okay? And hoard these blessings for ourselves. Jesus turned water into wine, but he does a greater work, turning me first hearts into kingdom hearts. That we would be so transformed We're not just concerned with good things for me, but good things for others. This is the context. There's a problem in the heart of disciples. Now I want to key in on the key truth. Look at verses fourteen and fifty fifteen. it with me. Take what is yours and go. Now he said that to who? He said that to the group who came first that lined up last, right? But I wish to give. Now see, circle that word. Give. I wish to give. This is the key truth here. I wish to give to this last man the same as to you. Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is my own? See, the blessing is his to give. Or is your eye envious Because I am generous. The King James and New King James will translate this way. Is your eye evil? Is thine eye evil? Because I am good. Generous, good. This is the key truth, the generosity of God. And God's goodness is talking about good things He does for people. Simple definition. He plans good things, he does good things, he gives good things to people. His goodness is an expression of his inner love. God is love, and he expresses that love in goodness toward others. And Look at chapter 19, right just before this. Chapter 19, verses 29 and 30, there's a specific goodness, a specific generosity that's in view. Everyone who has led after members the disciples said, What are we going to get? We've left everything. What what's the payback? To verse twenty nine, Jesus says this everyone, everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or farms for my sake Not just some, but everyone, will receive many times as much and will inherit eternal life. You see, now that's the ultimate gift. That's the ultimate generosity. That's the ultimate goodness of God. He gives eternal life. the context. And then look at verse 30. That should look familiar. But many who are first will be last and the last will be first. And then he tells the parable and he reiterates the same exact thing. He just flips it. In verse 16, so the last shall be first and the first last. The generosity of God. First of all, God's generosity. Are you still with me this morning? God's generosity is merciful. What that means is that He's generous to sinners. He does good to those who have done harm to him. And aren't you glad he does? He sheeks runaways. He restores and lifts up the fallen. He loves haters. Romans five eight. God shows his love for us In this, remember I said goodness is is an expression of his love. God shows his love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He invites and he welcomes and he forgives and he rejoices in lawbreakers. God is generous to sinners. He's merciful. We are a people who do not deserve to look at his vineyard, let alone be called into it, be given a task inside of it. And receive a reward for that task. But Jesus died on a cross so that we could have eternal life. He shed that blood for us. He shed that blood for you so that your sins could be forgiven. And you can be made a laborer in his vineyard. His generosity is merciful, his generosity is faithful. And what that means is when God says he's going to give something, he always, always, always gives it. He doesn't hold back. You and I hold back. You and I forget. You and I are inconsistent in heart and action. But God holds the line. As sure as the sun gives light, it also gives heat. Just as sure as God's speaks his word that God keeps his word. He's faithful and his generosity is faithful. If he says, I'll give salvation and eternal life to all who come to Christ, he will give salvation and eternal life to all who come to Christ. Not just those who came first, but to all. And therefore, if God's generosity is faithful, therefore, it's always the right time to come into the vineyard. It's always the right time to come. To answer the call. It's always the right time. Whether you're eight or eighteen or thirty-eight or eighty-eight, today is the right day to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. Today is the day. It's always the right time. Why? Generosity is faithful. It's merciful. It's faithful. Thirdly, his generosity is impartial. It's impartial. And what that means is that God does not play favorites. You see, people play favorites. But God does not hold back his gifts from the world. certain kinds of people based on those people. Are you listening this morning? Romans 2. 11, there is no partiality with God. Deuteronomy 10, 17, God does not show partiality or take a bribe. Now, if you're growing a sapling, you can twist that sapling to grow in a certain direction. Maybe you need to straighten it out, maybe you want to do something artsy with it. You cannot twist God. You cannot twist the character of God. You cannot twist the generosity of God. You cannot buy good things from Him. And you cannot buy Him off to avoid His wrath. He's impartial. And therefore, not only is it always the right time to come to God, but all who come get the same matchless gift. And isn't that the point of the parable? All who come get the same matchless gift. And there are different seats at the table. But brethren, it's the same table and the same feast and the same master of the house. Will you come? You see, that's one of the things I want to know this morning is who will come. come to the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation. Who will come and profess Jesus Christ is my Lord, I'm repenting of my sins, I'm believing in Christ for salvation. He is my Lord. Who will come? Who will come? But that's the key truth here. God is generous. He's generous beyond comprehension. He's generous beyond our expectations. He's merciful to sinners. It's always the right time to come to him. Brethren, it's always the right time to come to him. And whoever comes. All who come get the same matchless gift. Now, personal application. Do you want it? David, brother? Right? Personal application. God's generosity that we just summarized, you could talk about it till the Lord returns and not grow bored of it. His generosity calls for remote. Repentance and rejoicing. It calls for rejoicing because in Christ God has given us unimaginable treasure. And it calls for repentance because this treasure has not transformed our hearts. the way it ought to. And I can prove it to you. Okay? If I were to announce the word has been handed down, it is official, no going back. The stimulus checks have been tripled Have been approved, have been expedited, so that you will get yours tomorrow, the room would erupt in jubilation and gasps, and a sense of joy and security. authority would wash over you. And for those who are able, you'd start doing cartwheels down the aisle and we'd have to rebuke you. But it's not even that. If I just announced it after the service, we're giving away Free pizza to everyone and hundred-dollar gift cards to your favorite store, our hearts would melt with gratitude and rejoicing. And yet, how often do we hear phrases like this? God is generous. And we sit unmoved. Our hearts have not been transformed by the generosity of God the way they ought to be. That's what was true for the disciples, and that's why Jesus told this parable. Teachings as well. But this is a call for repentance and rejoicing for disciples. If you have ears to hear, this is the message today. God gives, God gives, God gives, and God gives. And He doesn't just give things, He gives the very best things. Things that will never lose value. Things that will never lose beauty. Things that can never be taken away. He's forgiven your sins Christ has reconciled you to God. He's given you eternal life with God that will never break, that will never fade, and that will never disappoint. And yet we treat things in the world as better and more worth our time. And even still, He loves us. And in our hearts we find joy and security and hope and peace in things of the world, rather than in God's kindness. And still he loves us. And still he has mercy for us, and still he calls us his own. I hope you can catch I hope the Spirit will give you just a glimpse of God's generosity this morning. It is merciful, it is faithful. And it is impartial. This calls for great rejoicing and solemn repentance. Now, I believe this has a Roman numeral one, or at least the number one, on your outline. Am I right or wrong about that? God's generosity brings us into a glorious kingdom. Look at verse 1. For the kingdom of heaven. For the kingdom of heaven. This is a lesson about the kingdom of heaven, also called the kingdom of God. This is a glorious kingdom. The kingdom of heaven is how God brings us to the kingdom. Brings all things under his rule. Okay? Just in a general sense. It's how God brings things in the world under his dominion. Number one, his kingdom is a kingdom of redemption. His kingdom is a kingdom of redemption. That means it's a kingdom where sinners are saved from sin through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. I know somebody wants me to repeat that. It's a kingdom where sinners are saved from sin through the death and resurrection. Of Jesus Christ, saved from the guilt of sin that's on our record, saved from the corruption of sin that's in our heart, and saved from the eternal consequences of sin that's in our future. You need a life vest for Some flotation device to save you from drowning. You need an antibiotic or some kind of medicine to save you from an infection. You need the death and resurrection of Christ to save you from sin. The kingdom is the kingdom of redemption. The death and resurrection of Christ. Christ is the way God establishes the kingdom, and it's the way sin enters the kingdom. Sinners enter the kingdom. Excuse me. Sinners enter the kingdom through faith in Christ. Faith in his death, faith in his resurrection. Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of proclamation. A doctor's job is not just to diagnose what's wrong with you. He must tell you what's wrong with you. He must tell you the remedy. He must share the information. And brethren, you and I are not called just to enjoy the kingdom and enjoy fellowship in the kingdom, but we are called to proclaim the kingdom to the the world around us. What do we proclaim? We proclaim point one, we proclaim redemption that is in Christ. We proclaim his death. We proclaim his resurrection. Curse kingdom is also a kingdom of invitation. Now how would you feel if your parents threw you a birthday party and didn't invite anyone. How would you feel if your employer threw you a 50-year anniversary um celebration dinner? And didn't invite anyone. You would think to yourself, you know , he doesn't quite get the concept of a party. He must invite others. And so it's a kingdom of redemption, it's a kingdom of proclamation. We proclaim the redemption that's in Christ, and we invite others. And I invite you now, come to Christ. You're welcome. Christ has never done this, and he'll never do it, it'll never And so we proclaim and we invite and forth Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of transformation. And that just means when you enter into the kingdom of God, you don't stay the same person. You're changed. You're changed by the spirit. The body needs water to live. And the soul needs the Holy Spirit to come alive. The health and hydration of the body is essential for the life of the body. And the presence and power of the Holy Spirit is essential for the life of the soul. This is a glorious king of the kingdom. kingdom of heaven is like. Roman two. God's generosity is brought to us by a generous master. Now verse one, this is important. Verse one, the kingdom of heaven, right, glorious kingdom, is like a landowner or like the master of a house. So there's a vineyard involved, but it's not that the kingdom of heaven is like a vineyard. There are workers involved, but it's not that the kingdom of heaven is like the workers. No, no, no. The kingdom of heaven is like the master. There's a lesson here about the heart of the master. Namely, the generosity of the Master that's meant to transform us. You see, we won't understand discipleship until we understand the nature of the kingdom. And we won't understand the nature of the kingdom until we understand the heart of the Master, the Lord. Jesus Christ. You see that's what transforms us. A generous master. Uh number one, our master is in charge of everything. Now I know sometimes we like to live under the illusion that we're in charge of some things. He's just in charge of the main things, you know, he's in charge of everything. It's his vineyard. We're his workers. Number two, our master gave everything. He gave everything. Jesus gave everything. He gave his life in death. He gave everything and brethren, he gives everything He gives us the very best gift of all. He gives us himself. He gives us God, eternal fellowship with God. He's in charge of everything. He gave everything and he number three receives everyone. He receives everyone who comes in faith and repentance. He receives everyone. everyone who comes in faith and repentance. He doesn't receive anyone who wants to come on their own terms, by their own methods, but he receives everyone who comes in faith and repentance. It's a glorious kingdom. He's given us he's given it to us by a generous master in Romans three. God's generosity is our only hope and assurance of this gracious reward. I wanted to put great riches for this, the great riches in Christ. But it's a gracious reward. Our only hope and assurance. The laborers in the vineyard, some came at six, some came at nine, some came at noon, some came at three, some came at five, and they all received The same generous, gracious gift. It's always the have I said this yet? It's always the right time to come to the Lord. And all who come get the same matchless gift. You can come to Him today. Nothing is stopping. But it's not because God is holding back a good gift. Now, do you do you think a master was unfair? Well, no, he kept his word. Verse thirteen, he answered to them, Friend, I'm doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for denarius? That's exactly what he agreed. They both agreed. I'll and that was the promise. I'll give you a denarius. I'll give you a day's wage. He gave it To him. No, he's not unfair, but he's overwhelmingly offensively generous to others. Now, brothers and sisters, is this not the truly diabolical aspect of the parable? That the thing that upsets them, because they could not have been upset at unfairness, because there was no unfairness, but they are upset The thing that upsets them is a kindness shown to others. What a devilish, horrible thing to be upset by. A generous thing, a kindness, a goodness to others. And then now here they come up and grumble and complain at the one who expressed that kindness. Heaven forbid. Heaven forbid. Now why would they get upset at such a thing? I gave you some of the details, so they were with him longer, they never But why still what's going on in the heart that they would get upset Well why does one child get upset at another child for having a toy that he or she wants to play with? Why do you get upset when you don't get your way? At home or at work or at church? Why do you get upset? Why do we get upset when we don't get our wish, our preference? And not everybody rejoices in our idea, but somebody else's. Why does the kindness or goodness expressed to someone else have the tendency to make a difference? Make us grumble and complain and be critical and be negative and bitter. Why? Selfish pride. Now praise the Lord, for we've been born again. Sin is not master of the house. Any longer because we're filled with the Spirit. But you know it all too well that sin still lives in the house, wreaking havoc and violence and destruction. And I said this on Wednesday, I forget if it was Last Wednesday or two Wednesdays tonight, we're talking about something similar and us and I was talking about the the a process of sanctification. God makes us holy and transforms us to the image of Christ. And and one of the things I said was this. Make sure you're in the battle. Make sure you're in the battle. Don't give up. Keep fighting. Keep striving. Keep praying. Keep repenting. Don't give up. But that's the problem here. Selfish pride. Underneath of this is this problem. God's generation. Generosity has not reshaped their hearts the way it ought to. And so they misunderstand discipleship? Why? Because they misunderstand the kingdom. Why? Because they misunderstand the heart of Christ, his generosity. As long as I'm focused on me and you are focused on you and he is focused on him and she is focused on her. Did I use my pronouns correctly in that? Someone who teaches English let me know. We'll never move forward the way we ought to in the kingdom. treat each other the way we ought to in the kingdom. And collectively as a church, as long as we are focused on we are focused on us. See I caught that one. We won't we won't have a kingdom effectiveness the way we ought to. Our hearts won't be transformed in In relation to with respect to those around us the way they ought to. Now, what's the remedy? Think about this with me. What's the remedy? Certainly the remedy cannot be this, and I highlight this because this is the first place we go to. Certainly the remedy cannot be do more work. Certainly the remedy cannot be I need to work harder. Certainly the remedy cannot just be, I need to come to more ministry things. Do more jobs. That's not the remedy. The problem in this parable, nowhere is alluded to that they didn't work hard enough. That they didn't do their work well enough. The problem is in their heart. It's not been transformed by God's kindness and generosity to others Yeah. And so what needs to happen is the generosity of God in Christ, aka the gospel, okay Must become the window through which we see everything else in the world. Most especially how we see ourselves and how we see others. The generosity of God must become the paradigm. It must become the lens, it must become the window through which we see everything else, first with respect to ourselves, so that we could see how grateful we ought to be, and we would become humble servants. And then also Also with respect to others, that we would honor them and not be upset or bitter because of what they have received. This is the path of discipleship. We must humble ourselves by the kindness of God and the grace of God. We must learn to honor the God. others and seek their good more than our own. We must become, brothers and sisters, last. We must become last so that others might become first. That's the message. Let me just run by you some specific applications. We've talked about the problem in the heart. How might this manifest in our lives. What are some things we need to be mindful of? Do you want to hear these? Vince, you want to hear these? Well, we need to have a revival in our hearts about the mission focused nature of the kingdom. Oh by the way, let me say something real quick about the kingdom and the church. The kingdom of God refers to the spiritual realities, so the spiritual blessings that come to us through Christ. Okay, the church is the gathering and the fellowship of the people who've received those blessings. Okay, so they're related, but they're not exactly identical, but um we're not here just for ourselves. We're here first for the glory of God. And then that's that's the first commandment, love the Lord. What's the second commandment? Love others. Love others. Right? In the church. home and family and then the world around us through missions. But you see, we've got to become last. We've got to put others first. We've got to have a revival of the mission focused nature of the kingdom so that we would desire and strive and work and work and labor and pray for good things for others. Lost sinners specifically. And number two, we must have a revival in our hearts about the spiritual nature of the kingdom. It doesn't operate by worldly measures. We don't judge by worldly measures. Like if we have more people, some some how that means that we're doing a better job. Or if me more people start coming to things, or working harder, that means we're doing a better job. That's not how things are measured in the kingdom of heaven. Humble service. Things like this. Humble service. Self sacrificial love toward each other. Commitment to truth. These are the kinds of things. Number three, we must have a revival in our hearts that kingdom greatness and kingdom status is not determined by your work, not by the amount of it, not by the quality of it. Number four, and this is an extension of that one, because there are different ways we think that our work gives us a special status or special privilege. Um it sins are not excused or excusable because you've been laboring in the kingdom or the church. Are you awake this morning? Some of us uh I'm telling you, not just us, but just in general, wherever there's Christians, wherever there's a church, wherever there these spiritual struggles are real, I think one of the things that manifests today is we're we we're in the church for a long time. We've done lots of jobs over lots of years. And we have just uh secret sin, maybe, or uh public sin, gossip, slander, critical spirit, whatever it might be, uh that that lingers on and on and on and we don't See it, we don't grieve over it. There's no it's not even on our radar to repent of it. We think we have some kind of special status and exception because we do things in the church. Doing things in the church is is uh a fruit of salvation and a fruit of sanctification. But you can fake it. You could definitely fake that. And what I mean by that is you could do lots of things, lots of things. And So you can do lots of things and be saved, but you you're not on a process of sanctification. Just because we've been doing something for a long time doesn't give us a special exception clause that we can live in certain sins and not care about it. That's not the kingdom. way. Now, final question for this morning. What does it mean that the la exactly what does it mean that the last will be first and the First will be last. You're gonna be two things on this, okay? What does it mean that The last will be first and the first will be last. Chapter 19, verse 30, many who are first will be last and the last first. Chapter 20, verse 16, the last shall be first and the first last. In case someone asks you this week at work, hey, what does that mean? That mean? I want you to know exactly what to say. Number one, it means in the kingdom of heaven, worldly standards of fairness and acceptance do not apply. In the kingdom of heaven, worldly standards of fairness and acceptance Do not apply. So the world would say, well, this one's done more. This one should be first. You come into the kingdom of God, that's off the table. The world would say, well, he's better at doing that, so this one should be first. You come into the kingdom of God, that's off the table. Worldly standards, what fallen man thinks is fair and what should happen does not set the table for the kingdom of heaven. Those things are off the table. Now, number two. What does it mean that the first will be last and the last first? In the kingdom of heaven, the first are last and the last are first because in Christ everyone is first and everyone is last. Now I want just to sink into your heart. this morning. In Christ, everyone is first and everyone is last. In Christ everyone is lined up first because everyone, everyone in Christ receives the ultimate reward in full. He 'll hold nothing Back from you in the glorious of heaven. In Christ, everyone is first. No one who has come to faith in Christ will fall short of a grand entrance and glorious and inheritance in in heaven. And in Christ, everyone is lined up last. In Christ everyone is lined up last, because in Christ everyone is you become a lowly, humble. Servant of others who in different ways is constantly telling other people you go first. In Christ everyone is first, and everyone is last. And so the last are first. And the first last. Does that make sense? Self -sacrificial love established the kingdom. Jesus Christ suffered and died on a cross to establish. the kingdom and to give you a way to enter into that kingdom forever. That you would never be run off or kicked out. Self sacrificial love established the kingdom, and self sacrificial love is the way of the kingdom in the kingdom for laborers of the kingdom. You know everything the world tell will tell us that life is about your comfort. Life is about your comfort, life is about your entertainment, and you at all costs you pursue your your comfort, you pursue your entertainment and anything from the outside, any authority structure, any institution, any truth, any opinion that's going to infringe upon your comfort and your entertainment, you stay away from it. The kingdom of God is not about your comfort and it's not about your entertainment. It's about becoming a humble, lowly servant. Luke 12, 32. Do not fear little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. A shocking generosity. God has given us a glorious kingdom. And He's put over us, and He's brought that kingdom to us by that generous Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's promised us in Christ a gracious reward. And that's why you press on, brothers, when sorrows come, that's why you press on. When discouragements come, you press on. Doubts come and fears come. You press on in faith till you reach that reward. And when persecution comes, you press on. There's a gracious reward. First Peter five four When the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. And in that day, all will be first. All who have made themselves last will be first. I would invite you to come and give your life to Christ. Today. And the way you could do that is is very simple. Either either during the song that we're about to sing or after the service altogether, just come up to me and say, Pastor Matt, I want to give my life to the Lord. I want to place faith in him. And I'm not going to I'll just announce that and pray for you, and then we'll set up something to meet together and study the Bible about that. Pray about that, give you spiritual counsel about that. All right, let's play. Let's pray and then we'll stand and sing. Father, we thank you for your generosity and your kindness. I pray for each of us that your kindness in Christ would change us. If we're lost that we would be saved, if we're saved that we would repent of certain things and be further sanctified. As a church, I pray that your kindness would make us more missions-oriented. Father, we pray for the outreach the next few days, but you would use it for your name, for your glory, not ours. Make us last. Make us humble servants. In Christ we pray. Amen.