Corinthians 15, verses 35 through 49, and I'm calling this message the hope that we have. Because I want us to contemplate from Scripture the hope that we have in Christ. Let's begin verse 35 of 1 Corinthians 15. But someone will ask, How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come? You foolish person, what you sow does not come to life unless it dies. And what you sow is not the body that will be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. But God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body. For not all flesh is the same. There's one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. And there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, the glory of the earthly is of another. There's one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars. Even star differs from star in glory, and so it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable What is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Thus it is written, the first man Adam became a living being, but the last Adam became a life. Giving spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first, but the natural, and then the spiritual. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust. The second man is from heaven, as was the man of dust. So also are those who are of the dust. And as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. Now I didn't use the name in there, but who is the man of heaven, church? The Lord Jesus Christ. You see, he's the last Adam in verse 45. The last Adam Became a life-giving spirit. That's who Christ is to us. He's the one who has given us eternal life. The first Adam had life breathed into him. He had natural life breathed into him. But the last Adam, Christ, who lives and reigns in heaven with all authority, he breathes life into dead sinners Giving us the gift of eternal life. Thus it is written, verse 45: the first man, Adam, became a living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. And the life that He gives us is eternal life. And we experience that now, but it's full expression Its full manifestation will be resurrection bodies in the age to come. This is the hope that we have. Let me pray for us and our time in the Word, and then I've got three points. If we can make our way through. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your spirit to drive that word. Like a stake into our heart. Thank you for making us your own. Thank you for adopting us. Thank you for the hope that you have given us That we know that this life is not the final chapter. Father, we thank you for the forgiveness of sins. We thank you for the hope of resurrection. We thank you that we'll be with you. Experiencing your glory, experiencing your favor, and singing of you and serving you in your presence for all eternity, without the presence of sin, without the fear of death, without the persecution. Father, we ask that you bless our time in your word, for your name, and for your glory. We pray. Amen. Now there's a lot of things that we cannot be certain of. There's a lot of things. We can't be certain of what's going to happen in the next 10 minutes. We can't be certain of what's going to happen with our jobs. We can't be certain about what's going to happen with our health. We can't be certain about what's going to happen with the Government there's so many things We cannot be certain of. But one thing we can be certain of is that if we are in Christ now, there is a resurrection body that awaits us in the future. And we can be certain of this Because it's promised in God's Word. This is our first point. The hope that we have is the certainty of a new body. We can be sure. We can be Certain that we have a new body coming in the future. Verses thirty-five through forty-one draw this out. I'll read through it again, making some comments. But someone will ask, how are the dead raised and with what kind of body do they come? Now these two questions start the whole section. It's these questions that Paul's addressing. This is a this is a letter to a church. It's a pastoral letter to Christians And in this section, these are the questions that Paul is going to answer for the Christians at Corinth and for us. How were the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come? Now those are good questions, but it's interesting what he says next. Verse 36, you foolish person. Now why does he say that? Well, because some people in the Church of Corinth were asking these questions from a heart of skepticism. They were doubting the reality of the resurrection. If you ask with that heart, yes, you foolish person. But there is a way that we can ask these questions in a proper from a proper perspective, with a proper heart, just wanting to know with what kind of body will we be risen. How are the dead raised? And now here's what here's the summary statement at the end of verse 36. That frames ever everything else that's about to come. It's so important this concept. It's essential to a Christian mindset. Here's what he says at the end of verse 36 What you sow does not come to life. unless it dies. You see the order is flipped. Normally we think of life and then death. That's the natural course. That's the course of natural life. First you live Then you die. But what Paul is saying when we're talking about resurrection, the order swaps The order is flipped. First you die, then you live. This is exactly what he says. What you sow does not come to life. Unless it first dies, we have to pass through death before we ever experience the full manifestation of life Life in the presence of God in the fullest way imaginable. Now he says, what you sow And since we already read the passage, we know he's going to use that image of sowing in reference to our bodies. The body will die. The body will be sown like a seed, and then it will be risen and take on a new form. Verse 37. What you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. So now he moves to an illustration from agriculture. An easy illustration. You plant a kernel, or you plant uh wheat, a grain of wheat, or some other grain. It doesn't just become a a much bigger kernel that's the same exact thing, just bigger, or the same grain of wheat, just a lot big. It's a plant. It's different. What cut what grows up out of the dirt is different than what you put into the dirt. So this is the illustration for resurrection. What you sow is not what it will be. It's just a bare kernel or grain or something else. Verse 38 God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body. So he continues the illustration. Different kinds of seeds. It can be stone. Different kinds of bodies. Different kinds of bodies. And then he says different kinds of flesh on those bodies. Verse 39. Not all flesh is the same. But there's one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, another for fish. So different kinds of seeds that grow different kinds of bodies, and there's different kinds of flesh. Verse 40 Not only are there different kinds of seeds and different kinds of bodies and different kinds of flesh, there's also differing degrees of glory. You see the theme that's emerging. Different, different, different, different, different. Verse uh forty, there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. But the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, the glory of the earthly is another. There's one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for star differs from star in glory. Just because we've never seen a resurrection body, just because we've never seen a different kind of a human body doesn't mean it can't exist. Nature is full of different kinds of bodies. It's full of different kinds of flesh it's full of different kinds of glory, different degrees of glory. It should be, it should be, the easiest things to imagine That God could create a different kind of body. God has created everything. God made these bodies. God made your body. He made my body. God's made all kinds of bodies. Why can't he make another kind of body Just because we've never experienced it or seen it person to person doesn't mean it doesn't exist. It doesn't mean it can exist. We see in the natural world, and we see with the power of God, it is not difficult for God to create a body or to create a kind of flesh or to create differing degrees of glory. How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come? A different kind of body. A different kind of body than what we have now. But it's certain, it's certain that what is sown will be raised. The hope that we have is the certainty of a new body John 6, 38, and following, Jesus says, I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. That's a great statement, isn't it? Now we didn't come down from heaven like Jesus did. That's unique of Jesus, the incarnate Son of God. He says he says, I came down not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. That's still the heart that we should have. We're not here to do our own will, but the will of the one who made us. Jesus is our model for that mindset in life. We're not here for ourselves. We're here for God to serve him. Going on John 6. 39 now. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but I'll raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks upon the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day, the certainty of resurrection. This is the assurance that we have, the hope that we have. Jesus will raise us up on the last day, the last day of history as we know it. Everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him will have eternal life. Jesus will raise us up on the last day. There's a lot that we cannot be certain of. And if we're not careful, those kinds of things can distract us. And those kinds of things can certainly discourage us and bring us down with all of the uncertainties and all of the ups and downs and all of the trials and all of the struggles and all of the unknown. But we have an anchor sure and steadfast in heaven, the living Christ, and we have a certain hope for the future, the certainty of a new body, a different kind of body. Number two, the hope that we have is the substance of the new body or the uh the essence of that body, really talking about the nature of that body. He said in this first paragraph that we looked at, it's going to be a different kind of body. There's different kinds of seeds, different kinds of bodies, different kinds of flesh, differing degrees of glory. Well now, from verse 42 through 46, he actually outlines the differences. And he has four contrasts to describe the substance of the new body and its difference from the bodies that we have now, these mortal bodies. Starting in verse 42. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable. What is raised is imperishable. That's the first difference. The bodies that we have now, by their very nature, are perishable. They age. They break They weaken, they get tired, and they will die, and after they die, they will decay But what is sown is perishable, what is raised will be imperishable. Remember what he said earlier What you sow is not what it will be, but just a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. Now he gets into the specifics of the substance of the body. We will receive what is sown is perishable What is raised is imperishable. I feel it. I feel the perishableness of myself. You feel If you don't, you one day will feel the perishableness of yourself. And this should not drive us to despair. This should drive us back to the promise. of the resurrection hope that we have, that this is not the final chapter. We will be given an imperishable body one day. Verse 43 The second character trait it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory This is the second attribute of the resurrection body, glory, rather than what is shameful. This is an ethical characteristic. Raised in glory is set in contrast with sown in dishonor. What's dishonorable? about us now. What's dishonorable about these bodies now? It's very simple. The corruption of sin dwells within us. That's why you can't stop sinning Do you want to continue sinning or would you rather that you could just stop sinning and everything you think, feel, say, and do pleases God? You want to stop sinning, right? Okay, go ahead. Do it. Go, go stop sinning. You have free choice, right? You can't do it. I can't do it. Because we dwell in these bodies that are plagued by the corruption of sin. And until we are rid of these dishonorable bodies Will now be rid of sin. So not only will our new bodies be imperishable But they will reflect the glory and the radiance and the purity of God Almighty rather than the dishonor and the shame and the corruption of sin. Make you happy? Now, next character trait at the end of verse 43, the second half of it. It's sown in weakness It's raised in power. It's sown in weakness. It's raised in power. We are sinful, but we're also weak. We are unable to do the things we want to do. We're unable to repent from the sins that we want to repent of. We do get tired. We do get discouraged and distracted. We're not powerful beings. We're not great men. We're not great women. We're weak men and weak women who serve a great God. who is infinite in power and infinite in mercy and infinite in love and his power works in us to do that which is pleasing to him. But that's only because his spirit within us creates that which is pleasing to him. It is sown perishable. It's risen imperishable. It's sown in dishonor, raised in glory. It's sown in weakness, it's raised in power, and then in verse forty-four, it is sown A natural body, it's raised a spiritual body. Isn't that interesting seeing those two words together? The adjective is spiritual. The noun that it's describing is body. It's a spiritual body It's a body that in every way imaginable is characterized by the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit. It's a body of a different order. It's a body of new creation. So our bodies now are natural bodies. They're a part of the first creation. They're a part of the fallen order. The fallen order of the first creation that's under the curse of sin and death, but not the new body. The new body will be of a different order altogether, the order of the new creation in the power of the Holy Spirit. So you see how all of these attributes go together. It's imperishable and it's glorious and it's powerful because it's spiritual. It 's characterized. Our new bodies, our new selves will be characterized by the presence And by the power of the Holy Spirit in every way imaginable. Isn't that good news, church? Isn't that good, good news? Praise God for the Spirit's work in our lives now. Where would we be? Well, we know where we'd be, spiraling down ever so downward in sin and rebellion. without the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. He can produce a love within us. He can produce a joy within us. He can produce a peace within us. He can produce repentance within us. He enables us to truly worship God and to truly do good works. Not to earn salvation, but as the fruit of salvation, it's because of this Holy Spirit. It's because of the Holy Spirit. Oh, for the day. Oh, for the day when repentance is no longer needed. Brothers and sisters, that day is coming. That day's coming. You no longer need to confess your sin because there'll no longer be sin in your life. And you'll no longer need to pray for help in overcoming temptations because there'll no longer be temptations in your life. And you'll no longer need to pray for energy and steadfastness in your battle with the devil because you'll no longer be in a battle with the devil in the life to come. You see, victory, the full manifestation, the perfect experience of victory in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, I'm looking for the looking forward to that day, my friends. I'm looking forward to that day. In this body ever plagued By the wickedness of indwelling sin, but in the new body, free, free of that corruption, to truly enjoy God. The way that God ought to be enjoyed. To truly see Him and to truly sing His praises the way He should be seen and the way his praises should be sung. You see, in one sense, the body is a means to an end. The body, the resurrection body is not the end. It's a means to an end, the manifest glory of God, and the praise of his glory. Ephesians 1. It's the praise of his glory that's the end of all things. That he showcases his power and the riches of his grace in Christ, and that is observed by the redeemed, and then we praise him for the glory that he's manifested before us. The praise of God's glory. The resurrection bodies enable us to do that in the presence of God. The hope that we have is not a man-centered hope. It's a God-centered hope. The certainty of a new body. The substance of that new body, imperishable, glorious, powerful, spiritual. Number three. The hope that we have is the significance of the new body. I kind of just gave that away, didn't I? It enables us to be in the presence of God and praise Him for His glory. Now there's nothing greater than that. We don't hear that and say, yeah, well, what's really cool about it? What's really significant about it? No, that's it. In the presence of God, with the full manifestation of His grace and power in Christ, and praising Him for that manifestation. This begins in verse 47 through 49 when we talk about the significance of the new body. The first aspect is that Our new bodies will receiving these new bodies will mark our perfect conformity to the image of Christ. Verse forty seven. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust. The second man is from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust. And as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. And just as we have borne the image of the man of dust. We shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. If we look closely, we see some more attributes of the new body. We saw earlier it's imperishable, glorious, powerful, and spiritual. Here we see it's heavenly, and more specifically, we see it's like Christ. Christ-likeness. Perfect conformity to the image of Christ, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. That's the glorified Christ. That's the exalted Christ. 1 John 3:2 is a good cross-reference. Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him. Because we shall see him as he is. See that? Seeing him as he is, and then being like him, seeing him and being conformed perfectly to his image. We will see him as he is, and when that happens, we'll be like him. Philippians 3, 20 and 21 is another good cross-reference. Paul writes, our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. By the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. All things to himself Nothing is outside the dominion of Christ. Nothing is outside his reign. He will subject all things to himself. But Zooming in on the point while we turn here, here's what it says in verse 21. He'll transform our lowly body. That's what we have now. A lowly body. He'll transform it to be like his glorious body by the power or by the authority that enables him even to subject all things to himself. He won't be straining to do so either. He won't be needing help to create these new bodies. It'll be a work of redemption and recreation, but it's also the creation of something new A new kind of body. So the hope that we have is the significance of these new bodies. They don't exist just for themselves. It marks our perfect conformity to the image of Christ. It marks our personal entrance into the eternal kingdom of God. I'll give you these verses. I don't think I put them on there, but I'll give them to you for your devotions. They go outside of our passage. I knew I wouldn't have time for them, but I want to include them, at least pointing them out. This will mark our personal entrance into the eternal kingdom of God, verses 50 through 52. Number three, when we receive these bodies, it will mark God's manifest and God's complete victory over sin and death. Verses 53 to 57 He's already accomplished the victory. Now we're just seeing the building or the advancing of his kingdom, subduing his enemies, the last enemy. to be subdued underfoot will be death. And then he'll bring his enemies to judgment. Personal entrance into the eternal kingdom. The manifest and complete victory over sin and death. And finally, and did I give you the verses on that, fifty-three to fifty-seven? Yeah. And then verse fifty-eight. Having this hope of these future bodies strengthens us now for the work of God. I will read that. That's one of my favorite verses. Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. That comes at the end of a large chapter where the entire chapter is devoted to the hope of resurrection. And based on everything that he says about the hope of resurrection glory, he says, therefore, therefore, beloved brothers, be steadfast. That means be faithful and don't give up. Be immovable. Don't compromise. Don't water down the message. Don't change the Word of God Be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. That means don't be lazy. Don't be slack. Abound in the work of the Lord. Abound. In the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Why is our labor not in vain? Well, because God is saving people through the labors of his church. And it's all heading to this great victory over sin and death in the eternal kingdom of God. Brothers and sisters, let's not ever forget the hope that we have. Let's not ever forget the reality of the resurrection of Christ, and because of his resurrection and our union with him, let's not ever forget our resurrection on the day he returns. I've said many times today, I forget if I said it this morning. I think I did. I know I've said it tonight a few times, that this life is not the final chapter. But there is a final chapter at some point, and it includes a resurrection body for all those united to Christ by faith. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for redemption. I thank you for your grace. This undeserved Love that you've poured out upon us. And we thank you for your mercy. And we know each morning when we wake up, we know that you still have mercy because the world continues to exist despite all of the rebellion that's within it. We thank you for your kindness that you've given us good things, so many good things in our lives. You've given us life. Father, we thank you for who you are. We thank you for making us, giving us purpose, giving us meaning, giving us hope, true and lasting, a living hope. Our brother, our savior, our friend, our God, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we lift this prayer. Amen.