Let's take our copies of God's inspired word and let's turn to John 12, 12-19. Today, looking at the salvation of Israel. The salvation of Israel, John 12, 12 through 19. Salvation brings the forgiveness of sins, And the gift of eternal life to sinners by the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ Brothers and sisters, that's the heart of what we're about. That's the lifeblood of the church. It's the gospel, the forgiveness of sins, and the gift of eternal life. By and through and in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. That's what salvation brings. And historically, salvation came first to Israel. And then to the surrounding nations, and then to the world. That's the story of Scripture. That's the story we see fulfilled and played out in the New Testament. Salvation comes first to Israel. And then to the surrounding nations, and then to the world. It's the forgiveness of sins, it's the eternal life given by God. And it all happens because of the death, burial, and resurrection Let's read John 12, 12 through 19, and we'll pray before we go any further into this topic. John 12, beginning in verse 12. The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast heard Jesus was coming to Jerusalem So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, because your king is coming sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, Then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. Crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb And raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness. And the reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they had heard he had done this sign So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. Let's pray. God, we pray now. We pray in faith that you would open our hearts to your word. Open our minds to your word that we might receive it and see Christ in such a way That gives peace to our souls in such a way that changes us, that purifies us into his image. Father, strengthen our faith by your word. Deepen our love for you by your word And solidify and firmly establish our love for each other by your word. It's in Jesus we ask. Amen. Salvation is the thing that brings the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. Through the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. In a general sense, what does the word salvation mean? You know, apart from those details of redemption in Christ, generally Salvation is being saved from your enemies and being given victory over your enemies. Over and over again in Scripture. Salvation is when God saves his people from their enemies and gives his people victory over their enemies. Now the greatest enemies of mankind have always been the same. Always been the same. They've never changed. They will never change. The greatest enemies of mankind are sin, death, and Satan. Sin, death, and Satan. And the great salvation of God, the salvation Capital S, giant, bold-faced, italics, underline, flashing S, biggest salvation is to be given victory over sin, death, and Satan, that's salvation. That's why we rejoice Because Jesus laid down his life for us that we could have that salvation. And through history in the Bible, there's been smaller enemies and lowercase salvations. Salvation of Israel from Egypt, Salvation of David when Saul was hunting him down and trying to kill him. There are other enemies, smaller enemies like when Cain slew Abel, like when Esau persecuted Jacob, like when Nebuchadnezzar had made himself an enemy to God's people and you have smaller enemies in your life. Just generally speaking, an enemy is someone uh who is not out to bless you but out to harm you. We all have those people in our life Someone who's not out to bless you but to harm you. Someone who is not uh has a heart someone who does not have a heart filled with love toward you, but a heart of bitterness toward you, a heart of jealousy toward you, a heart of hatred toward you. We have smaller enemies, little hostilities in our lives, and we need to pray for God's wisdom and God's strength. And endurance to deal with those. By the way, Jesus calls us to love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us, not lash out against them in unrighteous anger and wickedness. But the smaller enemies do not compare with the biggest enemies of sin, death, and Satan. To be saved from sin is to be forgiven of the guilt that we've accrued for our sin. To be saved from sin means to be cleansed of the corruption that dwells within us. To be saved from sin means to be delivered from the judgment that we deserve because of our sin. What about death? What does it mean to be saved from death? To be saved from death means that when we die, rather than being separated from God's favor and all of God's gifts, and to be separated from all the enjoyment. and gladness that comes from God's lift, r uh God's gifts, rather than be separated from those things, rather than that to be ushered into God's presence for the fullest and perfect experience of those things. things of God and his good gifts and all his joy and gladness. That's what it means to be saved from death. To be given a resurrection body. To be saved from Satan I really love this one. I mean, I love them all. I've got to love them all. Preacher. I'm a Christian. We're Christians. We love all of these. But this one has a particular place in my heart to be saved. From Satan to no longer be blinded by his lies. I was not saved until I I was twenty-four years old. There was a huge chunk of my life when I was entrenched in Some of you if you're saved at a younger age, you don't you haven't experienced that giving yourself to sin for year after year after year after year, giving yourself over to slavery for sin. And being so blinded by the lies of Satan. So to be saved, to be saved from being blinded by the lies of Satan, to be saved from his guilt-tripping accusations. Some of you need to be saved from that this morning. Even though you've been reconciled to God, you still let the guilt-tripping accusations of Satan bring you a guilt and bring you a shame that you should not have because you've been cleansed by the blood of Christ. to be saved by the enslaving power of Satan. Jesus died on a cross, he was risen from the dead, and he poured out the Holy Spirit so that we could have this salvation, salvation from From sin, death, and Satan. So when we say the salvation of Israel, that's what we're talking about. We're talking about how Jesus accomplished salvation during his last trip to Jerusalem. That's where your outline Picks up. Jesus accomplished salvation during his last trip to Jerusalem. That's what our passage is. Jesus entering Jerusalem, this last trip to Jerusalem, this Passion Week, as you probably have heard it Called ultimately where he's going to die on a cross as a substitute for sinners. He's going to be buried truly under the dominion of death. And then on the third day he'll be risen again. And eventually he'll be risen, he'll be ascended up into heaven, where he's seated at the right hand of God, and he pours out the Holy Spirit. When he pours out the Holy Spirit and is giving salvation first to Israel, and then it will go to the nations surrounding, and then it will go to the world. What we're looking at, zooming in on, Jesus accomplishing salvation on his last trip to Jerusalem. And the way I want to work through this story is by looking at the different parties involved. So you probably see that on your outline. If you're looking in the front and you cheat and look at the back, too, you'll see. First we'll talk about the disciples, what's going on with the disciples in this passage. Then we'll talk about the Pharisees, what's going on with the Pharisees in this passage. And then we'll talk about the crowd. The crowd's a really big deal. I mean, they're the ones laying out the palms, they're the ones rejoicing, quoting scripture in their rejoicing. And then finally we'll look at Christ, who obviously is the central character. First, let's look at the disciples. And the point to be made is that Jesus' disciples believed in him. But did not fully understand. They believed in him. They were believers. They had genuine faith. But they did not Fully grasp what was going on. They did not fully understand what was going on. Now you probably saw this in verse 16. That's exactly what it says. His disciples Did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. So what's happening is the fulfillment of prophecy in this triumphal entry. And When it happened, the disciples were eyewitnesses. They were seeing it. They were involved in it. But they didn't fully understand what was going on. But then after he was glorified, which means after he's ascended into heaven, After all of that, then they can look back on it and then they can see and understand. And that's what it says. His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus Was glorified. Then they remembered, number one, that these things had been written about him, that's in the Old Testament prophecy, and had been done to him Which means that prophecy is fulfilled in him. So the disciples believed in him, but did not fully understand And uh, child of God, I want you to draw encouragement from this, because none of us have a perfect understanding of doctrine. The biblical teaching. None of us have a perfect understanding of that. And none of us have a perfect understanding of exactly what God is doing in our lives. In His providence, God works in our lives to give us guidance, to give us wisdom. To help us make decisions, to s show us which way to go. None of us has perfect insight into the secrets of God and the mind of God. We do not have a perfect understanding. Now what we need to be doing is keep moving in the right direction and keep having a learning spirit. And keep cultivating a humble learning spirit that is seeking to grow. And seeking to grow not only in doctrine, but also Seeking to grow in our discernment as to what God is doing in our lives and where he's leading us and what he wants us to see. And with some things he wants us to move on from, some things he wants us to adopt and bring into our lives, some habits we need to change Some friends we need to break away from for a particular reason of practical wisdom. This is all kinds of decisions life is filled with and difficulties, and discerning the will of God takes effort And we need to draw encouragement from this because there may be things you're confused about. There may be things that you don't fully grasp about what the Bible teaches. There may be things that cause you doubt and um stir up doubt in your heart and mind. Maybe there's some things you feel like you're just not getting it. It's just not taking, it's just not sticking. Well, take heart this morning. The only kind of a believer Is a believer who still has growing to do. Amen. It's the only kind of believer that exists on earth. It's a believer that still has growing to do, who still has to learn things. The only kind of believer is a weak believer who needs the strength of God. We all need God's strength. We're not saved by intellectual grasp of doctrine. We're not saved by knowledge. Brothers and sisters, we're saved by faith. These disciples who don't fully understand what Jesus is doing, even though they're seeing it in person and had been taught in person By Christ for over three years. They're still not getting it, they're still not grasping everything. That's okay. They're not saved by their intellectual powers. They're saved because they're putting their faith in Jesus Christ as a mighty and merciful Savior. And so if there's things you're not getting, if there's things you don't understand, if you're struggling with doubts, don't let Satan use that against you to where you doubt your salvation. You're not saved by those things. You're saved by faith. And that's why they're disciples. Disciples who believed truly, but did not fully understand. It's important for them to grow in their understanding, just like it's important for us to grow in our understanding. So that's the disciples. Believing, but not fully understanding. I can relate to that. Hopefully you can too. Next, the Pharisees. The Pharisees are envious and frustrated The Pharisees are envious and frustrated, some of the leading leaders in Jerusalem, some of the leading leaders, the top influencers, the top leaders. In Israel at the time, Pharisees are not happy and rejoicing, but jealous and angry, envious and frustrated. Verse 19 So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. What does that mean when the Pharisees are talking amongst themselves and they're saying to one another, You're gaining nothing? Well, what were they trying to gain? Well, they were trying to draw the crowd away from Jesus They were trying to take followers away from Jesus. What's happening? More and more people keep gathering around Jesus More and more people keep hearing these reports about what Jesus did to raise Lazarus, and more and more people are coming, and more and more people are hearing, and more and more people are believing. And so the Pharisees say to one another, We're not getting anywhere. Nothing's working. Because the Pharisees wanted the opposite thing that God wanted. God wants disciples to be going to Jesus. The Pharisees want disciples to be abandoning Jesus. So they're envious and they're frustrated. You see They say to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. Brethren, these are leaders in Jerusalem Is in Israel still under the old covenant? Of all the people in the world, of all the people in the land, the promised land, the capital, Jerusalem. Around and near the temple of all people, they should have loved God, and they should have understood God's word, and they should have received Jesus Christ as Savior and become followers of him. Of all people. Should have been the leaders. But what do you see in the narrative? Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and into the book of Acts. It's the leaders, the leaders, leading the charge away from Christ and against the church, rather than joining Christ and becoming part of the church. This um is another well of encouragement that we can draw from because what you see All throughout Scripture, not just in the life of Jesus, and not just in this last week of his life, what you see throughout Scripture is the enemies of God trying to thwart his purposes. You have the enemies of God setting themselves against God trying to stop him from accomplishing his purposes. And what's the well of encouragement that we can draw from they cannot stop God? The forces of darkness cannot stop Jesus from accomplishing his purpose on earth. You had a really nice window in verse 19. See that you're gaining nothing? Look, the world has gone after him. Are there still enemies of Christ in the world? Are there still forces of evil that want to stop God from advancing his kingdom and saving souls? Are there still those who are jealous of Jesus? They're bitter and frustrated at the Word of God. Well, take heart because evil cannot stop God. It is God who overcomes evil. By his word and by his Holy Spirit, through his church, through you, through his servants, through his church, by the power of his word and spirit. Christ will continue to build his church until the end of the age. God's word goes forth and it will not return to him voice. He will accomplish his purposes in exactly the way he's planned out from all eternity. The Pharisees certainly cannot stop Jesus from doing what Jesus came to do. Now, the disciples who had believed but did not fully understand, the Pharisees who should have believed, but rather their hearts are full of envy and frustration. Now we go to the crowd. The crowd. Number three, the crowd rejoices over him. Very simple point. The simplest point you'll get all 2025. The crowd rejoices. There you go. The crowd rejoices over Jesus. It's a really nice picture of the way we should live life. You have Jesus coming in, and the crowd rejoices And they're quoting Scripture. And they're rejoicing. They have a Bible-based rejoicing over Jesus Christ. Now, there's actually two parts of this passage that address the crowd. The first one is 12 and 13. The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast That had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees. Went out to meet him, crying, crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel That should sound familiar. That was on the reading earlier in this worship service. And then go down to verse 17 and 18. The crowd, see that word again? The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb. And raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign It comes out in a unique and peculiar way in John that the incident of raising Lazarus from the dead and the fallout from that Is really what springboards Christ into this final week of his life and ministry. We'll come back to that in a little bit and look at a background verse that helps understand that. But Jesus rose Lazarus from the dead and It starts to build a crowd and then that crowd goes and bears witness of what Jesus did and it gets bigger and bigger and bigger and it all leads up to this entrance into Jerusalem and this crowd rejoicing over Jesus Jesus entering the city. But just to give a little bit of context, look at verse 13 again, where he says the next Day, the next day. Alright. This is the Sunday before the death and resurrection of Christ. And I'll show you where that comes from. This is the Sunday before the resurrection of Christ Go back to verse 1 of chapter 12. So, same chapter, very first verse. Six days before the Passover. Alright, six days before the Passover. Now the Passover, the Passover, in our culture, in the way we calculate time, we would say is Thursday night. But it's after sundown, so it's technically Passover is on Friday. And you go six days before that is Saturday. Alright, six days before the Passover. So that's would be Saturday. That would be for them the Sabbath And that's when Jesus came to Bethany. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. Now we're going to skip, we can't explain all of chapter 12, but that puts you in the context of six days before the Passover, so that's Saturday, and then we come to our passage Verse 12, and what does it say? It starts off by saying the next day. So this is Sunday. This is The last Sunday of Jesus' earthly life, his earthly ministry. On the next Sunday, he'll be risen from the grave to immortal, imperishable, eternal life in a resurrection body This will be his final Sunday of his earthly life, his earthly ministry the next day. But it also says in verse twelve, of the next day the large crowd that had come to the feast. The feast. Well, the feast is going to be Passover, and then seven days after that is the feast of unleavened bread. And the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Most of them looking around the room, most of you I'm certain that you know this and could teach this probably Some of you better than me, it looks back to Israel's exodus out of Egypt and being saved through the Red Sea. The X the Passover and the Exodus from Egypt, and then that great that victory at the Red Sea. And the Passover feast and the Feast of Unleavened Bread look back to that great redemption. But now here is like the redemption, the final redemption, the ultimate redemption. From sin, death, and Satan. So this feast is a very important um thing in the life of Israel, in the life of God's people. And it was one of those times throughout the year when Jews from every nation under heaven would have come to Jerusalem for the feast. That's very, very important. Jesus is not doing this work of salvation at an obscure time. He's not doing it in private. He's not doing it out in the in the shadows. He's doing it right in the heart of the life and worship and feast and calendar of Israel. And what does this crowd say? What does this crowd say? And verse 13, when they take these, they took these branches of palm trees, and uh we know from parallel accounts in the gospels. It's palm trees and also their coats or their ja their cloaks or their jackets that they're also laying out on the street. And honor and respect and welcoming. I guess a parallel in our culture would be like laying out the red carpet. to honor someone as they enter, as you receive them. So they're laying out these palm trees. Um and they went out to meet him crying, Hosanna , Which which essentially means save us, that's what that means. Save us. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. So, what point are we on in the sermon? Point number three, the crowd. And let's think about what's going on in the heart of the crowd in general. In the heart of the crowd, in the mind of the crowd, is rejoicing, and the fact that they're thinking of the scriptures Being fulfilled, because they say, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. Now this is from Psalm 118 This is from Psalm 118. And Psalm 118 is a song that rejoices over God's salvation. As God's chosen king enters Jerusalem. I'll repeat that because that's what Psalm 118 is about. And that's what these people are rejoicing over. Psalm 118 is a song. Okay? It's a song that rejoices over God's salvation as God's chosen king enters Jerusalem. And that's what's happening. God's chosen king is entering Jerusalem And they're seeing that. And as God's chosen king enters Jerusalem, the people rejoiced over God's salvation. That's what the psalm is about, and that's what's happening. From the day of the triumphal entry entry, the Sunday before Christ's death, burial, and resurrection. It's the song that rejoices over God's salvation as God's chosen king enters Jerusalem. I'm going to turn to Psalm 118. You can if you'd like to, but you don't need to. You can just listen to it as well. And I want to read some portions out of Psalm 118 and see if you could just let these simmer in your heart. Psalm 118, verses fourteen and fifteen. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. You see how that's a song about salvation? Do you see how that's a rejoicing over salvation? The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. Now that is in that psalm is in the heart of this crowd As they see Jesus enter Jerusalem, they recognize him as God's chosen king, and they recognize this is a time to sing of God's salvation. But that should be in our hearts every day, should it not, brothers and sisters? Should it not be in our hearts every day the salvation of the Lord? That Jesus has brought salvation to us, not just to the city of Jerusalem, but he also has brought salvation to our doorstep. To our homes, to our hearts, the light of salvation has shone upon us. And so we don't have to go outside and lay out palm trees, and we don't even have to have Jesus in the flesh, physically present with us, to be able to rejoice in the salvation that He has given us. We have been reconciled to God, brothers and sisters. Your sins have been washed away by the blood of Christ. You have the hope of eternal life and the hope of resurrection. And so, beloved, why not with our hearts every single day? Be overflowing with songs of God's salvation. To be filled with joy. To be filled with gratitude. To be filled with love, to be filled with a sense of wonder and awe that in this world of suffering Of sin, death, of despair, of war, of oppression, of violence, of uh of frustrations. In this world under the curse, God has brought the light of salvation to us So, before anything else in the Christian life, our hearts should be flooded with the sense of rejoicing. Over God's salvation. Now, if you've been walking with the Lord for any amount of time, you know that you have to fight for that in the heart. Amen? You've got to strive for that. You've got to wage war against the passions of the flesh. Because only God can fill our hearts with that which God deserves, which is rejoicing in the salvation that He's from. So the crowd is rejoicing over Jesus. They're quoting Scripture. They're quoting from Psalm 118, which is a song that rejoices over God's salvation. as God's chosen king enters Jerusalem. One more passage from Psalm 118, and that is 20 through 29. 20 through 29, which includes the portion we read earlier in this in the service. You'll see how this is um This is the anointed king who is returned, probably from battle, and is entering Jerusalem, and they're welcoming the king in, and they're singing of God's salvation Verse nineteen Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them And give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. By the way, if you have a study Bible or even a even just a Bible with marginal cross references, You can study out verses 22 and 23 to see where how that is fulfilled in Christ. Clearly and explicitly. Verse 25, save us. We pray, O Lord. In the Hebrew language, transliterated, that would just look like Hosanna. That's where Hosanna comes from. That's what it means. It's this cry, save us, save us, we pray. O Lord, O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. You see, it's a representative of the Lord entering the gates of the city. It's a God's chosen representative. God's anointed king is entering. He's coming in. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord, which is the temple A song being sung in and around the temple as the king is entering the city and the singing of God's salvation. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. In other words, the king has entered. God's anointed one has entered. We're singing of God's salvation. You know what this is time for? This is time for a sacrifice. We offer sacrifices and offerings to worship and celebrate and honor the Lord. So bind the festival sacrifice with cord cords. It's a festival sacrifice. That means it's a sacrifice that's going to be the center of a feast celebrating God, up to the horns of the altar, that we might make offerings and sacrifices to the Lord, because He is good. But flash forward to passion week, you have God's anointed Son, his chosen king The one who comes in the name of the Lord, God's representative, the sacrifice that week would be his very own body. He would be the one sacrificed. He would be the one whose blood was shed. He would be the one offered not on an altar in the temple, but on a cross outside the city To win salvation for souls, to win souls for God, to reconcile sinners to God. So, yes, if Jesus is entering Jerusalem to do that, We should be quoting and singing Scripture, singing of God's salvation. What a great day. Can you imagine being there? Now we know there's more to the story, but can we just enjoy this Can we just enjoy this episode where Jesus is coming into the city and the people have gathered in a crowd and are honoring him and welcoming him and quoting scripture and thinking of God's salvation and seeing him as God's chosen king and singing songs of rejoicing. Let's appreciate that. Let's be happy about that And let's see that as the paradigm, as a model that should be happening in our hearts every day. Joining the song of salvation in Christ. Finally, Christ. Christ knows exactly what he's about to do. Back in John 12, Christ knows exactly what he's about to do. John 12, back in our passage, verses 14 and 15. And Jesus found the young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's Now that's the second time you saw the word king. Verse 13, King of Israel. Verse 15, your king is coming. It's God's God's anointed king who will bring salvation. He knows exactly what he's doing. This is a symbolic act that shows the fulfillment of prophecy. This is the thing that didn't click with the disciples at the time. It's a symbolic act. If you read back in the prophets, The symbolic acts, symbolic deeds that God sometimes will tell the prophets to do that have a different symbolism or significance through what they're doing. This is a symbolic act to show the fulfillment of prophecy. It's from Zechariah 9:9. We don't have time to go there this morning, but I encourage you to read Zechariah 9. It's basically the same. General topic of Psalm 118 is the salvation that only God can bring. It's the salvation that only God can bring through his anointed King. And he says, Fear not, daughter of Zion. The daughter of Zion is Israel. Zion is the capital city. Zion is Jerusalem, the Temple Mount. The daughter of Zion is the people of Israel And he says, Fear not, fear not. So Jesus has come to Jerusalem to lay down his life for the salvation of Israel. It's not a time to be afraid, but it's a time to believe. It's a time to rejoice. So he says, Fear not. Then he says, Behold your king. Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming. Behold, your king is coming. This is not a time to look away. This is not a time to go home as if there's something better going on somewhere else. This is a time to join the song. Join the refrain to rejoice that the king has come to bring salvation. Then he says, sitting on a donkey's cult, sitting on a donkey's cult, not a war horse Because he's not come to lead a military conquest. He's not come to initiate rebellion and war against the Roman occupation. He's come for spiritual conquest. He's come to win the Capital S, huge, great, biggest salvation from sin, death, and Satan And that will bring peace to sinners everywhere. That's why he's on an animal that symbolizes he's bringing Peace, not bringing war, because based on what he's going to do in Jerusalem that very week, he'll bring peace to sinners everywhere through the gospel. He's clear in this symbolic act. And his kingdom is not of this world. His kingdom is not from this world. It's not a Geopolitical earthly kingdom that spreads by violence or coercion or any other way. It's a spiritual kingdom. It is a heavenly kingdom. And sinners can enter that kingdom By grace, through faith, but only on the basis of his death, burial, and resurrection So he's not on a war horse. He's not on a steed. He's on a donkey's cult. That doesn't mean he's weak. That just means he's come to establish a different kind of kingdom than what a lot of us think of, or what a lot of the Israelites thought of when they thought of kingdom. How is he going to bring salvation? He's the king. He's God's representative. Their songs of salvation. He's going to bring peace to sinners everywhere. How is he going to do that? Well, you know there's lots of a story, but I want to focus on the heart of it. He's going to die on a cross. Did you want something more flap flashy? He's going to die on a horrible, embarrassing, painful, excruciatingly painful Roman cross. He's gonna be mocked, he's gonna be spout upon, he's gonna be beaten, he's gonna be whipped. Why? Why Because he's doing that in your place. He did that in my place He suffered. He suffered in our place. And the physical-earthly sufferings But not the worst of it. On the cross, Jesus suffered the judgment of God in our place. Does this not grip your heart? He died as a substitute for you. Your sins in one sense, your sins put him on the cross. He went there to die as a substitute for sinners. So that we would never, ever, ever have to come under the wrath and condemnation of a holy God. That's what salvation is. That's what salvation is. By the way, just a reminder, that's why we come to church, to hear that, to grow up in that, to have our lives. More and more shaped by that. We're not coming for entertainment. We're not coming for the socializing. It's not wrong to socialize, but why we're coming is to hear about and sing about. The great salvation of God through the death of Jesus Christ. Just a couple verses to close out. Same chapter. Same chapter, verse 23 and 24, John 12. Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. That's what he's going to do. He's going to die so that he might bear much fruit of salvation in all the world. And also verses 31 and 33, still the same chapter. 31 and to 33. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And that's talking about Jesus' victory over Satan. Through his substitutionary death. Then in verse 32, and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. Said this to show what kind of death he was going to die. What in the world does that mean? Well, look at what he said. When I'm lifted up from the earth, I'll draw all people to myself. He's going to die in such a way That's going to draw many sinners to himself so that they might be saved. Because that's how we're saved. Through faith in Jesus And I'll close my sermon by going on a mini rant about this, and I've done this before, so as soon as I start on this, you're going to know exactly where it's going. You do need a mediator between you and God. You do need someone to reconcile you to God, to be the bridge, to be the way, to be the in-between. God has provided that meter, mediator, Jesus. You can't go directly to God the Father. You have to come through Jesus. You go to Jesus. You need a mediator between yourself and God. But you do not need a mediator between you and Jesus. You do not need to come through a pastor, come through a priest, come through a church, come through sacraments. You don't need any person, institution, or event. Ritual to serve as a mediator between you and Jesus. You go directly to Jesus by faith in the heart. That's the gospel. That's the biblical response to the gospel. Please, please don't try to use good works to bring yourself to Jesus and then Jesus will bring you to God. Don't use religion to bring yourself to Jesus and then Jesus will bring you to God. Don't think that a priest or confessing your sins can bring you to Jesus and that Jesus can bring you to God. You do not need a mediator. between you and Jesus. And brothers and sisters, this is our message. This is the power of the cross. The power of the cross that's removed every single barrier between sinners and the holy God by putting Christ forth. As a sacrifice. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you for salvation. Those who have not tasted of the salvation, who've not turned to you for the salvation. This morning, we pray, we join our hearts in faith, and we pray that you would save them and give them faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.