Anthony, thanks for doing this with me. I really appreciate it, and I'm going to get right into it so people watching this aren't wasting their time. Today you and I had planned out to talk about preaching, specifically the practical purpose of preaching. So that's our topic Why do we listen to sermons? Why do we need to hear the word? And what should be the the impact and res and result of that in our lives? To get us started, I am going to just give a couple of Wet Your Appetite verses and then give it to you for the first your first major passage that you had So one thing I wanted to put on the table was Galatians 3, 1 and 2. Oh, foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you this did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? I love that passage. I love verse one. Paul refers to his preaching in this way. Jesus Christ publicly portrayed as crucified. That's one of the first verses that comes to my mind, and the purpose of preaching is to exalt Christ, to lift. up Christ. And then verse 2, this is uh how the Spirit is received. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? So Christ is publicly portrayed through preaching. And that word is received with faith, and the reception of the Holy Spirit goes along with that. And then another one real quick, wet your appetite. Let me get there. Romans 10, 17. Um, I know you know this uh faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ So again, preaching is where faith comes from. Faith comes from hearing, hearing through the word of Christ. I also like in that verse that alludes to the fact that in cr in preaching, in true biblical spirit-filled preaching, it's Christ who's doing the speaking. Christ is doing the work in our preaching. Other than that, what are we doing? We're just playing religion if Christ isn't working through the preaching. So there you go. Hopefully that wets your appetite a little bit. Take us away with the first passage and point that you had for us. Yeah, so when thinking about preaching, there's there's the concept of the the totality, like that preaching will hit so many different aspects of one's life it will uh we should address both internal and external things that addresses the head and the heart. So I I really first think about Acts 20. Um starting I'm going to start in verse 25, but this is Paul's like charge to the elders of the Church of Ephesus. This is the last things he's saying to them. before he departs them. So starting in verse 25 it says, and now behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom. Will see my face again. So he's saying that he's about to leave them and won't get to see him again. But he mentions and points out proclaiming the kingdom. Uh and this is what he taught. And I think it's so important for us to grasp that, that the preaching of the gospel, um, the preaching of how to live a godly life, the preaching of how to be uh uh uh in marriage as as Christians, the preaching of how to love your neighbors, all of that is about preaching the kingdom of God. It's his it's his kingdom, it's his rule, it's his world. So that is what preaching is all about. 26 continues on, therefore I testify to you to this day that I am innocent of the blood of all, for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. I think that is vital. That i in in the the there's a a temptation for a lot of guys to say, well, preaching only involves the New Testament. It only involves Jesus, but here's where we see the preaching of the whole council of God, from Genesis to Revelation, all of his word, uh all of this is proclaiming uh Christ and Preaching must involve all of God's word. It can't involve just the peace, just the things we like. But the things that are hard to hear is often the what God uses to throw us. Your thoughts, Matt? I love the those things aren't necessarily synonymous, but they definitely go together. That one point you made about proclaiming the kingdom and then verse 27 declaring the whole counsel of God like can you do One of those well without doing the other one. It's something to think about, this reality of the kingdom of God, which is basically that which is redeemed in Christ proclaiming that kingdom, but it's got to be connected to the Word of God, the whole council of God. And of course we know from the uh The context that centers on the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. There's another phrase, I saw it in here somewhere. Give me a second to find it Oh yeah. Right at the end of verse 24, another phrase that's maybe not a synonym, but goes with those two, testifying to the gospel of the grace of God. Boy, I didn't realize how rich that passage was uh is with the content of what we preach. Great stuff there, man. And that what uh what I really love is that Paul is saying these things which he has been preaching, the gospel of Christ, um the kingdom, the whole council. is sufficient as to to to keep the church going and to keep the zeal and joy of Paul while he's going to uh be put to death. Well he's going to be uh going through suffering and the church is going to go through suffering. That's the fi the preaching is sufficient. Uh the through the Holy Spirit the preaching is sufficient to keep them through those hard and tough times. Amen. Brother, I love that point. Something tells me that in all of our discussions and any ministries that we do together like this Something tells me this word sufficiency is going to keep popping up over and over again. The word of God by the Spirit of God and and the power of God is sufficient to accomplish what God wants to accomplish. Great. All right. Let's go to my passages. My all the mine are from the Corinthian letters. My first one is 1 Corinthians 2, 1 through 5. Let me get there. And when and I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified, and I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration Of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. There's so many things there, so many things about preaching in that immediate context of that paragraph Just to highlight the word power and our need for the power of God in our preaching for it to accomplish anything to move one millimeter in spiritual things. We need the power of God, the power of the Spirit in our preaching and through our preaching, in us as we're preparing, in us as we're praying, and then in the act of preaching. And in how that preaching is received. It's not like only the preacher needs to be uh trusting in the Spirit's power, but those who are hearing the word won't hear it the right way if they're not hearing in the Spirit's power. And um so that really stood out to me in this uh methodology of Paul Needs to be our our methodology or our mindset in preaching that he he doesn't need worldly wisdom or clever speech to preach, but the straightforward zealous preaching of the gospel and of the Word of God. So he came preaching for sure, but he didn't come preaching with lofty speech or wisdom as the world would call lofty speech or wisdom. Um and one more thing here and I hand it over to you. I love verse two. I mean I think a I think any biblical preacher um or would be biblical preacher, their heart would be captivated by verse 2. I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified Hey, Paul is not confused about the centerpiece of his message and what people needed most and what he needs most. It's not like other people need Christ crucified, a steady diet, but not the preacher. We need a steady diet of Christ and him crucified This is how God administers His grace to our hearts and to our lives through this crucified yet risen Savior. Yeah, I mean what else is that? I if Christ isn't crucified and resurrected, what uh what are we preaching? Just morals a and that are based on nothing, uh good deeds that are based on nothing, feelings that are based on nothing, like And and that it's the Holy Spirit that takes the preaching into our hearts and it's the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not uh the the performance, it's not the even the rhetoric. Well those things are helpful in conveying the message. at times it's not uh the power in which the mess the message is conveyed in um that's only through the Holy Spirit I'm going to jump over to Jeremiah 17 , verses 9 and 10, and this is actually addressing very well the same thing. So Jeremiah 17. Jeremiah 17. 9 through 10. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick. Who can understand it? I the Lord search the heart and test the mind to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds. Do you think well help this this doesn't mention preaching at all? But man, does this not address what we need? We're all sick. We're all broken, we're all corrupted beings that need uh healing. We need a savior. Um and this is Christ's Him crucified But even more, what we see is that the Lord addresses two parts, the heart and the mind. So preaching is not just uh an intellect uh for the the brilliance. uh teaching Greek words and and just the history of things and at the end of the preaching go, okay, I I know more about the sentence structure of it. Uh I know more about the historical context of it. Those things are good, that's for the head. Um, it molds our brains, it molds our thinkings, but the preaching also must affect the heart. That That the heart is changed, that the Holy Spirit is the power of the preaching is addressing and molding both the heart and the mind. And when the heart and the mind are combined, that's the totality of the the human being Um, which is all being pointed to Christ through the preaching of God's word. Man, that's a great verse for that. I never noticed that in verse ten, that it brings up the heart and the mind. And it is the again there, like you said, it's the work of God doing that. I, the Lord, search the heart, test the mind. He alone is going to be the one to show us the truth of And what our heart is really like naturally and what our mind is really like naturally. As you were talking, I was looking at verse nine and I was thinking, man, how different is this than our our default position or like the spirit of the age, that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick, who can understand it? But the spirit of the age But all of our natural in our natural selves we're inclined to say that the heart is really the standard of all things and you follow your heart, find out what uh these passions are in your heart, that's going to be the basis of your identity, that's the basis of right and wrong, that's the basis of how you should live and All these things and here comes God's word on the scene and just destroys that. And what we need is God through his word and through his spirit to search the heart, test the mind and Show us. Show us the truth. Um, well, that's a good one, man. What do I have next? Oh, I have one. Probably Maybe my favorite 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 5, let me type that up. Just because I think it hits the content of the gospel in terms of what is being preached It's such an exhaustive way, but it's really putting it in a nutshell. That comes in verse in verse 3, but I'll start in verse 1, 1 Corinthians 15. Now I remind you, brothers Of the gospel, so we know that's the context, what what the gospel is that he preached. I remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, and which you stand, and by which you are being saved If you hold fast the word I preached to you, unless you believed in vain. I want to chase a rabbit right there that is talking to Christians, beginning of verse 2, by which you are being Saved. The gospel is the thing that not only saves us but sanctifies us and moves us along. I won't chase that rabbit, although I guess I just mentioned it, but I won't chase it down the trail. Verse 13 If we were to summarize the content of what it is that we publicly proclaim, here it is, I deliver it to you as a first importance What I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures. And that he appeared to Cephas and then to the twelve. And then in verse six, there's more appearances, not to write those off, but just for time's sake. Two quick things to point out, and then shooting it over to you. First of all, this phrase, first importance. The gospel is of preeminent importance um historically and in terms of our hope, but also in terms of practical ministry. And that disqualifies Anything and everything else of being of first importance. The gospel that's of first importance. If you we lose that, we lose everything else. And then quickly just point out the phrase at the end of verse 3 and at the end of verse 4 in accordance with the scriptures. We preach that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures and that he was buried and he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. So there's a ton there, man. I know there's a ton there in terms of uh redemptive history and how the old relates to the new and how Christ is the fulfillment, uh or that even just how that we scripture is our source book for preaching. But what I want to hemphasize or highlight whatever is that we're not just preaching the events of the gospel, but we have to be preaching the meaning of those events. So we're not called just to preach that Christ died. We can preach Christ died, but if we put an unbiblical meaning or significance on that historical fact, then we're being unfaithful in our calling. We have to preach the facts of the gospel and give the right interpretation or meaning along with them. Otherwise it will fall flat. Any thoughts on that paragraph? Yeah, I I really love what you said there about the meaning. Th there's once again it's the two parts of it. We have the the words and the gospel themselves and the facts of it, but what's the meaning behind it? So the the so what Jesus died. So what Jesus resurrected from the dead. Um, what's that mean? And so that was uh that's really wise and helpful to think through that. Like The the preaching has both a a a purpose and a meaning that must be clarified. Otherwise, I know you've got to get to your next scripture. Otherwise, it's just religious nostalgia stirred up in the heart, right? These things just become Symbols that make us feel spiritual. Anyhow. Go ahead. It's good. Alright, I'll jump into Ephesians 4, verses 15 and 18. Rather speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ. from whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself itself up in love. How often do we think about how preaching affects me and the brother and sister sitting next to me How often do we think about how the preaching of God's word is sanctifying us, that that being saved that we just talked about, sanctifying us and growing us individually and corporately. I think as we start to understand that relationship and how when I'm being sanctified and living in a community with others that are being sanctified through the working of the Holy Spirit, how the the world around us is is radically changing um and we are encouraging one another. So to derive this a little more is that this is the value of gathering together to hear the preaching of God's word. It preaching, sure, you can listen to YouTube videos and sermons and podcasts that well do you a lot of benefit. It'll be good for you. You will grow in it. But there's something very special about the preaching of God's Word as a unified body of believers within the local church. Yeah, at the at the very least it it models to each other and it models to the world that God is worthy of us gathering together And speaking highly of him. Yeah. That's another great one. Ephesians four fifteen And 16. You know, that's a really good word for me to hear. When I'm ever I'm in that section of Ephesians, um my mind is always the completely absorbed with the body life of the church, and that is what the general context is, but I sometimes I miss the details, right? So this idea here of the truth being spoken is the thing that brings growth. That's a great point, brother. You need to do a sermon on this on this paragraph. Let's see where would you go? You would go shh Sh where would you start it? You can't go one through sixteen if you were to do this. I mean I guess you could do uh maybe nine. I mean eight really. Yeah, that would be great. You start it with the ascension. Yeah. Man. Put that on your bucket list, brother. Um all right I'm kind of sad now. I'm getting to my last one. Second Corinthians 4. 1 through 6. I'll have to be careful on this one that I don't talk for 45 minutes. All right. Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. But we have renounced. Disgraceful and underhanded ways, and we refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word, but by open statement of the truth We would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants, for Jesus' sake. For God, who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Man, is that a whole series on preaching or what? I mean it's just incredible. Um I on a personal note it's always a good reminder. Verse 1, ministry is a result of God's mercy. It's not disturbed. Any sense of entitlement that I have Ye even that I would be entitled to preach five minutes of something is sinful. It's um presumptuous. Everything that we have in ministry, any anything that we have at all that's good in any sense is a gift of God and comes by his mercy. Um but anyway that's not our topic today. Uh our topic today is preaching and kind of what it's for, not kind of what it's for, what it's for and the practical impact. Here a lot the the manner of preaching Is a big deal. And here there's no trickery, no cunning Like you said earlier, not turning to other things because we believe that the Word of God is sufficient. No tampering with God's word. Open statement of the truth. Middle of verse two. Open statement of the truth. One more thing to highlight here, I guess, just on the impact of preaching. Brother, I feel like we keep coming back to this, right? But it's it really is so Critical to never forget this. That it's God who uses preaching to shine the light of Christ. Um Paul says that about himself Well, others too, but he includes himself in this in verse 6. It's God who shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of Glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. It was God who enabled him to hear the gospel properly and to see the glory of God in Christ rather than hate Christ and persecute the church of Christ. And verse four. Verse four, well I guess verse three and four, that whenever anyone's in unbelief, their minds are blinded to the glory of God in the gospel. But the only thing that can Reverse that is the gospel. We can't turn to something else to heal spiritual blindness, but it's the gospel alone that can heal that spiritual blindness, which is What the great irony is that really magnifies the power and the wisdom of God in gospel preaching. That's all I had on it. How refreshing it is of the light out of the darkness in verse 6 that no matter where we're at in the week or how we are feeling, there's It you know, it appears as though there's darkness all around us at times and powerful preaching of God's word, the gospel message brings light to those dark uh places and moments in our lives that It's why we gather regularly. It's why we hear the preaching of God's word regularly. Be refreshed and renewed, empowered. strengthen, mature , let that list continue on to then go back into the world that appears so dark and to uh continue advancing the light into those dark places. Very good. Well, I'm one of my last ones as well. Uh I hit I did two for my last one, which is maybe cheating, but Uh Hebrews 4 will allow it. We'll allow it. Thank you, thank you. Hebrews 4, and then we'll jump to over to Colossians 3, but One of the things when I think about the preaching and what it what it has done in my life and what I desire preaching when when God allows me to preach that the Holy Spirit w the two things I desire preaching to do is to to cut open our souls. The great surge in God to to slice us open and examine what is inside. um which can be painful. And but then the great physician that he is will seal us up, restore us, and make us better than we were. So it's the the splitting open, the cutting open of revealing And then the restoration back. So Hebrews 4, 12 through 13, it's well known. It says, for the word of God is living. and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. and no creatures hidden from his sight, but all naked and expose the eyes of him to whom we must give account. So when God's word is preached, there's times where we want to wince a little bit. W i we may feel uncomfortable because our our hearts, the inness of us is is being revealed. The Holy Spirit spring into our conscience of who we are. But then what we have is this promise in Colossians 3 The entire chapter of Colossians 3 is excellent, but it's the idea of putting on the new. That while we we were opened up, the Holy Spirit used the Word of God to reveal us, to show our shortcomings, we must also recognize that we have newness in Christ. So I'll jump in at verse 12. Put on then as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. Bearing with one another. And if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony, and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dw dwell in you richly. Teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, sing songs and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father for example. So through preaching were revealed And through preaching, we are healed and pointed to the new image we have in Christ, which then gives us the ability to go angel. But this is how and why we preach on marriage. This is how and why we fight on good deeds and tithing and mercy because all of that is is uh replicating the image of Christ in what we do from how we live in our households to our jobs to the civil government into the church, all of that we should be looking towards Christ to give us the newness and the prosper way of living. This is a a great point for the last passage. Although I do in just a few a few moments Want to ask a like a final question for us to discuss in terms of practical application of these things. But back to this Colossians verse. It's a great verse for pointing out, if we were just to summarize the practical impact of preaching specifically for believers, is God uses preaching as a central means to move us forward in sanctification and to move us forward and encourage us in our discipleship. So God uses preaching to sanctify us, that inner work of God in us to conform us to the likeness of Christ, and God uses preaching to sanctions to equip us and encourage us in our discipleship, which I know there's different ways people summarize discipleship. I think one good way that I like to say is just really the practical application of that inner sanctification. that in every sphere of life, church, home, work, school, hobbies, whatever, every sphere of life, learning to live for Christ and learning to honor Christ. The preaching is right at the center of that. It's uh It's the centerpiece of congregational worship. Congregational worship is the centerpiece of the body life of the church. And that's for a reason. Century after century, this is for a reason. in Christianity, in biblical Christianity, is because God uses pr the preaching of the word and the power of the Spirit to sanctify his people and he enable and equip and encourage us to live for him. It's a great verse, man. I do want to go back to the Hebrews 4 one. Hebrews 4, you read verse 12. The word of God is living and active. It's not a dead word. He's not a sleepy God. The word of God is living and acting, sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing to the to the division of soul and spirit, to joints and marrow. Which is a great metaphor, because you can't get deeper than that. Like once you cut into the marrow, you can't go any deeper. It's a metaphor for the depth that God wants to get into our soul and like you said earlier, into the mind as well, stern the thoughts and intentions of the heart. So just made me think of how we're not we're not trying to be deep in some arbitrary definition when we preach. But we are expecting that God's word will cut deep. That God will get into the depth of our mind and into the depth of our spirit and teach us And encourage us and comfort us and sanctify us. So we want a depth in our preaching, but it's not something we're trying to concoct, like through heart-tugging stories. or i emotional illustrations or something like that or not trying to get people real stirred up with emotionally charged music and then and then bring in the word and trick people to make them think something spiritual and deep really happened. God's word will cut deep by God's spirit. And we are going for that. We're not going just for head knowledge. And we're not going just for behavioral modification. We want God's word. to get to the heart and to get to the the mind and reorient things for his name and glory. I don't know if you could tell, but your thing on Hebrews four really got me fired up there. It's a great verse. Um, so let's freestyle for a little bit with a mind toward practical application, but I want to frame it with a question Well, no, strike that. Not a question. Um, just in terms of thinking about What people think is going through our minds when we preach. I want people to know what we're thinking. when we preach. Does that first of all does that make sense? I think so. Okay. I'm putting this together on the fly. So instead of fr I'll give one and then I'll bounce it over to you I want people to know what we're thinking when we preach. I want people to know that I'm not depending on myself or on them at all. for spiritual growth that will come through preaching. Like people need to know that. When I get up there, I'm not thinking it's my skill or my experience or some kind of wisdom I have or anything like that. But only God, only his word and his spirit. And I want them to know too this not dependent on men. God can work his work in any heart at any time that he so chooses. All right, bouncing it over to you. Yeah, I think about that I want when the reason that we preach the Word of God and not a TED talk or just a bunch of stories and analogies is because I do. You do truly believe that the Word of God is sufficient to grow, to to change us, to mold us. Um the Word of God is central within preaching. Nothing else. It's the Word of God and the Holy Spirit uses the preaching of the Word of God to change and and mold us in control. But what if I'm not a good joke teller and people are having fun at church? Then what do I do? You know, we really are we we're conditioned in this world to well, you know, uh the pastor's message was was too long, too short, didn't have a good story, um, didn't have a good intro, uh which is at times there's there's there's rhetoric there that's maybe something to examine, but What about was the preaching of the word there? Did did we did we examine God's Word truly? Um did did we see the application uh and the life-changing work of the Word? uh preach. That's what's most important. Yeah, uh you're right about that. There is such a thing as communication skills and things we need to learn and continue to learn. to communicate well, but the question is what are you applying those communication skills to? Like there's such a thing as the substance of the message, and there's such a thing as the the motive of the messenger and what you really think you need to be doing. Um good one, good one. I'm gonna ask you for another one too, but let me bounce it back to me on what I want people to How did I say it? I want people to what I want people to know we think of other things. No. Um to know what I'm thinking. Yeah. Right. So know what we're thinking when we're when we're preaching or when we're preparing to preach. And they need to know. I want them to know. Um also that I'm thinking about the fact that they really do have a responsibility To hear God's word with faith. Yeah. It's a two-way street. The preaching needs to be done biblically and in faith, in a proper manner, a spirit led the spirit-filled matter, and so does the hearing. Well there's two people, there's two groups of people With uh a duty before the holy Lord. It's the speaker or the preacher, and it's the hearer as well. And we all have a responsibility to come desiring God's word, wanting God's word for the right reasons and to hear with faith. Now we'll never be perfect in any of those things, like we'll never be perfect in any aspect of Christian living in this life. But we but we can we can hear with faith rather than being like the author of Hebrews says, be dull of hearing. Can I ask you a question before I answer? It depends how difficult it is, but yes, go ahead. So how does someone prepare themselves to receive the preaching of God's word? Prayer would be a a big deal. Prioritizing congregational worship. would be a a big deal. And when you're when you're attending the congregational worship, prioritizing the centrality of Christ that this whole thing is about Christ being made known and God administering his grace to our hearts through Christ and through the Spirit, through the Word. So it's going to be, I guess, a subset of sanctification and discipleship. I I can loop it in there generally speaking. But in the in the immediate Like if someone were to ask me that on Saturday, like in a real pastoral situation, I'll say, well you got to give yourself to prayer. Ask God to prepare you to do this well. Don't think of something you're going to do on your own and then show up. Only God can prepare us. So, I don't know. Now maybe my answer is a little too flighty or a little too uh too abstract, but that's the first thing that came to mind is prayer. Man, you need to go to God and ask God to help you with this Yeah. Yeah, I I really think about like the there's a a bit of a preparation phase before uh showing up one Sunday morning. Sunday evening to church. Like what what have you set up in your life beforehand? If it's all chaos and Um, just doing and following after your own desires and your own pride right till ten twenty five until you pull into the parking lot and then you just walk into the church and think, Okay, I'm not prepared my heart like Man, there's so much that has happened right there that um it that the the preparation to receive the word of God is is really a lifestyle. So prayer is is absolutely, we must rely on the Holy Spirit 's growth and our ability to do that. Yeah, it's a great question that you asked, man, because now it's going through my head, maybe it's just the flip side or the other side of the coin of things we pray for and preparing to preach. Like we pray, uh God help me to preach in faith. So the flip side would be God help me to hear your word in faith. And we can go down a whole list of different things like that of um God help me to be preaching for your name and glory, not for my name and glory. Or not or to make Christ look great, not to look our church look great. You can just take the flip side of that and maybe apply them in different ways to the hearer. I think a lot of it all it's funny, it all comes back to coming for the right reasons. Are you coming for the right reasons? Are you coming just for the socializing? Are you coming just for the personal affirmation? Are you coming just to Have a part in the external religion and that's what makes you Or are you coming to for God to administer His grace to your heart by the by His Word, by the power of His Spirit, so that Christ would be honored and glorified in our hearts and in our lives more and more? Um whose turn is it? It's your turn, right? Yeah. Uh I want the people to know that when I'm preaching, I want truly the soul to be nourished and cared for That it it's not just once again it's not just the head thing, it's not just a heart thing, but it's the totality of the being And well I would desire and love if a week afterwards you still uh think about the points in the scripture and and what was preached. But I noticed not the case. When we eat a meal, I have no idea what I ate last week. But that meal was vital for my existence. I needed that nourishment. Um, that even though I don't remember it, it still nourished my so well, nourish my physical body and the food. But the preacher, I don't remember ninety-nine percent of the sermons I've I've ever heard, but they've nourished me and they even to this day they're still nourishing me in some ways, even if I can't pinpoint it. That's That truly is happening there, that uh the the the preacher should be a bit of a physician of the throne, that they're caring for the souls of uh the hearer Yeah, that's a great point that connects with that this isn't just an intellectual thing that um it's not about being able to memorize All all of the details and remember all of the details. But it is through all of like you said, you probably can't remember ninety nine percent of All that's preached. But all of that that was preached is what has grown your faith and increased your love for Christ. Any growth that's happened in our lives has come from all that ministry of the word, even though we can't recall all of the details. What you said reminded me of Ephesians 5. 29. That's right in the middle of that section where Paul's comparing marriage between the husband and the wife with the marriage between Christ and the church. He says no one's ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church. And you used that word nourish. The Christ does nourish and does cherish Am I saying those correctly? Nourish, nourish, nourish, I don't know, nourish and cherish his body. He feeds it and he loves it. I'll just say that. He feeds his body, he loves his body, he's actively doing that And passionately doing that. He does his through preaching. Alright, I got one more. Um, and then I'm gonna put a a big burden on your shoulders to just give closing comments and close this in prayer. But last thing for me, I mean not last of last, just last right now, in terms of What I want people to know that I'm thinking when I'm preaching or just what I think about preaching, um, this really connects to what you just said. So It's gonna probably be a lot of overlap. Um, I want people to know that my goal for them is to cherish God 's word They're more than just a learner of things that the Bible teaches, but to have uh a desperate hunger For God's word and to cherish it, to prize it, to esteem it highly as a source of spiritual life and comfort for the soul. I want this for myself and for my wife and for my kids. to cherish God's word and to love it and to desperately desire it from the heart And you you took us here with some of your passages, Anthony. Um this is not just about the mind. This is about God getting to the heart. And the heart being conformed to the likeness of Christ and growing in our affection for God. So that's the last thing. I I just want people to know that I don't want them to see me just as a teacher. Do we teach? Yes, of course. We're not ashamed of that. But that's not all we are Um w we're not we're not just teaching things to be agreed with on an intellectual level, but we want the heart to be stoked aflame with a love for God and a love for his word. Yeah, I fully agree. And I guess my my closing thoughts are to think about and be reminded of that the preaching of God's word is powerful, it's essential in our lives as Christians, it is good for us , and it is through the working of the Holy Spirit. I think we've we've covered that through our verses that show the power of the Spirit in the preaching, the preaching of God's Word, the effects of the preaching. But if we ever we ever doubt or negate the need for preaching in our lives, turn back to his word and recognize that God speaks of it so highly. Amen. Close this out in prayer. Yeah, man. And thanks again for doing this. Four and a half weeks, if the Lord allows. You'll be here on the ground. I'm looking forward to it, man. Yeah, Lord willing, this will be our last recorded one via Zoom, so we'll get to do this in person together. Oh, I'll try Oh eternal Father, we thank you for the truth of your word, what you examine, to see that you are a speaking God. You are a God that is Examined us, your God that has revealed the depths of our souls. You're God that loves us and cares for us, that nourishes and grows us. You are God that empowers us to to both preach and to receive preaching. May we glorify you. May we be excited for the preaching of your word. May we grow and seek you more. through the preaching of your word. May we give you all the praise through this week, through our lives. May we uh anxiously gather together, anxiously uh form together to worship you uh this weekend. In Jesus' name, amen.