Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts, chapter 2. Verse 22 and the outline is in the bulletin. If you want to take notes there. And just a heads up, next week we will go to the book of Ephesians and begin a series in that wonderful letter to the church. Acts chapter two. Let me give you some context. Crucifixion, resurrection. Resurrection appearances of Jesus over 40 days. We understand to Peter, to the disciples. Uh, to five hundred at one time, Paul mentions in First Corinthians fifteen. And then after those forty days, the ascension of Jesus and remember his instructions before he ascends. He gathered gathering them together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for what the Father had promised. Which he said, You heard of from me. For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Not many days from now. He had spoken about the ministry of the Spirit in the upper room before the Garden of Gethsemane. And so he says, You've heard of this from me. And then from there he ascends to heaven. And we have in the first part of Acts chapter 2, or Acts chapter 1, I should say, the prayer of the 120 said to be in the upper room. And then there is the sending of the Holy Spirit, the day of Pentecost, where the Holy Spirit's coming Was manifested through the believers' ability to speak the mighty deeds of God in languages they did not know. That's how tongues is described. And some in the crowd, a crowd that was gathering to observe what was happening because there was sounds and excitement going on, they were amazed at what was happening. Many of them. Some were mocking and were saying, they've been drinking too much wine. I don't have never experienced someone drinking too much wine and being able to speak in other languages, but that's what they were saying that day. Peter. Who on the night before the crucifixion denied he knew Jesus three times. Remember that. He is transformed by the reality of Jesus' resurrection. And there was a personal appearance to him. We don't have that recorded for us, but we are told it happened by Paul and also another reference to it. He's transformed by the reality of Jesus' resurrection and now by the Holy Spirit's indwelling him. And in Acts chapter 2 verse 14, if you had the text open, look back to that verse. It says, But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven , raised his voice and declared to them. Just think back to him at that fire in the courtyard where Jesus is being tried and he Doesn't want to be noticed at all. And now he's raising his voice. And he declared to them, men of Judea, and all who live in Jerusalem. Let this be known to you and give heed to my words. And he proceeds to declare that what they were witnessing It was not drunkenness, but was a fulfillment of prophecy. He goes on to proclaim the truth about Jesus' crucifixion Resurrection and exaltation, that's where we will concentrate. Truth that he now understands more fully, and truth that he is not ashamed and not too scared to declare. It's the first resurrection sermon, and it has been preserved in Scripture for every generation to hear. Our goal this morning, your goal with me, is to understand what Peter preached and And to respond in a way that honors Jesus. Okay? We want to understand what he's saying best we can, and we want to respond in a way that honors Jesus. And the text helps us with that as well. Understanding what he preached. The first great truth he preaches is crucifixion And basically he is saying to the Jews that he's speaking to in Jerusalem, you killed the Messiah. Verse 22. Men of Israel, listen to these words. He boldly calls for their attention. So Let us in the inspired text give our attention. I think that's what we should do. Listen to these words. Let's listen to them Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you, that means authenticated by God. With miracles, here's how, miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. You killed a man attested by God is what he's going to say to them. Attested by miracles, by wonders, by signs. You remember when Nicodemus came to visit Jesus by night, he said, we know that no one can do the things that you do except he be from God. Two of the miracles took place right in Jerusalem, at least two, but two that we know of, a man ill for thirty-eight years Healed by the pool of Bethesda, and a man born blind, given sight. Both of those took place right in Jerusalem, in their midst So you yourselves know whether they were traveling from Galilee to the to the uh Pentecost uh feast or whether they grew up and were part of Jerusalem, miracles had been done in their midst. You witnessed these, Peter is saying. Verse 23 This man, delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God You nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men. He's referring to the Romans there. And put him to death. Notice what he's saying. He is saying, in having him crucified by the Romans, you fulfilled God 's predetermined plan. What a great statement of the sovereignty of God in working out the details of Christ's crucifixion. Peter preaches that. Peter, who had rebuked Jesus for speaking of his death, remember, now understands and proclaims that the cross was God's will for Jesus Why? Well, he understood that because of Jesus' suffering, repentance for forgiveness of sins is now proclaimed in his name. And by this, Peter was saying Doesn't Peter was saying that this does not lessen the crime of calling for Jesus' death. I love the way he says it. Delivered over by the predetermined plan of God, you nailed to a cross and put him to death. See, to do that was to reject the Messiah that God had graciously sent. And certainly Peter was talking with some who weren't a part of crying out, calling for Jesus' death. But he is still saying you rejected the Messiah. God further attested Jesus to us through the resurrection. That's where Peter goes next. The resurrection that God raised Jesus from the dead. The second great truth here, verse 24 But God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in its power. impossible because of God's power over death and because Jesus is God the Son. Impossible because of God's promise that the Messiah would be raised And that's where Peter goes to the prophetic evidence that the Messiah would not die and stay dead. Verse 25, reading or quoting from Psalm 16. Peter says, for David says of him, of the Messiah, of Jesus, I saw the Lord always in my presence. For he is at my right hand, so that I will not be shaken, therefore my heart was glad and my tongue exalted, moreover my flesh also will live in hope Because you will not abandon my soul to Hades. This is the key part of the quotation. You will not abandon my soul to Hades, the place of the dead, nor allow your Holy One to undergo decay. You have made known to me the ways of life You will make me full of gladness with your presence. Peter quotes that and says, Brethren , I may confidently say to you, now think about Peter, where he's come from, afraid at the fire. But now I may confidently say to you, full of the Holy Spirit. Peter knows that God, through the Holy Spirit, was giving him understanding. and helping him to preach this message. I may confidently say to you, regarding the Patriarch David , that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. And so What he's getting at is David wasn't talking about himself. And so, because he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn to him with an oath to seat one of his descendants on his throne, He, David, looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, the second David, the promised heir to the throne. That he , this Christ, was neither abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh suffer decay. So Peter is saying because of God's prophetic promise and because he had the power to keep his promise, Jesus rose from the dead. But not only is there prophetic evidence for the Messiah's resurrection, there is eyewitness evidence. Look at verse 32. This Jesus, God raised up again, to which we are all witnesses I didn't mean everybody there had seen Jesus, but the disciples had, and he's, I think, speaking as a group here, we, the disciples, have witnessed his resurrection. Certainly more than that had seen Jesus alive. So David prophesied, David the prop the king prophesied the Messiah's resurrection. Jesus spoke of his resurrection as the sign of his claim to be the Messiah. And Peter is saying, we are witnesses that he indeed rose from the dead. The crucifixion, the resurrection, the third great truth he declares is the exaltation. Verse 33. God exalted Jesus to his right hand. Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God , That's the ascension. And having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit He, Jesus, has poured forth this, this which you both see and hear. Now he's getting to the question of what's going on. He's explaining it. Jesus from his exalted position has sent forth the Spirit. So the supernatural events of this day that we refer to as the day of Pentecost. They give evidence that Jesus is alive and well at the right hand of God, fulfilling his promise to send the Holy Spirit Peter says, you have both seen and heard the evidence. In Acts chapter 2, verse 3 and 4, it says, there appeared to them, appeared to them tongues as of fire distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak. There's the hearings of the seeing and the hearing. There was also the rushing wind that maybe they could hear as well, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit was giving them utterance. So Peter says, This is what you have seen. This is what you have heard. And he was saying that all of these events were evidence of the exaltation of Jesus to the right hand of God. Because he was raised. Because he was put to death. Because he was the Messiah. Verse 34. It was not David who ascended into heaven. It's going back to his quotation. But he himself says, now quoting from Psalm 110, verse 1: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And here's Peter's conclusion in verse 36. So he's speaking 34 and 35 of Jesus sitting at the right hand of God, ministering from the right hand of God, sending forth the Holy Spirit. And his conclusion, therefore, let all the house of Israel know for certain, because of his crucifixion. Because of his resurrection, because of his exaltation, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, that is promised Savior, this Jesus whom you crucified. That's the message. Let's see the results. We see the results of Peter's inspired sermon as we continue in the text. God God still produces these results when Jesus is proclaimed. And I want to suggest to you that the right response To Jesus' death, resurrection, and exaltation. Include these things in your life For some of you, you can look back and say, yes, this is what I came to. For others of you, the invitation is: respond in this way. The first response is guilt. Verse 37. When they heard this, they were pierced to the heart. They were under conviction because they had crucified Jesus. Let me ask you, should a person today feel similar conviction? I mean, none of us who are here this morning shouted, crucify him in Jerusalem. To Pilate, who had the authority, but it is likely that many of the crowd that Peter was speaking to, they hadn't shouted that either. But what they did do was reject God's affirmation of Jesus. Look back to verse 22. A man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders. and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. So they didn't hold the hammer, and you didn't hold the hammer that nailed Jesus to the cross, but as long as anyone fails to acknowledge God's attestation, God's endorsement of Jesus, as long as anyone does not give him his proper place as Lord of life. Then you, like the Jewish religious leaders, and like others who saw it and just ignored it, you have rejected Jesus. And there should be guilt Anyone who has not come and knelt and said, Jesus is Lord, and I will follow him, there should be guilt. Because God has shown him to be the Messiah, God the Son. Second response is inquiry. A question. Verse 37 continues. They said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, brethren, what should we do? Listen, if you've never asked that question, ask it today. What should I do? If you feel guilty, what should you do? Well, the third response, salvation. Verse 38, Peter said to them, Repent. Repent. Change your mind about Christ and your rejection of Him, your ignoring of Him If you want to put it that way, or you're holding him at comfortable arm 's length, you might give him some mental assent. But haven't bowed the knee, haven't said he is my Lord. Repent, change your mind about that. Turn to him as Savior and Lord. Turn away from what you know is against his will in your life. Peter said to them, Repent. And each of you be baptized. That's the outward sign of repentance. Be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. Now, verse 38 is an interesting verse, and let me just uh Take a little time to explain that grammatically this verse could mean you must be baptized with water before you can be forgiving. Okay? And there are There are some that believe in what we call baptismal regeneration. We do not take the verse that way and do not believe that, because in light of Scripture as our context, verse 38 cannot mean do the work of being baptized and you'll be saved. It must be understood in this way, and this is grammatically correct as well, receive The forgiveness of your sins by repenting and by believing in the name of Jesus Christ, which you signify through baptism. Charles Spurgeon, great Baptist preacher in London, England, said it this way: this is what the text is calling for: believing repentance And baptismal profession. That's what's required. Believing repentance. And then we express that through baptismal profession The result of repentance and faith, notice the result, forgiveness of your sins. That's the great need of your life if you haven't received it. Forgiveness of your sins. Because if you haven't received forgiveness of your sins, you stand under the wrath of God. And if you die in that state, you will experience Separation from him for eternity in a place of torment, which the Bible calls hell. The great need of your life, forgiveness of sins. And Peter is saying, repent, and that And come to Christ. He's talking about the name of Jesus Christ. Believe in him, and the great need of your life will be met And that which separates you from God, your sin, it will be taken away. Verse 38 continues, and you will receive the gift. of the Holy Spirit. That's a great result of salvation. The third person of the Trinity will indwell and does indwell the believer and become to him a guide, an enabler, a comforter. Verse 39, for the promise, the promise of forgiveness in the Holy Spirit that He's just talked about, the promise is for you. And your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call to Himself And praise God, this is a work that God is still doing. This is why the church exists today, to proclaim to all and to all who are far off, and to grow in our relationship with Him, so that we are demonstrating the gospel in the way we live and proclaiming it in what we say. So it's a work that God is still doing, and no one is excluded. Peter at at this time did not understand all that it would mean for Gentiles. But he would understand that. And so we look at the text here, verse 39, and we know that God is inspiring him to preach something that Is dear to us because we were far off from Jerusalem and the gospel came to us. No one is excluded. Parents, pray for your children who have not yet come to Christ, not yet professed Christ, not yet been baptized. And let us all pray for the far-off, unreached, the places where the gospel is unknown as of yet, places where our missionaries are seeking to go, both in this nation and around the world. But don't leave verse 39 without noticing the promise is for you, Peter says as he looks at the crowd. And so I look at those gathered here and those online. I say the promise is for you. And if you've received it, praise God. But if you haven't received it, hear that it is a call to you to come to Christ. Verse 40. And with many other words, he solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them. Saying, be saved from this perverse, which means bent and crooked generation. He lived in a time that people were perverse in their thinking and perverse in their behavior. Let me say something about that Every age has their version of perversion. We have ours today. It'll morph, it'll come, it'll go, it'll get worse, it'll Sometimes get better by God's grace, but every age has perversion in it. We think ours is the worst ever, and we talk about the good old days. But if you go back to the 50s and 60s, it wasn't the good old days for everybody back then when racism was okay And where laws were there, even enforcing it. So I'm just saying every generation has its perverse thinking. It's perverse behavior. So I say with Peter, be saved from this perverse generation. And if I live 20 years and can still stand and preach, I'll say it to that generation, be saved. From this perverse generation. Because on our own, we don't look for God to send a Savior on our own. We think we're good enough by ourselves. That's perversion. That's wrong. And thinking we're good enough by ourselves leads us to all kinds of other things that we think are okay as well. Be saved from this perverse generation. The fourth result is baptism. Baptism, the outward sign of repentance and faith. It's a requirement, not for salvation as we understand the scripture. But as a profession of salvation. So verse 41, so then those who had received his word were baptized. There was conviction that had taken place. Verse 37, the piercing of the heart. There was confession that they had made. Jesus is Lord in Christ, verse 36. There was commitment, verse 38, a willingness to publicly show their repentance and faith in Jesus Christ as Lord through baptism. And so those who had received his word were baptized. That's a need in your life. Be baptized. It honors Christ if you've trusted him. Church membership honors, and that's the That's another result here, the last result that I'll mention. In that day there were added about 3,000 souls. The passage goes on to describe what the early church was like. Pastor Matt read that to us this past Wednesday night But there were added that day about three thousand souls. That's that's a lot. They were added to The church at Jerusalem, that's what it's talking about, where verse 42 says they received teaching, fellowship, and prayer. They became a part of that body. And the church goes on. And we who are far off have received the same message that Peter preached on this day of Pentecost. So the first resurrection sermon, Peter preaches that through the crucifixion, through the resurrection, through the exaltation of Jesus, God has affirmed Jesus as Lord in Christ. Many of you have not ignored that. And so we look forward to celebrating the supper and just being thankful. To know the love of our God, to send Jesus, and to love Him as we partake of that which represents His body and His blood. But to ignore these truths about the one that God has attested. To ignore these truths is to side with those who rejected Jesus in his day, those who had him crucified. But to embrace these truths is to repent and to believe and to be baptized, uniting with his church, knowing his forgiveness and the blessing of the Holy Spirit. That invitation is before you. And we would want to talk to you about that. So as we sing the last hymn, just know you can express to me here, you can come and express to me that That yes, I want to be baptized. Yes, I need to be a member of the Lord's church. Or yes, I believe in Jesus now, not just knowing about him. But understanding his crucifixion, resurrection, and exaltation, I receive him as my personal Lord. Be glad to talk to you about that this morning. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this Easter Sunday morning, this resurrection day of resurrection days. We thank you for what the resurrection says about our Lord. That indeed, indeed, all is true, all is confirmed, his death satisfied your wrath for sin. His death shows that he is your son. His resurrection shows that he is your son. His resurrection shows that indeed He fulfilled the penalty, paid the penalty in full for our sin. His exaltation, Father, shows that he is Lord of all. And points to his return. And we thank you for that. Help us to be faithful day by day, week by week, year by year However long it is before his return, help us be faithful to continue to take the gospel to far-off places as well as right where we are and right in our own homes. In Jesus' name we pray