Let's begin with Luke 1 :1. Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us. Um that could also be translated fulfilled, either fulfilled or accomplished. Verse 2, just as those who from the beginning where eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us , seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some p time past , To write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus. Looks like Theophilus is a patron of the research And the work and the writing that Luke is doing. Either way, Luke is in the immediate context providing this account, first and foremost To Theophilus, but obviously you know where it goes from there. It's through Theophilus to the church into the canon of the New Testament. So we can study it tonight as God's word. Verse 4, that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught. And things you have been taught refers back up to verse 2. Things that were have been taught by eyewitnesses and ministers of the word Have been delivered. So this is a work of verification of what they have learned through the apostolic ministry in the early church. Verse 5: In the days of Herod King of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes. of the Lord. That means very simply that they were started to be believers. They weren't they were righteous. How is a person how's the only way a sinner can be made righteous before God By faith and grace. Right. So they're righteous, they were believers. And they Walked in the ways of God. But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in the years. Now, while he was serving as priest before God when his division was on duty, according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar. And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him. Now, if you're picturing it, this would have been, Zechariah would have been facing the curtain. So he would have been in the holy place. Behind the curtain was the most holy place. The altar of incense was right there, right in front of that curtain that eventually was torn in two when Christ died. And so you have Zechariah in the holy place offering incense right in front of the curtain into the most holy place, and the angel of the Lord appears to him right there. What an amazing sign. What an incredible sight. An angel from heaven appears right beside the altar of incense. Verse 12, and Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer Has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. So that's the answer to prayer. Obviously, reading reading behind that's something they had prayed for. But it's going to be answered in a even a greater way than they possibly could imagine. You shall call his name John, which means the Lord is gracious. It's a shortening of the Hebrew word Johanan. Or Yohannan, and it means Yahweh or the Lord is gracious. Verse 14, and you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. For he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. He would have been born again from within the womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will go before him. In the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? So he wants verification. For I am not an old man, and my wife is advanced, or I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel, and I stand in the presence of God. And I was sent to speak to you and bring to you this good news. I know it's not not the main message of when angels appear, but to me it's always a reminder. Their obedience is always a good reminder to me. Angels do nothing but obey the command of their Lord, the will of God done in heaven, and we should we should take that uh attitude of an angel to want to be obedient to what God has called us to. You have rebellious angels that became demons, and you have obedient angels that are faithful to their God. I was sent to you to speak to you and bring you this good news, verse 20. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place. Because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. So it's sort of a discipline, he says that, because Zechariah had some sort of doubts The angel says you didn't believe my words. But at the same time, in a mercy, this is granting Zechariah what he requested. This will be an ongoing reminder to Zechariah. It's a supernatural reminder and verification of the words spoken by the angel. Because he'll be mindful of the fact that he's not able to speak for this the whole time until that's reversed. Verse 21, and the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple, and he kept making signs to them, and remained mute. And when the when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. After these days, his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months She kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among the people. And that goes back to what was said earlier in verse 13 where the angel says Your prayer has been heard, and your wife will bear a son. This is an answered prayer for Elizabeth and for Zechariah. And that too should be a reminder to us that God answers prayers. He answers them according to his wisdom, not ours. He answers them in his timing, not ours. His thoughts are higher than our thoughts. His ways are higher than our ways. And he is the God who answers prayers. Now, this first angelic messenger, Gabriel, appearing to Zechariah in the temple as Zechariah is offering incense The first thing I want to look at is verses 1 through 4. This really gives us a rundown of Luke's gospel. Or a synopsis of Luke's gospel, which is going to be a historical and theological record of Jesus' life and accomplishments. All the gospels are that This is a historical and theological. The and theological point is so important because we don't We're not called just to believe that these things happened, but we're called to understand the significance of these things, their theological meaning, their spiritual significance in history and in our lives. It's a theological and historical account. Verses one through four, inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile the narrative of the things that have been accomplished. That's the phrase I want to highlight. Things that have been accomplished. He says, things that have been accomplished among us. That's specifically referring to things that God has accomplished through Jesus Christ. Things God has accomplished. through Jesus Christ. Things that God had promised, things that God had prophesied, things that God said he was going to do. He has now accomplished them. Luke is going to compile a narrative of those things, things that have been accomplished. And in fact, it goes even before the birth of Christ and before even the conception of Christ. It goes back here, even before the conception of John the Baptist This angel Gabriel appearing to Zechariah is what triggers this whole thing. And this is how Mark actually begins his gospel. Mark one one, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ the Son of God, and then immediately he goes into the prophecy of John the Baptist. So it's with the coming of John the Baptist that The fulfillment is triggered, and the coming of John the Baptist is triggered by this angel appearing to Zechariah. Things that have been accomplished. A record, a historical and theological record. of Jesus' life and accomplishment. So the genre of the gospels is unique. It's unique in history. It's unique in the Bible. It is uh it's history It's also biography. There's also prophecy in the Gospels. There's also wisdom in the Gospels. It's a unique and rich. You know, there's such significant books, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They are theological histories, biographies, prophecies, etc. etc. And it's all the purpose of it all is to communicate to us the significance of Christ and his first coming and what he did and how that applies to our lives so that we could love him and serve him and live for him. Um let me let me give you an A B C here just to s m summarize or summarize Jesus' life and accomplishment. What what did he accomplish? Well, letter A, the fulfillment of prophecy. The fulfillment of prophecy Acts 3. 18. But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, isn't that interesting? The mouth singular of all the prophets, plural. What God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. As you read through the gospel narratives, it's the major theme. Uh fulfillment. Christ came to fulfill this and fulfill that, and to fulfill this scripture and fulfill that scripture, fulfill this word of this prophet, and this word of This prophet is fulfilled in Christ The fulfillment of prophecy, not the postponement of that fulfillment, but the actual historical fulfillment of God's promise of salvation and redemption. And victory over his enemies. And then letter B, which is the center of all of that, is he came to bring salvation Titus 2. 11 brings salvation. And Titus 2. 11 talks about how in Jesus the grace of God appeared, bringing salvation to all people. In him the grace of God appeared. That's what the Bible's about. If anyone ever puts you on the spot and asks you to summarize the whole message of the Bible in one phrase, you can't go wrong with It's the story of the grace of God. It's the good news of the grace of God. Titus 2:11, in him, in Jesus, the grace of God appeared, bringing salvation. Don't forget this last phrase, for all people. For all people. Not just for Israel. Not just for the remnant of faithful believers within Israel, but for all the world. Jesus says, I have sheep that are not of this flock. And he's going to bring them in. So there'll be one flock and one shepherd. So Jesus came to fulfill prophecy. And the center of that fulfillment of prophecies, he came to bring salvation. He came to bring the full grace of God, bringing salvation for all people. Salvation It's being saved, being rescued, being delivered. There's different ways you could say it. It's being saved from sin and all of its consequences. Judgment of God is the consequence of sin. Jesus saves us from that. Being in bondage to sin, being under the ruling power of sin, Jesus saves us from that. The presence of sin, one day, that'll be gone too. Jesus saves us from that. It can bring salvation. And uh isn't this our message? Not only to each other, but to the world. the people in Jarracksville and the surrounding communities that Jesus has come. In him the grace of God has appeared and he's brought salvation for all people. And on the basis of that, believe in him Believe in him and be saved. Letter C. He came to destroy Satan's kingdom. To fulfill prophecy, to bring salvation, to destroy Satan's kingdom. In 1 John 3:8, 1 John 3, verse 8. John writes that Jesus came to destroy the works of the devil. He says, this is the reason the Son of Man appeared, to destroy the works of the devil. Christianity is inescapably supernatural. There should be a wonder and an awe that we carry around with us In light of the transcendent and supernatural blessings that Christ has brought to us, the forgiveness of sins, the life of the Holy Spirit within us A relationship with God who dwells in the invisible heavens. We're not materialists. We don't live for material things. We don't live for temporal pleasures. There's nothing inherently wrong with material things. A proper view of those is those are gifts from God, so that we would enjoy them, and enjoying them we would see God's goodness and give thanks and praise to God for those good gifts. But we don't live for material things. Christianity is inescapably supernatural and it's personal. This is about me receiving these things And you receiving these things, and we believe in them, and our lives are changed by them, and our lives become devoted to them. We want to bring others into the fold. This is personal. Christianity is lived out. It's not something that's only believed. It's something that's lived out. Those who hear the word and do it, those are Jesus' mother's sisters. Sisters and brothers, there's a hope to Christianity that we have that's unique, it's peculiar. That we um we have a prize awaiting us after this life. We have a heavenly Father who lives in heaven, who loves us and watches over us and takes care for us and hears our prayers when we cry out to him. So it's supernatural and it's personal. And it uh you know this phase in history that we live in all began, all began these last days. Um in a in a general broad sweep. Technically it's the day of Pentecost where the last day spirit was poured out. But in the broad sweeping view of this era of redemptive history It began with Gabriel coming to Zechariah in the holy place right next to this table of incense, this actual table of incense right there. Pretty neat stuff. So that's the Gospel of Luke. In uh in a nutshell, it is a historical and theological record of Christ and his first coming and his accomplishments, the salvation of sinners. And the destroying of the works of the devil. Now, next, verses 5 through 17, the major, major portion of this event. And what's happening here is the resuming of God's redemptive plan. The resuming of Redemptive history in an active sense and the significant events. And it begins with the fulfillment of the very last prophecy In the very last verses of the Old Testament, which we'll get to in in a few minutes. But that's how this that's what's happening here. The gospel account begins with the the um the fulfillment, the story of the fulfillment of the very last promise of the very last verses of the whole Old Testament, which I think is pretty cool. Alright, verse uh what did I say, five? Verse five through seventeen. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. Luke tends to give a lot of details, historical details, personal details, because like he said, he's compiling a narrative of of things. But he wants it to be an orderly account. Verse 3. He wants it to be trustworthy. He wants it to be specific. And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. It doesn't mean they were perfect people. That just means they were above reproach. They were true believers who truly lived obedient life to God. Which you can do. People can do that. Not on their own strength. Sometimes you start talking about obedience or living for God or the ability to obey God and that can be misheard and mis Misconstrued and misrepresented to be work salvation or uh like we're saying that we have this power within ourselves or of ourselves. It's only by God's work in us that we can love Him It's by God's grace and by God's power and his work in us that we can obey him, but that really can happen. Believers obey God. It's out of love. That believers can obey God. That's all that's saying here. They're not Saved by works. They're not righteous in and of themselves. They walk blamelessly means to walk above reproach. Does it mean to be perfect? But they did obey God's commandments and his statutes, but they had no child because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years. And of course, in God's providence, he's setting that up for a magnificent display of his power and his intervention in hit in their lives and in his He's going to take away her barrenness and take away her reproach, as she says later. Now, while he was serving as priest before God when his division was on duty, According to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and to burn incense. Here again, you see God's Providential working. The lot falls not arbitrarily. We do not live in a universe of random chance happening. But the lot falls by God's decision and by God's providence. And who to whom does it fall? Zechariah. And the whole multitude of the people. were praying outside at the hour of incense. There appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar, and Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him Yeah, because it's a it's a heavenly being who dwells in the presence of God and Reflects the glory and beauty of God. It's not God Himself, but it's an incredibly powerful, radiant being that's appearing to Him. And he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. He was terrified. He was startled. And the angel said to him, Do not be afraid. Angels don't always come with good news. Angels come with whatever God sent them for. Sometimes they come destroying. Sometimes they come in judgment. And if uh Well, I say if, but since Zechariah was a believer, he would have known about the sin in his life. He knows he's a sin. He knows everything that he has that's good is from God's mercy and from God's grace. And if he's since he's a believer, like us, we're believers, we know that we do technically deserve God's judgment. We know that we're saved from that judgment. When we were lost is when we didn't think we deserved judgment. Now that we're saved, we actually understand that we do deserve judgment. We just are not afraid of that because we've been cleansed by the blood of Christ. So he doesn't know. Zechariah doesn't have any more insight into the secret providential workings of God than we do. So he is terrified, but the angel says, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. And you shall call his name John, which is representative of God's grace to them, but in the broader scope of this whole story that's just getting started, God's grace to the world. God's grace has been unleashed. God has been gracious. God has not forgotten his promise. He's faithful to his promise. He's faithful to his covenant. Um commitments, and he is going to bring salvation. And you will have joy and gladness. I love that phrase there. Joy and gladness. It makes me think of worship. True Christian worship is an Half. Half of true Christian worship is invisible. You can't see it. You can't see joy within someone's heart. You can't see gladness within someone's heart. True worshipers worship in spirit and truth. Worship begins inside of us. What we do outwardly is an expression of an inward joy. Giving thanks with our lips and singing songs of thanks and gratitude is an expression of an inward gratitude All of our obedience in general, all of our obedience is an expression of an inward love. Joy and gladness in the heart. God fills our hearts with joy and gladness. He does that by his word and by his spirit. That's the beginning. That's the essence or the heart of true Christian worship. And then we we sing and we pray, we express that joy and gladness outwardly. But you can fake the outward. The question is, do we have the inward? Do we have an inner joy? Do we have an inner gladness? Joy and gladness. Is the heart of Christian worship and adoration for God, a happiness in God. Many will rejoice at his birth. That's a key transition there, verse 14. When the angel first starts talking, it's about what? The answer to their prayer. The answer to their prayer to give them a child. But then there's a comma , really important comma. It says, many will rejoice at his birth. So this child is going to have a great significance, a significance that impact a lot of people, and it's going to create a lot of rejoicing. A lot of rejoicing. For he will be great before the Lord. So he too will be a servant of the Lord. Don't see great there and think that God means or think that the angel means great In the way that the world would measure it. He means truly great, a humble, devoted servant of God, messenger of God's word, filled with God's Spirit. That's what's truly great. The world measures greatness in its own way. God measures greatness in a true and proper way. John the Baptist will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. But John is going to be set apart in a special way. John is a prophet. John is the last Old Testament prophet. He's the last prophet under the Old Covenant administration. The final and greatest, greatest because of his significance, um, the red the historical significance of the role that he plays. Uh not not that he's a better preacher or or whatever. Just the significance that God gave to him. John was a prophet. He was consecrated for the purposes of God. Even from his mother's womb, he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. Let's just stop there right for just a moment. Or a few moments. He will turn many to God. What's another word for that? What is that? You know, it's not a trick question. Soul winning or soul winning? Evangelizing, presenting the gospel, but specifically you're you're overthinking it. Turn. Repentance. Repentance. God's gonna work through him to bring about repentance in what does he say? Israel. Which lets us know that a lot of people needed repentance in Israel. Just like a a lot of people need repentance in every nation. He's going to bring about repentance. It'll be through the preaching of the kingdom, the preaching of the good news of the kingdom. And um what what was it that you said, Vince? Soul winning. Soul winning. The one who wins souls is wise, and God is most wise, and God is the winner of souls. And he uses his servants to do that. He will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God, so he will have a fruitful ministry. John the Baptist had a fruitful ministry. Did everybody love him? No, of course not. It's because he had a fruitful ministry, because he really was doing the work of God. And whenever Someone or a group of people is truly doing the work of God, the forces of darkness are going to lash out and rage against it. And he will go before him. Before who? God, before the Lord their God. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, which is different ways of talking about repentance or summarizing or trying to encapsulate the essence of repentance. Turn from wayward hearts to faithful hearts, turn from disobedience to uh true wisdom and obedience, turn from injustice to justice. They're all just different ways of talking about when someone gets saved, they now turn they turn and live for God. To make ready for the Lord a people prepared. This is to prepare the people for the coming of their God. To prepare the people to receive the Lord. God promised that He would come and save them. He would come and shepherd them. He would come and gather them. He would come and set up his kingdom. And he's sending John. John the Baptist to prepare the people. And how do they prepare? Repentance. They prepare for the coming of the Lord. with repentance. Now it's a different situation that we're in, but it is it does parallel. It does parallel that in a different way. In a different way. Okay, I want to make sure I say that so I'm not misunderstood here. Here. We also live in a time when the Lord were expected the Lord to come. And people need to prepare now the same way they needed to prepare back then by repenting. By repenting. So that they can escape the judgment. Because when the Lord comes, He's not only coming in final salvation, He's coming in final judgment. So the Lord is coming, therefore, repent will be John's message. And the Lord's coming, therefore repent is our message. Of course that's just a summary of our message. Forgiveness of sins, the grace of God, the free grace of God and salvation. But that's how we call people to repent. That doesn't uh That's not opposite, or that's not in contradiction to the call to repentance. That is the call to repentance. Turn and be saved. Repent and be saved. Repent and believe the gospel. Paul sums it up in Acts twenty. Repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Where were we? Verse 18. No, verse 17 is the section. Begins with the fulfillment of the last prophecy of the Old Testament. Let's turn to Malachi 4, 5 and 6. Let me put my Bible ribbon in Luke. Malachi four, verse five, behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet. Before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. That would have been the day of salvation and the day of judgment. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children And the hearts of children to their fathers. We just read that. Lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. There was there was going to be a judgment, and there was a judgment that came on Jerusalem and on the temple after later in the The sixties and then climactically in AD 70. Those who didn't repent and turned to Christ And who were in Jerusalem at that time would have been killed and come under that judgment. Historically, Christians fled the city, fled for the hills, went to a city called Pella. Jesus told them, when you see the army surrounding, you need to flee, flee Judea. And they did just that and they were spared. Anyway, that's not the topic we're on immediately tonight. God promises he's going to send Elijah the prophet. Before the great and awesome day. Turn to Matthew eleven, seven to fifteen Matthew 11 7 to 15. Remember why uh what the angel said to Zechariah in Luke Luke 1, 17. That's why we went to the Malachi, but just in case you just want to make sure we get this connection. The angel Gabriel Said to Zechariah about John the Baptist, he's going to go before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts And then in Mal we see in Malachi, the end, God promises he's going to send forth Elijah. Fulfillment of that prophecy. And just one little hint and clue about the nature of interpreting prophecy. It's not always going to be a literalistic sense Elijah does not literally Come back. John the Baptist comes back in the spirit and power of Elijah. That's the fulfillment of this Elijah prophecy. This is what Jesus teaches in Matthew 11 :7. And I don't even think you need this an explicit teaching on this from Jesus because the angel's word to Zechariah proves that. Zechariah says this about, or uh Gabriel says this about John the Baptist. Matthew eleven, verse seven. As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. So he's speaking to the crowds about John the Baptist. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind. What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Are they just out there for the novelty of it? Are they just out there because something popular is And exciting is going on, something controversial is going on. Why did you go? Why did you go out there? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in king's houses. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes. I tell you, and more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. All the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And so John would represent the end of that administration of the law and the prophets. Verse 14, and if you are willing to accept it, He is Elijah who is to come. And he who has ears to hear, let him hear. Is John literally the person of Elijah? No, they're two different people, but he fulfills the Elijah prophecy of being the prophet who will be the forerunner of the coming of the Lord on the great day of salvation and the day of judgment. That's how that prophecy is fulfilled. John he is literally says he is Elijah. Similar, similar hermeneutics or similar interpretive situation in the Lord's Supper verses where Jesus Jesus takes the bread and says, This is my body. Obviously, we interpret that in a metaphorical way, because it's a symbolic thing that he's doing. So we don't s say as some do, as many do, that the bread literally is his body. No, we understand the theological and spiritual significance of what he He's saying. So John the Baptist would fulfill the Elijah prophecy, which is how the Old Testament closed. In Ezekiel 37, 24, God promises David will be king over his people forever. And he says, David will be the one shepherd over his flock. And he says that David will be the one to enable his people to walk in obedience. That's the prophecy of Jesus. Jesus is the king over the people of God. Jesus is the one shepherd over the one flock. Jesus is the one that enables us to obey God. It's the same type of things. A covenant God made with David that one of his descendants would sit on the throne and rule over his people and save his people and destroy his enemies. And in one prophecy in Ezekiel, it's summarized not as a son of David or an heir of David or a descendant of David, just David. David will be king. And Jesus is the one who fulfills that Some lots of things that you already get previewed. Let's go back to that Luke chapter 1. Just in the first couple paragraphs. Now the name Jesus hasn't been introduced. Jesus has not been introduced yet in Luke. But looking forward, you know this is all it's going to be a book about Jesus. You already know. That God is coming. John the Baptist has prophesied that he's going to prepare the way for the Lord's coming. So whoever's going to be the main character That John the Baptist is pointing to and preaching and preparing the way for, it is God, God Himself. So when Jesus shows up and just a few pages later, or one page later, Jesus is God. Jesus is God. He's brought salvation. He's brought salvation. He'll do that through what? Through suffering and dying and rising again, then ultimately Ascending into heaven. He's brought salvation. And he's not brought salvation just for Israel. He's brought salvation for the world. Turn to Luke 3. Luke 3, 15 through 17. If you have not read through one of the Gospels recently, or if it's not a regular habit to be reading through one of the gospels, Uh whenever at any given time, just to be reading through one of them in your devotions, or at least getting through all four in the course of a year, I encourage you to start. More than any other books in the Bible, the gospels put our eyes immediately straightforward on Christ, who He is, His power, His compassion. His purpose, his kingdom, what he did, and why he did it. The variety of the four gospels. Should always be reading through one of them, or at least, I think at least trying to get trying to in the course of Uh what did I say, Luke three fifteen? As the people were in expectation, and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John whether he might be the Christ, John answered them all, saying, I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is Coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand to clear the thrusting floor. To gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff will burn with unquenchable fire. Well, to put it in just everyday terms, street terms, He's he's gonna bring good things and bad things. Well, not literally bad, just bad from the perspective of those who encounter He's going to baptize with the Holy Spirit, but also with fire. Winnowing fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor. That's an image of judgment. To gather the wheat into his barn. That's an image of salvation. Gathering the elect, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. That's an image of judgment. You have salvation and judgment. Jesus does both of those things. And it's for the world. I want to look at I have seven verses. The constant theme, one of the constant themes in the Gospels is God's kingdom. We've been studying Daniel. The central prophecy of Daniel is that God's going to set up his kingdom in the days of the Roman Empire. He's going to do that through the Son of Man, and it'll be manifest through the saints of God on earth. And that happens in the The first coming of Christ. Luke 4, 43. Now we're just going to survey. I don't have a ton of these. I just have seven of these, but there's a there is a ton of them in the Gospels. Luke 4 Forty three. But he said to them Jesus speaking, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well, for I was sent for this purpose. And he was preaching in the synagogues of Judea. Jesus is known for his miracles and he should be. But Jesus was a preacher. He was a preacher and a teacher. The most powerful preacher the world has ever known. The best teacher the world has ever known. The most powerful miracle worker the world has ever known, the most compassionate minister the world has ever known, the one who had the least fear against the enemies of God. uh the world has ever known. And right at the heart of his ministry is preaching the good news of the kingdom of God. 9-2. Luke 9-2. I'm really just cherry-picking here. Now he's gonna call the twelve and ha and empower them for a minute. Ministry as well. He called the twelve together and he gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. That's an example of spiritual gifts from ministry. We're given spiritual gifts by God for ministry. Not to make ourselves feel great about ourselves, think that we're awesome, but it's for ministry. These supernatural gifts are for the sake of ministry. The uh the apostles didn't always get that, did they? You know, they struggled with pride just like Pastor Matt struggles with pride And they were arguing on the road. Jesus is right right in front of them. They're arguing on the road over which one of them is the greatest. They're concerned with their position, they're concerned with wielding authority and decision making power and exclusivity in ministry. They're given spiritual gifts for the same exact reason we're given spiritual gifts. To serve others in the name of Christ for the glory of God. Spiritual gifts are for. And he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. It's a very general point I'm about to make, but I do think it's a point of application that they ministered in word and indeed. They ministered in word and in deed, proclaiming, that means preaching, heralding the kingdom of God and healing, which was a supernatural verification of their preaching But even when it's not supernatural works, the uh the good deeds, the richness of benevolence and good deeds and self-sacrifice can be a witness, can be an apologetic for a message. It can give credence. To our message and it can draw attention to the message and show people that we're not hypocrites. Of course, there's always going to be some who think we're hypocrites. And But we minister in word indeed. Anyhow, the reason I go here, not chapter 9, verse 2, as Jesus preached the kingdom of God, the good news of the kingdom. He now sends out the twelve, and they preach the good news of the kingdom. Same chapter, verse twenty-seven 927. I tell you truly there are some standing here who will not taste death, which is the fancy way of saying who will still be alive. Now , if you haven't been in any if you've been in any of my classes on the parables and the nature of the kingdom Or specifically the nature of the coming of the kingdom, you remember that the kingdom doesn't come all at once in its full and final form. It comes in stages and it grows gradually. And there's one this kingdom is established in the church age with Christ reigning on God's throne in heaven and his Holy Spirit filling the church and discipling the nations They'll still be alive. You'll not taste death until they see the kingdom of God, see the kingdom of God established Um next chapter, chapter ten, verses nine through eleven I don't know if you've noticed this, but start paying attention. Christmas songs talk about the kingship of Jesus more than almost any other song. They talk about Jesus being king, God sending a king, king, God sending a ruler, ruler of the nations, the lordship, the universal, absolute lordship and dominion, and Jesus being a king. Christmas songs more than any other song. So why is that? Isn't it supposed to be about a baby in a manger? Yeah, it's about a baby or in a manger who grows up to be the savior of the world and ascends on high to rule over the world and have dominion, have authority over all things in heaven And on earth. Interesting fact about Christmas songs. And it comes from this theme of a kingdom. All throughout the gospels. What did I say we were at? Ten nine? Heal the sick in it and say to them Oh, this is now the 72. The commissioning of the 72. First you had Jesus preaching, then you had the 12, and now you have the 72. Um heal the sick in it in whatever town you get to and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near to you. But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into the streets and say, So here you go, street preaching. Go into the streets and say, even the dust of your town that clings to our feet, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless, know this that the kingdom of God has come near. I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town. Which is one of the verses, and there's a family of verses that are very similar to that, that can talk about degrees of punishment, just like you'll see some verses that talk about degrees of reward. Be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for those people who saw the coming of the kingdom and saw the supernatural signs that accompanied it and rejected it. Uh Luke eleven twenty. Luke eleven twenty. And I've got to tell you I'm taking a small piece. I mean I'm taking the Small selection of kingdom verses in Luke. We don't have all night. Luke eleven twenty But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, Jesus is saying that. If it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons. It's a conditional statement. Then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Now, Vince, you always answer when I ask this, so I'm just going to ask you. ask you, is it by the finger of God that he's casting out demons? Then the kingdom of God has come upon them. You see the power, the supernatural power over the forces of darkness is one aspect of Christ's kingdom. Authority. Just like he has authority over the Sabbath, authority to forgive sins, authority over the weather, authority over disease, authority over paralysis, authority over deafness. Authority over demons. You're talking about a human being who has heavenly authority and rule over demons, the demons obey him. I mean if that's not just one additional great argument for the deity of Christ, then I don't know what is. And remember, it's God setting up his kingdom. Well I thought it was Jesus setting up the kingdom. Same thing. That's the point. This is God. Jesus is God. Luke eleven fifty two. You know one of my favorite phrases in all of Scripture. is in this pat in this verse. I'm pretty sure now you check me on this. I think it's the only time this phrase is used in scripture. It's one of the greatest phrases in all of Scripture. Woe to you lawyers, for you've taken away the key of knowledge. That's the phrase. The key of knowledge. You think that's important? Oh yeah. The key of knowledge. Isn't that a great phrase? The key of knowledge is the key to knowledge. You did not enter yourselves And you hindered those who were entering. So, what does a key do? It symbolizes authority, but in a specific way, a key grants you entrance. The keys of the kingdom grant you entrance into the kingdom of God. The c and they did not enter the kingdom because they did not receive Jesus by faith. They did not repent. They did not enter And they hindered those who were entering by their false teaching and trying to turn people against Jesus, which they proactively, Jesus' enemies proactively did that. Try to raise up a mob against him and draw people away from Christ's ministry, which is always part of the MO of false teachers. Never ever content just to go out and try and start a following. They want to draw people away from the true church and the true work that God is doing, to weaken what God is doing. That's what Satan does. He goes against what God is doing. So the key to knowledge is a true understanding of Christ and his kingdom. And that's what they it says they've taken away. It says you did not enter And you hindered those who were entering. Anyway, I love that phrase, the key to knowledge. And then one more in Luke, Luke seventeen to twenty-one Seventeen. Let's just go seventeen twenty. Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, The kingdom of God is not coming in ways that can be observed. Now we should know what that means. The essence of the kingdom of God is invisible. We've said this over and over again. It's a spiritual kingdom, it's about saving souls, it's about hearts being changed, it's a heavenly kingdom because it's power sources in heaven It doesn't, and people want to go to the other extreme too. That doesn't mean the kingdom doesn't have an outward expression. For instance, your obedience. Practical righteousness, a spirit of peace, the these outward expressions. The gathered church is an outward expression of the kingdom. But the essence of the kingdom is invisible. It's not going to come in uh ways that can be observed, for instance, the walls of Jericho falling. That's what he means. The way the Red Sea crossing. Ways that could be observed. Nor will they say, look, here it is or there, for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. I've heard some in the past teach that phrase in the midst of you, which if you look just at the grammar, just at the words themselves, can be translated either within you or in the midst of you. He's not talking about that the kingdom of God is alive in the hearts of lost Pharisees. The kingdom of God is not within them. They were not saved people. They were lost people. Hopefully, some of them got saved. Probably. We're not sure. The kingdom of God was in their midst because Jesus was in their midst. This is the whole point of the gospels. This is the significance of Christ's first coming, that God came to earth To destroy the works of the devil, to redeem his people and set up his kingdom, which will be the light of salvation in all the world. The kingdom of God was in their midst. They had no clue. They refused To turn and believe in Jesus. But even though the kingdom of God had come upon them, which Jesus just said earlier. Um they didn't see it. But the fact that they didn't see it didn't negate the fact that it was their presence. Jesus' power was there working The final section, we've got to go back to Luke 1 just to finish out, round out. Luke 1, 18 through 25. This supernatural discipline. To Zechariah, verse 18 through 25. I'm not going to read it again. We read it earlier and even talked about it a little bit earlier. Zechariah says, How shall I know this? And uh Gabriel Says uh Zechariah, you're going to be silent and you won't be able to speak until the day these things take place, until the day Day Jam is born. Because he didn't believe. Because he didn't believe. So it's it's a discipline. Now we can take a broad principle there and talk for hours on God's discipline. in our lives. Let me ask you, is God's uh not god let's not start with God's is discipline. Is discipline a good thing or a bad thing? It's a good thing. Is it an act of love or an act of hate? Act of love. If it's done right. You can do it in a hateful way because we're weak and we're sinful and we our hearts are full of malice and all that. Hopefully God does enough of a work in us where we can have We can be good at loving discipline, proper discipline. God disciplines his children. He disciplines us because he loves us. He works in our lives through his providences to help us grow, to help us learn, to teach us. To draw us and drag us away from sin because we're prone to wander away from God and wander into sin. And if God didn't intervene in our lives, that's all we would ever do. That's all we would ever want. That's the only place we would ever be. is in the pit and mire of sin. And even as believers saved by grace, we're always prone to lean back in this direction and God has to discipline us Us to sanctify us. He does that as a loving father, to teach us, to humble us, to keep us. Pastor John talked about this proud process on Sunday in his sermon, how this is a gradual process over time. Part of that is uh a major part of our sanctification and growing in grace is that that gradual process that has so many ups and downs. Downs is to teach us more and more to trust in God, not in ourselves. I mean that's something that God has to really chip away at. to teach us experientially to trust in him, not ourselves. And it's also a way of magnifying A very important attribute of God. Remember, all of salvation, everything God does is to magnify his glory, to magnify his attributes in one way or another. This drawn out, disciplining, sanctifying process magnifies God's patience in Incredible way. Can you imagine if God were not patient with his children? With us? We would have been done and out of the picture a long time ago. God is a patient God. He's merciful. He's compassionate. He's slow to anger. He's abounding in love. We all know if we believe in sin and believe that we're sinners and truly understand sin and what it is and what it deserves, we know what we deserve and where we should Be is by God's mercy and grace, not only that we could be here and still alive, but also be recipients of an eternal life in Christ. But we still have sin that lingers in us. And over a gradual process of chipping away and sanctifying and teaching us to trust in Him, what God is doing is putting on display his patience. So we so we got one more reason to praise him and worship him for his patience, along with all of his other glorious attributes.