Well let's take our Bibles and turn to Second Corinthians four one That's 2 Corinthians 4, 1 to 7. Today looking at the gospel of the glory of Christ. The gospel of the glory of Christ. Taking a Break from our series in Genesis to give a particular effort to emphasize and focus on the gospel of our salvation And that is for the salvation and of the lost, that they may come to know Christ, but that's also for the sanctification and For the strengthening of the saved, that we might grow in our faiths and grow deeper in our faith. So, 2 Corinthians 4, 1-7, the gospel of the glory of Christ. Let's read the passage. Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. We have renounced Disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word But by the open statement of the truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel, of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Christ. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us Let's pray together. Father, I pray that you would use this passage to stir us up all the more in a love and devotion to Jesus Christ. I pray that if there are any here today who are lost, I pray that you would use this passage of Scripture and use your Holy Spirit to work in their minds and their hearts to bring them to faith in Christ To turn them around that they would believe in Christ. For every single believer, remind us that our whole Christian walk If we're to advance at all, if we're to repent at all, if we're to be sanctified at all, if we're to worship truly or serve truly at all, in any respect, it will be grounded in the gospel of Jesus Christ And so, Father, stir our hearts afresh to the gospel this morning. In Christ we ask. Amen. The gospel of the glory of Christ. When you think about the word glory, just think about a very simple concept, and that is Shining forth. It's the shining forth of something. It could be light, the shining forth of light. That's the idea of glory. So when we say the gospel of the glory of Christ. You could just swap out the word or the phrase and say, the gospel of the shining forth of Christ. Does that make sense? It's the gospel that shines forth Christ. Or you could swap in the word light. Instead of saying the gospel of the glory of Christ, you could say the gospel of the light It's the light of Christ that God has shown forth in the world to bring lost souls to salvation. So the idea of glory, not some high intellectual idea that only a few can grasp. This is something that everyone can grasp It's very practical. It's God shining forth the glory of his son, Jesus Christ. Think about what light does. Light enables sight. That's why you like having lights in your house, yes Right, and if you go camping, you're going to be in the woods, that's why you bring multiple sources of light. Probably something for fire, a flashlight, a lantern, maybe you need a light because light enables sight Think of what life on earth would be like without the sun. Without the sun, or take it further, without any sources of light at all. What's the point behind all of this? The point, beloved, is that the gospel enables Sight. The gospel enables spiritual sight. There's physical light for physical sight. of things in the world. But then there's a spiritual light for spiritual sight of things unseen, like God And his grace, and like having a true understanding of our soul. It's the gospel that gives sight. It's the gospel that enables, it opens the eyes of the blind. The gospel. In fact, that's the most common metaphor in Scripture. And you see, uh, you see it as a living metaphor in the miracles of Jesus of giving sight to the blind. The gospel shines forth the grace of God in a way that changes us. Have you been changed by the grace of God? We're not talking about head knowledge, like Brother Stefan made this point in his Sunday school. We're not talking about head knowledge. We're talking about the experiential knowledge of God's grace. Have you been changed? The gospel shines forth the grace of God in a way that changes us, and the gospel shines forth the love of God in a way that changes us. A great kindness, brothers and sisters God has bestowed upon us. A great kindness. Men aren't always kind, are we? People, humanity, I don't mean males, I mean just mankind. We're not defined by kindness and brotherly love, are we? We're not defined by self-sacrifice, except those who are born again by God's grace, but God gets the credit for that, not man. God's love will change us. The gospel shines forth the grace of God and the love of God and also the power of God and also the wisdom of God in a way that changes us. Have you been changed? By the shining forth of Jesus Christ, of the grace, love, power, and wisdom of God. That's what God wants. He doesn't want you just to know these things, so you can pass a multiple choice exam. Who wants you to be changed by these things, that in the eyes of your heart, in the eyes of your mind, that you would have a sight of Jesus Christ such that changes you. In heart, mind, will, words, attitude, and life, have you been changed by the shining forth of Jesus Christ, the gospel of the glory of Christ Verse 4 is where that phrase comes from. Did you see it in the reading? Verse 4, right toward the end. The gospel of the glory of Christ. Right? I didn't make it up. I just plucked it right out of the passage. Right? The gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. So it's the gospel that shines forth Christ, and it's Christ who shines forth God. So if you want God, you come through Christ. If you want the true Christ, you come through the gospel. It's the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of Christ. God. And on the idea of lights that I also mentioned earlier, look at verse 6. For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. It's the same idea. It's the shining forth Of God's salvation in Christ. It's the light of God's salvation in Christ. And it shines forth in the gospel message And when our hearts turn and believe, what's happening there? It's the same light shining forth in our heart. Light Shine out of darkness is taken from the creation account. The power of God in creation is being compared here to the power of God in what? The power of God in salvation. Let light shine out of darkness. The same God who said that has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So step back. I'll step back from the pulpit. You step back from whatever, whatever you need to step back. It's just in your mind's eye. Step back and just let this simmer what we're talking about. God shining forth Shining forth in the world, the glory of Jesus Christ. Now why is he doing that? Because he shines forth the glory of Jesus Christ So that we can be reconciled to Him and have eternal life. That's what God does. That's why God shines forth the gospel. He shines forth the gospel, the glory of Christ, so that we can be reconciled to him. That's the greatest gift of the gospel. I hope you know that. That's the central gift of the gospel. In the gospel, you get God. In the gospel, you're brought into fellowship with God. All the other blessings are wonderful, incomparable blessings. Justification, sanctification, but they mean nothing apart from being united to God for all eternity. Now, if you've come to faith in Christ, you have fellowship with Almighty God, fellowship with His Spirit. The gospel of the glory of Christ, the shining forth of Christ, the light of Christ. Today we're going to look at three aspects of the glory of Christ in the gospel. All right? Three aspects. So here's your roadmap. Three aspects of the glory of Christ in the gospel Number one, the power of Christ. Number two, the events of Christ And number three, the gifts of Christ. Alright, very simple. The power of Christ. That's what he has the ability to do, what the gospel has the power to do. Number two, the events of Christ. That's the events of his life and ministry. What are these things in history that Jesus did to make salvation possible? That's the events of Christ The power of Christ, the events of Christ, and finally the gifts of Christ. What's a gift? Somebody say it definitely. What's a gift? Free? Free what? Free something. Put it into a complete sentence for me. It's a free something. If somebody gives you, you're over way overthinking it. Yeah. Hey, wait a minute, Vince. That's just the same thing as saying free. Yeah, you don't have to pay for it. Amen. It's a free something. And then Denise tops it all. That somebody gives you. It's something that somebody gives you. Don't ever forget that about the gospel. It's not just something to know, it's something God gives you. He gives you a gift, a free gift that you don't have to pay for So, the power of the gospel, the power of Christ, the events of Christ, and the gifts of Christ. First of all, the power. So the astonishing power of Christ to save. That's where we are. The astonishing power of Christ. To see. That's astounding power, breathtaking power, otherworldly power, power that you see and you and your heart does not say boring. Right? It's astonishing power. Incredible power, and this comes from verse 7. But we have this treasure In jars of clay. Now that's where the jars of clay. Common, fragile, nothing to see here. Nothing special. This isn't the antique store with precious valuables. This is jars of clay. To show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. The power of salvation is the power of God. Worked in the human heart. He says, but we have this treasure. What treasure? What's the treasure from verse 6? It's the treasure in verse 6. Which is the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That's the treasure of treasures. That's not just capital T, that's capital R, E, A, S. You are E. Treasure of treasures. Priceless treasure. Infinite treasure. Eternal treasure. The knowledge of God. A relationship with God. Now we have that treasure in jars of clay. And what this does is it highlights the fact That the surpassing power or the astonishing power or the supernatural power or the breathtaking power is God's, not us. Not ours. The power belongs to God. That's why in evangelism we don't trust our own efforts. We don't trust gimmicks. We don't trust strategies. We don't trust our wisdom. We don't trust we the only thing we trust we're not trusting in the prospective believer. Something that makes them particularly wise, or some kind of something that makes them better than other people, or something that makes them more spiritual than other people. We're trusting in God and God alone. Now that will set you free in evangelism, to not feel an ungodly worry, to not feel an unbiblical angst and anxiety. God is in control. God is in charge. God's arm is not too short that He cannot save the law. We trust in God, and it gives us a peace, and it gives us a comfort, and it gives us a confidence Because of this astonishing power, the ability to say the surpassing power. It's just it's power that surpasses everything else. That's what that means. Surpassing power. Here's this power, that power You can have the power of a small car, you can have the power of a bigger car with a bigger engine, you can have the power the power of a of a massive truck, you can have the power of a machine five times bigger than the truck and you keep going up and up and up and up the until you get to the power of the sun, but the sun 's not the biggest star, so you have to keep going up and up and up to greater power, greater power, greater power, or power that far surpasses all of them is the power of God. We don't comprehend God's power. We don't understand God's power And the thing is, we've experienced it. And we learn about it from the Word. And we have the Spirit helping us understand God's power. We can't understand God's power. The only way we fully understand God's power is if we have the mind of God. I mean God's power so far surpasses what we ever see. And can measure in the created world. It's an astonishing power. The power to save. Now, in the specific framework of this passage, the way that this is talked about is the power to remove The blindness of sin. Alright? The power to remove the blindness of sin. Because in uh verse 7 It says that it's surpassing power that belongs to God. But it doesn't talk about what that power is in any detail, but the rest of the passage does. It's the power to remove the blindness of sin. And to give us the knowledge of salvation in Christ. Are you happy that God has worked in your life to remove the blindness of sin? I mean, don't we rejoice in this? Brother, sister, do you know where you would be if God did not come into your life and remove the blindness of sin? We would still be on that snowball of sin, going, going, getting bigger and bigger in our wickedness and rebellion, in blindness upon blindness upon blindness. Sin does not self-correct, amen? The only corrective to sin is the grace of God. God must remove the blindness. So that's what this is in particular. When this comes, look at look at verse 6 again And we'll work backwards up into the passage to see this. For God who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shown in what? Shown in our hearts. So this is a spiritual thing. It happens in our hearts. He's shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus The fact that that had to had to be shown in our hearts is because it wasn't there before. Right? It's not there. It had to get there. And that's why it says to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God. That had to be given to us. Why is that? Because it wasn't there. You weren't born with that. You didn't get that from coming to church a lot. You can't get that from being in a church-going family. You can't get that by doing religion. You can't get that through an emotional religious experience. The only way you get that is through faith in Christ. God has to do this in the heart. God has to put in the heart what's not there. He has to remove the blindness of sin. So here you have the light of what? The light of knowledge. The light of knowledge. And then go back up into verse 3 and verse 4. Now this is this is before we're saved. This is before that light comes into our heart. Before that glory comes into our heart is verse 3 and 4. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. To keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ who is in the image of God. Now that's unbelievers. I know that's unbelievers because in verse 4 is this key word if you're doing your exegesis, unbelievers. Unbelievers who do not have this knowledge of God, this glory of the gospel shining forth in their heart, the blinders. Have not been removed. The blindness to sin has not been removed. He says, our gospel is veiled. It is veiled to those who are perishing. Well, what do you do with a veil? What does a veil do? There's a better way to ask it. A veil covers something since you can't see it. That's the purpose of a veil. So when we're loss When we were unbelievers, when we were in this company of those who are perishing, that was the state of our hearts. The gospel would hit it, but it was like there was this veil over the gospel, and we didn't see the gospel in the way we're supposed to see the gospel. We saw it, but we didn't believe it. We saw it, but it didn't break our hearts and cause us to repent and turn to God. We saw it, but we didn't love it. We saw it, but we didn't cherish it. We saw it, and it didn't stir us up to worship God. But, but here's the irony, the great irony. Of gospel ministry. The only thing that can change a heart that is blind to the gospel is what? It's the gospel. But the heart is blind to the gospel. The gospel is veiled to the unbelieving heart. But the only thing that can change that is the gospel. That's why we never stop preaching, teaching, sharing the gospel. Preach the gospel, teach the gospel, share the gospel, give personal witness and testimony to the gospel in your life. The gospel must continue to go forth Continue to be articulated in plain, simple language, the gospel of Jesus Christ, because it's the only thing that can give sight to the blind. Did you notice that the blindness of the mind It's a blindness of the mind. Verse 4. The God of this world, that's Satan, has blinded the minds. That's interesting to me. When I think of blindness, I think of the eyes. Right? But doesn't say blind in the eyes. No, I could say that It would still be a metaphor, it would still be symbolism. But he says blinded the mind. Because it's a inner blindness, it's a spiritual blindness. The mind is blind to the glory of God in the gospel. Brothers and sisters, we have to remember that for a lost person to be saved, it requires a miracle. Are you with me, Church? For a lost person to be saved, for me, sinful Matt, to be saved and brought into a relationship with God, it required a supernatural work of God. If you're in a relationship with God this morning, it's because of a supernatural work of God. Amen? The astonishing power of Christ to save Some application points. First of all, in this astonishing power of Christ to save, which is which Supernatural power of God to shine this light of salvation in our hearts. Application number one: 100% credit for our salvation goes to God. Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. If you think more highly of yourself, because you're a Christian, you need to repent now And you need to have an urgency about that. You need to have a zeal about that. We are not better than anyone. We're children of God, beloved. That's the byproduct of God's grace in our life That's that's the result of God's work. And he gets he did a hundred percent of the work. We get a hundred he gets a hundred percent of the credit And the second application point I've already alluded to, so I'll just read it here. 100% trust in our evangelism must go to God. 100% trust in our evangelism must go to God. Third, 100% trust in our sanctification. goes to God. In fact, you can put this on your your homework list, your to -do list of personal devotions. Second Corinthians three, the very last paragraph, which is the paragraph right before the preaching passage this morning. And there Paul's talking about Now we Christians, believers, behold the glory of Jesus in the gospel in such a way that it transforms us. So why would we stop beholding the glory of Jesus in the gospel? If that's the thing that transforms us, Brother Stephan, if that's the thing that transforms me, why would I take my eyes off of the gospel and put them over here onto my good works? It makes no sense. And that was in our reading too, 1 Corinthians 15. We're talking to believers about the gospel, and he says this, by which you are being saved. Being saved from the dominion of sin in your life. Because you still have sin in your life. And apart from the ongoing grace of God, you would be living as a slave to sin once again. Have you experienced this power? Have you been changed by the light, by the shining forth glory? Of Christ in the gospel. The grace, love, power, and wisdom has it shown in your heart to change who you are. If not, would you repent and believe in Jesus Christ this very morning? And you have the forgiveness of sins, and you have the gift of eternal life. By the way, can I just step away from my outline for about 90 seconds here and just give us a summary definition of the gospel so we're all on the same page The gospel is the good news of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. We'll do it for each section. How's this? There may be someone in here who doesn't know the summary definition of the gospel. So I want to do this. It's the most important fact you'll ever hear. The gospel is the good news of Christ's death, burial, and resurrection. For the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. Now, middle, you're not off the hook. The gospel is the good news of Christ, death, burial, and resurrection for the forgiveness of sins. This is my erasing motion The erasing of sins and the gift of eternal life. This is my eternal life motion. Because the sinner who's separated from God is now reconciled to God, and that's the gift of eternal life. Those on the left, my left at least. The gospel is the good news of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. Now, we all should be able to say that and articulate that. You put it in your own words. You don't have to use my word. There's other ways to summarize the gospel. Alright? That's my summary. You put it in your own words, but we all should be able to summarize the gospel and articulate the gospel with clarity and confidence at the job of a dime. Job of a hat, job of a dime. What's the right saying, Mr. Good? Job of a hat. Job of a hat. We should all be equipped. You know, if you are saved, you are already equipped for evangelism. We can take workshop or this or that to encourage us in evangelism, but if you are a Christian, you have everything you need for evangelism. Because you know the gospel. Because if you don't know the gospel, then you're not a Christian. But if you're a Christian, you know the gospel, and that's what saves people. That's evangelism. Now we need practice, we need growth, we need encouragement, we need boldness. I'm not saying we don't need to grow on those things. I need to grow on those things. We all need to grow on those things. But don't think that you lack something Don't think that God hasn't equipped you for evangelism. He's equipped you for evangelism by bringing the gospel into your heart. So the thing that saves you, I guess this is what I'm trying to say, the thing that saves you is the thing that you need for evangelism. Which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The death, the burial, resurrection of Christ for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. Alright, I'll get back I guess that's sort of a preview for number two. The extraordinary events of Christ's salvation. We've talked about the astonishing power. Now the extraordinary events of Christ's salvation. Did you notice that's why in our songs, not every single song, but most songs, Christian hymns, they're all about who Jesus is, what Jesus did, what Jesus accomplished, what Jesus gives, what Jesus Promises, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. All these things about Jesus. The eternal Son of God came into history and did these things to get us, to win us the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. Extraordinary events of Christ's salvation. These are the events that need to be communicated plainly for the common person. Now, look with me at verses one and two. And although this passage doesn't outline the events of Christ's life and ministry that win our salvation, Verses 1 and 2 do tell us the mindset or the uh you could say the style of teaching and preaching these events. And he says in verse 1, therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. That eases us into it, doesn't it? What ministry? That's gospel ministry That's nothing confusing here. That's the ministry of the gospel. And then he says we do not lose heart. Which just means it doesn't mean things don't get tough. In fact, it's a reminder that there's going to come things that tempt us to lose heart, that make us feel like there's no going forward, that tempt us to give up. But we don't give up, we don't lose heart, we keep going. Because by his mercy God has given us this gospel ministry. And now verse 2, but we have renounced, disgraceful, underhanded ways We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word, but by, here it is, open statement of the truth. That's the truth of the gospel, that's the truth of Christ. By the open statement of the truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God. So if we do the things at the beginning of verse 2, we're outside of God's will. If we've not renounced disgraceful underhanded ways, but rather we're embracing disgraceful and underhanded ways, we're in rebellion against God. If we practice cunning, which is the uh the picture of a con artist there. That's the uh picture of spiritual manipulation. This is the MO of false teachers to practice cunning, manipulate people You 're practicing cunning or if we're tampering with God's word to water it down or to twist it or to warp it so that it's more palatable to the lost man, we're in rebellion to God. But we renounce disgraceful underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or tamper with God's word, but by the open statement of the truth, that's how we commend ourselves. To everyone's conscience, and we commend ourselves in the sight of God. In other words, just being faithful to the biblical gospel, being clear, straightforward, plain communications, uh about the death, burial, resurrection of Christ for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life If you flip backwards, it's probably anywhere from four to six pages in your Bible. Turn to 1 Corinthians 15. 1 Corinthians 15, the first paragraph Verses one to two of First Corinthians fifteen Is just to let us know that he's talking about the gospel. Alright? Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. And now, verses three onward give the historical events of the gospel, the extraordinary events of Christ's salvation. Verse three, for I delivered to you as of first importance to what I also received, that Christ died for our sins, in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve And if you keep reading, it talks about more resurrection appearances after that, and then the historical significance and practical relevance of the gospel, particularly of the resurrection. But you see the three core events of the gospel: the death, burial, resurrection of Christ. First thing he says is that Christ died for our sins Christ died for our sins. That's the heart of the gospel. So you're talking about the gospel, talking about Christianity. Someone says, yeah, but what's it all about? What's the he 's not going to say this? What's the heart of the gospel? What's the basic point really? What's the core? What's the heart of the gospel? The death of Christ in the place of sinners. You can do it just with one word, substitute. I've said that before. A one-word gospel, substitute. What in the world, Vince? What do you mean by that? I mean that Christ died as a substitute for me on the cross. Christ died as a substitute, which means he takes our sin as his own on the cross. It means he takes the guilt of our sin to his account. On the cross, he takes the guilt of our sin, he takes the shame of our sin. The death of Christ was not just painful, it was publicly shameful from the world's perspective. From the from the layer of the the world, from man's perspective, even though it's a glorious thing in God's eyes. But he took our sin as his own He took the guilt and shame of our of us of our sin as his own, and he took the wrath of God against our sin as his own. So that if you put your faith in him, when this day comes, The day of days, right? The day, capital T, capital D, the last day, this day of judgment. When that comes, you put your faith in Christ now, when that day comes and you stand before God in judgment, You'll have on your account not your sin, your sin 's been forgiven, but rather you'll have to your account the righteousness of Jesus Christ. The righteousness of Jesus Christ can be yours this morning. You could have walked in this room this morning, never given one ounce of energy to thinking about God. You can never give in one ounce of heart devotion to Jesus, to the Bible, to church, to anything spiritual ever. But today, today, if you put your faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of his substitutionary death, You have what? The forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. You mean to tell me I don't need to go out and work for it? Yeah, that's exactly what I'm telling you You mean to tell me I don't have to come to church for four months and prove myself worthy of this? Don't I have to come to church for at least at least a month? Give me a month. Don't I have to come at least a month before I can get saved? No. No, there's no prerequisite from you. Everything has been done. Everything has been accomplished. Everything has been finished Everything has been provided. The table has been set. Don't come into the house, open the fridge, and start cooking. Come and be seated at the banquet table of salvation. It's a free gift. It's a free gift. Don't put it off. Have an urgency for your soul. See, this is what sets true churches, biblical churches Apart, not only from other churches, but just churches, the people of God sets us apart from the world, is we should have an urgency about the soul. An urgency about eternity, an urgency about standing before God. People will stand before God in judgment. Brothers, sisters, do we feel the weight of that? This is going to happen. The whole world will be silent and held accountable before a holy God. Be saved today. Save yourself from this wicked and perverse generation and put your faith in Jesus Christ. It happens inside you. Have I said that yet? Have I used the word heart yet? Have I used the word mind yet? It 's not religion. The only way you're going to get my message, the only way you're going to get Scripture's message, forget about my message, unless it lines up with Scripture's message. The only way you'll get the Scripture's message for you is if you stop thinking in terms of outward religion and the feelings I get from outward religion and start thinking about the heart. And start thinking about the soul, and start thinking about the mind and eternity and standing before God in judgment. That's the sphere we need to be on, brothers and sisters. Now that's that's a loss. That's lost in our culture. We need revival and we need awakening. We need gospel heralding churches, gospel-sharing Christians. The revival starts in us. In our heart, in our building, in our ministry, of making it all about the gospel, all about the soul, all about salvation, all about eternity. All about standing before God in judgment. That's the great question of Scripture. When the judgment comes, who will be saved? Who will be saved? It's very simple. Very simple. Those who turn and believe in Jesus Christ. Those who turn and believe in Jesus Christ. Extraordinary events of Christ's salvation. His death for our sins. He was buried truly under the dominion of death, but then he was raised on the third day. That's the reward for his righteousness. That's the reward for his righteousness. Man, you know, some days I wish why can't worship service be two hours? I'm not going to make it two hours. I'm just saying some days I wish that. Some days. Um The reward for Christ's righteousness is his resurrection life. And the long story short is Not only do you share in his righteousness when you put your faith in him, but you share also in his reward. Amen? You get the same prize that he got. You get the same resurrection life that he got. His righteousness is yours. His reward is yours. But it all goes back to that cross where your guilt became his And the penalty for your sin became his. And that's that great exchange of the gospel. Jesus said, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. John 6, 47 Now number three, and quickly here, last but not least, incomparable gifts First, the astonishing power of Christ, the glory that God shines forth to change us. Second, the extraordinary events of Christ The glory of Christ that God shines forth to save us. Through these events, He won the reward that He shares with us. Number three, the incomparable. It looks like incomparable. It just means you can't compare anything to this. The gift The gifts found in Christ by those he saves. The gifts found in Christ by those he saves. Verses six and seven, once again. For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ, the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So the first gift, the central gift, the gift of gifts, number one, is true knowledge of God through fellowship with Jesus That's what I want for every single person in here. And brothers and sisters, isn't that what you want for your neighbors, for your family members? True knowledge of God through fellowship with Jesus. That's one of the ways you can define eternal life. John 17, 3. Jesus says, this is eternal life. That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. If you want to picture this central gift of the gospel, this knowledge of God, this Saving knowledge of God through fellowship with Christ, you can just picture two boxes five feet apart. Two boxes five feet apart. A box here and a box there. This box is God, and he's holy, and he's perfect, and he's righteous, and he's just, and this box is me over here, or this box is you over here When I when I was separated from God because of my sin. That's what sin does. It alienates, it separates us from God. And in this box is the opposite of everything that's in God's box. Over here is sin, corruption, wickedness, rebellion, rejection, foolishness, and on and on and on, and weakness and What Jesus does in the gospel is he brings these two boxes together and he forgives all the sin and he cleanses us of the guilt and he gives us wisdom and he gives us the Holy Spirit. He brings the two alienated boxes together. We have eternal life, the gift of eternal life. It's fellowship with God. And I'll just rattle these other blessings off. You I mean the blessings of Christ is not something you could summarize at all. You could try to, but there's just always more and more, deeper and deeper. Um Number two, the forgiveness of sins. Just that means erasing the guilt of our sins. Number three, a righteous standing before God. It's called justification. We're made righteous, declared righteous by God. You can tie that in with the gift of adoption. We're made children of God. First we're enemies First we were rebels, now we're friends, now we're in the household of God, adopted children. Number four, the Holy Spirit, aka a new heart filled with the Spirit. Anyone in here who's truly waging war against temptation and waging war against sin, you're the ones who are really, really thankful for the indwellings. Spirit. If you're not fighting against sin, you don't care about that. But if you're tormented by sin, if you're just tormented, plagued by indwelling sin, the miseries of sin, the wickedness of sin. You are thankful, to say the least, for the Holy Spirit. Number five, rest for your soul. Rest for your soul. There's a certain peace, a certain joy and contentment that should be peculiar to Christians. We're not always wanting more, wanting more, wanting more, grumbling and complaining about everything in the government, everything in the schools, everything in the church, everything at work, everything about traffic patterns. We have a rest for our soul that gives us a peace that surpasses human understanding, a peace that surpasses a peace that transcends human experience. Number six, the promise of heaven. Number seven, the promise of resurrection, which is our glorification. We can go on and on and on into the details and the glories, the wonders of these precious jewels, of the incomparable gifts that we have found in Christ. You could have all the money in the world, and you could have all the fame in the world. You could have the complete set of every single thing you've ever wanted to collect You could win and get the highest score at every single game you've ever wanted to play. From an earthly perspective, you could have the best friends. You could have the nicest boat. You could have everything you ever want. But if you don't have Jesus, it means zero. It means zero because you're gonna leave you're gonna lose it one day. Right after, I mean not right after, it'll be the same moment, the moment, the moment where your body dies and your soul departs, you immediately leave everything behind. We know that, right That's not advanced philosophy. You leave it all behind. Now, what lies after death is what I want you to get on. That's the platform I want you to step onto. What lies after death? What's going to happen after death? Well, you're going to stand before God in judgment. And on that day, please have Christ. Please have Christ, or you'll spend eternity in torment separated from the favor of God. You won't even have the capacity to experience joy, let alone joy Please, please be found in Christ before it's too late. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace to us. Any good thing we have comes from you. We give all the praise. Glory and honor and thanksgiving to you. Continue to transform us by your gospel. Let us not slumber. Let us not be apathetic. Let me not take for granted, but continue in our hearts to kill sin, and continue in our hearts to grow holiness, a holy affection for you. That is the greatest commandment that you've given us to love you. All of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Father, we pray by your grace, mercy, wisdom, and power, you would enable us to do so more and more According to your word. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.