Take our Bibles and turn to John 12. We're going to be in John 12, 20 through 33. I'm calling this message the glory of Christ in dying for sinners. Centerpiece of the Christian message, the centerpiece of the Bible's story is the glory of Christ in dying for sinners. It is not the only aspect of Christ's Glory. Of course, there's glory in the incarnation of the eternal Son of God leaving heaven and becoming a man. And of course, there's glory and power in his earthly ministry leading a perfectly obedient life, working wonders on earth like have never been worked before. And of course there's glory in his resurrection and there's glory in his ascension and there's glory on the day of Pentecost. pouring out the Holy Spirit that's been living and thriving and advancing and purifying in the church to this day and will continue to do so till Christ returns. But at the center of his glory or the centerpiece of his glory is dying on a cross for helpless Sinners, the glory of Christ in dying for sinners. You know this as well as I do that the world sees things differently than how God sees things. Am I right or wrong about that? Right, and therefore uh the world also sees things differently than children of God see things. You can think just one example of something as dark and depraved as abortion. It's very bad. The world says that's good. You can think of something as wonderful and as beautiful as the message of the Bible. Very good. The world says no, that's bad. You can think of the Christian life. Which is the proper way to live, a glorious, freeing, liberating, joyful way to live, which is good. The world says, no, that's bad. That's pointless. That's a waste of time. The world sees things differently than how children of God sees things, differently than how God sees things, and The prime example would be the cross of Jesus Christ. In the eyes of the world, it's shameful, but in the eyes of God it's glorious because of what God is doing through Christ's death on a cross. The world looks at it and says, failure, but in God's eyes and in our eyes, children of God, it is victory, victory over sin, victory over the power of Satan in our lives. the glory of Christ in dying for sinners on a Roman cross. The passage is John 12 beginning in verse 20. Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Basseida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now is my soul troubled And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said an angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered. This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. Let's pray. Father, it is not within us to receive this word as we ought But by the power of your Holy Spirit, we ask that you'd enable us to receive this word Show us what it is you want to show us. Help us to understand. Help us to apply this to our lives in the way that we should. We ask, Father, that you would show us the power of the cross, the glory of the cross of Jesus Christ, and what it means for us. It's in his name we ask. Amen. The first thing I want us to see is how the ideas of glory and death converge in this passage or how they come together in the passage. Look again with me at verses 23 and 24. And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. It's an hour where he's going to be glorified. Glory is going to be brought to him. Verse 24 Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies. It remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Do you see how the idea of Jesus being glorified and Jesus dying are in view? But then also go down to verse 28. It's not only the glory of Jesus the Son of God, verse 28, Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. It's the glory of the Father is also brought into view. The Father says, I have glorified it, referring back to he had been doing that throughout Christ's ministry, throughout history, but particularly here, throughout Christ's ministry on earth. He's been glorifying his name, and I will glorify it again. And they go down to verse 33. After Jesus interprets the meaning of the voice from heaven, He says, uh it's John writes this. He said this to show by what kind of death He was going to die. What kind of death is he going to die? Well, a death that brings glory to himself and a death that brings glory to his Father in heaven. That's the kind of death Jesus died. A glorious death. The glory of something is very simply the shining forth of its attributes. What's the glory of the sun? The glory of the sun is easy. It's a heat And its brightness. That's the glory of the sun. What's the glory of the ocean? Maybe it's size. Maybe it's depth and wonder. The mystery of the death of the sea? Maybe it's its power. The glory of Christ in dying for sinners. It's a glorious death. It shines forth the justice of God. This is where our sins are brought to justice. This is where our sins are punished truly and properly, the cross shines forth the justice of God, but it also shines forth, glory is shining forth of attributes, right? Shines forth the amazing love of God Because he was not obligated to do this, but in a gracious and merciful, incomparable love, Jesus died for our sin. Glorious death shines forth the justice of God. He does care about what's right and wrong. There are consequences. We are accountable. The cross also shines forth the love of God. But there's one more, and it's what that song was focused on. It shines forth the power of God. The cross is not just a lesson about justice or a lesson about love. Of course it is a lesson about justice and love But something actually happened on the cross, a miracle. It is a supernatural event. Our sins are born by Jesus Christ. He bears them. He takes them on his shoulders. The guilt of our sin is truly imputed to Christ, and the wrath of God is truly poured out on Christ so that we would never have to face it. It is a miracle. The death of Christ is a miracle. The power of God to deliver us from our sin, to erase the record of our sin. It's an unbelievable message of good news. And there's one more thing to say as this is being preached. The cross is the shining forth of the justice of God, the love of God, the power of God. This is accessible to you. As we sit here in this room, some some 2,000 years later The power of the cross is accessible to anyone who would believe. Anyone could come and stand forgiven at the cross. You come to Christ in the faith. For the love of God and the power of God. It's a glorious, glorious death. But that's the overarching and first thing we have to see about this passage is Glory and death converging. Well, the passage gives us three ways that Jesus' death is glorious. First of all, his death is glorious because it provides Secondly, his death is glorious because it pleases God. It provides life, namely eternal life for sinners. Secondly, it pleases God. This was God's purpose, and so God is pleased when it's fulfilled. It provides life, so it's glorious. It pleases God, so it's glorious. And number three, it procures Victory. It procures victory over sin and Satan. Procures means to obtain. To get it. And to win it. To obtain. To procure a spiritual victory that we could el uh it otherwise never ever attained to. First of all, it provides life. This comes from verses twenty through twenty-six. The death of Christ is glorious because it provides life. Of course, what do doctors work for? To preserve life as best they can. What the first responders? To preserve life, to protect life. But only God can provide life. Only God can give life, natural life or spiritual life, which is this is what we're talking about. He provides life. Verses 20. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. Now the feast is the Passover feast was at hand. The passage that Pastor John read in the Call to Worship on the triumphal entry, Palm Sundays. Is set aside as the day we remember that in a special way. Happens just before this. You can just look up on your page in the Bible. John 12, 12 and following, the triumphal entry. But you notice that this is not just Jews who are here, Greeks here, and you should think of them as a representative of the whole world outside of Israel Because Christ came not just to save the people in Israel, he came to be the savior of the fill-in-the-blank world. Salvation is for all nations. But it's in a representative way, an example, the Greeks are here at the feast, and they came to Philip, who is from the Said in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And this triggers Jesus to say something that's different than anything he had said in the gospel previous to this. He had been saying things all along, like my hour has not yet come. This is not my hour, and then he gets to hear, and in his perfect planning and in his control over all things, and his control over the pace of his ministry, he says, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies , It remains alone, but if it dies, it bears much fruit. Now, in this miniature parable, who or what does the grain of wheat symbolize? It symbolizes Jesus. And what's going to happen to the grain of wheat? It's going to keep on living or is it going to die? It's going to die. This is not difficult stuff here. This is not advanced philosophy or even advanced theology. Not that there's anything wrong with those things, but this is just clear. Clear as day. He's a grain, like think of him like a grain of wheat. That's going to die. Now keep look keep looking what he says next. What's the purpose of why he's going to die So it's when the earth and dies, if it doesn't do that, it's going to remain alone. But if it dies, it's going to bear much fruit. Bear much fruit His death is a death that's going to bear much fruit, which is an image for the for the salvation, the widespread salvation that's going to be the result is going to be the fruit of his dying. That makes it a glorious death. Makes it a purposeful, glorious death. He dies for sinners By bearing our sin as a substitute in our place. And any sinner, any uh anywhere in the world who hears that message and believes that Jesus is the Savior who died on the cross for their sin, is saved. If you believe in Jesus, there's n there's no steps in between you and Jesus that you need to take to qualify yourself for the forgiveness of sins. You come directly to Jesus. Come to the cross of Jesus Christ and believe that he died for your sins. Believe that he's the Savior. That his blood shed on the cross erases the guilt of your sins and you're saved. You have a relationship with God that will never end. His death provides life. He falls to the earth and dies like a grain of wheat, so that he would bear much fruit. And then in verses 25 and 26, you get a little window into what does the life of someone who's been saved by Jesus Look like. Is forgiveness something that I just uh I believe that forgiveness is true, but my life remains the same? Is that what Christianity is? What does this life look like of someone who is saved by the death of Jesus Christ? What is the fruit that he bears? Is really what we're asking. Verse 25: whoever loves his life Loses it. In other words, if your life is the most important thing to you, if you are the center of your universe, in the end you're going to lose your life and suffer away from God's favor forever if you love your life. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. He's speaking in hyperbole here, exaggerating to make the point clear that we consider our lives as under the authority of Jesus. We're we're not saying I'm the center of the universe. We're saying Jesus, you are the center of the universe I'm submitting to you. I'm not saying my life is all about me. I'm saying, Jesus, our lives are all about you. We submit to you. We follow you. We are nothing. You are everything. That's what that means And if that's how we live, through faith in Christ, we have an eternal hope in heaven that nothing in all the world can take away from us. Brothers and sisters, not even our own failures can take away from the hope that we have, or diminish from the glory and the wonder of that hope. Our hope is in Christ and Christ alone. Whoever loves his life can't say that. Whoever hates his life, keep it for eternal life. And if anyone serves me, he must follow me. Where I am, there will my servant be also. So Christianity is not just about being forgiven by Jesus. It's not It is about being forgiven by Jesus, so please don't misquote me on this, okay? Don't chop me off here, just quote that part. Keep listening. Christianity is about being forgiven by Jesus and then living for Jesus. Amen? Are you with me? It's about being forgiven by Jesus, receiving a new heart, and then living for Jesus As our joy. Not like begrudgingly, like, oh boy, I guess I live for Jesus today, but it's our joy, it's our delight. He's taken away our sins. He's given us eternal hope in heaven. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, I want to live for you. That's biblical Christianity. He is our delight, and it is our duty to serve him. But it's our delight to serve him. And serve me must follow me. Where I am, there will my servant be also. Just as he suffered, but now lives in glory, we also will suffer. And we also will be with him in glory. Amen. That's the goal. That's the goal. Being with Jesus is the goal. We want to be with people that we love. We want to be with people who love us. And what greater love is there than that which we have from God through Jesus Christ? If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Did you ever think about that as a servant of Christ? That the honor and the favor of the creator of the universe rests upon you? Yeah, all this time we spend wasting and getting up in arms worried about what people think about us while the favor of an infinite being rests upon us. It's incredible. It's incredible. The honor of the Father rests upon servants of Christ. But none of this, none of this. Would be possible unless Jesus died on a cross. Unless Jesus died on the cross to provide life. For us. His death is glorious because it provides life. Secondly, his death is glorious because it pleases God. This comes from verses 27. Through 29. Now my soul is troubled. But what shall I s what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour But for this purpose I have come to this hour. So the struggle is real. He knows what's coming. He's not a robot just going through this without true suffering and anguish. But by faith he perseveres. But for this purpose, I've come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it. Again. Mother's Day is coming up relatively soon. Mothers, when your children obey you, does it not please you and make you happy? Right? When they disobey you and are just causing headaches? Does that does that not make you unhappy? And is that not displeasing to you? Well you can apply that to fathers. You can app you can apply that principle to teachers. And their students, the coaches and their players in the workplace. We could apply it to children of God that our obedience pleases God. But the most pleasing obedience in the eyes of God that's ever existed, that's ever existed on earth, or anywhere, but we're talking about on earth, the most pleasing life. The most pleasing obedience has been the obedience of Christ. The obedience of Jesus, the Son of God. Now that The obedience that saves us. That's the righteousness that's credited to our account, while we could stand before God and be counted as righteous. As a child obeys , should obey. Right. The Son of God always obeys. Do you see at the very beginning of verse 27 that in the midst of struggle, Jesus trusts God the Father? Verse 27 A Now is my soul troubled. Now out of out of uh in a situation of a troubled soul, where does Jesus where does the heart of Jesus and the mind of Jesus immediately turn? To his father, amen. Amen. To his father. He trusts God in the midst of struggling and difficulty and emotional anguish. Well, you know, as I know, we can apply that to ourselves. All the things that we struggle through and suffer through, all the temptations. And sins that haunt us. No matter what, we have a Father in heaven we can go to, and we can trust and we can cry out, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name, and on and on. We can go. He's accessible. He's accessible to us. through Christ. We trust the Father and we can go to Him in prayer. And we know that no matter what is happening in the world around us, And no matter what happens to us directly, and no matter what happens inside of us, the struggles and the doubt and the sin and the laziness and on and on and on, you know the list as well as I do No mat despite it all, outside of us, to us, within us, God is our Father and brothers and sisters. He's there to help us. He's there to help us. He's there to help us and strengthen us and encourage us. And he will, I hope you know this, he will never leave you nor forsake you Not only does Jesus trust God the Father, but 27B, he obeys God the Father. I already mentioned this. He's committed to obedience. Verse 27B. For this purpose, I have come to this hour. He knows what the Father has commanded. And charged him to do, go to earth, complete the work of salvation, and he is laser-focused on accomplishing the work that his father gave him. It's for this purpose. It's for this purpose to die for sinners, to provide life for sinners, for the glory of God, who loves sinners. He trusts the Father, he obeys God the Father. Is there application for us in that point? Striving to obey the Father, prioritizing obeying God, living an obedient life? He trusts God, he obeys God, and he desires the Father's glory. He's glory of God focused. Verse 28, Father, glorify your name. And we're not to live self-centered lives. We're not to live glory -seeking lives for ourselves, I mean. We are to live lives seeking the glory of God through faith and obedience and worship and love. Jesus trusts God, he obeys God, he desires God's glory. That's the paradigm for faithful living. That's it. Three points. Trusting God, obeying God, and always and everywhere in my heart, set on God's glory, not my own. He pleases God. Jesus' death is glorious. It's glorious because it provides life for you. Did you think about that? If Jesus didn't die on the cross, You and I would have no way to get rid of our record of sin. There'd be no other mechanism for having a relationship with God. This is it. This has to happen. He died. A glorious death because it provides life, it pleases God, and thirdly, it procures victory. His death procures Victory. I needed a P word. I wish there was a more common word that would have fit in here. Alright? He attains victory. How about this? He wins. He wins. Is that okay? Verses 30 through 35, Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. So what kind of voice is it? It's a teaching voice. It comes to it comes to teach them something. It's for your sake, for your benefit, for your edification, so that they would know something that they didn't know otherwise. And Jesus gives the meaning or the interpretation. Now is the judgment of this world, number one. So there's a there's a verdict issued against the world of sin. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world, Satan, be cast out? There's a sentence issued against Satan Verse 32, and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. It is a salvation. That's going to be brought gradually throughout history, but really and truly, there's a salvation that's going to be brought to the world, to all nations, to all tribes. To all tongues, and in the language of the promise that was given to Abram, in you all families of the earth will be blessed. All People to myself. There's not one particular group of people, all people Now the whole nation uh doesn't go out to fight a war. Arrangements and the army goes out to fight the battle. And if they attain the victory, do they attain the victory only for themselves? No, it's for the whole nation. It's for the people they represent. And this is how we should think about Christ's death in attaining victory over Satan. He does not have the authority or the power to keep Sinners in darkness, blinded from the truth of God. Christ, rather, through the gospel, through the message of the gospel and the working of the Holy Spirit gives us spiritual sight to receive the word of salvation and be saved. Look carefully at the language here. And think about the nature of what a Roman crucifixion was and how it would have appeared to the watching world. Now is the judgment of this world. Judgment, verdict of the world. But Jesus will be the one hanging on a cross. So from the perspective of the world, who's the one under judgment? Jesus is the one under judgment. He's the criminal. He's guilty. Judgment has been pronounced against him. He's hanging on a cross. He is shamed publicly. But watch you if you can just peer through that into the spiritual realm to see what God is doing. in that event, not just what Roman soldiers are doing and the plotting rebellious leaders of Israel are doing, but what is God? He's Pronouncing and publicly globally announcing the guilt judgment of the world of sin. And the world, naturally speaking, is a world of sin. What would have happened in world history, this is completely hypothetical. Please don't misquote me on this one either. You can't have too many of those, or then it's just my fault if I'm misquoted, okay? But what would have happened theoretically in world history if God didn't uh give the promise of salvation and then and as part of working out that promise, set apart one nation as holy unto himself? What first of all, what nation am I talking about Israel, right. What was the trajectory of world history apart from God promising salvation and then working that salvation out in history? through a particular people to make his will of salvation known. Well you get a glimpse of it into a story of a very popular man whose name was Noah. Before God saved and called Noah to build his ark and to preserve the human race, so he continued working out his purpose. What does it say about mankind? All the thoughts of every man was only evil all the time. Like create a sentence that could summarize the nature of the fallen world apart from God's gracious intervention. And that's that that's what you have, a dark and depraved world. Well, victory over that reigning sprawling power of darkness and Satan is procured at the cross of Jesus Christ. His victory, judgment, the world is guilty of sin. And then it says, now the ruler of this world will be cast out. Cast out. It should be seen as a metaphor for Satan losing power and authority that in God's judgment over the nations Satan previously had that authority. The nations were kept in darkness outside of Israel. By and large, there were some exceptions. But he cast out that's a metaphor for that reigning power over all the nations was taken away from him. He's not cast out of heaven. He had already been cast out of heaven. He's not cast out of earth. Otherwise, he wouldn't be active at all, but he is active. Think of think of if the president were cast out of his office. That just means he loses the authority in the position of his office. He would still be. Here in the nation, he'd still actually have an influence and many of his followers. Followers would love him more than ever because of what happened to him But his authority, his reigning official authority has been taken away from him So that the Savior of the world, reigning in heaven, having received all authority, help me finish the phrase if you know it, from the end of Matthew, he's received all authority in and on Right, so that he, the reigning Lord, could do what he says next. When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. Now, if you're a highlighter You can highlight I will draw. I will draw So he procures victory in number one issuing a verdict against the world, issuing a sentence against Satan, and number three, he begins to bring salvation to the whole world. That's what that's referring to. I will draw all people to myself. Well, what's the problem? All people didn't witness Jesus dying on a cross. He's lifted up on the cross. I'm not even talking about just all people in history. All people in the world at that time. All people within You know, only the people there saw it. So how is he going to use Jesus on the cross? How is Jesus going to use His death to draw all people to him. Not all people saw that or see that. That's it. The preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in the power of the Spirit. Here's the point I'm closing on. It's the event of the cross that's the power of God. Letter A. And letter B, it's the preaching of the cross that's the power of God for salvation. Letter B, the event of the cross is a miracle where Jesus By the power and grace of God, praise God for his grace toward us. Died for our sins, and it's the preaching of the cross. through which Christ reaches our hearts. He reached your heart by the work of the Holy Spirit through the gospel. He reached my heart through the working of the Holy Spirit, through the gospel. Jesus died for sinners. Jesus died for you. Don't delay. Come to Jesus and be saved. Have the record of your sin Blotted out, erased, come into a relationship with God and have the hope of heaven for all eternity. The event of the cross was the power of God and the glory of God. But the word of the cross today, even today, remains The power of God and the glory of God. I want to show you one cross-reference on this. 1 Corinthians 1, beginning in verse 17. 1 Corinthians 1 17. Jesus is lifted up on the cross and then he dies, and then he's then he eventually ascends to heaven. And it's from there, through the preaching of the good news of the salvation that he brings, that he continues to draw sinners into communion with God, into a relationship with God. First Corinthians 1, beginning in verse 17. Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Now, Paul baptized. He's thus making a statement how baptism is not important. Baptism is very important. He's just saying that's not the central That's not the center of his message. But to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom. He's not just trying to be a good public speaker. He's not a pitch man Lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. The message of the cross of Christ has Power, not with words of eloquent wisdom, otherwise the cross of Christ would be emptied of its power. Verse 18, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. I hope you apply that to your heart, as I hope I apply that to my heart. The cross of Christ is not just the power that gets us. Saved, it continues to be the power of God to further sanctify us and strengthen us in the faith. To us who are being saved , He doesn't say it was the power of God. He says it is the power of God. The power of God in the word of the cross. Now go down to verse 22. Now, Jews demand signs, aka miracles. Greeks seek wisdom. You know that as Greek philosophy. But we preach Christ crucified. Now he's a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles And otherwise, if all you're wanting is just miracles and outward signs, this message of the cross will be a stumbling block to you. And if all you're wanting is just philosophy and worldly wisdom, this will be This will be a stumbling block to you. This will be foolishness to you. Verse 24, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Go down to verse 26. Consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Right? We weren't the geniuses of the world. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth, so we're not were not the elite influencers of the world. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. He chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. He chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring not to nothing things that are. So that no human being might boast in the presence of God. It's because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us Wisdom from God, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption, so that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. If your boast is in the Lord this morning, would you say Amen? He's our boast. We don't boast in ourselves. He g Look at these things. Verse 30 It's because of him, it's because of God, you're in Christ Jesus. That means you have a relationship with Christ Jesus, who became to us four things, right? Wisdom, righteousness. Sanctification and redemption. How? How did he become those things to us? Through the message of the cross. That's the entire context. It's the message of the cross that will humble us. And in fact, kill us, kill the old me that used to be a slave to sin, and bring us to life through faith in Christ. It's the message of the cross, the power of the cross. To provide life, not just when it happened, but even as it's preached today. And you can receive that life, the life that comes from Christ's death today. through faith and repentance, which means turning from living turn from living for yourself to living for Christ. He provides life. The preaching of the cross pleases God. The cross pleased, was pleasing to God. The preaching of the cross pleases God. And the cross procured victory, and the preaching of the cross procured victory. The last image I want to leave you with is the image of conquest. I want you to think of the conquest of the gospel. The kingdom of God is a heavenly kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. His kingdom is not of this world. It's not like a geopolitical nation. It's a spiritual kingdom. And the way Christ advances his kingdom on conquest against forces of darkness is through the Word and the Holy Spirit, through his church, through his servants. It reminds me, and it should stir us up, uh, of our calling and our place in this world. We gather and we worship God. A church means a it's a gathered people, it's a called out and assembled and gathered people. That's central to our identity. But we're also messengers. We're also ambassadors. We're also goers. To bring the message of salvation, to bring the message of the cross to others who've not yet been saved. Don't think that People are living their lives with a full understanding of who Jesus is and a full understanding of what he did, but rather they just choose to ignore it. And many of them would choose to ignore it even if they heard it, but most people haven't heard the true gospel, the true message of Christ. I mean we live in a day where there's even within what's labeled Christianity, there's just so many different kinds of beliefs. So many assumptions that people have about Christianity, it's our duty, it's our job to speak truth plainly, because it's through the truth the hearts get born again. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the cross of Jesus Christ. We thank you for the life that He's provided for us through that death. We thank you for how you are glorified and you are pleased with His death. And Father, we thank you for the spiritual victory that you've won. Victory over Satan, victory over sin, and in Christ's resurrection, victory over death. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for your power. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.