And not talking about you, good, versus the world out there, evil, but we're talking about the Holy Spirit in you. Good versus sin also in you, evil. The Holy Spirit working to Stoke your affections for God that you might see him clearly and love him deeply and know him rightly and serve him faithfully. And then sin fighting back relentlessly to dampen and to snuff out your affection for God. This is the battle of the Christian. So we begin a four-part series from Romans chapter six, Sanctification, God's gift of holiness. So what we need to do is spend around ten minutes Doing an overview to introduce the series as a whole, and then we'll look at verses one through seven this morning. The key verses for the series, first Verse 19. Look at verse 19. Paul writes, I'm speaking in human terms because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness. He's talking about the life given over to sin before we were saved. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness. Leading to sanctification. Some of your translations don't say sanctification, they say holiness. Another key verse is verse 22. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become servants of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification. And its end eternal life. And again, some of your translations say holiness. Sanctification essentially means holiness. So your King James and your New King James and your NIV will translate their holiness. instead of sanctification. Holiness just comes from an old English root word. Sanctification comes from a Latin root word, but it means the same thing. Either way, it refers to the act of making holy or the process of becoming more holy. Sanctification has the idea of Consecration, that's a a r a formal religious word you might have heard, consecration, which has the idea of setting apart for holy use But it also has the idea of purification, a spiritual cleansing, a spiritual washing. Imagine the whole world As a contaminated toxic ocean. But then some scientists figure out how to scoop out samples And set them apart and purify them for safe usage. That's the image, that's the picture of sanctification. Of course Sanctifying us, God doesn't remove us physically from the world. But spiritually, He scoops us up out of a world that's given over to sin, and He sets us apart for holy use in His kingdom. And when he's doing that, he also gives us his spirit inside of us to cleanse us spiritually. That's sanctification. God's gift of holiness. Before we received Jesus, our hearts were corrupt and given away from sin. In Christ, our hearts are cleansed. Before we received Jesus, our minds were darkened. We couldn't see the truth. We didn't like the truth. We wouldn't receive the truth. But in Christ We've been illumined. The truth has set us free. We've been sanctified. How do those changes happen? God's gift of holiness. God's gift of holiness. Sanctification. Here are the blanks on that introduction part of your outline. Sanctification is God's gift of making us Like Jesus by the Holy Spirit, is forming Christ in us that we would reflect Jesus Christ in the world for the glory of God. Number two, sanctification is God's gift to all believers, not just some. So if you've been a Christian for 45 minutes or 45 days or 45 years, sanctification needs to be a relevant topic for your everyday life. 1 Thessalonians 4 3. This is God's will, your sanctification. Number three, sanctification is God's gift. To all of you. To all of you. That simply means the whole person It's a gift that impacts your heart and the things you love and treasure and seek. It's a gift that impacts your mind and the way you think and the things you think. The way you prioritize things in your life. It's a gift that impacts your will, your decisions in life. What you do and don't do. And it's a gift that impacts your body. What you do with your body. One example, just the way you speak and how you use your words in the world. That should reflect the holiness that's given to us by God. Sanctification is God 's gift, number four, given first at conversion, and then gradually all your life. All your life. Try to make it simple. The last three blanks were the same word. All. Sanctification is God's gift by grace through faith. By grace through faith, not by works. Justification is by faith, not by works. Sanctification Is by faith, not by works. Acts twenty-six, verse eighteen. Paul's talking about his ministry of the g to the Gentiles to open their eyes So that they may turn from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me was Jesus speaking, giving this commission to Paul. Sanctified by faith in Jesus. Sanctification makes you unlike the world around you. Sanctification makes you unlike the world around you. If it were up to mankind, we'd say we're fine just the way we are. Now, isn't that the anthem of society today? We are good. Any lust or passion that we have is good and right and proper, and if there's a problem, it's not with us, it's with God. But we're not fine. And we're not good. We do need help. We need the truth in the midst of a culture of lies. We need forgiveness. We need to be sanctified, to be washed and reborn, that we might love and seek and know God, God's gift of holiness. Personal examination. Do you want to see God's character shining through you and your life? Has your last year and will this year 2020 be about that? God's character shining through your life. Do you want to see the image of Christ formed in you, nurturing your heart, reshaping your mind? Do you want to see and experience the transforming power of the Holy Spirit? By the way, if you do want those things, are you going against the grain of pop culture and society or what? Are you locked in that epic battle inside you? To see God reflected in your life, then Christ formed inside you. So often the first thing that God wants from you is the last thing the world wants from you. In many cases, it's the last thing your family and friends want from you. You've got to fight that battle. What direction have you been heading? Closer to God Further from God or are you just stalled on the side of the road just kind of going through the motions? Has your love for God Been stoked and growing hotter with affection and a desire to know him and seek him, or is it cold and almost frozen over like the ground outside? What about your love for his word? Do you desire his word more and more deeply? Or I don't really care about that. Of your hobbies and habits? Have you been shedding off hobbies and habits that God wants you to have and taking on hobbies and habits That God really doesn't want you to have? Or have you been sh doing the opposite? Shedding off those hobbies and habits that the Lord doesn't want you to have. And taking on and fully embracing Hobbies and habits that the Lord would say, Yes, this is where I want you. What about your prayer life? Has it been colder, colder, or hotter, hotter? Sanctification God's gift of holiness makes us different than the world around us. We cannot be a people who just join in with the mass of pop culture and just go with the flow. Sanctification makes Us and makes you like the God above you. It makes us different than the world around us, but it makes us like the God above us. If holiness is a reflection of God, and that's exactly what holiness is, it's a reflection of God, and what is sin? Sin is the opposite. Anything that's the opposite of God, anything that's opposed to God is sin. Anything that is like God or resembles God or that is for God is holiness. But if holiness is a reflection of God, we must ground all of our thoughts on sanctification in Him. In God Himself. God is holy. That means at the very least, he's the definition of moral perfection. The absolute uniqueness and excellence of God sets him apart from and far above everything else No matter what you could find in creation, or no matter what you could conjure up in your imagination that could be of creation , God is something other than what you found. God is something other than what you conjured up. God is holy God has no limits. Things in creation have limits. God has no limits. Not in his knowledge, power, or being. Things in creation are dependent upon other things to exist. God is independent. God is not like that God depends on nothing outside of himself. Things in creation began to exist at a point in time. Not God. God is the beginningless one. He's not like things in creation. Things in creation, you could find multiple things of the same kind. You could find a grain of sand over here and then another grain of sand over here and They are of the same kind. You can have an oak tree over here and an oak tree over here. They're of the same kind. You can have a strawberry over here and a strawberry over there. They're of the same kind. You can' Do that with God. There's only one God. Only one God. He's a unique Being holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come. He's categorically different than anything and everything in creation. That means he's in his own category. And he's infinitely superior to anything in creation. Which shows us how foolish it is to seek after things in this creation as our ultimate fulfillment and joy. He's gloriously supernaturally beyond anything our minds could ever imagine or conjure up within time and space. Father Son, Holy Spirit, one eternal God existing in three eternal equal persons. God He created all things out of nothing by his purpose and power. He's fashioning for himself a holy people. Using sinners as the building material, mind you. He's fashioning for himself a holy people by sanctifying them, setting them apart for use in his kingdom, and all this by his purpose. Which is a gracious purpose. It has to be a gracious purpose because he's doing good to undeserving sinners and by his power, which is a merciful power, withholding the judgment we deserve and giving us good things we could never deserve. By the way, why is he doing all that? Doing it just to pass the time? Is he doing it just to do it? Did he consult some committee outside of himself and say, Now what could I do He's doing it all to manifest his glory and his holiness so that he might be praised and worshiped the way he deserves. It's all about God. It's all about God. So to be made holy, to be sanctified, is to be set apart by God, is to be set apart for God and in some way to be made like God to manifest him in the world. Praise God for his wonderful gift. The gift of holiness, sanctification. Well there's your overview. You want to go back and look at that? It's that word sanctification or holiness is coming again, verses 19 and 22. Now let's back up. Here's the first part of the series. Part one, the reality of sanctification. Let's read together verses one through seven. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that Just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For, if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. So that we would no longer be enslaved to sin, because the one who has died has been set free from sin. Roman number one, a practical question. A practical question that comes from verse one. And the key words here are sin and grace. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? Now here are your blanks and your outlines. Since God's grace will always surpass our sin, that's what Paul taught in Romans 5 20. Should we sin more in order to get more grace? Since we are righteous because of Jesus' obedience, which Paul teaches and Chapter five verse nineteen. By the way, that's where he chapters five, verse nineteen and twenty is where he summarized that. He's teaching it. Chapters one, two, three, and four. He summarizes it in five, nineteen, and twenty, right before he gets to this question in Chapter 6. Since we are righteous because of Jesus' obedience, not ours, does our obedience not matter? Does our obedience not matter? Since that's not what saves us. I want you to picture two neighboring kingdoms Constantly at war with each other. Two domains, two realms: the kingdom of sin and the kingdom of grace And the purpose of each kingdom is to destroy the other one, drive it out of existence, and drive any effect or influence of the other kingdom out of existence. The sin kingdom hates and wants to destroy the grace kingdom. The grace kingdom despises and is constantly working to destroy the sin kingdom. Infections fight against your body. So you need antibiotics to fight against the infections. The dominion of sin and the dominion of God's grace are fighting against one another in like manner, each one trying to erase the effects and influence. Now look again at verse 1 and meditate on these questions. Would a citizen of one kingdom fight against its own kingdom? Do citizens of grace help the Sin Kingdom grow stronger and expand its border? Do citizens of the Sin Kingdom Help grace grow stronger and expand its border. Well the obvious answer in your mind would be, well, no. Because we've already said these are two kingdoms opposed to one another and constantly working in opposition to one another. Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? Absolutely not. Because if you're under grace, by very definition, you're in a kingdom that's fighting against sin. And that's the question of this chapter. And brethren, it's a daily, intensely practical question. Of spiritual battle in your life. The grace kingdom fighting against sin and its effects and influence in your heart and mind and life. And vice versa. Yeah, you would agree, there's no question there's an epic battle going on between sin and grace, between good and evil. The question is, which kingdom are you in? Under Under whose rule? In what realm do you belong? And the other question is this: if you're under the reign of grace, if you are a citizen of the grace kingdom, are you fighting Against sin? That's what the grace kingdom is by definition. Or are you fighting for sin? Giving it a stronger foothold in your life? Are you feeding those pet sins, not knowing that they'll grow to be beasts that will devour you? Roman number two, the basic answer. The basic answer from verses two and four. Two through four. By no means, in other words, heavens know A continue in sin that grace may abound? Heavens! No! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism Into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. Now here's your blanks on your outline. The basic answer, no, because we died to sin and have been risen to new life in Jesus Christ. We once belonged to the sin kingdom. Yes, our heart, mind, will, actions all twisted and tainted by sin. And then we died, and that's exactly what it says here. We who died to sin. And we were carried outside the city gates of the realm of sin. And buried. That's what it says here. We were buried. Burial marks the certainty and the finality of death. That's the significance here of the burial. Did we die as citizens of the sin kingdom? Yes. We died and we were buried. And then something else happens. Something remarkable and miraculous. You wouldn't believe it unless it happened to you. Seeing it with your own eyes isn't enough. You must See it by faith through experience in the eyes of your heart. Dead and outside the sin kingdom, we were resurrected to newness of life And again, that's exactly what it says here. Just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. You see, you were a citizen of the sin kingdom, and then you died, and you were buried, and you were risen, and now you're walking in the newness of life. That's Christianity. The operative phrase here is just as, just as, just as Christ was raised from the dead. Christ was raised, we were raised. Christ received new life. He received new life. And that Christ was raised, look at what it says, by the glory of the Father. That's just talking about the showcase of the Father's incomparable power in his dead body. He was raised by the glory of the Father. And just as he was raised by the glory of the Father, we were raised by the glory of the Father to newness of life in Christ. Just a parenthesis here, if you want to read chapter 6 of Romans in your devotion time, what you'll see is Paul's basically talking about two things. One, he's talking about how Jesus saved us, right? He died, he was buried, and he was risen. And then he talks about how we participate in that by faith. So he's talking about one Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection. And then he's talking about too our spiritual death, burial, and resurrection in him. Whole chapter's about that. The whole chapter's about that. Now, many of our personal efforts To grow in our sanctification or to progress in our strength sanctification fall short. They come up against a brick wall because that's not how we start. We want to start with what? Just tell me what to do. Just tell me what to do and how to do it. Give me four steps. Tell me what it needs to look like. Tell me what to do so I can go do it. That's not where you start in sanctification. We start with the gospel of Jesus Christ. His death, burial, resurrection. And then we move to our spiritual death, burial, and resurrection in him. You have to start with the gospel for any true spiritual growth. End parentheses God gave Adam life by breathing the breath of life into him, and he gives us new life by breathing the breath of eternal life into us. Let me give you a quick ABC here for verses 2, 3, and 4. Letter A: True believers have died to sin. That's verse 2. We who died to sin. I just want to highlight that that's something that already happened if you're a believer Died to sin. Letter B. True believers were baptized by the Holy Spirit. That's talking about the inward, the inner spiritual baptism of receiving the Holy Spirit by faith when we hear the gospel and believe in Christ. That's verse three. Again, already happened. A. True believers have died to sin. B. True believers are baptized by the Holy Spirit. And C True believers have been spiritually resurrected. That's verse 4. It's all right in there. Again, highlighting that already happened. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Heavens no. Brothers and sisters, we died to sin. Now let me give you six consolations and comforts for those under grace. Number one, under grace. Your eternal well-being depends on Christ's work, not yours. So many things we seek after in this world. So many things we depend on and look to for peace and comfort. But like a nursing baby's only hope is his mother. Our only source of true life and hope and comfort and sustenance is the Lord Jesus Christ. Who died for our sins and was risen for our justification, that can never be taken from us. Can never be taken from us The baby doesn't work to earn his mother's love or work to find supplemental comforts. Isaiah 63 13 God says to Israel, as a mother comforts her child, so I will comfort you. Your eternal well-being in Christ does not depend on your working or striving. It depends on Christ's completed work. Does that mean you don't do good works or you works or you don't strive? No. It means your salvation is not based upon your working. Number two, consolation number two. Under grace, sin is no longer your accuser. This is one of the things that means that you've died to sin. It's no longer your accuser. Satan is called the the great accuser of the brethren. And that means that sin cannot bring condemnation upon you. If you're in Christ, if you're under grace, Sin cannot bring condemnation and those charges can never be brought against him ever again Look to Christ as your acquittal. Look to Christ as your innocence before God. And in Christ, by faith, you are innocent. Before God, righteous in Him. Consolation number three. Under grace, sin is no longer your master. Sin is no longer your master. Sin cannot rule over your affections and your will. Any longer. Do you still have sin? Yes. Paul will talk about that. But sin is not your master. Sin is not your master. Look to Christ as your victorious King who conquered the old and now reigns on a throne of grace and life. Not condemnation and death. Consolation number four, under grace, sin can no longer separate you from God. You were separated from God. Under grace, you are no longer separated from God. And under grace, you can never again be separated from God. Sin cannot undo what Jesus did. Sin was a treacherous river separating sinners from God, and all who tried to cross on their own perished within minutes. But a bridge was built. And all who've crossed over that bridge will never, ever, ever again fear that deadly separating river. Look to Christ as your Here it is, 100% effective mediator to God. He's the mediator bridge. Consolation number five So important here. Satan has been disarmed against you. Colossians 2. 15, God disarmed the rulers and authorities, and that's representative of Satan's minions working against you. God disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them. He's talking about Christ's completed work on the cross. As a spiritual victory that disarms Satan and his minions against you. Satan aims to use your sin against you in two primary ways. Number one is the weapon of accusation, and he wants to guilt you and make you think that God can never love you, God can never forgive you, you can never be acceptable before God. Satan uses that weapon of accusation against the children of God, but it's not effective. It's not effective. He can't wield it with any power or authority. Having a gun with no ammunition. He also uses the weapon of despair. The weapon of despair. To rob you of your assurance by making you think that there's no remedy, no solution for your horrible sins and horrible sinfulness. Against God. He wants you to think that there's no answer to the condemning power of sin over you, and he wants you to think there's no remedy for the ruling power of sin within you Now, what's the weakness in the devil's attack? Under grace, you've been delivered from the condemning power of sin. The cross of Jesus Christ, where he died for your sins and took the penalty of your sins, so there's no longer any condemnation for those who are in Christ. So you've been delivered from the condemning power of sin over you. And under grace, you've received a powerful remedy against the ruling power of sin in you So Satan cannot drive you to despair, and he cannot bring condemnation upon you. Now you can feel like those things are happening, but Objectively, in reality, Satan cannot do that. He cannot undo what Christ has done for those under grace. No doubt he works tirelessly to trip up and wound the children of God. But he cannot work effectively. Number six, final consolation. Under grace you were sanctified. Under grace you were sanctified. Now the word sanctified doesn't come up in Romans 6 until verse 19, and then again in that right there is talking about The aspect of sanctification that is progressive favors entire life. But that progressive sanctification is based on in itself is also an aspect of sanctification. But when you hear the word sanctification, most of this problem is based on the past in your conversion. Let me give you the Tradition positional sanctification is one way to refer to this that you were sanctified because you first were God in relation to the world. You've been set apart. Genesis 2, 3. God blessed it and made it holy. Was the seventh day unholy? No. God set it apart to be honored as holy. John ten thirty-six, this is Jesus talking about himself. And he refers to himself as him whom the Father sanctified, or him whom the Father consecrated. Now, was Jesus impure and had to be purified and sanctified? No. What he's talking about there in his being sanctified is him being set apart for a unique and holy purpose in God's plan. Again, Jesus says in John 17, 19, he says, sanctify myself. I sanctify myself Is he saying that he's unclean and needs to be cleaned? No. He's saying he's willingly offering himself over, set apart for the purposes of God in his life. Positional sanctification. Number two, definitive sanctification. Now you've probably heard the phrase positional sanctification. Maybe not definitive sanctification. All definitive means is this: absolute. Certain. Decisive. Uh conclusive. If you can't come up with any other synonyms, let me know. Sanctification means this. It's a shake with your life. It's a decisive breach. A decisive break of the ruling power of sin life 1 Corinthians 1, 2, to those who were sex Jesus past past progressive sanctification imperfect And it's incomplete. So you die and go to heaven. But definitive sanctification is complete. And it's perfect. You were sanctified. That should give you comfort. That should give you consolation. 1 Corinthians 6 11, you were washed. You were sanctified. Acts 20, 32, of the church. Of all those who are sanctified. So, are you being sanctified in a process? Yes. That's one aspect of sanctification. It's ongoing, it's incomplete, it's imperfect. But you already were sanctified in your conversion. The ruling power of sin over you has been broken. You've been sanctified, washed, cleansed. True believers have died to sin. True believers were baptized by the Spirit. True believers have been spiritually resurrected. Now Romans 3. The answer behind the answer. The answer behind the answer. This comes from verse 5. The central verse of this passage. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. Key the key phrase there is what? United with him. United with him. How did we die? Here's your blank on the outline. How did we die to sin and receive New life in Jesus Christ, we were spiritually united to Christ by faith. By faith, you can come to Christ today. No matter what was in your heart when you woke up this morning, No matter what sins you've committed in your life, maybe even last night, you can come to Christ for salvation today. Through repentance, turning to him, and faith, trusting in him. And you can be united to Christ by faith. Now remember those two neighboring kingdoms constantly at war with each other. What are those two kingdoms again? Kingdom of sin and the kingdom of grace. And we were once in the same kingdom, but we died. We were carried outside the city and we were buried. Then we were resurrected to newness of life as citizens in the kingdom of grace. But that's not the whole story. How were we resurrected, dead, out in the field, buried? Certainly we couldn't bring ourselves back to life. Certainly, resurrection power cannot come from the one who's buried, can it? Picture the King of Grace coming down from his castle, opening the gates, walking through the grass and through the wildflowers till he comes to the place where you, the dead, buried sinner, are helpless. He's the one who stoops down and speaks a supernatural word of life and personally, intimately, compassionately, but with the power of a thousand earthquakes. Jesus speaks life out of death and raises you up to live with him forever. That's the picture of salvation. United with Christ United with Christ. Salvation is not just like a gift that He hands over to you and walks away. No, He is the gift. He unites Himself with you spiritually forever. And any other blessing of salvation, whether it's forgiveness, justification, sanctification, glorification, any other blessing or benefit of salvation comes only by virtue of being united to Him. There are other streams of blessings that flow from salvation, but he is the water itself, Jesus Christ. And breath re-entered you no sooner than your hand was in his, and you stood with him in newness of life. He gave us new life. He ushered us into the kingdom of grace. He's bound himself over to his church. Forever when you might say he's covenanted with his church forever by virtue of his blood. The best way Uh well the best way I could think of to to summarize this or to remember to remember this is we have eternal life because we've been united to the risen Christ. By faith. We have eternal life because we've been united to the risen Christ by faith. Do you want to know God this morning? Go to Jesus. To be united to Jesus is to be united to God. The Eternal, Infinite, Boundless, Holy One. Now let me give you a quick ABC, just for your own studies. We don't have time to break this open. I guess technically we do have time to break it open. I'm choosing not to take the time to break it open. But I'll get you I'll get you all this uh broken open in the manuscript if you want it. Letter A, the blessing of union with Christ, united with Him. Now you could go back to verse 3, phrased like this: Into Christ Jesus, into His death? And verse 4, buried with him? All this is connected to personal union with Christ. He's not just buried, buried with him. And you can even skip forward to verse 8: died with Christ. Live with him. Everything's connected to personal spiritual relationship union bond between you and Christ. Let it be the blessing of a death like his. The blessing of a death like his. That's what it says. United the death like his What does that mean? I've got to give you the short answer here. The reader's digest version. When Jesus entered this world He willingly entered the sin kingdom. He willingly entered into the realm where sin and death rule. On the cross, he died to that rule. He died to that kingdom. It has no sway over him in any way any longer. And in the same way, we died to that kingdom. We died to that kingdom. A death like his. Let us see the blessing of a resurrection like his. The blessing of a resurrection like his. How is our spiritual resurrection like his? Well, heavenly life that will never end, no longer under the curse of sin, no longer under the fear of death, and in full possession of the Holy Spirit and all the blessings that come with it. A resurrection like his not just a resurrection, not a resurrection like Lazarus, a resurrection like his to eternal heavenly life. Roman four, the answer made practical From verses 6 and 7. And what I'll do tonight is spend time on this as a transition to the next part of the passage. But if you look at ver quickly at verses 6 and 7 , We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. Letter A B C the old self no longer lives, it's been crucified. The body B, the body of sin no longer leads. You still exist in a body of sin, but it no longer leads you Spiritly. And letters see, sin is no longer your Lord. You're no longer enslaved to sin. Now here's the predicament for the Christians. Inwardly, spiritually, you've died to the kingdom of sin. You are a citizen of the grace kingdom No longer understands your rule. It cannot bring condemnation upon you. It cannot rule over you. Spiritually, you're dead to that kingdom. But what's the problem? Your body still exists in that kingdom. Whether the Christian lives in that constant battle between good and evil inside you, if you're under grace. There's the sin kingdom battling against the grace kingdom. And sin wants to do away with all the impact and influence of grace in your life, but the grace kingdom of the Holy Spirit of Christ rules wants to do. This is what God wants to do in you. He wants to do the opposite thing. He wants to do away with the influence and impact and effects of sin in you. That's the predicament. That's why the practical application, and we'll get into that tonight with striving for sanctification. Well, how do we do that? That's the battle. That's the battle Turn to hymn number 31, please. And I'm going to pray for us and we'll close with the hymn. If you need any spiritual counsel, You've come to Christ by faith and you want counsel regarding that, or if you need to recommit yourself to God this morning, if you want counsel about that. Any spiritual counsel, I'll be up here after that final hymn. And I'll talk to you all day if that's what you need. That's what you need. Let's pray together and then we'll sing. Father, we thank you for all that you've done for us in Jesus Christ. And in the midst of this battle, we pray for the Holy Spirit We pray for the power, resurrection, power of the Holy Spirit to sanctify us, to purify us for your purposes. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.