I'd like us to direct our attention into our Father's words. So the words in which I want to draw your attention to tonight come out of the book of Isaiah, chapter 40. Isaiah chapter 40. The title of my sermon is The Everlastingness of God. As we start to peer in and understand that God always has been, always is, and always will be, we'll see how He will bring us up out of our darkness. Isaiah chapter forty verses twenty-seven through thirty-one. Join me in reading. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, My way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint So we read these words. The first section here in verse 27 is Israel crying out and questioning the presence of God in their life. They're asking, My way is hidden from the Lord and my right hand is disregarded, my God. And they're questioning, has he abandoned us? The God that we followed, the God that we worshiped, has He abandoned us? Is He not here? This is known theologically as the dark seasons of the soul. And we see Israel, they're actually at this time in captivity, they've been attacked by physical enemies, they've lost their homes, they've lost their temple. They've lost their place of worship, and they feel as though the God that had called them has now abandoned them. And they're feeling hopeless. They have doubt. They have fears and they're questioning: does God even actually care? Is God even around? Brothers and sisters, tonight I believe there's some of us sitting in this room that may want to cry out the same questions to God. Where are you? Why does it feel as though you're far off from me, Lord? We see the psalmist repeat this kind of language over and over again. How long, O Lord? Where are you, my God? We hear the pain in the voice. What's it in our lives? And if you're sitting in here tonight and you say, no, actually Anthony, I'm in a I'm in a pretty good spot. I'm on I'm on top of the mountain. I I feel the presence of God Well, if you continue living, if you continue in the life of a Christian, there's going to be a moment, there's going to be the temptation to cry out and question where God is. It may come in different forms. Some of us maybe are in a moment in a deepness of sin right now We feel gripped by sin that that we can't get out of. It feels like it doesn't matter how much we fight, it doesn't matter how much we we try to give up that sin. It feels as though we just keep getting pulled back in. Are you crying out? Where are you, God? Why is this sin engulfing me? Why is this sin have me locked down? Maybe for some of you it's a medical diagnosis. You receive news from a doctor and and there's fear and there's anxiety, there's the unknown. Maybe there's even the known of not a a positive outcome as you would have wanted from a medical situation. Do you feel, are you questioning, my God, where are you? Have you abandoned me? Maybe it's a loved one. Your children, you've you've raised them in the way of the Lord, yet as they've left your home, they've they've gone out into the world, they've followed after their own passions and As you look at their life, you just go, why? Why have they strayed so far away from the instructions of which they were raised in? Why have they strayed so far away from the God of which they were taught? And that can bring a darkness into us. And then we can cry out, where are you, God? Have you abandoned us? And I could continue on and create situations of possibilities, but ultimately every Christian at some point will feel tempted or will be in a state of depression. Anxiety and fear and believing that God has abandoned us. So tonight, if you're in that situation, I want to give you courage. From the prophet Isaiah. I want you to see the everlasting God that we worship. I want you to know that God has always been, has always always is and always will be. He is not changing And as we understand the God that always has existed and always will, the everlastingness, I believe I made up that word, but I'm okay with it, the everlastingness of God, we then can place all the other beautiful lovely, wonderful characteristics of God onto that and understand that that is who God always is and always will be. And as our souls, as feels as though the darkness is engulfing us, we will have hope. We will be lifted out of the darkness. Not by our own strength. That medical condition may never actually go away. That child may never come back to Christ. You may never feel completely satisfied with your career and your job, but you can trust that God will sustain you through it all. He will give you the strength. So let us join the Israelites, let us join the people here in questioning and asking, God, have you abandoned us? And let us see what God's response is. Looking at verse 28, it says, Have you not known? Have you not heard? Let's stop right there. We must recognize that the author and God speaking here is talking to people that know him. I feel like today we've gone over a lot of rhetorical questions, questions that when are asked, we already know the answer. So when these questions are asked, have you not heard? Have you not known? The answer is yes. They have seen the work of God. They do know God. There's no doubt. So that this isn't new information. Tonight will not be any new information for you. What it will be Is it will turn your hearts and your minds back to the glory and the might of our God. And that's what Isaiah is doing He 's calling the people to look back at the God that they have been worshiping since as early as they can remember. He's telling them to look back to know and trust the truths they've been taught since they were children. He's telling the people to look back and remember the miraculous works that God has done in the past. And that's where we must start. Don't forget Don't think this is new, but trust and remember the good and glorious God that we worship. Remember the God that has reached down when you were his enemies and lifted you up out of your death and given you need Remember the past events where God has provided for you. Remember the and know the God of creation. And that's what we see unpacking here. Remember the God that always has been So we're being reminded, remember, remember, remember, think back to what we already know. And in the midway, here in verse 28, it says, the Lord is the everlasting God. Like I said, this is the idea. We must start with the everlastingness of God. Because once we understand this, we'll see the beauty of our God through all of history and time. You don't have to turn here, but Psalm 90 just echoes this idea of the everlastingness of God. So starting in verse 1 says, Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. That's that remembering back, right? Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. The psalmist is pointing in both directions of the historical timeline. He's pointing back in history, saying, You have always been our God, and he's pointing towards the future. You will always be our God. This is vital for us to understand. When we start to say See the beauty of a God that always has been and a God that's not changing. When we're in the dark seasons, when our soul feels engulfed by the world, when our souls feel engulfed by anxiety and fear, when we start to question where he is. We can remember that God hasn't changed one bit. He has not changed one bit from everlasting to everlasting. And now we're going to start to place some of the characteristics onto the everlasting God, and we're going to see his beauty magnified through that. Still in verse 28 says, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. I love the idea that God is the creator of the earth. I love the idea even more that He's the creator of the ends of the earth. Because that puts him even outside of his creation. You know, as as best we can comprehend uh the creation of the universe, the creation of all things we know, the beautiful trees, the earth the mountains, the sea, uh the birds, the fishes, whatever you you love about creation. And we picture that and we think, okay, that was thousands of years ago that was created. And God goes way beyond that. He actually goes beyond when time even existed. He goes beyond our comprehension of history. He's outside of even the bounds of earth in his creation. So that's in the linear time frame. I think we see the everlasting God that was even before history, and he will be way past history as we know it, when the new heavens and the new earth are formed and brought together. But I think we even see the the magnitude of our God beyond the the highest mountains, behind the skies. Beyond the deepest depths of the ocean. There's nowhere we can go in all of the universe, even beyond the universe, which we don't even see or understand yet, that God is not over. That he did not create. Brothers and sisters, if we start to see the God that always has been, as the creator of everything we see and interact with , May our souls maybe find a little hope. May that darkness start to not appear so dark. Continues on. So we now we have the God that always has been. Now we're looking at the God that created all things. Well look at this. He does not faint or grow weary. Maybe you're like me at times I think, how many times does God want to hear my prayers? How many times does God want to hear me ask for and then name whatever you want to place in there He's not tired. He's not tired at all. There's nothing that wears him out. Or maybe you're thinking, well, if God was spending all this time in creating the universe, And all this time in saving and redeeming people, he maybe wants to sit back and not interact with us right now. So I'm just going to dwell in my sadness. I'm just going to sit and assume that he's way off, that he doesn't care, because he needs to rest. He's not like you and I. I love Sunday afternoon naps. Actually, I love any afternoon naps, but Sundays are extra special God 's not like that. He doesn't need a rest period from you. He doesn't need to get away from you. He's not tired. He's not worn out. continues on. His understanding is unsearchable. This is where it starts to get challenging. This is where we start to see that there may be a time where we don't even understand what God is doing in our lives. We may not understand what this diagnosis of cancer means in our lives. Brothers and sisters, there's no mandate from God that you will know the reason for That. But ultimately, we know it is for the glory of God. He is in control. His will and his plans are so grand that our finite minds, our human minds, can't even comprehend it. Some of the imagery I think about this is out of Jeremiah, where we see the idea of the potter creating a pot. Or or the artist. I'm not an artist, but if someone paints a picture and creates a picture, you never hear that picture going, excuse me, Bob Ross, maybe you should have put just one more happy tree over on that side. That's not the case. What happens is that artist he does exactly as he desires, as he wills, and and if you've ever watched that paint, you think, well, that guy's not doing it right, but then by the end of it, you go, wow What an amazing picture that's created there. How much more is our God doing that we don't comprehend We understand and as the the pains of this world as though it appears as though the culture around us is going crazy, right? It's all falling apart and we go, God must not be present. Well, don't you dare think that God is active. God's plan is at work. God is in control. We may not understand it. So as we start to understand, as we start to cry out and be in the dark seasons, may we start to see the everlasting God that always has been, always will. May we start to see that he is the creator of all things, which is is glorious as we see he's outside of our understanding of creation and time. He doesn't grow weary and he is unsearchable. His will is so grand, his plan is so grand that we can't fully comprehend it here on this earth. But he doesn't end there. So this is kind of that was kind of the characteristics of God. But now let us see what he does for us. What does he do for those that are in the dark seasons? Verse 29. He gives power to the faint. To him who has no might, he increases strength. Brothers and sisters, may we rest in this truth. When we are tired, when we're worn out, when we are weak, he gives energy. He gives strength. When that sin that appears to be entrapping you that you can't get out of it, well you're right, you can't. But through God, through the work of the Spirit. He's redeemed you out of that. He's the one that gives you the strength to fight against your sin. As you're going through maybe a difficult situation at work and you just think I can't I can't wake up tomorrow and go into work on Monday because you don't know my boss answering. Anthony. I can't face that person one more time. Look to God He's the one that gives you the strength. He's the one that gives you the ability to live in obedience and following after him. He's the one that will make you more like Christ. He's the one that has given you the spirit to love that difficult person. He's the one that has given you the spirit to fight against your sin. He's the one that's given you the Spirit to proclaim the gospel to your lost child. It is not of our own doing. It's actually when we recognize that we are weak. It's when we recognize that we are faint and we look to God that we receive strength. May we not ever look inward for getting through these dark seasons. May we never think to ourselves, well, if I just pull up my bootstraps, if I just work harder, I will get through this. I just keep my mind occupied with other things. I won't have to think about the sickness. No, it's not what we're called. It's actually we're called in our brokenness We recognize our need for God and we look towards God, the one that gives strength. Now, you may be sitting in here and going, Well, Anthony And aren't I wrong for questioning God? Aren't I wrong for thinking, God, where are you? Have you abandoned me? I think it's a longer conversation we could have. But what I don't see anywhere in here, and we don't see it in the Psalms Is this attempt of saying, stop it. Stop questioning. Stop feeling as though you're in the dark seasons. No, actually, in verse 30, we see that this is actually part of the life. This is part of being a Christian. This is part of being called gods. Because we still live in a broken world. We are saints. We are redeemed by Christ. We are being new every day. We are becoming like Christ. Yet, we still live in a broken and corrupted world. We still struggle with the world around us. We still struggle with sin and temptation. In verse 30 says, even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. Youth in here Y'all are young and strong. I think I'm still young and strong, but every year that strength gets less, and every day I become more tired. But even the youth grow tired We went out there and played some basketball. I could I could maybe take you on, some of the young guys for for uh I probably got thirty seconds in me right now of some good basketball playing and you guys probably have a nice hour, hour thirty, maybe two hours in you. But sooner or later, even you will become tired. Brothers and sisters, even the best Christian The strongest Christian, what maybe the most, as you would, we would think the most holy and spiritual Christian will come to a point in their life That the world is bearing down on them. The stress of life is bearing down on them. And the temptation is going to be there to say, I am in the darkness, and it appears as though my God is absent. It doesn't matter how strong we are. That temptation is going to be there. That world, the world's going to continue whirling around us. And that's going to be weighed on us heavily. So instead of questioning and saying, Well, am I wrong in questioning God? Am I am I wrong to feel as though I'm in the dark seasons? What I'm encouraging you to do is when you're in that moment, you place your eyes and your hopes and your minds and your desires onto God. You see the everlasting God that isn't changing. That's the only way we have hope. If if we worry, if we're concerned that God's gonna change, well then we have no hope, we have no assurance that we can get through this tough time. Because maybe He will abandon you. But scripture tells us different. He's the never-changing God. He's the everlasting God. He cares for his people. Set your eyes on to God. See his glory, see his goodness , see his steadfastness. And those dark seasons, those dark times in the soul start to get a little brighter. But let me tell you, and this may not be as encouraging as you want I want it to be, but I believe it should be encouraging, what appears as though is a dark season in the soul May be a dark season for the rest of your life. But that doesn't change our God. Doesn't change the worship of our God. Look at verse 31. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Who receives the strength? The weary and the weak Who receives the strength and gives the freedom like eagles? Gives the ability to run and not be tired, gives the ability to walk and not become faint? Those who wait for the Lord. Waiting is not a strong point of myself. I assume it's probably not a strong point of many people Waiting is not easy. It's not what we desire. And if you're telling me how do I get out of the dark seasons, waiting is not really encouraging, is it? But it's not just waiting as though we're waiting for a bus. We're just waiting in line to to go to the fair down the street. No, this waiting is knowing and hoping in the glory of God, knowing that there is a greater coming. Now when Isaiah was writing this, his hope and his his waiting was focused on to Christ. And he has arrived. And now we're 2,000 years past Christ, and our hope and our waiting Is on the building of his kingdom here on this earth. Our waiting is on his return when he uh inaugurates and and consummates the new heavens and the new earth. And we live with Christ forever. So our waiting looks a little different, yet we are all called to wait. And that hoping, that waiting in a glorious future is what brings us and sustains us and gets us through the dark seasons. It's what gives us strength. Nowhere in this does it say it destroys the toughness. Nowhere in this does it say waiting destroys The dark seasons. Nowhere in this does it say that waiting destroys sickness. Waiting destroys the loss. Waiting destroys the hard boss that you work for. It's not what it says here. But waiting and placing our hope in God gives us the ability to walk forward in life and get through those situations. It sustains us. God sustains us through those seasons in our lives. Gives us the strength Gives uh sets us up and mounts us up with wings like eagles. And in my mind I just think of the freedom an eagle has. Who holds an eagle down? Who tells an eagle where to go? Who controls the the altitude of an eagle? Well the eagle really flies quite free freely beyond its creator, giving it an instruction to fly. Well, likewise, when we wait in the Lord, when we place our hope and trust in God, the everlasting God, the creator of the universe, the one that gives us strength, we have freedom, brothers and sisters. We have the ability to go into our workplaces and work with the hard boss. Loving him, loving her, like a Christian should. We have the freedom, the strength, and the ability to love our child that has walked away from God. We have the freedom and the strength and the ability to walk into the hospital, to take the cancer treatments, and love the nurses and the doctors around us. Showing the strength and the hope that there is an everlasting God that you worship and you serve, no matter how fertil or how sick you get, you know and you trust that God is good. And he loves you and he will get you through this. And it may be when you see him in the heavens, in his glory, that we see that we have gotten through the dark seasons. He's the one that gives us the strength and the ability to get through. We will not grow weary, we will not grow weak, but we will still walk through the dark seasons Once again we don't like the idea of waiting. How long oh Lord, how long must we do this I don't know if this is encouragement, but maybe this will help you understand God's timing. This will maybe help you understand the unsearchableness of God that we don't fully understand his plan, but we get to see it slowly unfold. From the fall of man in Genesis 3 to the coming of Jesus is around plus or minus 4,000 years. It's a long time, isn't it? I don't think any of you have been around for 4,000 years. I don't even think we can comprehend 4,000 years. I live in Italy and they don't go that far back in history. They they claim to have some old rocks, but not 4,000 years old. So God's plan of the fall of man to the redemption of man through Christ was four thousand years. May we wait and rest that God's in control and his timing is maybe just a little different than your timing. these dark seasons. But don't lose hope. Don't lose faith. As this author was writing, as Isaiah was prophesying He hadn't heard of Christ yet. He hadn't seen Jesus crucified yet. He died not knowing the name of Jesus, but he had hope in the coming Messiah. Well likewise may we go into this world knowing Christ now because he's come. But placing our hope in the full redemption of all creation by our God And finally, I encourage you that sometimes the darkness, the dark seasons feel darkest right before the sun comes out. When I was in the army, we spent many nights, I'll say camping, that's what we were doing, living out in the woods, and there was nothing colder and darker than 4 a. m. in the morning. This is the worst hour. You've been up all night, you're hungry, you're tired, uh every creeping thing's out in the woods. And you're cold, you're shivering, and you just think, I don't I don't think I can make it any longer. I just wanna I just wanna lay down and go to sleep. That would be so much better. So what if the enemy comes in? they can't. Or I don't think I can, I don't think I can sit here anymore. I'm freezing. I'm I'm freezing cold. I can't stand the coldness. Well what happens at five? Right after the coldest point of the night, you then see the the glimpse of the sun coming up over the horizon All of a sudden you got a little more energy. You can stay awake a little bit longer. You start to warm up even though the temperature hasn't changed at all. Well, that's hope. I had recognized the coming of the sun that was going to warm me up, was going to make me awake, unfortunately, it was going to make me stay awake for another 24 hours. But there was hope in that sun. Brothers and sisters, when you're in the dark seasons, look to God. See the sun. Oh, and it's not just a glimpse It's shining bright. It always has been, it always is, and it always will be into eternity. Place your hope. Place your confidence in the character of God. and recognize that he will give you the strength to walk through the dark seasons of light. Join me in prayer. Oh gracious and glorious God, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth that you care for us. Thank you for the truth that you always have been. You're the Creator. May we dwell and know this. May we see the beauty of who you are. And Lord, as we feel tempted to fear and worry that you have left us, call us back. Discipline us back to see your goodness. Discipline us back to see your beauty. May we remember who you are. May we remember the works you've done in our lives. May we worship you. May we look to you for strength. May we give you all the glory. In Christ's name. Amen.