John chapter eight we'll be looking through verse thirty this morning, the Lord willing. You have an outline in the bulletin. You can also see it on the screen as well, the light of the world. If you had to drive to a destination that you had never been to before And the directions were rather complex. It would be, of course, much easier to go there during the daylight rather than the night, even in this age of following what your phone tells you to do It still would be much easier in the daylight to see the landmarks and the road signs. Light makes things more clear. If you had to go through a room at night You naturally, most of us, turn the light on in order not to bump into anything, unless we know the room so well, or in order not to step on anything that a child or or grandchild might have left on the floor. And uh we did help with Jordan and Sarah, so I yes, turn the light on if I had to get up in the night. And I do check on my mom at least the monitor we have through the night. So I know that experience. Light exposes dangers in our path so we can avoid them. I'm not throwing my grandchildren on the under the the bus they helped to clean up when we asked them to, yes. If we don't have Jesus as Lord and Savior We are trying to take the most important journey, life's journey, in darkness. And we won't see our way clearly We'll run into dangers. We won't know that our path leads to destruction. Jesus offers you and me. The light of life. Look at chapter eight, verse twelve of the book of John. Then Jesus again spoke to them. And the them is those at the Feast of Tabernacle, he's in the temple grounds teaching. Saying, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of light In this verse, we see the invitation of Jesus. And it is to acknowledge Jesus. First of all, he says, I am the light of the world. It is another of the I am statements in the book of John. I think there are seven of them Where Jesus intentionally uses the language that the Father used with Moses at the burning bush. God gave himself the name I am. Sometimes we would say, I am that I am, the full name he gives to Moses there. But it had to do with his eternal nature, his self existence. And self-reliance. He did not need anything out of himself to exist. I am Well, with the I, Jesus, the Son of God, is saying, I have come to earth through human birth, because I am the one God said. The word am is in the ongoing present tense. So yesterday, today, and forever, I am. He is saying, I am the second person. of the Trinity. I am deity. I am eternal and self-existent just as God the Father is. There's intention in using the phrase I am. I am the light, that is the revelation of the truth of God, is how we should see the word light here. Jesus as the light. Spoke truth. His person and his words are the revelation of God the Father. And notice what he's the light of the word. As the unique Son who would reveal God's truth, Jesus was sent to be the Savior of men. Not God's people, the Jews, yes, them, but of the world. Now consider Jesus' statement, I am the light. John has already introduced this truth in his gospel. If you look back or think back with me to John chapter 1, verses 4 and 5. In him, John writes, was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness Darkness being the world and its works. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. We understood there in John chapter 1 that Jesus is the fullness Of life which belongs to God. All of God's attributes, and just to summarize them, his holiness, his truth, his love, his omnipotence or power, his sovereignty. All the fullness is in Jesus. And when Jesus' life was put in a form that people could see, the incarnate. Life. John called it light. So John is referring to Jesus' incarnate life on earth in chapter 1, when he says the light shines in the darkness. And the darkness did not comprehend it. In human flesh, Jesus contained all of the Godhead. In human flesh, he was God. We call him the God-man. The people saw in his earthly life holiness, truth, love. Power, sovereignty. Isaiah nine verse two prophesied that the people who walk in darkness will see a great light. Those who live in a dark land, the light will shine On them. Jesus fulfilled that prophecy. Jesus' light shone in the darkness, and today, through the proclamation of his church, we being one of those shines. His his light shines on in the darkness. And this is on people and on wor on a world that so often, most often, the default of the world is to prefer its own ways rather than God's ways. And yet we are here to shine truth. To chunk shine truth on a world where the devil has sought to deceive with false teachings. Teaching, and by God's allowance has succeeded in that often. So the invitation is to acknowledge Jesus. He stands and proclaims this In the temple. The invitation is to follow Jesus. Look at the verse. He who follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So to receive the light of life, what we see at the end of verse 12, what must you do? You must follow Jesus Jesus. How do you do that? You follow him by believing that he is the Son of God, sent to the world as Savior, and by committing your life to his authority Repentance and faith. John eight thirty-one. If we look down further in the text, we'll get to it next week. But Jesus was saying to those who had believed in him, if you continue in It's not that our good works gain anything, it's that those who believe in Jesus are characterized by By following him. So the invitation is to acknowledge Jesus, the invitation is to follow Jesus. The invitation is to have the light of life. He who follows me will not walk in darkness. We'll not walk thinking that you know enough about God, if you even think of a God. We'll not walk thinking that you are right with the God that you have imagined in your mind. Will not walk thinking that you're going to be okay when death comes with whatever you think the afterlife is. No, you will not walk in darkness. You will not live for self. You will not be led by self-centered motivations. I mean that explains th the tragic headlines that we've been reading over and over throughout history, but it seems especially especially of late, certainly living for self, being led by self-centered motivations, explains the war in Ukraine, explains the protests for the right to kill children conceived in the womb What is that if not a self-centered motivation? Explains the Texas school shooting. Whatever the mindset of the 18-year-old was, he was acting for self-interest in one way or another Those are extreme examples, yes, but but as people who believe Jesus, we understand the darkness that causes those extremes. Examples. We understand the depravity of thought and motive that leads to such dark actions. He who follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have So we'll have greater understanding of the world around us. But also it means the light of life being made alive spiritually. And thus being able to comprehend God 's truth, relate to it, and progress in it. Because much more important than driving a car to some destination. Or crossing a room without stubbing your toe is living your life in and with the light of life. With knowledge, with thinking, with motivation that honors the one who gave you life, the Lord God. So to live your life knowing God, to live your life being right with God, forgiven, accepted by the God of the universe, to live your life assured of eternal life with God. This is the invitation of Jesus when he says, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of light. Well, I wish sincerely that what we would read next would be the coming of souls to Christ. But what we do read, we do read that later on, but what we do read is the resistance of the Pharisees. And this exposes the heart of the lost. What should follow is faith, but it doesn't. What does follow is a display of unbelief in two ways, rationalization and ignorance. And they overlap. Somewhat. Rationalization first in verse thirteen. So the Pharisees said to him , You are testifying about yourself. Your testimony is not true. So so they heard what he said, uh you know, and and how it encouraged us, made us think about each phrase and Gives joy to our heart. What they're looking for was a way to attack it. So they say, you're testifying about yourself. Your testimony is not true. What they mean is in the law of Moses there is a requirement for two witnesses to confirm any judicial case. So they're applying a judicial principle, a judicial requirement to Jesus' teaching, to his assertion that he's making. Verse 14 Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going. Well It didn't make sense to them, but it should make sense to us that the second person of the Trinity who came from and will return to heaven doesn't need verification in front of the Pharisees, does he? He doesn't, but they're asking And he says, but you don't know where I came from or where I'm going. You judge, verse 15, according to the flesh. Your judgment, in other words, is limited by your fallen condition. I am not judging anyone. Now, this is simply saying it wasn't the purpose of his incarnation. Jesus' mission was to receive God's judgment on the cross so sinners could receive mercy. But even if I do judge, so when I speak of sin, which he does speak of the Pharisees' sin, sometimes very pointedly, when I do speak of righteousness, when I do judge, my judgment is true. For I am not alone in it. So going back to their argument, you need some verification, you need another witness. I am not alone in it, but I am the Father who sent me. So here, he is saying, my verification, my other witness is the first person of the Trinity, God the Father. Verse 17, even in your law it has been written that the testimony of two men is true. And by the way, that's Deuteronomy 17, verse 17. 6. And so Jesus is saying in verse 17, I'm giving you what the law requires for human judgments. I am he who testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me. So they were saying to him, Where is your father? In other words, he needs to be present to be a witness. And I think they reveal their ignorance of Jesus' claim of divine nature, even though he had asserted that before. It's a strange verse, verse 9 nineteen to me when they say where is your father because we'll see in other places it's they put together that he's talking about the heavenly father, but here it seems that they don't. But Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. This statement is a statement of their ignorance, the Jews' ignorance, but also see it as a wonderful declaration of the unity of Jesus and God. the Father. The Trinity always working in perfect harmony. You neither know you you know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me You would know my Father also. Isn't that what John proclaimed by God's Spirit in chapter 1, verse 14? The word became flesh, dwelt among us, and we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father. You see the unity there in their glory, full of grace and truth. And then in verse 18 of chapter 1 as well, no one has seen God at any time speaking Of the Father, the only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, speaking of the Son, he has explained him Verse 20. These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no one seized him, because his hour had not yet come So the Spirit inspires John to give us a reminder that the hour is coming, but it's not yet Yet. coming. So Jesus is not going to be arrested and tried and convicted on this day. His hour is the time of his crucifixion, and God is in control of that. There's more ministry to be done. Well the conversation continues and we see, it's already been mentioned, but we see in a in a more uh detailed way the ignorance of the Pharisees. Verse 21. Then he said again to them, I go away. He was speaking of, I believe, his ascension back into What is that referring to? We're not told specifically. I I think maybe that they would seek him after they hear from the guards who heard the angels declare that Jesus was really Risen from the dead. Remember the Pharisees hear from those guards, they pay them to say the disciples took the body, but surely they're wondering, where is he? We need to Find him. I think Jesus is referring to they will seek to find him. Notice what he says: I go away, you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. Where Jesus was going, he rose from the dead, but he ascends to heaven. Where Jesus is going back to the Father, you cannot come Cannot come. An amazing statement. These religious leaders then would never find him. They would die in their sin of rejecting Jesus And they would not be forgiven of their sin, and they would not and did not go to heaven, but to Hades and one day to fiery hell. Verse 22. So the Jews were saying their answer to to this uh amazing warning of Jesus is the ignorance that we see. Surely he will not kill himself, will he? Since he says where I am going, you can Not come. So once again we see their ignorance of spiritual truth. They thought Jesus was speaking about committing suicide. Verse 23, he was saying to them, You are from below the earth. I am from above. He means heaven. You are of this world. I am not of this world. As God the Son, he exists outside of and above this world that he had come into through human birth. But he is not created, he is creator. He took on flesh, but he is not a creation of God, he is the second person of the Trinity. He is eternal. He is self-existent. He is God the Son. Therefore, I said to you that you will die. in your sins. Because you don't believe , crux of the issue, that I'm from heaven. You don't believe God Sent me. For unless you believe that I am, there's the phrase again, and what he means there is that I am equal with God who is I am, that I am Son of God, unless you believe that I am He, the He is supplied in our English language Just to help it make sense, but he's using the phrase I am again. Unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins. Jesus is saying here exactly what he said to Nicodemus, when Nicodemus, with whatever kind of heart he had, certainly a uh a heart of inquiry. Hears from Jesus, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish Shall not perish, shall not die in their sins, but have eternal life. Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins, verse twenty four, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. Verse twenty-five, so they were saying to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, What I have been what have I been saying to you from the beginning? And this is where it's a little puzzling that they would ask for his father to show up because he had said to them, and they clearly understood it back in chapter 5. That he was speaking of his father as God the Father. After healing the man by the pool of Bethesda on the Sabbath day. Go back to chapter five and look at verse seventeen through nineteen with me. The middle of verse seventeen, just a couple of pages. Over, or a couple scrolls. He answered them, My father is working until now, verse 17, and I myself am working. See the unity there, the connection. For this reason, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him because he not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. Therefore Jesus answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing for whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner Clearly, Jesus from the beginning, verse 25, let them know who he was. They were ignorant. They could not see it. Part of that is the flesh, but it is God's judgment giving the flesh over to us. Wrong thinking. God indeed was judging these Jews who were rejecting Jesus Christ. Verse 26, I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you. So Yes, he he he will judge. Jesus will, he will return. That day will come. Another day will come when he will He returns. But he who sent me is true, and the things which I heard from him, these I speak to the world. I say what God the Father wants They did not realize that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So here's where we know they didn't understand it, even though though they had put two and two together earlier in the ministry of Christ, they did not understand that he'd been speaking to them about the Father, capital F, God the Father. Father, their minds are darkened here. And I think that's evidence of God judging them. So Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man Now we we read that and we don't naturally think crucifixion, we should, because it's already been explained to us in the Gospel of John. That's what Jesus means. When you crucify me. Then you will know that I am he, and I do nothing on my own initiative, but I speak these things as the Father. talking. So on this day when you think you've gained the victory that you've been after, silencing me, you will know that I speak Speak these things as the Father taught me. What does Jesus mean? Well, I'm not sure But I know that on that day the sky was darkened. I know that on that day the veil was torn from top to bottom. I know that on that day rocks were split. I know that on that day the dead come out of their tomb. Let's look at it. Turn to Matthew chapter 27. Let's read the passage of what happens when Jesus is crucified. Because it says here, when you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am, that I am He. Matthew chapter 27, verse 45. And may this convince any who aren't convinced that Jesus is the Son of God. Matthew 27, 45. Now from the sixth hour, darkness fell upon all the land until the ninth hour. Miracle of God. About the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Elay Ali Wamasabacthani, that is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who were standing there when they heard it began saying, This man is calling for Elijah. Immediately one of them ran, and taking a sponge, he filled it with sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave him a drink. The rest of them said, Let us see whether Elijah will come and save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit And behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook, and the rocks were splits. Supernatural happenings. And the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep, died, were raised And coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they entered the holy city and appeared to many. We're not told what the Pharisees thought of all this. We are told about the centurion in verse 34. Now the centurion and those who were with him keeping guard over Jesus when they saw the earthquake And the things that were happening became very frightened and said, Truly, this was the Son of God. When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know Than I am He. Verse 29. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. We're not told how they took that comment. Jesus is making the point. I am in unity with God the Father. What I teach is in unity with him. My answers to you are in unity with God the Father. Father. You need to believe. So when he speaks of the cross , he says here, I always do the things that are pleasing to him, yes, even the cross. Was pleasing to him, to God. Isaiah 53, verse 10. A reference for that. The Lord was pleased, God the Father, pleased, to crush him. The prophesied Messiah, putting him to grief if he would render himself as a guilt offering. I always do the things that are pleasing To him. It pleased the Lord to save sinners through the death of his son, to put him to grief, if he would render himself. As a guilt offering. So though his hour had not yet come, as is said earlier, Jesus knew that it was coming. And I love verse 30. I wish the whole account was about this, as any saved person would want. Even these Pharisees to come, but that was not. God's judgment for them. As He spoke these things, many came to believe in Him. It's a demonstration of the truth of Romans chapter 10 and verse 17 that faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the word. Implications. Look back at verse twelve Where Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life. So let me say to anyone who has not followed Jesus, you are walking in darkness. So admit the sin of not following him. Ask him to forgive your sin. Ask him to have mercy on you. Believe that God will, since He sent Jesus to die upon the cross for sin and commit your life to his authority, to his lordship. To do that is to know you will know the light of life. You will know Know Jesus, His person, and His will. You will see things from His perspective. Oh, it's a growing process. It's called sanctification. But you will grow. And rationalization and ignorance that we see in this chapter from the Pharisees, whatever of that is in your heart, it will give way to the revealed truth of God. You will love the Bible because in it you see Jesus. His truth will light your path, help you to understand the darkness of the world, to cope with it. I mean, think of it with me. One reason for the more numerous mental health issues of our day. Not uh saying any commentary about mental health. There are real things that happen there. But more numerous mental health issues are are happening and and it's because people are with Without the light of life. They don't see, they have no way to understand the darkness. And it weighs. It's heavy. They see it. But they don't understand that this is what sin leads to, and that Jesus will judge all sin. He will. He will judge those who start unjust wars. He will judge those who take something illegal and use it in violence. He will judge all sin. So without understanding, there is No hope, and thus there is declining mental health. It's evidence of darkness. that Jesus speaks of here. There are two ways to live life. Let me remind you of that and encourage you on one of these two ways One way that I encourage you to is to follow Jesus, and it is to have the light of life. It is to live for the glory of your Creator. The other way is everything else. Whatever you follow. It is to walk in darkness, as Jesus describes it here. It is not a way of light. It is desiring glory in some way for what's been created rather than for the creator. It might be for yourself, might be for mankind, might be for nature, or false God, or a man-made r religion or some cause, but you live for that rather than for the glory of the Creator. Two ways to live life. Look back at Jesus' invitation. It is to follow Him as the light of the world and to have the light of life. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for that invitation. We give it. We are commissioned to give it. We will see people this week who need to hear it. Help us to be open, to take the time to speak. But there are those here perhaps and those listening online who need to respond to So we pray for that. And we who have responded, Father, help us to live in the light of life. Not give in to the flesh that would take us back to places or actions or thoughts of darkness. We pray for that encouragement to believers as well this morning. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.