Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to John chapter 9. Continuing our series through John And from one perspective, the story of the Bible and the story of history is God doing things in the world And people not responding how they ought to respond. And you see the same thing in Jesus' ministry in the Gospels. Jesus doing Wonderful things. Acts of power. Acts of compassion, teaching truth. But on every page people not responding how they ought to respond And of course we can testify from our own lives that apart from God's intervention, apart from God working in our hearts, we wouldn't respond properly either. But praise the Lord, He has intervened and He has helped us. John nine, one through twenty-three. I'm calling this message the power of Jesus to give sight to the blind, the power of Jesus to give sight to the blind. We'll see that in his miracle that he performs. uh giving physical sight to a man who is physically blind, but always, always should be on our mind the symbolic and spiritual meaning of this, that he gives spiritual sight to the spiritually blind. John 9, 1 through 23, the power of Jesus to give sight to the blind. I'm going to read it And then pray for us. As we read it, I want you to think on a question. And the question I want you to think on is very simply: how should these people be reacting? How should they react to what he's doing? John 9, 1 through 23. Are you ready? No, no, no, no, no. I don't think so. John 9, which is from the Bible, God's Word, 1 through 23. Are you ready? Yes, let's do it. As Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents, that he was born blind. Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva And then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which means sent. So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying. Isn't this the man who used to sit and beg? Some said it is he, but others said, No. He's just like him. But he kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, the man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. Oh, they said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. Oh, they brought to the Pharisees, the man who had formerly been blind. But it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He, Jesus, he put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such things? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, what do you say about him? Since he has opened your eyes. Well he said, he is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight. And ask them, is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered We know that this is our son and that he was born blind. How he now sees we do not know Nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue. Therefore, his parents said, He is of age. Ask him. Let's pray. Lord Father, it's a sobering thing to see your son do a wonderful, miraculous work of kindness and compassion. See it responded to with skepticism , doubt, and division when there should be rejoicing. Lord God, I wonder if we're often guilty of the same sin. Daily you show us your grace. Daily you show us your mercy. Forgive our sins. Daily you provide for us. Daily you help us. And yet our lives are not full of rejoicing. We come to you resting in Christ. Father, we confess, we join our hearts now and confess that our only hope is Jesus Jesus Christ. We need to be forgiven. We need the power of the blood of Jesus Christ to forgive our sins, to blot out every transgression, to make us right in your sight. Father, I pray that as we hear your word, that your Spirit would enable us to respond properly, that is, by faith and rejoicing. In Christ we ask. Amen. We're going to talk about two things this morning, which will be tough because there's a lot in this passage about what was going on, the different uh groups of people, the different responses, the context. But what we're going to talk about is number one the miracle itself and number two the various responses to the miracle. Okay, the miracle itself, and then we'll look at as best we can the various responses to the miracle. The miracle is that Jesus gives sight to a blind man. Jesus gives sight to a blind man. And firstly, think about the purpose. The purpose is to display God's works. This comes from verses 1 through 5. The purpose is to put on display, to put on showcase something that God is doing, to put on display the works of God. Verses one through five. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents, that he was blorn born blind? So they have uh an assumption That is false. And what is their assumption that this blindness is somehow punishment? Punishment either for him or punishment against his parents. Verse 3, Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents. He's not saying that that man is sinless, and he's not saying the parents are sinless. Of course not. They're people just like you and I. What he's saying is this blindness is not a punishment against this man or against his parents. It was not that the man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. The works of God might be displayed in him. This blindness, this man exists as a vehicle for God to display his mighty works in this man and through this man so that God would be praised, so that people would see God's power, so that people would see God's compassion, his his authority, his ability to give sight to the blind. This blindness is for God's purposes. God ought to be glorified, and God should be glorified. And the way that God is glorified is he showcases who he is. His power, his compassion, his grace, his mercy, and on and on and on. You can think of other things. God is glorified when he shows off who he is through his mighty works. And how are we supposed to respond? In faith and rejoicing. So this blindness was not punishment for anything that this man did or that his parents did. It was that the works of God might be displayed in Him. Then he says, We must work the works of Him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. How does light function? Just think about this. If y uh there's a dark room, you cannot see anything, and then you turn the lights on, how does the light function? Very, very simple. The light enables you to see what's there. Then the light enables you to see what's going on around you. Enables you to see what kind of room you are in. What c furniture is in the room. How do you get out of the room? In the darkness. The light enables you to see properly, and now you can go from there. Now you're ready to do whatever you needed to do beforehand because now you can see. Jesus is the light of the world. His teaching and his works that he did essentially, his death on the cross and his resurrection, and his glorious ascension into heaven, where he now lives and reigns as King of Heaven and our High Priest before the throne of God. Jesus enables us to see properly. He enables us to see the world for what it really is. Jesus enables us to see ourselves properly. He gives us a way to be right with God. Salvation. He's the light of the world. Brethren, where would we be without Jesus? Where would we be? Here you have the answer. You already know it. Utter darkness. Utter darkness, lost in sin, lost in the despair of death with no escape. We'd be in a dark room. With no with no light to see what's in that room, how to get out, who God has called us to be. Jesus is the light of the world. And there's some interesting language here, the metaphor of day and working in the day. He says, we must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. It's one of the metaphors or one of the symbols that Jesus uses to talk about his earthly ministry. It's the daytime, which is the time to work. And that culture is very different from our culture in society. They didn't have electricity, they didn't have lights, they didn't have generators. And so nighttime was not very common for being productive time to get work done. That was daytime. Day is when you work That's a symbol that Jesus uses often for his earthly ministry. He's here now. He's going to do the work of God. He's going to be busy ministering. He's not always going to be on earth in that earthly ministry. He's now still ministering on earth through his people, through his word, by his Holy Spirit, but Jesus is in heaven. I think there's really good application here in thinking about this idea of daytime. When you think about this idea of time to work, time to minister, time to do the works of God. One of the things we do as a church is we gather and Worship. We worship together. We also pray together. We care for one another. Think of it also as Work. We're here to work for the Lord, to work the works of God. So as you're encouraging other people, you're working the works of God. You're carrying out God's will. As you're ministering the gospel or ministering the truth of God to the lost. Who don't know God, you're working the works of God. It is daytime. It is time to work. Apathy needs to be put to rest. Apathy needs to be done away with. This is the time to work For the Lord. This is a day of salvation that we live in. It's a glorious, glorious day of salvation. How does God bring the message of salvation to the world? Through His church. Through his servants, children of God, servants of God, daytime. It is time to work. He must work the works of God. We must work the works of God. Also being faithful servants. The purpose of this miracle is to display God's works. Jesus clearly says that. The blindness was not punishment, but rather it was meant to provide an opportunity for Jesus to display the works of God. Jesus' miracles were living illustrations That taught people about his power, that taught people about his kingdom. For instance, Jesus cast out demons. Do you remember this? Jesus cast out demons. And that is a great work of power, but that's also a lesson that Jesus has authority over powers of darkness in the world. He would heal the sick. That is a great great work of compassion. It's also to remind us that in his kingdom one day there will be no sickness. Jesus came to reverse the effects of our fall into sin. He can't it's been said, it sounds kind of cheesy because it rhymes to reverse the curse, to reverse the effects of the curse of sin and death. His miracles Are a little glimpse, a little glimpse of his power to restore all things, to teach of his power, to teach of his kingdom. This man. Would become a living testimony to the power of Jesus Christ and a living testimony to the compassion of Jesus Christ. Did you know that in the gospel narratives we we get an incomplete List of Jesus' miracles and good works. If if books were to be written about all of his good deeds, all of his healings, all of his uh exorcisms, all of all of his miracles. It we could fill a library the size of America. It's just a sampling. He healed multitude Multitudes, masses of people. The world has never seen power like Jesus Christ. Never and has never seen compassion like Jesus Christ. Christ. You know, it's one thing to wield power and authority. Amen? But it's another thing to exercise compassion and gentleness. And Jesus did both of those things to perfection, the perfect mix, the perfect combination, which would be a hundred percent of each, not fifty of authority and power, but also compassion toward the weak, toward the lowly, toward the outcast, and toward the sinner. This was Jesus Jesus, the power to heal, and the compassion to want to heal. The purpose is to display God's works. Hope we think about our own salvation and our own lives in that same category. Why did God save me? Ultimately, why did God save me? It's for our blessing, for our benefit. God is God is good like that. Amen. But ultimately we're testimonies to his grace. He's shining forth his grace. It's amazing. Through sinners like us. Shining forth his mercy. Through sinners like us These pathetic sinners, weak sinners like us, God is shining forth his compassion, his loving kindness through us. Why? So that we would so that we would be thought highly of? No, so that he would be worshipped As the gracious Redeemer that he is , the purpose is to display God in his works so that he would be worse. The procedure is Interesting. Anoint and wash. Anoint and wash. Verses 6 and 7. Having said these things, Jesus spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. I want you to try and picture this almost grotesque thing. Unsanitary, spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. He anointed the man's eyes with the mud. So now really picture this. Gobs of mud. Well, he put up on the man's face that would stay on there and cover his eyes like a covering. Right? A mud mask over the eyes made with saliva in the dirt. He anointed the man's eyes with the mud and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam. So he went and washed and came back seeing. And you see this throughout the miracle. It's just recounted and and testimonies given. They're talking about what's happened. They keep speaking real. He washed and then he saw So he was blind, he couldn't see anything, and then he had mud over his eyes, couldn't see anything, so he went and washed, and as he washed and the mud came off. He could see the glorious picture. Glorious picture. The first time he ever saw. Because he was born blind. Now I don't want to push the symbolism too far because this is a miracle, and so there is a spiritual meaning there, but it's not an allegory. there's a strict specific symbolism in these things, but the the imagery to me at least is powerful of anointing And washing. Anointing and washing. We all need the anointing of God to be able to see things properly from a spiritual perspective. We need the truth of his holy word. Not mud. We don't need mud. We're all away from the symbol. We're talking about real spiritual things here. We need the truth of God, the holy word of God to come into our hearts. We need the cleansing power of the Holy Spirit. We don't need water. We don't need mud. We don't need water on our faces. We do need the word of God, and we do need the work of the Holy Spirit in our minds and in our hearts to receive that word and love that word and obey that word. with hearts of faith. So the imagery to me is powerful. It reminds me of what we all need. We weren't all born blind, but we all were born sinners. We all need anointing. We all need washing. It's not a strange thing for God to require or to have some kind of participation in the miracle. Uh there is a man in the Old Testament named Naaman. Do you remember what Naaman suffered from? Leprosy. And Elisha, the prophet of God, told him for healing, he needs to go and wash seven times in the river. And he did and he was healed. There was participation. There was another time. Moses, you've heard of Moses. There was an Israel was in a battle. Joshua was leading the battle on the ground. Moses was up on the high ground And he would raise his hands in prayer and a show of dependence upon God for the battle, and when his hands were raised, Israel was winning or losing the battle. winning but when he grew weary and his shoulders and that's hard by the way. It's easy to do it for thirty seconds. Try doing it, you know, for thirty minutes, whatever. It's it's difficult when his arms would drop and he got weary, Israel was winning the battle or losing the battle. Losing. And so there's the participation there There's not power in Moses , but God to teach us that yes, we utterly depend upon him, but also to teach us that he works through people and he works in people. God uses people to accomplish his purpose. To teach us those two things at once, he sometimes requires participation in the miracle. And he even had two friends, Aaron and her, help him hold his arms up to continue that participation so they could win the battle. Maybe the most classic example would be Israel going up against Jericho. And you remember they were commanded they were not commanded yes go take the city. They were commanded rather basically to march around the city for a week. Right. So march around the city once One time a day for six days, and then on the seventh day march around the city seven times and give a loud shout, blow the trumpets And then they did that. They participated the way God commanded them to participate, emphasizing the need for obedience, teaching them, emphasizing to them, God is going to win this battle, not you. God will win. God will give you the victory. But they obeyed, they participated, and God gave the victory. Jesus does that in some of his miracles. This participation. It's a very interactive thing. Jesus didn't need to use mud or his saliva and and or the water from the pool of Siloam But he chose to do that as part of the teaching. So the pr s the uh purpose is to display God's works. Uh the blindness was not a punishment. Just to provide a vehicle for God to display his power and compassion. The procedure is anoint and wash. The point is that Jesus gives spiritual sight. Now you don't get this Until later on, really the punchline. We'll talk about this more tonight. But look down in verse 39. Way at the end of the story. Verse 39. Jesus said, It's for judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see. Right, so that's part of it. Those who do not see may see. Right. So that's just another way of saying to give sight to the blind. And that those who see may become blind. What in the world does that mean? We're just talking about The Pharisees and the other leaders who were spiritually blind. Outwardly, they had some things going for them religiously. You know, socially they were well respected and looked up to. They were the teachers. You go to them for wisdom. You go to them for instruction. These are the leaders, the leaders of Israel. On the outward, on the outside. But they spiritually were blind. Spiritually were blind. So for instance, one of the things you see in the gospel narratives is Jesus does a good deed, they get angry at him. Something's off with them, right? Jesus teaches the truth, they want to kill him to the disconnect. They're spiritually blind. Now you don't get that to the end of the story, some of the symbolism and meaning behind That Jesus is the light of the world, and this miracle is a real bona fide act of power and compassion to this man, but it also has a lesson. It has a lesson to it. Jesus came to give spiritual sight to the spiritually blind and to expose the fact that these over here, these outwardly religious hypocrite Pharisees, although they think that they see everything and that they know everything, they actually don't see anything. Actually I don't see anything. It's it's this this intense theological battle in the gospel stories, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, between Jesus and the Pharisees. and religious leaders who think they are children of Abraham. It's really shocking some of the things Jesus says to them. In one po one point in chap in uh John, Jesus says, Your father is the devil. You are of your father the devil. So this is the point that Jesus exposes spiritual blindness, but also that he gives spiritual sight. He does both of those things. I can summarize now what spiritual blindness is and what spiritual sight is. We'll talk more about this tonight. Spiritual blindness is not seeing God as we ought to see God. We don't spiritual blindness is I usually think of the the the part of my life, the large portion of my life, where I was spiritually blind, living in spiritual darkness. I didn't see God as I ought to have seen God. I didn't acknowledge him as my creator. God made me, therefore I'm accountable to him. And uh that's the spiritual blindness. So what would spiritual sight be? It's very simple. Seeing God as we ought to see God. God made me. I'm accountable to God. Now I'm his creation, I'm his creature. This world is his world. He is my God. So spiritual blindness, not seeing God properly, spiritual sight, seeing God properly. Second point on spiritual blindness would be not seeing myself properly. So if I don't see if I don't see God as He truly is, I'll never be able to see myself as I truly am. We see God, we learn from Scripture God is holy. And in light of that, just think of that as like a flashlight. This but you can think of a a kitchen. Now this would be gross. So hopefully hopefully this isn't anyone's kitchen here, but if you had cockroaches going all over your kitchen floor in the middle of the night and you go into the kitchen and flip the light on, what are the cockroaches going to do Scatter. They don't like the light. Get out of the light. So God's holiness is revealed to us in Scripture, teaches us who God is, reveals who we are spiritually. And the scripture even says that. We don't want the light. People who prefer darkness don't want the light. We flee from it. We fight against it. But it's in light of who God is we see who we truly are So spiritual blindness, not seeing God properly, therefore not seeing ourselves properly. Spiritual sight, seeing God properly, therefore being able to see ourselves properly, and the third one, the third one. If we don't see God properly, and if therefore we don't see ourselves properly, we won't see properly Jesus and his salvation. And this is where we want to be. This is the mountaintop. This is God's God's purpose in revealing Himself and therefore revealing who we are is to get us to this point where we're able to see Jesus and His salvation properly. We see that he died on the cross, bearing our sin upon himself, bearing the judgment of God against ours against our sin upon himself. He bore our sins in his body on the tree so that we could be forgiven of our sins. But we'll never see the significance of Jesus and his salvation. unless we're able to see who we truly are. And we'll never we'll never be able to see who we truly are unless we see who God truly is. So spiritual blindness to spiritual sight. Turn to 2 Corinthians 4, 3 and 4. There's a really good cross-reference for understanding this imagery that's common in Scripture of the metaphor of sight. As it relates to our spiritual condition. Our spiritual condition of lostness and darkness is considered blindness, but then finding Jesus and being saved, being forgiven is called Sight. It's called sight. Second Corinthians four, three and four. And even if our gospel is Veiled. Before I go on, just get the imagery in your head. What does a veil do? You pull a veil over something, it covers something so that you cannot see it. So sight, being able to see something, is in view. If our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world, which is one of the ways the Bible refers to Satan, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. To keep them from seeing. You see all this language about sight? To keep them from seeing the light. Now what's the light? Of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Yes, they're blindness. They're blind. There's a fail. They can't see. They're blinded in their minds. But there is a light. There is a light that shines. The light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. And then if you were to skip down and look at verse 6. You see how that's actually the remedy. The remedy to the darkness is the light. For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, that's hearkening back to creation, that God who said Or for God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shown in our hearts to give. If you're a highlighter or an underliner or even a circular, that's your phrase, to give. To give, because we're talking about something that God gave us Not something that we worked for and earned from God. God has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge Of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The thing that creates light in minds of darkness. Is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The thing that shines spiritual light in the darkness of our hearts is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Just because I was gonna say people, just because people don't accept the gospel the first time they hear it, but really any of us, any of us, just because we don't naturally, naturally Embrace the gospel and love it. We never turn to some plan B to try to persuade people to live for God. The gospel is the only thing. I'm not exaggerating to make a point, okay? I just want to go on record and say this. The gospel of Jesus Christ is literally The only thing in the universe that can change a mind and turn a heart to love God and serve Him. The good news of Jesus Christ suffering and dying for sinners and then being risen to eternal life, this message of the forgiveness of sins because of Jesus is the only thing. That can change a heart to love God and serve God. So there's no plan B. We don't ever want to say about Those who are currently perishing, as that verse says, those who the gospel is veiled to them, as the verse says, or uh about those who are unbelievers. As the verse says, therefore they can't see the light of the glory of God. We don't ever want to use lostness as an excuse to try some other method than the gospel. The gospel is the only remedy to lostness. So yes, the gospel is veiled to them, they're perishing, they're unbelievers. Guess what? So was I at one point. So were you at one point? What's the thing that changed things for us? It was the gospel. The gospel came into our hearts. What's this famous parable that Jesus talks about, the parable of the sower? Where the sower goes out and sows seeds. Do you remember what the seed represented? The word of God, the word of the kingdom. And where is that seed sown? It's sown on different surfaces in the parable. What do those different surfaces represent? Do you remember? The heart represents the human heart. It's a parable about the word of the kingdom, the word of the good news of God's kingdom, being sown in human hearts. Different hearts will have different responses But I tell you what, every heart that was changed, every heart that was transformed to love God, it was because of the seed. The seed is the only thing that can change the heart The point of this miracle is that Jesus gives spiritual sights. Now, quickly on the various reactions. The various reactions prove that miracles do not change hearts. Miracles do not change hearts. I mean if the gospel narrative, if the Bible, the whole Bible, bears out any truth, that would be it. God intervening in the world to work incredible miracles does not necessarily change hearts. It's it's God Himself through His message of grace and redemption that changes hearts and He'll use miracles as a testimony to His power. But just seeing a miracle is not going to change the heart. I mean the god that's a major theme of the gospel narratives. In fact, in fact, you 're probably more accurate to say that one of them one of the main themes of the gospel narratives is the more miracles Jesus does, the more the leaders hate him and want to kill him. It's not like he chips away at the unbelief of the Pharisees and finally he does enough miracles where they turn. No, they just hate him more and more and more The miracles don't change hearts. Now, first of all, quickly, the man's neighbors have mixed opinions. The man's neighbors have mixed opinions. The Pharisees actually denounce Jesus and denounced the miracle. And then the Jewish leaders launch an investigation. Where it says in verse 18 The Jews did not believe. That's almost a code word in the Gospel of John. The Jews, it's almost a code word or a code phrase for the larger group of Jewish leaders, not like the masses. of Jews, but the uh the larger group of Jewish leaders and influences. So there's mixed opinions. The Pharisees of course are going to denounce Jesus. I mean no matter what Jesus did, they already had their hearts set. Whatever he did they were going to denounce him and denounce what he taught. The Jewish leaders launch an investigation. Go ahead and read this section again from verses 8 all the way to 23 and just see the various reactions and responses. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, It is he. Others said, No, no, no, no. He is like him. See the doubt starting to creep in. He kept saying, I am the man. Obviously his testimony isn't good enough for them. Verse 10, so they said to him, Well then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Well, where is he? He said, I do not know. They keep asking questions So he answers one, deals with one, then he's asking something else. He answers that, deals with that, answers something else. You just go round and round and round. They should be rejoicing for this man. They should be rejoicing, humbling themselves. Happy! Be happy! But we do this on spiritual things, don't we? We need to go all over the place instead of dealing with the heart of the issue. Verse 13, they brought to the Pharisees this man who'd formerly been blind. Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. He said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see. Now at that moment, the Pharisees should run out into the street and start doing cartwheels and celebrating down the street. Right? Just be happy for the man. Rejoice that Jesus gave him sight. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. You know the irony might escape you, but it's incredible. The Pharisees were supposedly the experts in God's law. The experts in what it meant to obey God's commandments, they don't have a clue about God's law. They don't have a clue about the meaning of the commandments. If they did, they would understand that it's always right to help someone It's always right to show love. It's always right to heal someone from blindness. What do they use it as an opportunity? Just one more reason to condemn Jesus and hate him. This man is not from God. What? Are you serious? This man is not from God for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, how can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him? Since he's opened your eyes. He said, He's a prophet. Even this man doesn't doesn't yet get it. He will eventually, but he doesn't yet get it. And the Jewish leaders launched an investigation. Verse 18, the Jews did not believe that he had been born blind and received this sight. So they called the parents of the man who had received this sight and asked them, Is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know. Nor do we know who has opened his eyes. Now there's a chance they're telling the truth I I happen to think from the narrative and what's in here, they're absolutely just lying. They just don't believe the testimony of his son How he now sees, we do not know. Yes, you actually absolutely do know. Jesus spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. And Jesus anointed that man's eyes with mud. And Jesus told that man, go and wash in the pool of Saloon. So your son, who was born blind, went and washed according to the word of Jesus Christ, and now he sees. That's what they should have said. That would have been their testimony. We don't know. We don't even know who opened his eyes. Absolutely they knew But they're afraid. Ask ask him. He's of age. Ask him he'll speak for himself. And John even tells us in parentheses here why they did that. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews The Jews had already said if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. So they didn't want to be ostracized. They were lying to avoid persecution. Lying to avoid persecution. So, I I want to conclude by reflecting I I've already alluded to this. I think so. Brother John, let me know afterwards. How is it? How is it that a heart can be changed? If it's not miracles that change a heart, how is it that a heart can be changed for God? Three quick points. Number one, the word of God by the Spirit of God. The word of God by the Spirit of God. There's nothing else you do in your life. If you want a relationship with God, if you want to grow in your knowledge of God, if you want to grow in your love for God, if you want to grow in your service to God. Get yourself a steady diet of the Word of God and prayer for the help of the Spirit of God. The Word of God brought to our hearts by the Spirit of God. This is how hearts, this is how hearts are changed Secondly, I'm going to zoom in on this aspect of God's Word. So how hearts changed God's Word and God's Spirit. Okay, God's Word and God's Spirit. Now number two, we're going to zoom in on Word. There's a lot of information in the Bible. It's a very big book. It's a it's an incredible story. Lots of different things. But one of the ways to think about the contents of the Bible is it 's a revelation of God's law and a revelation of God's gospel. God's law is God's requirements for us. It's his commandments. It's his will for us. Here's how you're supposed to live. Now what what will change our hearts from thinking that we're just fine just the way we are and there's nothing wrong with us is God's law. We need to hear about who God is, his commandments His requirements for us, and that like a spotlight, again, will expose the fact that we're sinners. We need to hear God's law, His requirements, so that we can learn that we're sinners. Now God's gospel. We need the remedy. We need the remedy for our sin God doesn't want to just uh teach us his law, teach us his requirements, show us that we're sinners and leave us in despair. That is not God's will for you. That's not what God wants. He wants us to come under the conviction that we are sinners, we are guilty, we do deserve judgment, but aha, we have a hope in heaven. Jesus Christ who died for our sins and rose from the grave and gives us the Holy Spirit. So there is hope. There is hope in the gospel. How do hearts change? God's Word and God's Spirit, number one. Number two, God's law that shows us that we're sinners, and God's gospel that brings us salvation. And number three, attached to the gospel, a call to repentance. and a call to faith. What God does throughout this book is call sinners to trust in him, to believe in him to turn from living for themselves and to live for him. And this is how I want to finish the sermon. An incredible story that we should rejoice. That Jesus has the power to give sight to the blind. He gives physical sight to the physically blind in the story. If you want to zoom out, think of more generally, he gives spiritual sight to the spiritually blind. God offers free forgiveness. He offers free grace for any sinner who would turn and trust in him. I leave you with that invitation, and I'm going to pray for us right now. Uh if you uh we do have one more song I believe if you need to respond to that invitation, you can come and see me during this final song or after the service. Usually I say you can email me during the week, but I won't be available this week. So email Pastor John during the week or call him or wait a week. But seriously, if you need to respond to the message in any way, you need to talk to me, come up uh during or afterwards and we'll we'll talk to you as long as we need to. Let's pray together and then we'll sing. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for your word. I pray that you would change our hearts by your word and by your spirit. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen. Please stand again with me and sing hymn number 175. Hymn number 175. Hallelujah. What a savior.