The message is from Romans 10, 5 through 13. I'm calling this the most important thing. This is a message that addresses our most important need in this life. And it is a message, a passage that addresses uh the most important decision we could ever make in this life, or the most important act we could ever uh do in this life, and it also addresses The most important thing that we need to know about this world, no cliffhangers there, that is Jesus Christ is Lord. He's Lord of all, and it's in him that salvation is found. So there are many titles you could give to a message on this passage because it's right at the heart of Christianity. I just Gave it the title, The Most Important Thing. I'll go ahead and read the passage in full and then pray for our time together in the Word. Romans 10, beginning in verse 5. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But The righteousness based on faith says, do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven, that is, to bring Christ down. Or who will descend into the abyss, that is, to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you. It's in your mouth, in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim, which would have been the word of the gospel, and that through the gospel you're saved by faith. Verse nine, because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the scripture says everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction Between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. You see the passage ends with the foundation, the foundational truth of how you could why you could c anyone could come to Christ for salvation. It's because he is Lord. He's Lord of all. And he has the right and the authority and the mercy to bestow his riches on all who call upon him. And everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Let's pray together. Father, I pray that you would bring us in our hearts to full attention to your word. I pray that you would teach us, and I pray that you would encourage us. I pray that you would fill our hearts with the joys. I pray that you would fill our hearts with the joy and a sense of true deep rejoicing in the salvation that you've given us in Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that you would lift us up. I pray any who's in a snare of sin uh this evening, you would grant the gift of repentance Anyone who's stagnant or apathetic, I pray that you would stir up and give revival. Anyone who's lost, I pray you'd bring them under the conviction of their sin and bring them to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Every single one of us here, Father, we call upon you and your power and your mercy and your providence. That you would help us grow in our faith to continue to bring every area of our lives under the Lordship of Jesus Christ The nooks and crannies, the things that others don't see, but you see, Lord. Bring them under submission to Christ, we pray. And we pray that you would use your word and your spirit to do this for your name's sake. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. The overall message that I hope will get through to us is that all of salvation is all of Christ And always will be. This is what we're about as Christians, and this is what we're about as a church. That all of salvation is all of Christ. And always will be. Zoom in on verses 9 and 10. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, You will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. You could get right into personal and practical application that we should be a people who daily give thanks to God Almighty for the salvation we've received in Christ We didn't help God save us. This was not teamwork. All of salvation is all of Christ. So he gets all the credit All the honor, all the glory, and every day he should get all of our thanks and gratitude that he's forgiven our sins by the blood of his cross. And he's given us eternal life, a hope, a future. We should be daily giving thanks. And I would I would encourage you that right now in these moments, if that's not something that you do to take that challenge to your heart that I'm going to become a person who daily gives thanks to God, not just for food, not just for freedom. Yes, thank him for these other provisions, but thank him for salvation. Give thanks to God for Christ, the greatest gift we could ever receive, because all of salvation is all of Christ And it always will be. Roman numeral one is that Christ is all you need to be right with God. Christ is all you need to be right with God. Salvation is not going to be Christ. plus something we do. It's not going to be Christ. Plus, we're good people. It's Christ is all we need to be right with God. And this comes from verses 5. through eight. Moses writes about the righteousness that's based on law. That the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness Based on faith. Such an important phrase. If you're into underlining, underline righteousness based on faith, or the righteousness of faith Well you have faith in Jesus Christ based on his righteous life, based on his sacrificial death, based on his glorious resurrection. Righteousness is credited to us, righteousness based on faith, the righteousness of faith. And it does not say it uh it says Do not say in your heart who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss, that is to bring Christ up from the dead. We'll talk about the general meaning of those in a few moments. But what does it say? The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. It's readily accessible to anyone who hears the gospel. That's the image. It's near you, it's not far off. The word is near you, it's in your mouth, and it's in your heart. Faith. It's an internal spiritual reality. The word of faith that we proclaim. Christ is all we need to be right with God. Quickly on that phrase to be right with God, what does that mean? Well if you steal a car and you get caught and you're in the courtroom and you're found guilty, you are not right in the eyes of the court. But if you did not steal the car and you're found innocent and it's proven that you're innocent, you are right in the eyes of the court. You stand justified. You are right in the court 's sight. That's what it means to be right in the eyes of God. It means to stand innocent before Him. To not be right in the eyes of God would be to stand guilty Before him. And what we're saying, and what this passage is saying, is that Jesus Christ is all we need to be right in the eyes of the heavenly courts of God. It's the most important thing that we need. The first thing you see in this passage Is that there are two kinds of righteousness. Did you catch that? Look at verse 5. There are two kinds of righteousness. Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them That's one kind of righteousness. And there is actually one person who attains to this righteousness, the righteousness that's based on law. The righteousness that comes from perfect Personal obedience, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the obedient Son of God. He's the holy and righteous one. He fulfilled the law in all of its aspects. Internally and outwardly. The righteousness based on the law. That's one kind of righteousness. Let me ask you, can we ever have that kind of righteousness before God? No. That ship has We're full of corruption. We're plagued by sin. We have guilt, mountain high guilt to the highest heavens. of our sin and rebellion against God. We cannot have the righteousness that is based on the law. But there's a different kind of righteousness, another kind of righteousness. Verse 6, the righteousness based on faith. There's a righteousness that you can stand innocent before God, but it comes to you through faith. It's received by faith. And we will expand on what faith is as we go through this message. We don't need to do it all right now because as you go through this passage, it keeps coming up and up again, this idea of believing. Believing. You must believe. That's how you're saved. That's how you're made right with God. There are two kinds of righteousness. Christ's righteousness He obeyed God. And on the virtue of his own personal and perfect obedience, he is the holy and righteous one. He fulfilled the law. The other kind of righteousness is the only kind of righteousness, listen, that you and I could ever, ever, ever attain to. It's the righteousness that Jesus gives us as a free gift that we receive by faith. So if you want to stand right with before God, right in the eyes of God You you need something that's really, really, really big and profound. You need righteousness. You need a perfect righteousness. But it is available to you. You only need one thing. One thing in the universe, a relationship with Jesus. And you stand right before God. The second thing, you see a few things about the nature of the righteousness of faith. First of all, the righteousness of faith requires no mediator between you and Jesus That's what these at first glance strange verses are getting at. It's the the gist of what they're getting at. Verses uh the end of six and into seven. Don't say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven? That is to bring Christ down. Who is it that's going to bring Christ down to me? Who's what's going to mediate? Christ to me? Or who will descend into the abyss? That is to bring Christ up from the dead. Who's going to bring him up to me? Who's going to be the mediator between me and Jesus Christ that's going to help me come to Jesus Christ? There is no mediator between sinners and Christ. Sinners can come directly to Christ for salvation. This is the good news of the gospel. And you do not need to bring anything, anything of value, anything of merit. You're not bartering for your soul. You're coming empty-handed. We come as beggars. Christ's Save us, Christ, have mercy on us. We come with nothing. Heaven forbid we should try to add some sort of mediator, either a person. Or some sort of mediating religious activity to help bring Christ to us. No, my dear friend, you come directly to Jesus Christ. He is all you need for salvation And you need no mediator between yourself and Christ. Do I get excited about these things? You betcha I do. Because Everything I have that's good is because of Christ. The salvation that I have, the salvation that you have is because of this. The hope that we have in this lost and dying and cursed world is because of this, that God in his infinite love Made a way that we could come into a relationship with him on the virtue of another, the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the gospel. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The righteousness of faith. Sometimes if my children are arguing, they need a mediator They need their dad to come and be a mediator to help reconcile them, to help bring them back together. Sometimes if families get into uh some issues, the court can appoint a mediator, a court, a court appointed family mediator to help them work out the issues to help them come together to help work out an agreement And as we stand before God as sinners and He is holy, and we violated His law inside out and upside down. Six ways, seven ways from Sunday, whatever the saying is. We've sinned against God and we're guilty before Him. We do need a mediator between God and us. We do need a mediator for that. God has provided that mediator whose name is Jesus Christ. You do not need a mediator between yourself And the mediator that God provided for you because the mediator that God provided for you is sufficient. The sufficiency of Christ The worth of Christ. Christ is all we need. All of salvation is all of Christ and always will be. And this should. Fill our hearts with joy and thanksgiving that we cannot even put into words. And it should remind us of our purpose as a church First of all, worship. This is the center of our worship. We're Christ worshipers. Christ, by his mercy, has made us into worshipers of God. And not only our worship, but our message to the community around us. People don't know this. You're not born with a knowledge of the gospel. You don't watch evening television and get a knowledge of the gospel. You don't listen to the radio or the news media and get a knowledge of the gospel. People don't know. They need to hear. They need to hear the gospel. The righteousness of faith requires no mediator between sinners and Jesus Christ. Oh, I hope that you remember that and that it gives you hope and joy and comfort in this life. Next, you see that righteousness of faith Only requires faith in Jesus through the gospel. The gospel is God's way of bringing us to faith. Amen. Are you awake this this this evening? This is not abstract or religious talk. This is the actual thing that God does. He uses his gospel as his arm of power and salvation. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation for all who believe. He brings his gospel to people, and through that gospel he saves people. The righteousness of faith requires faith in Jesus through the gospel. Look at verse 8. But what does it say? And uh the qu what does that question mean? The question is uh what the righteousness based on faith says, right? But before that, he says what it doesn't say. It doesn't say who's going to bring Christ down. It doesn't say who's going to bring Christ up. What does it say? The word is near you. It's in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. It's talking about the message of the gospel. And that will become clear under the next subheading or the next heading, rather. What the righteousness based on faith says, or the righteousness of faith says, is that through the gospel Faith saves you. Through the gospel, faith saves you. And that's why it's readily accessible to anyone. Anyone who hears this message, man, woman, child, anyone who hears the gospel message, salvation is readily accessible right there, right there for the taking. in their heart and in their mouth. And he expands on that below, so I won't expand on it now. But that's the word of faith, the message of faith, that you can be saved by faith. to the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. You know, it's not faith itself that saves. Christ is the one who saves It's faith that unites us to Christ. Faith is the receiving instrument. Faith is the receiving vessel. We receive Christ by faith. Christ is the Savior. And that's why you should not get discouraged if you feel like your faith is weak. Everyone has a weak faith. There's no perfected faith here on earth. It's not the merits and the strength of our faith that saves us. It's Christ that saves us, and our faith unites us to Christ. Jesus saves. Jesus Christ saves by virtue of his power. Our faith unites us to him. One of the ways to think about the gospel is that what's ours became his, and what's his becomes ours. Now what's what is it that's ours that became his? Our sin and our guilt and the wrath of God against our sin and our guilt became his On the cross. What's ours became his, so that's what hip so that what's his would become ours. His righteousness to our account. His reward of eternal life shared with us. It's the great swap of the gospel. He represents us before God. He's our substitute on the cross. Christ is everything. Christ is all you need. He's all you need to be right with God through the righteousness of faith. You know, the world not only doesn't know the gospel naturally, none of us did. Alright, that's not boosting ourselves. That's not pride. None of us naturally know the gospel. So we don't know the remedy, but deeper than that, we don't know the problem. But the world around us doesn't know the sin problem. We don't naturally sense the guilt of our sin. We don't naturally know the wickedness and the corruption of our hearts. God needs to teach us that through his word. He needs to bring those truths to life by the power of the Holy Spirit. So When the gospel 's going out, along with it, the message of who God is is going out and his holiness and his commandments that we violated. So first we need to see who we are, sinners. And then we need to see the provision that God has made in Christ, in his life, death, and resurrection. That's the gospel. The righteousness of faith requires faith in Jesus through the gospel. Your lungs only need oxygen to breathe, to work, to do what they need to do. It doesn't need additional gases. You don't need to add other things in And your soul only needs Jesus Christ to be right in the eyes of God. Does it need our good works? Does it need our religious deeds, moral deeds, it doesn't need anything but Jesus Christ That's what the soul needs. Christ is all you need to be right with God. Roman numeral two, faith is all you need to receive Christ. Now we've been hammering away at this, but listen, the whole passage is about this. I've tried to break it up into topics. That's really just one topic. You're saved by faith in Jesus Christ. Christ is all you need to be right with God. You don't need a mediator between You and Christ. Christ is all you need to be right with God, and faith is all you need to receive Christ. Verses 9 through 11, and we'll go through this bit by bit. If faith is all you need to receive Christ, it's very important that we understand the difference between genuine faith and a counterfeit faith. Right, if someone owes you $500 and they pay you off in cash $20 bills, you want to know is a counterfeit Or is it genuine? And if faith is the thing that unites us to Christ, and it's it's the thing that we need to receive Christ, we had better know the difference between what God says is genuine faith. And what is a counterfeit faith? And that's what he begins, Paul begins to do here in this passage. Number one, genuine faith leads to sincere confession. Genuine faith leads to sincere confession. The beginning of verse nine. Because if you confess With your mouth. And now see what he's doing. If you just look at verse 8 in relation to verse 9, in verse 8 he summarized the nature of the righteousness Based on faith. And he mentioned that it's in your mouth and in your heart. Now he flushes that out a little bit. He opens that up a little bit. If you confess with your mouth That Jesus Christ is Lord. And then look at verse 10, at the second part of verse 10. And with the mouth one confesses and is saved. A genuine faith will always Always, always, and always lead to a genuine and sincere Confession of faith. A profession of faith. I have been saved by Jesus Christ. I am a sinner God has saved me by the blood of Jesus Christ. I'm just modeling some examples of what a confession of faith would look like, a sincere profession of faith with the mouth. Relationships, all relationships in this world require, for them to be healthy relationships, honest and open expression with each other And our relationship with God is no different. We express our faith. And not only that, but part of being saved is being brought into the church. It's a communal thing. We're brought into the people of God. We're brought into the church of Christ. We're brought into the community of faith. It's not a private thing that we do in isolation. Some aspects of our devotional life are. Prayer, study of the word. There's lots of things because our private life is a part of our life. And when we're disciples of Christ, every part of our life comes under his lordship. But the public profession, the sincere public profession of faith, you could call this one of the fruits of genuine faith. It's a fruit of faith. We profess our faith And there's a r there's you know there's a good practical benefit, a practical application of one of the reasons why God requires that and why that's good for us. Because if you cannot uh have conviction for your faith and profess your faith with other people who are going to be favorable to it and other people who make that same confession and other people who love you more than anyone else, how in the world are you going to do it out in the world? Where they reject God's word and reject God's will and don't want to hear anything about your God. So there's a maturity, a conviction that God wants us to have. The confession does not help to justify us, but consistently throughout Scripture. A true and living faith always leads to obedience, outward obedience and works, and part of that is the confession. Confess with your mouth. Confess with your mouth. What you believe. Genuine faith leads to sincere confession. Second, genuine faith resides in the heart. Remember, it's about the mouth and the heart. It resides in the heart. The second part of B and the first or the second part of 9, 9B, and the first part of 10. Believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, and you will be saved. For with the heart one believes And is justified. Genuine faith resides in the heart. And yes, it does have to do with the mind. The next point will be on knowledge of the gospel. We do have to have some knowledge of the gospel. It could be a very elementary Knowledge of the gospel, the the most basic explanation of the gospel there could ever be. But there should be at least the seed of a true knowledge of the gospel. But true faith resides in the heart It's with the heart that we believe, and the heart is one of the ways the Bible describes the core of who you are. At the core of who you are as a person What are you about? What's your identity? Why do you exist? One of the words, one of the concepts the Bible uses to describe you is your heart. The whole person abandoning all hope. And fleeing to Christ for salvation. That's the picture here. This you could call the root. The root of faith. This is the reason why genuine faith always is accompanied by repentance. A sorrow in the heart for sin, a turning from sin, being grieved at our sin because it's something that happens in the heart. It's a way of saying it's the new you There's a new you. The believing you is a new you. The unbelieving you has died. The you that was a slave to sin has died. If you flip backwards. To Romans six, six, you get a good image of this. We know that our old self What's the old so? The me who was a slave to sin, the me who was blinded to sin, the me that did not love Jesus, the me that did not trust in Jesus, the me that did hated the Bible. The old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, that its power might be eradicated. So that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. And brothers and sisters, if you are in Christ, you are not a slave to sin. You are no longer enslaved to sin. Believe what God's word says about you. Believe what the Spirit pronounces about you. You are not a slave to sin. You still sin, and I still sinned. We'll be plagued with sin till we are rid of these mortal bodies. Yes. But we're not slaves to sin. And if you've been saved, truly saved, you know the difference between being enslaved to sin and loving sin and being set free from sin and loving Christ and the blessings that are in him. Genuine faith resides in the heart. It's receiving a new heart from God. It's a sincere confession, is one of the fruits. But the root is in the heart. Third, genuine faith includes knowledge of the gospel. I feel like I foreshadowed this point for you or previewed this point for you. This is the seed. You know, before you get to the roots of a changed heart, you have the seed of the word of the gospel that's planted in the human heart And if it is brought to life by the power of the Holy Spirit, the root of genuine faith springs up and creates fruit, fruit to the glory of God. But look at verse 9. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord. That's a key phrase on this point. Jesus Christ is Lord. And then believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. Jesus Christ is Lord, God raised him from the dead. He's summarizing the historical facts of the gospel. It doesn't mention explicitly the crucifixion, but the fact that Jesus is Lord here. Now you're in Romans 10 and you're I don't know if it's quite in the middle of the New Testament. It's still early in the New Testament. But to say Jesus is Lord captures, encapsulates his whole messianic work of salvation. For Jesus to be the exalted Lord, to be ascended and enthroned in heaven at the right hand of God as the exalted Lord, that assumes that he first came in the weakness of mortal flesh. lived a righteous life in perfect obedience to his father, laid down his life for his sheep, paying for their sins, and was glorious res gloriously resurrected from the dead, and ascended on high, and seated as Lord. God has made him both Lord and Christ. Acts chapter 2. So when he says Jesus is Lord, And you must believe that God raised him from the dead. He's just summarizing the gospel. You need to know the gospel. People need to hear the gospel. We should have a passion, a fire. collectively as a church to get the gospel on as many ears as possible because as the gospel hits ears, it goes into the heart. And this is the seed of eternal life. And we can't go into the heart and cultivate that seed and bring it to life, but God can. God can make it grow. One plants, one waters, but only God can make it grow, and He will make it grow. But we're his messengers. So you must believe that Christ is Lord, and we must believe what that means in the context of Scripture. That's not just a spiritually sounding feel-good statement. That's assuming that he has attained salvation for the people of God and that he now reigns in heaven as Lord. Savior and Lord, and that He will give salvation to anyone who comes to Him. Jesus is Lord. Jesus Christ is Lord. And we proclaim that. We can never proclaim that enough. And God raised him. God raised him from the dead. So genuine faith leads to a sincere confession. Fruit. Fruit of true faith. Genuine faith resides in the heart. That's a new you. That's the root. Of faith, the essence of faith. Genuine faith includes a right knowledge of the gospel. In fact, in any kind of counseling or Bible study or discussion with uh An unbeliever or someone who is newly professing faith or is interested in in baptism, that's the first thing I want to ask is, do you know the gospel? And just start from there and see what the Lord does. But you have to know the gospel to be saved. Fourth and finally, well, at least for this passage, there's a lot we can say about genuine faith. Genuine faith loves Jesus personally, not just gifts from Jesus. Look at verse 11. There's such a simple, simple, simple word. That I want to highlight. The scripture says, Everyone who believes in him, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. You know, that's what I fleshed out earlier in talking about. It's not tech, if you want to get technical, it's not the faith that saves us. Faith unites us to Christ. Christ is the one who saves us. We believe in him. We believe that what he says is true. We believe that what God says about him is true. He did live a righteous life. So we're not calling him a liar. We're saying what you say is true. And we have a dependence upon him. We're saying only you can save me. Only you can take my sins away. Only you can make me right in the eyes of God. That's faith. We believe in him. Him. Personal love for the benefactor, not just the benefits. We don't want children who just want toys and things and food and clothing and good things but don't love us. We want our children to love us We want our friends to love us. We want our brothers and sisters in the church to love us. We don't like people who always just want something from you. Have you ever met someone like that? Have you ever been like that to someone else? You just always want something, but you try to make it look like that's not what you're really up to, but you know you are We come to Jesus for Jesus. He's the treasurer of treasures. And yes, there are benefits to him. But you could say that for other relationships too, the marriage relationship. There are benefits and blessings to the marriage relationship, but we don't get married to someone, just for those who get married to a person for the person. And we come to Jesus for Jesus. He's our offer. He's God's offer of himself to us. Jesus, personally. Gala turn to Galatians two twenty with me, would you? Galatians two twenty Paul understood this, and it was real in his heart. And he writes, I have been crucified with Christ. Do you see again here? It's a new Paul. The old Paul's dead. He's been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God. Who loved me. You can research that. I'm pretty sure that's the only time Paul says that In such a personal way. He talks about God loving sinners all the time. I think this is the only place he says, God loved me. Do you believe God loved you? Do you love God for God? Do you love Jesus for Jesus? Do you love the Holy Spirit for the Holy Spirit? We're talking about a relationship. A relationship with the Almighty Creator of the universe. He loved me, the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You see the, you can turn back to Romans 10. You see the personal nature. It's real. It's Does have to do with true knowledge of the gospel. But it's not intellectualism. You know as well as I do, you someone can affirm the facts of the gospel are true, but not have a new heart. And go through the motions and go through the motions, but not have a heart that loves Christ supremely. Oh We need to be right with God is Christ. And all we need to receive Christ is faith. A genuine faith. Romans 3 Because. Roman numeral three. Alright. Christ is all you need to be right with God. Number one. Faith is all you need to receive Christ. Number two. Number three. Because Christ is Lord of all peoples. In all places for all time. He's Lord of all. He has supreme authority. And his kingdom is the kingdom of redemptive grace. His reign is a reign of redemptive grace. It's a reign not of terror. It's a reign of rescuing sinners from darkness, bringing them into a kingdom of light and glory and happiness in God forever. That's his reign. That's his advance. When I talk about kingdom advance, that's what I'm talking about. God saving sinners through his church, through his gospel. by the power of the Spirit. He's Lord of all peoples in all places for all of time. He's Lord of salvation and he has authority to save anyone he wants to. Verses 12 and 13 gives the previous doctrines of salvation and grace and faith, it gives its foundation. Of the Lordship of Christ. For, you see, for. There's no distinction between Jew and Greek, and now he gives us the reason for that. For, the same Lord, is Lord of all. bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. I put an emphasis on you must call upon the Lord in faith. You must call upon him in faith. You must come to Jesus in faith. It's for phrases like this, you must call upon him. You must call upon him. But you see, the Lordship of Christ is the foundation. He bestows his riches on all who call on him. It's based on his lordship. He's been given all authority in heaven and on earth. Supreme authority. Now to um Think about lordship, you can just think in very simple terms. It's having authority over a particular realm and over those who live in that realm. That's what lordship is. Lord of the manor. He's Lord over that place, over the estate, over the manor, and those who live in that manor. He's the Lord. So, Lord of the universe is authority over that realm, the universe, and all those who live in that realm. You see, three quick hitting points here in verse 12. Number one, the universal equality of all sinners before Christ. As we stand before Christ, universal equality, 12A, there's no distinction between Jew and Greek. No distinction between Jew and Greek. And Greek is another way of referring to the Gentile world. That's everybody. There's no distinction, there's no special group who has an end with God and has an easier way of salvation. There's no distinction. No distinction. Universal equality of sinners before Christ. And then quickly in 12B, and I've already said this, the universal lordship of Christ. The same Lord is Lord of all. Christ is Lord not just over his church. Of course, he's Lord over the church, and we Leave the charge in humanity and submitting to the Lordship of Christ. But He's Lord of all peoples and all places for all of time. Jesus is Lord. Jesus Christ is Lord. That's a real thing. He reigns in heaven over all things. This is his realm. Universal equality before him, the universal lordship of him, and then finally in verse 12c, and I guess you could include 13, a universal call to come to Christ. There's a universal call to come to Christ, bestowing his riches. It's a redemptive kingdom, right? He's a it's a reign where he bestows riches on the poor, not where he steals riches from the from poor He bestows riches, heavenly riches, on all who call on him, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And if you can read if you read further in the context, you'll see this goes right into the importance, the centrality of preaching. The gospel must be preached. Missionaries must be sent out. This is the way people get saved. This is the way Jesus exerts his lordship and saves sinners for the glory of God. The gospel must be preached. People must be urged to come to Christ, urged and pleaded with and persuaded to come to Christ. Because Christ is Lord of all peoples in all places for all time. And we want people to be saved. Amen. Church, do we want people to know God through Jesus Christ? So we pray for them. And we reach out to them and we set a good example for them. And we show love to them. Try to model the grace of God. They must hear the gospel to be saved. They must be the gospel. They must hear the gospel to be saved. And Christ is the good news is Christ is all they need. They don't need Christ plus ten years of superb religious practice. All they need is Christ. All they need is Christ. Not Christ plus baptism, not Christ plus a sinner's prayer, not Christ plus anything else. All sinners need to be right in the eyes of God is, say it with me, Christ. That's all we need. We've got to get that in our hearts. Now I have these quickly. Okay? Quickly. Five points of practical application. Just for us to meditate on, not really to flesh out, but i i i if all this is true about Christ's Lordship and that Christ is all we need for salvation. And that faith is all we need to receive Christ, but it's all founded and grounded on His Lordship. We, we, the church, are first and foremost, we are a people who submit to the Lordship of Christ. We see ourselves as people under authority. We're not here making decisions based on our own opinions and desires and wants. We're under authority. We submit to the Lordship of Christ. We model that for the world around us. Secondly, we're a people who rejoice in the Lordship of Christ. It's not like we begrudgingly submit to his lordship but don't really want to. We rejoice in this. What else would we want? Jesus Christ, the God Himself, who gives us eternal and infinite blessings that we can never fully comprehend. That we don't deserve. And he spared us of eternal judgment. We are a rejoicing people. We're a submitting people. We're a rejoicing people. Third, and I've said this, we are people who proclaim his lordship We proclaim his lordship. And we must always be praying to the Spirit that we do not grow weary in that or that we do not ever grow to think uh un unknowingly or unwittingly that's not really that not that needed anymore 'cause it's The gospel is everywhere, churches are everywhere, Bibles are everywhere. Don't think that. Don't think that. The true knowledge of the gospel is not like widespread in Jarrett's Bill and Harford County. People need to hear the gospel. And fourth, we're people who rest and find peace in the Lordship of Christ We're not scared of God's judgment because our sins have been forgiven. We're not scared of death because We have the gift of eternal life and the hope of resurrection. We're not scared and worried and anxious and wringing our hands about all the things that are going on around us. Because we know God is in control, God is sovereign, God has a purpose, and we know that he will use all these trials and difficulties to mature us and to mature his church. We know that God uses bad things for his good purposes So we rest in him. We trust in him. We find peace in his lordship. Not worry. And finally. We pray for his kingdom to come. We pray for his lordship to find greater and greater expression in the world Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. The kingdom of God doesn't come all at once. It comes in stages and it grows gradually. You can read the kingdom parables in Matthew 13 are probably your quickest window into that. But we pray and we strive and we labor for the Lordship of Christ, the uh the kingship of Christ, to see fuller and fuller expression in this world as he saves. S as he snatches really sinners from from hell and from damnation. Jesus saves sinners. All of salvation is all of Christ and always will be. So we must be a people who all our lives are all about Christ and always will be. And we are his people. We are his children. And we love him because he first loved us, and we rejoice in that. Let's pray. Father, I thank you, and I pray for each one of us here. Fill us more and more With the joy that's found in Christ, enrich our hearts. I pray for comfort. I pray for assurance. I pray for zeal. I pray for love. I pray for unity. Father, we confess Our utter helplessness, but we also confess and profess our faith in you that you will provide in your power and your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.