Turn in the first time. The book of John to chapter two, we'll be looking at verses one through eleven. Today, the outline in the bulletin That is John 's interest in the gospel That Christ be his glory be magnified, shown in his prologue John identified Jesus as God in the flesh. John the Baptist proclaimed him, you remember, as the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Nathanael declared, as we saw last week, that he was the Son of God and the King of Israel. So wouldn't we be expecting him at the beginning of his ministry to head to Jerusalem, the religious center of Israel, for something? Well, indeed, he will soon go there. We'll see that. But not for what we might have expected. In the passage before us, we see Jesus and the disciples heading to Cana of Galilee for a wedding. Jesus wasn't the center of attention at this wedding, either before it or during it or even after it. The bride and groom naturally were the center of attention And those who came to the wedding left thinking about the joy of the celebration and about the newly married couple. But for a few, for Mary, for the disciples, and for the servants at the wedding. The wedding became the backdrop for the manifested glory of Jesus, as John put it, the beginning of his signs. In John 20, he gives us the reason for his gospel saying, Therefore many other signs Jesus also performed in the presence of the disciples. Which are not written in this book, the Gospel of John. But these, in most count seven, these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. So as we come to this passage, that's a goal. To believe. And believing to have life in his name. My prayer for myself and for you as we look through this Is just that. The purpose of the miracles in the life of Christ was this. They served as a signboard. That's the idea of this word, sign. Telling who Jesus was, the Son of God, God in the flesh, equal with God, telling us that and providing Heavenly authenticity and approval to his person and his work on earth. You know, the Pharisees What authority do you have? Well, the signs were a part of showing who he was and the authority that he had. And thus, all who believed in God in this time of Jesus' coming must believe in Jesus. Those with true faith in God, we'll see in the book of John, would do so. And those without true faith would not. Because God inspired the Apostle John to record this miracle, we get a chance to join Mary, the disciples, and the servants at this wedding. Not to celebrate the bride and groom, but to see the glory of Jesus. John chapter 2, verses 1 through 11. I'm I'm just going to to read through it and explain it, and then we'll go to some of the things we learned On the third day, and I take that as the third day after Philip and Nathaniel had joined Jesus, But it's not that critical. On the third day, there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, about eight miles north of Nazareth. And the mother of Jesus was there. Now notice, mother of Jesus, not Mary , Jesus' mother. Jesus did not derive his significance from his mother, but she From him. Verse 2. And both Jesus and his disciples, now probably Andrew, John, Peter, James, Philip, and Nathaniel. Jesus and his disciples were invited to the wedding. And weddings in this culture were not ceremonies, they were weeklong events. How would you like that, dads? I I I only had one and uh Dave, God bless you. A few more to come, Lord willing. But uh weddings were events. I mean The host would invite as many people as possible, especially distinguished guests like prominent teachers. We don't know why Jesus was invited. It could have been his association with Mary. But he and his disciples are invited to the wedding, as it says in verse 2. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, to Jesus, They have no wine. Now to run out of wine at a wedding was a social blunder, was an embarrassment. It would have been talked about for at least some time to come. Nobody wanted that. And wine in this culture, just understand, was the drink besides water or maybe milk if you if you drank that. Wine at a week-long event was for celebration. It wasn't a drunken party. It was commonly watered down with two to three parts water to one part. Why? Well, Mary knew. Why would she come to Jesus? Well, of course she knew that Jesus was the Son of God. Gabriel. had spoken to her, the angel. The shepherds had revealed to her what they heard the angels say. Simeon and Anna at the temple, when they presented Jesus, had great things to say. She would not have forgotten any of that And when he was twelve years old, I must be at my father's house, would not have forgotten that. She knew that he had left Nazareth and begun his ministry. So is Mary expecting something of Jesus? That's not stated, but probably she was hoping he would do something. Notice verse 4, and Jesus said to her, Woman, what does that have to do with us? My hour has not yet come A whole bunch is written about this verse. Literally it means what to me and to you? And most translations are, what have I to do with you? Jesus is making the point. I don't believe in a disrespectful way. That would be sin and he was sinless. So let me say it more clearly, not in a disrespectful way, but in a direct way to be sure that he answered. To God, not to Mary. See, it was not a normal mother-son relationship because of who he was. He answered only to God, who had already decreed the details of his path. to the cross. I believe referring to his mother as woman reminds Mary that as the Son of God, he is her Lord. I do not believe it to be disrespectful. He would refer to her the same way as woman from the cross as he entrusted her care to John the disciple. He said, Woman, behold your Son. Son, behold, your your mother. When he says my hour has not yet come, he's referring to the crucifixion. Now what sense those words made to Mary, we don't really know, but we do understand that Jesus knew the purpose of his coming. He knew that through that though he existed in the form of God in heaven He knew he did not regard equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, the living Philippians 2, being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he knew he would humble himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Verse 5, his mother said to the servants, Whatever he says to you, do it. It seems, as we read this, that Mary is confident that Jesus will do something. And readies the servants. Now, if she had any part in the the wedding, the planning of it, we don't know, but she gives this words, these words to the servant. And at this point, I think it's significant to note, Mary leaves the narrative. It's not really about her, it's about Jesus. John 's purpose is for the reader to see Jesus Christ. Glory. Verse six. Now there were six stone water pots set there for the Jewish custom of purification, containing twenty to thirty gallons each. Now that's a lot of water. I I thought about bringing a water pot. No, I didn't really, but I thought about a twenty gallon aquarium that I used to keep a BOA constrictor in. judge me. But but you know that that was you know as b you can picture maybe an aquarium if you've ever had fish. So a twenty gallon aquarium, set that on its side, that that's a that's a big jug, and thirty even bigger than that. And I think the size of the water pots is mentioned to emphasize the greatness of Christ's gift. Verse 7 Jesus said to them, fill the water pots with water. So they filled them up to the brim. I like that. If you have an opportunity to obey in service, do it to the brim. In other words, fulfill that service completely. The servants obey Jesus. Verse 8. He said to them, Draw some out now and take it to the head waiter. So they took it to him. One of the responsibilities of the head waiter, by the way, was to regulate the distribution of wine and Certainly he uh that's the logical thing that would be taken to him, and the head waiter tasted verse nine, the water, which had become wine, miracle. And did not know where it had come from. But notice the servants who had drawn the water knew. Now I want you to note that. Who was Jesus' birth announced to? Shepherds. Low on the wrong of society's elites. Who knows about this miracle other than he and Mary and the disciples? Servants It fits. His birth announced to shepherds. He's celebrated at the temple by Simeon and Anna. No one else knew what was going on when they came up. To Christ, his first miracle witnessed by servants at a wedding. God is glorifying the Son In the way that has been decreed in his walk to the cross and to the resurrection The servants who had drawn the water knew. And and it says the head waiter called the bridegroom and said to him verse ten. ten. Every man serves the good wine first and when the people have drunk freely now that's not meaning you know, intoxicated but but they've drunk freely, then he serves the poorer wine, but you have kept the good wine Until now, the idea is that when you taste the same thing, your senses are dulled the more you taste that same thing. And so therefore they would serve the good first and the little. Lesser, less expensive probably wine later. Verse eleven. This beginning of his signs, John 's word for miracles or instead of miracles. This beginning of his signs, Jesus did in Cana of Galilee. and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. The servants, we don't know. We know that they were privileged to see the miracle, but we know the disciples believed in him. With this miracle, I would say their faith was deepened. It's not like they didn't believe and this miracle got them over the top Maybe similar to when God answers a specific prayer that you're burdened to pray and it's answered and And you're so thankful you you've already believed in God, but experiencing a fresh manifestation of His sovereign power and grace to answer prayer deepens your faith. Notice the phrase, especially manifested his glory. You know, to look at Jesus in the flesh, you would not be looking at anyone that looked any he did not have a halo, he wasn't glowing. He looked like other men. The miracles manifested, showed forth his glory, his divine greatness, his equality. with God. And so you and I should read this passage and see his glory. And like the disciples, our faith should be deepened. His glory was manifested through the miracle itself, which we'll talk about in just a bit. But first, I want you to see Jesus' glory was shown through the circumstances of the miracle. I don't want to make too much of this, but I think there's some things here that are joyful to our hearts, and that would be the fact that it happens at a wedding. the water and the water pots and then the wine. So first of all the wedding. Is it significant that Jesus' first miracle takes place at a wedding celebration? In thinking through that, we do know from Scripture that the wedding banquet is an Old Testament symbol of Zion, God's chosen people. It's a symbol of their future glory in the days of the Messiah. Let me give you one example of that Isaiah 62 and verse 5. It says, As the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so your God will rejoice over you. While they're in exile, this promise is given to them. A messianic promise. Jesus used the wedding feast to illustrate the kingdom of heaven in Matthew 22, you might remember. And the consummation of the kingdom is pictured to come, is pictured as a marriage in the book of Revelation, Revelation 19, 7. Let us rejoice. And be glad and give the glory to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. And that's not a day, that's not a week celebration. That's eternity that we look forward to. I think there does seem to be some intentional foreshadowing here I don't want to make more of it because John doesn't point that out to us, but from these other passages where weddings, where marriages are used as symbols, I think there's some foreshadowing. That the celebration of a wedding s of a wedding certainly pictures the joy of our future eternal union with Christ. Secondly, the water pots. What about them? Well, more than thinking of a snake I once owned. We're told in verse six that these water pots were for the Jewish custom of purification. I think that's significant. It's a detail that's in the text. We should pay attention to details in the text. In Mark seven, three and four, it explains what what that means, these water pots for purification. The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they carefully wash their hands. So this was a Jewish um tradition and law, thus observing the tradition of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace they do not eat unless they cleanse themselves. And there are many other things which they have received in order to observe, such as washing of cups and And pitchers and copper pots. Jews became ceremonially unclean, defiled during the normal circumstances of daily life I mean we practice this to some degree. You go outside, you play, you come in, your parents tell you to wash your hands. You learn that as you grow up. I should wash my hands before I eat, and so forth. or or after other things of normal life, we do that. Well such water pots uh so the laws of cleansing would would I'm sorry Jews became ceremonially defiled during the normal circumstances of life, and we can understand that. And they were cleansed, that's what I wanted to say, by pouring water over their hands. uh m different than us washing our hands with soap and water. This was a ceremonial thing that was a picture of them and the cleansing And so these water pots are a reminder that under the law all people could hope for was a temporary cleansing. You're cleansed until you go out and become uncleansed again. The laws of cleansing, listen, would no longer be necessary after the cross. of Jesus after his once for all accomplished cleansing by paying sin 's penalty. So such water pots would no longer be needed for ritual cleansing. And I think this is pictured, let me say perhaps pictured, I see it, by the change of function in this passage. Instead of being used for continual cleansing, they are used for celebration. During the wedding. So the water pots. And then the wine. What's the significance of the wine? Well, the Old Testament describes the time of the Messiah with the image of abundant wine. In the book of Amos, chapter 9, verse 13 and 14, Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord. When the mountains will drip sweet wine, and all the hills will be dissolved. Also I will restore the captivity of my people. people Israel, and they will rebuild the ruined cities and live in them. They will also plant vineyards and drink their wine and make gardens and eat their fruit. Now notice that the text, in the text, the story is framed by these two statements. Verse 3, they have no wine. Verse 10, you have kept the good wine until now. And this seems a fitting commentary on the bankruptcy of Judaism. and the arrival of Jesus and that in him was life. Because they were following laws and then traditions of the Pharisees, just going through the motions for the most part. Heart. There still were faithful Jews, but many of them were simply going through the motions. They had no wine. And you've kept the good wine until now, announcing Life in Christ. Perhaps we should see the great amount of wine and the superior quality of the wine as a picture of the abundant blessing available in Christ. Think of it, forgiveness of sin. Once for all, sacrifice for forgiveness. Fellowship with Almighty God and with Christ. The indwelling Holy Spirit, peace, joy, the abundant life, eternal life, all of that. And more. All that we see in the New Testament we have. Perhaps pictured by the abundant and best wine. So, yes, I believe Jesus is glorified in the circumstances of the miracle. The wedding reminds us that Jesus is a bridegroom who desires eternal fellowship, and we'll have that. The change in the use of the water pots pictures the lasting cleansing from the defilement of sin available because Jesus established the new covenant. And the line pictures the new covenant in Christ with its abundant blessings. It's encouraging to see glory in the circumstances. But I don't think that's the main thing here. I think it's one thing. But Jesus' glory was manifested in a more obvious way. Jesus' glory was shown through the miracle. So think on that with me. Don't be don't fail to be amazed at what Jesus did. He didn't touch the water pots or the water. The servants did. And at his command, water was turned into wine. It was not a magic trick. It was a miracle of creation. We heard earlier from Colossians that all things were made through him. And in John 1, we have that same truth. Jesus created wine. Think with me, it's God who creates Well, we know Jesus shares the power of God. We know, but he's manifesting his glory. God is manifesting his son's glory on earth through this sign, so that those would know. And we read, and we know as well. That Jesus shares power with God. Jesus is God the Son, the Son of God. He is the Christ, the promised, anointed Savior who has come. Well, this is what his disciples were believing. I mean, Nathaniel had already said it, but this is deepening that belief that he is the one. And this is still the most important point of the miracle today. And I say that on the basis of verse 11. But also, again, John 20, verse 31, these have been written, and here's one of them, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life. His name. So we believe that the Word was God. John 1, verse 1. We believe that all things came into being through him. John 1, verse 3. We believe that in him Is life, John 1, verse 4, and grace upon grace life. The miracle of abundant supply in the physical realm here In John 2, certainly points to his abundant blessing in the spiritual realm and salvation. Think of it again with me: forgiveness, joy, peace, purpose Purpose, wisdom, fellowship, heaven to come, all of that, and more in the life that we have in his name Implications, let me give you three. And first, believe in Jesus. That's That's John's point, not only for the lost to believe in him, yes, for that, but also for the believing to be believing in him fervently. The miracle manifests Jesus as God the Son, whose kingdom has arrived. If you want to be a part of this kingdom, listen, if you want to be a part of this kingdom, you must understand your need for the cross. And that's pointed to in this passage. My hour has not yet. Come. His hour had not yet come, but it was coming, and it did come. Jesus will tell Nicodemus in chapter three, as Moses in Verses fourteen and fifteen, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so the Son of Man must be lifted up. Another reference to the cross to come, so that whoever believes will in him have eternal life. When Israel complained about their circumstances in the wilderness, which is what Jesus is referencing here when Moses lifted up Well God, who had faithfully provided for them, judged their sinfulness of complaining by sending poisonous snakes Into their midst to bite them and to kill them. It's an amazing story. And Moses prayed that God would spare the people. And forgive them. And he told Moses to make a bronze serpent and lift it up on a pole. I mean What would you be thinking if you were Moses? But Moses obeyed. And God instructed that if people would look at the bronze snake, they would be spared death. And so we today, we've sinned, we're worthy of eternal spiritual death, pictured by the snakes biting and killing. Israelites. But as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness The hour came for Jesus, the Son of Man, and he was lifted up on the cross, that whoever believes in him looks to him in faith. will have eternal life. And so believe in Jesus. Look to Jesus in faith. Be forgiven. Receive eternal life And if you have, when you read, His hour had not yet come, when you read, My Hour has not yet come, be thankful that his hour Continue to believe in the gospel as your hope of salvation. Number two, value what you have in Jesus. Picture it as the finest wine. Let us abide in Christ that we might know the blessings. Of eternal life now as we wait for the fullness of blessing to come. So, what have we learned and what will we learn in the Gospel of John? Chapter 1 verse 16, for of his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace. Value that. And in John 7, he who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water, pointing to the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Value that. But you are indwelt. John fifteen, five. I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me. So that's possible. There's an invitation to abide in Christ. And I in him, he bears much Fruit. Do you want to be fruitful? Honoring the Lord in that way. For apart from me you can do nothing. Value that Fullness of blessing, eternal life now, while we wait for the fullness of that in the future How do we value? We actively pursue the knowledge of Christ. We seek to see Him and His glory in the Scripture. and be changed by it. And that's what Second Corinthians three eighteen says. We see his glory in Scripture, and then we all with unveiled face Beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image, from glory to glory, just as from the Lord, the Spirit. Value what you have in Jesus. And one more thing just in passing, don't misuse this Passage. Don't think that because Jesus turned water into wine, he condones people's sinful use of alcoholic beverages today in our culture and how they are used. We are called to live sober lives to the glory of God. I remind you that I I put a paper on the ledge, it's still there in the lobby. Biblical reasons not to drink alcohol. While we don't understand the Bible to Call for strict abstinence, there are some good reasons to abstain from alcohol. So if you'd like to read that, please pick one up on your way out. Let's pray together. Father, we are so thankful for the manifestation of the glory of your Son here in this passage. We see him as creator. We see him as God the Son. We see him as one who had an hour to come A cross where he would die for our sins. We thank you for that. We pray, Father, for that one here who is Awakened by your spirit to understand sin and righteousness that they don't have and judgment to come, and I pray that you would lead them to the cross to understand. That Jesus provided the sacrifice needed for the payment of sin, for the accomplishment of righteousness, that they must I pray, Father, that believers here today and online would be encouraged by this glimpse. gazing at the glory of Christ in this first miracle and realize again who it is who is our Savior. Zealously desire and seek the fullness of salvation pictured by this wedding, pictured by this abundant best wine. And so I pray, Father, that we would not take lightly our salvation in Christ. But Father, that we would pursue The knowledge of Christ, the blessings of Christ day by day. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.