Anthony, it's good to be back with you. Today we're talking about the power of the gospel. So broadly speaking, we've been on the power of the word. We talked about the power of the law to expose our sin, to convict us of our wickedness, and the purpose of that, in the law doing that, is to show us our need for a savior. And bring us to the gospel. So that's where we are today, the power of the gospel. I'm going to start by looking at a couple passages. One of them is Colossians 1:6. And Colossians 1 6 is well I do verse 5 and 6. Verse 5 and 6 to introduce this topic of the power of the gospel. Picking it up in the middle of a sentence, Paul writes, Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven, of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel. which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world, it is bearing fruit and increasing, as also, as it also does among you since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth. Now there's a there's a lot there, but what I want to focus in on is this idea that it's the gospel that bears fruit, middle of verse six. It's the gospel that increases, which is pretty cool. The gospel is not static information. It's not dead. It's a living word. It's the power of God at work in the world. It bears fruit. It increases. And the way Paul says this is it's bearing fruit and increasing in the world as it goes out, but it's also bearing fruit and increasing, how does he say it? as it also does among you. So in the local church at Colossae. It's the power of the gospel to bear fruit, to increase. It's advancing the kingdom of God. It advances the kingdom of God by bringing sinners out of the kingdom of darkness into fellowship with Christ. As it's doing that, it's building the church. It's the gospel is the power to do all of this. One uh quick thing here before I go to another verse. He calls the gospel in verse 5, the word of the truth. But then he calls it at the end of verse 6, the grace of God, in truth. since the day you heard and understood the grace of God in truth. And that's the gospel. It's the message of God's grace. It's the message of the truth of salvation. Anyway, just to get your wheels turning here on the power of the gospel, Colossians 1, 5 and 6, it's the power of God. It bears fruit in the world. It increases in the world. Then this other verse is to is um 1 Thessalonians 1 verse 5. Let me get There. First Thessalonians 1 5. Because our gospel has come to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. That's pretty clear. So the gospel does come to us in word. It's a message. It's a message that's outside of us as someone's preaching it. And we hear it, it comes to us in word, but it also comes, as he says, in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. That is not outside of us. That is inside of us. That's the power of the gospel experienced inwardly as we're born again. And I'm going to do something super quick as quickly as I possibly can before I pass this over to you to carry this conversation forward. I've talked about the power of the gospel, but we have to summarize what the gospel is, in case someone doesn't know what that is. In short, it's the message of the forgiveness of sins. and the gift of eternal life based on the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Alright, so those two components, you know what it provides And historically just what it is, what happened. It's the message, it's the good news, the message of the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life based on the life, death, and resurrection. So there you go. Summary of the gospel. Power of the gospel is on the table. It's a big topic. And when we're looking at it, we're thinking about it, the power of the gospel, one thing that comes to mind is the The power of the gospel unto righteousness. So while we are sinners, we are unrighteous, we are rebels against God, we have no right to enter into his presence. But here in the work of the gospel, faith in Christ, the work of the gospel brings us into a right standing with a holy God. And this is what Paul is saying in Romans 1. Starting in verse 16, he says, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation. to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Before I get to the power of uh bringing us un into unto righteousness To stop there and be reminded that the gospel is the power of God to bring us into salvation. So we need to be bold in the proclamation of the gospel, not ashamed of it, as Paul says. Uh we should take joy and excitement in the gospel because it's God's mechanism, it's the power of God um for salvation and it's open to everyone. And you mean like it's the only thing that has that power The only thing. See only it's the only thing in Scripture that is the way of salvation is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. And then it's also open to everyone. So first to the Jew, but also to the Greek. And he uses other terminology later to the wise and to the foolish. to the Greek and to the barbarian. So he's saying it's for everyone. Um there's not another way. Just because you live in a different land, you have a different religion, maybe that's the way. If you just follow Islam, you'll get into heaven and be saved. No. Paul is saying, because God says this, the only way of salvation is by the gospel of Jesus Christ. But he continues on in verse 17. He says, for in it, so in the gospel, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed. From faith for faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. So we see that part of the gospel is having faith in Christ. This is what brings us salvation. And then this is how we live righteous lives, is according to the gospel. And Paul goes a little bit farther to To just clarify clarify this in verse 18, he says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. So the only way we know truth, which is God, is by the righteousness of Christ, which we inherit the righteousness of Christ, or we receive the righteousness of Christ, therefore making us righteous. through the gospel of Christ. So if we if we say we're going to do anything, we're going to be intelligent, we're going to be saved with something other than the gospel, we're foolish. We're actually being unrighteous in that. But then when we have the gospel, when we believe in Christ, we have faith in Christ, we now become righteous. Meaning we have access to God. We come into the presence of God. We are made in the likeness of Christ before the Holy Father. This can only happen through the gospel. So let's say someone's been coming to church, they've been listening to the gospel, and there's there's some kind of desire that they're sensing. in their hearts to be saved. They would even say, they may even say something like, I want to be saved, I want to be a Christian But they're not moving forward with baptism or not moving forward with church membership. They do not say with confidence. I am saved. So there's something going on there, but there's certainly not an assurance. And the reason they give you, or the reason they give me, is they don't feel like they've made enough changes in their lives. They don't feel like they've turned from enough sin or that they know enough about the Bible. or that they're committed enough and going to church enough. And our response would be something like, what? Uh the great hymn, I can't think of the title right now, but it says, If you tarry till you're better, you will never find him at all. Like this is the case. Is if we're saying we will come to Christ, we will have faith in Christ we will get this whole Christian living happening once we improve in this area, once we are sinless, once we have it all figured out. Well friends, you're never gonna it's never gonna happen. Yeah. Faith is the beginning. Faith is the new birth, the new life. So in that, when you're born again, you're an infant. You don't have it all figured out. you're still struggling with sins. You still don't uh have everything about the Trinity and the Old Testament figured out. But you have to start there. Faith is the beginning. That's the starting moment of the life of a Christian. We can't say we'll come to faith, we'll come to the gospel when we're more mature. That's not how it works. You have to start before you can get mature. Yeah. And so many things in life are like that if you sign up for piano lessons. Because you you want to learn how to play. You've never done it for a second in your life. But the day before you get scared and you back out because you don't think you know enough about playing piano yet Right. You don't know anything. Correct. That's why you signed up. Yeah. And you can apply it to anything, a sport, whatever. Um So when we're talking about righteousness here, what the temptation is I'm not, I I'm not ready to be a Christian. I can't be a Christian. I can't be baptized, whatever the excuses are, because I'm not righteous. And you and I are gonna say, you're right, you're not righteous. The only way to be righteous is to come to faith in Christ. Yeah. You must believe the gospel. That makes you righteous. Faith comes first, is what you're saying. Yes. So it says the gospel to your passage and to your point is the power to righteousness. So I can't go off on my own Try to attain righteousness and then think I'll be ready for the gospel. That's completely wrong. Yeah. And so that's and that's a real situation, it's a common situation. It manifests in different ways with different details, different feelings, the way people express it. A lot of times people really can't even put it into words, but there's just feeling like they can't come, feeling like they don't qualify, they're not good enough. Now something there is something within that is good, that there's there's a conviction of sin, there's a conviction I'm not worthy. You're supposed to feel that way. But what hasn't happened yet is the gospel has not been understood in the heart. They have not broken through to understand that This salvation is for the unworthy. This is for you to come empty-handed. You provide nothing to get this gift Yeah. And is the gospel is the power to liberate that sinner from that feeling like that you can somehow save yourself or qualify yourself. Yeah, the lie there, so the truth is that you're unworthy of the gospel. And the lie is that sometime or some way you will become worthy enough for the gospel. That's the lie. We've got to stick to the truth that none of us are worthy. of salvation. And it's the grace and the mercy and the love of the Father that sent the Son that we now are made righteous. Um but yeah we can't we can't get that out of order. And it it it comes from probably a reality of we do see that when you're a Christian you're called to live uh an obedient life to God and follow his word and there's a lot to that. And so it makes sense that when you're outside of that and you're looking in and you're saying, oh my goodness, this obedience thing and uh this newness in Christ and and following after the likeness of Christ, that's too much for me. To be intimidating. Yeah. And if you and if you're not properly taught and understanding that the Obedience is a result of faith, not the uh activation to faith. That's going to be confusing. You are going to say, I can't do it. But we have to get it understood that faith is new birth and then that brings you into a life seeking to walk in obedience to God. Christ. It's a challenge to us as pastors to make sure that what we're putting forth, what we're offering people, what we want to bring people into is free salvation. and fellowship with God through faith. We're not trying just to get you to add religion to your life. We don't want you just to add church. and come to church all the time and read your Bible, sign up for ministries, but never have faith in your heart Yeah. And never enjoy the freedom and the daily communion with Christ. So so it challenges us to be clear about what the gospel is and what the gospel uh offers to you life with Christ. So the gospel from Colossians 1 is the power to bear fruit and increase In the world. And in Romans 1, it's the power unto righteousness, it's the power unto salvation. It alone gives us a righteous standing with God and allows us. to live an obedient life. I want to bring us to 1 Corinthians 1 18. And for anyone listening out there, if you want to pursue some further meditation and reading on this topic after our discussion, all of 1 Corinthians 1 into 1 Corinthians chapter 2 would be a really good place to start at contrasts. The power of the gospel against the power, the so-called power of the world. It contrasts the wisdom of the gospel with the so-called wisdom of the world. But just for our short time here, 1 Corinthians 1. 18, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Now we've already talked about how the gospel is the power of God to save us. It brings us from lostness alienated from God into a state of being reconciled to God, of being saved, of being forgiven. But once we're saved, It's still the power of God for our ongoing sanctification, our ongoing maturing in the faith Listen to this sentence again. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved. That's ongoing present tense. Those who are being saved, it is the power of God. Not just that it was the power of God. It is the power of God at work in our lives to save us from the tyranny and guilt and shame of sin in our lives. So that those things don't cripple us and leave us ineffective in our service and work for the Lord. So I I mean I've lived both of these. You have too. uh where we once were unbelievers, we were in a condition of Heading for judgment. We were under the wrath of God in a state of spiritual death with those who are perishing. The word of the cross or the gospel was foolishness to us. But then God came in, his word came in, the power of the law to convict us, the power of the gospel to save us. Now we're in this other camp, those who are being saved, and the gospel is the power of God. four Christians that we need every day. So I wanted to put that out there for discussion. And get some response or application from you, maybe a pastoral situation from you that you think this relates to, because so often We can see that Christians can have a tendency to think that the gospel got me started. But now I've moved on. And now it's up to me to provide the power to obey. It's up to me to provide the power. uh to repent from sin and sanctify myself. And it's almost as if we leave the gospel behind and move on to more advanced things, which is the complete opposite. Right. So there that's one aspect of it that w every Christian, no matter what how long they've been in Christian, the maturity they have, they need the gospel. They need the power of God. Um what about the person that's struggling with their security as a Christian? They they profess faith in Christ, they they believed. Now they're years into this Christianity thing and They're not perfect yet. Uh how how does this verse or how does anything about the power of the gospel help uh encourage them, remind them of their identity in Christ? So in that season of low uncertainty, how can this encourage them? The only thing that can encourage them truly is the gospel. I mean in the in the strange way they have the same struggle as that unbeliever we were talking about a little bit ago, who instead of looking at the gospel and finding rest in Christ Christ, they're looking to their own works and they're looking to their own life. And because of that they don't have assurance of faith. Well now it's the same thing for someone who's uh been a believer and professing Christ for for decades Lacks assurance. Why they lack assurance? I bet you they're looking to either their works or their feelings. Yeah. Something they've been drawn inward And they've been conditioned over time, probably don't even know that it's happening. They've been trained, they've been conditioned to base their assurance uh on what they see when they look at themselves. Yeah. The only way you get assurance is by looking to Christ, His completed work, His righteous life His sacrificial death, bearing our sins, bearing our guilt, understanding the gospel. Understanding that there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ. If you believe in Christ, you are in Christ. If you are in Christ, there's no condemnation for you. God is not unjust. He's not going to punish your sins once in Christ, and then a second time punish you for those same sins. uh on the last day. So the only remedy for a lack of assurance is the gospel, is the completed work of Christ. So in that situation, and it's hard. It's hard pastoral work and striving with people, look to Christ alone. He's the only thing I have to offer you. Yeah. For your assurance. Yeah. And what about for the opposite side of that? So you had the uncertain Christian that's challenged. What about that puffed up Christian? When they they're boasting in what they have done, the ministries they've done, all the trips they've done, all the the perfect attendance they have, how can this verse help address that or this idea, the power of the gospel? address the uh puffed up Christian. But they're doing they're making the same mistake. Because they're looking to themselves too. They're just really, really impressed with what they see. Yeah. Instead of being depressed with what they're not seeing. So and that's just gonna depend on your personality and and some other things. You know, there's different ways you can reject grace. and look to yourself. So they probably more so would need the convicting voice of the law. Yeah. Though that it seems like the uh it seems like the first one Who lacks assurance, has a really sensitive conscious conscience, maybe an oversensitive conscience in terms of um it's it's a conscience that's not finding rest in Christ. It's only It's only um sensing the crushing weight of sin, but not resting in Christ. This this other conscience almost is unaware of its sin. Um and so it feels like they got it all together And functionally they're living as if they don't need Christ for their assurance because all they need is their works and the feel the good feelings. That's a that's a tough person to pastor to because um There are good feelings that come from doing good works and from being seen. I mean doing public good works too. Be good works that are published in magazines or announced on PowerPoints and that other people are talking about and excited about and and you you're a part of something that's bigger than yourself and you have an important role, maybe a leadership role, man, it it really those good feelings um can mess with the person. Yeah. So I there's a lot there. I'm probably rambling on it at this point. What what are some things you would how how would you preach into I would uh well later on in this chapter Paul says in thirty one he says so well let's start in thirty and because of him you are in Christ Jesus who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So for both cases, that's so crucial to rest in. Like Christ accomplished all these, your righteousness, your sanctification, your redemption. And then verse 31. So this is addressing the the second person in our conversation here. So that as it is written, let the one who boast boast in the Lord. Like you you don't get an option of boasting yourself because you are that dirty, nasty, dead corpse at the bottom of the ocean that God has redeemed by the work of Christ. So what are you boasting in yourself? Why are you boasting in your works, your pride, your commitment? Be boasting in Christ who has led you to those things. Yeah, that's um those are great verses for that situation. First of all, that's the climactic statement of this section. So it's gotta be important. But yeah, so your verse thirty is you're in Christ He's wisdom or righteousness or sanctification our redemption, so that let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. So if I'm in if I'm outside of verse thirty-one And I'm not boasting in the Lord, but I'm boasting in myself. I've not yet grasped the wonder of verse 30. Yeah. Where Christ is all of these things for me. Yeah. You have another verse for us? Yeah, I do. So let's take a look at 2 Corinthians 4, verse 6. And here we're talking about the power that changes the heart. So how are we getting to all these things? How how am I changed? So I have a problem. I see my problem. I look to Christ. How am I actually being changed? Or what's the change that's happening? And Paul addresses it here in 2 Corinthians 4. 6. He says, For God who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. uh so just again has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ Christ. We must recognize that outside of Christ, without the gospel, our hearts are dark and dead. They're stone, says Um scripture says, but with the gospel, the light shines forth, takes out the heart of stone, puts in the heart of flesh. and changes us. So this is that radical change that we see. And this is why the gospel and understanding the order of salvation is so important. is that the gospel changes our hearts, makes us new, that then gives us new desires, new hatreds of sin, new wants, new passions, which is then how we live out our lives in obedience to Christ. Shown in our hearts. That's a great phrase for contemplating the power of the gospel. Quite simply, this is something that God does in our hearts. Your I your illustration of, well it's Paul's illustration. The heart that is dark and full of full of the darkness of sin. I've heard illustration many times that Apart from Christ, there's this there's this hole in our hearts. There's this empty space. And when that illustration is used the right way, it's totally fine. Only God can fill this space. space. Yeah. But then I heard someone preaching. I I forget if he was in this passage or another passage, but a preacher one time alluded to that illustration. that there's a hole in the heart that only God could fill. And he said, but that's insufficient to understand the human heart apart from Christ. He said it's not so much there's an empty space in your heart. He said there's a There's a there's a space that's filled with the darkness and corruption and wickedness and blackness of sin. Yeah. It's what's in there that's the problem. Yeah. That's a better picture of the human heart. And so we need God to shine in our hearts. And this these phrases at the end of verse six are incredible. But they're so important because it explains what the light is. It's the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, right? So the shining forth of God, the beauty and radiance of God In the face of Jesus Christ. In the face. So in the revelation of Christ, in the revelation of the gospel, we're beholding the glory of God. That's the way God shines into our hearts. And saves us. And then also, and we can end on this one, go up a little bit to 2 Corinthians 3. 18. Now this is talking about those who are saved. Your verse was looking back to when when we were saved, God has shown this light in our hearts to give us this knowledge. Verse 18 is now for the we're already saved. We all with unveiled face and man I've got to explain that illustration for the person who has never read this passage before. It really that's an illustration for you are seeing Christ in the Word of God. I mean summarizing a lot there. But the veiled face is the one who's not seeing the glory of Christ in the Word of God. You're still blinded. You still have this veil on your face. And we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into that same image from one degree of glory to another, for this comes from the Lord who is spirit. So we're beholding the glory of the Lord. We are we've already seen that you behold the glory of the Lord by beholding Christ. You're seeing the gospel, you're seeing Jesus Christ in the gospel, you're seeing the glory of God in the face of Christ and this knowledge of Christ. What what's it doing? It's transforming us. As we see him, we see him in the gospel, we're being transformed into the same image. That image. of Christ from one degree of glory to another, and then the end for this comes from the Lord through his spirit. Again, it's Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit, through the gospel that sanctifies us and makes us more like Jesus. So we've got to preach the gospel week after week, sermon after sermon. Not that that's the main topic every week. It regularly should be the main topic. But whatever topic, whatever passage, Old Testament, New Testament, history. prophecy, wisdom, whatever, we're making sure that someplace in the preaching it is the gospel. Yeah. Otherwise, where's the power? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and this imagery of using the heart, we're talking about new lives. So if our preaching is only action-based, I want you to go do th this or um scripture commands us to love this way. You can't do that unless you have that new heart. And the only way we have the new heart is from the transformation and the powerful work of the gospel. So, yeah, the gospel has to be present. The rest of Scripture doesn't make sense without the gospel. And we even in the Old Testament, we see that we have a better understanding of the prophecies in the revelation of the Old Testament. Because we are now post-Christ. We can now see what all the Old Testament was pointing to, which is the Lord and Savior. And now we're living post that and we're celebrating the totality of Scripture and how the gospel has transformed everything. We've seen the power of the law in our previous discussion, and now we've seen the power of the gospel. I'm not exactly sure what direction we'll go next, but we will continue on this topic of the power of God's word as essential, absolutely essential for when we're lost in order to save us. but also absolutely essential for once we're saved in order to sanctify us and mature us into the likeness of Christ and build us up in the wisdom and discernment of the Lord. Alright, I'll see you next time. Hands gun.