Anthony, welcome back to the podcast. You ready to go? Let's do it. We've been doing a series on our core values. We talked about number one the glory and praise of God. That's what everything's about. And then we talked about the salvation of souls. God brings glory to himself in different ways, but the central way, the supreme way that he brings glory to himself, is by saving souls through Christ. And now we come to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And this flows logically. We go from the salvation of souls to The thing that saves souls, the gospel. So God working through the power of the gospel. So that's our topic today. Core value number three, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I have 1 Corinthians 15 that I want to start with, and then I'll shoot it over to you to respond and then take us to another verse that you want to. Before I read this passage in 1 Corinthians 15, define I want to define uh what the gospel is. It means good news or glad tidings. And specifically, the gospel is the good news of salvation. Through the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. So obviously there's more aspects to it, but I like simple definitions. I like Um putting things in a nutshell just because then it's not confusing, especially for people who are new to this topic. Every single Christian needs to know what the gospel is. And if you're not a Christian, you need to learn the gospel, hear the gospel so that you can be saved and know God. So one more time, gospel, good news, glad tidings. specifically the good news of salvation through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Now what I want to read is the first paragraph of 1 Corinthians 15. Is that cool with you? So cool. I need to get your okay before I dive into it. Go for it. Actually it it should be a one paragraph, but it's actually the first paragraph the way they put it in most Bibles is uh the first two verses They make its own paragraph and then they start a new paragraph for verse three. But it really should go together. I'll start in verse one. Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you. Which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you, unless you believed in vain For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins, in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried. that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. I'll just stop there. That goes through the first five verses. He does go on in verse six. and following to talk about more resurrection appearances. But for our purposes, we'll just do verses 1 to 5. So first of all, back in verse one, obviously the topic is the gospel. He says, I'm going to remind you, brothers, of the gospel. He says he preached it to them. He says they received it. He says they're standing in it. He says by it they're being saved, which is talking about their sanctification. And he says, you have to hold fast to this word I preach to you. Unless you believed in vain. Uh so if you had a a false or superficial faith, you'll fall away from the true gospel. Then he goes in verse 3 to summarize what that gospel is, the content, the substance of the message, and he says, first of all, he says is of first importance. He defines the gospel as this, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried. He was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, and then his resurrection appearances. So first of all, you have the person. It's Christ God and man, the mediator, the savior, the son of God. You have to have that right person. Just anybody dying on a cross wouldn't be the gospel. So it's a person of Christ. He that he died for our sins on the cross, that he was buried truly under the dominion of of death, that he was risen, raised to newness of life. And then that was proven by his resurrection appearances. So when we start talking about the gospel, just defining what this good news of salvation is, it's the good news of Christ. And his death and his burial and his resurrection. Yeah. And one other piece there, it it says in the accordance in accordance with the scriptures. So this is the promised salvation that God has promised. In the Old Testament, up until Christ. So just a fulfillment. Um it's not a change in God's plan. It's not a course correction, but this was what he had hoped uh what he gives us hope for mankind. It was really cool. I also like i we didn't unpack this entire letter that Paul's writing, but it is helpful to remember that he's writing to a church So in the very beginning of 1 Corinthians, he acknowledges them as brothers in Christ. So he's acknowledging them as being unified in Christ. Then through the rest of 1 Corinthians, he's dealing with a lot of mistakes, a lot of problems in the church. But now in chapter 15, concluding his letter, he's going back to the gospel. So it's not like the gospel is just this thing that's set aside. We go do that for unbelievers, we share the gospel, but then when we were back As Christians, we don't deal with the g no, the gospel 's still that important. Um, that Paul is taking time to to preach it, to proclaim it. and even use as the corrective mode. Like all these problems you have, remember who you are. Remember the gospel that was preached to you. And if you believed in that, you're saved. now live this way. So just the benefit that the gospel is for all aspects of our lives. As you say that, it reminds me of when I first went to Bible college. Way back. Probably when you were learn learning to ride a bike. Can you ride a bike? I wasn't alive in the eighties, so I wasn't then. Um In Bible school, when we had our class on the Pauline letters, and the teacher gave us a summary theme for each epistle, the summary theme he did for 1 Corinthians was the gospel. The solution to all the church's problems, which is just what you said, the practical importance of the gospel for the church. And we of all people celeb we celebrate the gospel and it is it is the thing that can help us most. We never move on from I love that point you made about This is the culmination of all of Scripture. This is the culmination of r redemptive history. It's not uh turning to a plan B. It's not It's not a postponement of fulfilling all these promises. It is the fulfillment of the promises. The best thing that God could ever give you, the greatest thing God could ever do for you. Here it is. Jesus Christ, the gospel of salvation. And it goes all the way back well, it goes all the way back to God's eternal plan. But in terms of history, it goes all the way back to Genesis 315, that very first promise of a Savior. And everything, all the different things and all the different ages and stages and covenants. that happened throughout history. It is all tracks on that one story to come to this culmination in Christ. Um Anything else you wanted to say about this passage or like anything on the basics, the content of the gospel, person of Christ, the basic things of his work before we go to another passage? It is helpful to be reminded, and Hebrews uses this language, that Christ is the founder of our salvation. And then another place it says he's the founder and sustainer of our faith. So if we pull Christ out of this, we don't have the gospel. If we pull out the reality that we're being saved from sin, we don't have the gospel. So it's really important to have these key elements, and that's why 1 Corinthians 15 is very helpful, these key elements of what the gospel is, because if we remove one thinking we're gonna simplify it, we're gonna make it easier, we're not gonna talk about sin that's uncomfortable. Well then you're not talking about the gospel, you're not preaching the gospel. Right. Absolutely. Um you need you need The person of Christ, that he is truly God, truly man, lived a sinless life, and you need the do you need to get the work of Christ right. His obedience and living that sinless life, his dying as a substitute. He died as the sin bearer, taking the sins of his people. um to turn away the wrath of God. So you need the the person, you need the events of the gospel right, but you have to get the interpretation of those events right. I want to go to another verse, and uh this is so hard because there's so many great verses on the gospel and its power and application, but I want to go to Romans 1, 16 and 17. I I just want to read it, make a few statements about it, and then I want us just to go back and forth the rest of our time just talking about how to receive the gospel. Just the basics, maybe some misunderst common misunderstandings that people have. Um how how Do we respond to this gospel so that we are saved? And so that we know that we're saved. Like what does that look like? What does that entail? What do I have to do? Does that make sense? Alright, so Romans 1, 16 and 17, for I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation. to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Verse 17, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous will live by faith. I don't know. There's a lot there. And historically these have been just a treasure trove of great theology and We'll just have to pick and choose for our limited time. But obviously, again, the topic is the gospel. Verse 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. That's an encouraging word for all of us. We don't need to be ashamed no matter what the world says. about the gospel no matter how people make fun at Christianity or the Bible or God or whatever We should not be ashamed of the most glorious thing there is. God's great salvation through Christ. Then he says This, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. First to the Jew and then to the Greek. Now that's historically that's how it happened. Salvation came first to the Jew and then to the Greek, to the Gentile world. Which I'm really happy about because that's where I live. Glad the gospel made it into the nations. He goes, so he goes, the gospel is the power for salvation. So the power is not yours. The power is not mine. God brought the gospel into our lives. The gospel changed our hearts. That power came from God. It didn't come from within us where we saw this thing and then we changed our hearts and then we were saved. No. The thing The gospel changed our hearts. So the gospel is a power under salvation. So we were saved from sin, from Satan's tyranny, from the judgment of God. We were saved, but here we go. To everyone who believes. You receive it by believing in it. The power of the gospel brings us to faith in Christ. That's the fruit of the gospel. Faith in Christ, and that's when And that's how we're saved. That's when we're saved. And uh there's a lot more there to say of verse 17 when he talks about the righteousness of God. And again, he talks about faith. But I'll just leave it there and see see where you want to take it. Yeah, uh the idea that we are ashamed of is so is uh of our flesh. But Paul's lining it up right there. How can you be ashamed of the very thing that saves. How can you shy away from the only hope you have? So I think it's it's Paul's doing a few things here, but one of them is don't be ashamed of preaching the gospel. But I think he's also critiquing us and saying don't go seeking for a solution to all your world problems and all your issues in world solutions. But go to the gospel. Don't don't shy away from it. Don't think, oh, well, you know, now we have modern and then put in something else. That'll really solve our problems. That's why Um that that will help and fix the issue of no, the gospel's the solution. And if if we are looking somewhere else, we're missing the the wonderful power that God has given us. I think that's a good word today because of the popularity of religion, even the Christian religion, superficially in our culture and Let's let's be honest about it. There is an emotional um boost. There's an experience you can have just by being a part of of outward public religion. There always has been. And that's the and it's a constant theme in scripture that you have to make sure that you're not just doing the outward things all the while you're you're not looking to God, you're not trusting in God. And so yeah, the gospel is the thing that we need for hope and meaning. Um The role of faith, let's talk about the role of faith and receiving the gospel. And I want let's uh we should have them on already, but if we don't let's put our pastor hats on because we see this so often people like it's so strange. Like you'll ask 'em, do you believe Jesus is the Son of God? Yes, you believe he's God? Yes, you believe died for our sins. Uh yes, you believe rose from the dead. Yes. Okay, so do you believe you're forgiven and go into heaven? And then there's hesitation. Oh maybe. Right. Yesterday I was sure, now today I'm not. Right, so what's behind that And what's the remedy? I so I think behind it is uh belief is facts to us. So do I believe Jesus died on the cross. Yes, I know that fact. I I learned that in BBS. I learned that at a young age. So I know that to be a fact. I can't prove it with my own eyes, but I know it to be a fact. So we've conflated these to say belief is just knowing it intellectually. But the belief is the the all of your hope, everything you have relies on that. So I think because we have that disconnect, then when we're approaching it and say, well, are you going to heaven today? It's like, oh If it's just based on facts, yeah, but I don't feel like it. Like I'm still seeing I I I'm still struggling with this. I I had this this problem, uh this exact situation in like two thousand sixteen. I can I remember the Bible study I was at in the basement I was sitting in with a bunch of guys and they went around and said, you know, on a on a uh out of a percentage how how confident you are that you're going to heaven every like a hundred, a hundred, a hundred And that day I was just down. I was like, I don't know, eighty-seven? Like I I I it and it was like, wait, why am I doubting this? Well it was based on me. It's all based on my feelings. I'd messed up that day and it's twisting. In that moment, my salvation was based on me and not Christ. Yeah. I think it is common too, and you're right, it that is the that is the flesh. That's the the flesh warring against the spirit and we we say we can look to our feelings if we don't feel the right way we doubt our salvation We can look to at like you said, our holiness and we can look to how much we're repenting. And if we don't think that measures up, then we don't think that we're saved. We can look to our good works. Uh maybe maybe you are maybe your feelings are right, whatever that means. Maybe maybe you are holy. Maybe you're you're not like living in sin or falling into like horrible temptations in secret. But then what if you're not doing enough good works? What if you're not doing enough ministries in the church? Yeah. Um so then you can lose your assurance. It all like you said. It's when you put the focus on self that you lack that assurance. And what we want to preach and what the Bible preaches is that if you believe in Christ from the heart, trusting in him, not just knowing the fact, but trusting in him from the heart. God says you are reconciled to him, your sins are forgiven. So I have another passage I want to read. What I want to close on this last section just talk about what the gospel addresses, like the need it addresses. And then I guess the sh the structure or the architecture of the gospel, how it works, like what happened on the cross that it addresses this problem. We have to summarize those things. And the way I want to frame this out is 1 Peter 2, 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. That we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. So it gives us the need in summary form, and it says this sins. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. That's talking about Jesus dying on the cross as the sin bearer bore Our sins. Sin is the problem. This would be this would be a two-hour podcast episode in itself just to talk about the sin problem. But all we can do here is summarize it. Sin is why we need the gospel. This is the need the gospel addresses. We have violated God's law We've been rebels, and not only that, but we're inwardly we are corrupt. We are naturally inclined to run away from God, to violate his law, to reject him, to ignore him, to live for ourselves. to put our put things in the world above God. We are naturally sinful, so we're corrupt inwardly corrupt. We are legally guilty before Him. We're slaves to Satan, slaves to the darkness, and we're headed for judgment. We're under the judgment of God. We're alienated from his favor. Problem, problem, problem, problem, problem. But you can take it all, and it's just in a box that's labeled Sin. Yeah. That's the problem. Anything all anything else you want to add or about the need the gospel addresses before we get into before we come to the cross. The holiness of God and our sinfulness drives us apart. Sinfulness cannot enter into the presence of the holy God. The the prophet 's talk about how he won't even look upon the wicked, he won't even see the evil because it can't it can't commune together, we can't sit at the same table. Uh we're so filthy we're not able to come before God. So we have this huge problem. We're condemned because uh because of our sin against God and we sh deserve the just punishment. We want to come to him, but we can't well I shouldn't say we want to, but even if we wanted to, we couldn't come to him because we're dirty. Right. Can't do anything about it. So we have this terrible problem before us that W we're hopeless on our own. Yeah, straight word. Hopeless. It's the hopelessness, it's or uh what's been said before the misery. Yeah. The misery of sin And not only like what the condition is, but the fact as you point out, we cannot fix this on our own. We do not want to fix it on our own. Even if we did, we wouldn't be able to. We would just make it worse. Just a snowball of wickedness just growing, growing, growing, rolling away from God, rolling into hell. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. So the problem that we have is our guilt Our corruption, alienation from God, and the coming judgment of God. What Jesus does is he lives a righteous life that we can never live because we have to have a righteousness. To stand before God, to be accepted by Him. He won't accept us into His presence with that sin that you mentioned. So we have to have a righteousness We haven't lived that life. We can't live that life. But Jesus in his life lived that righteous life, and he'll give that to us as a gift. On the cross, he bore Our guilt as his own. He took the judgment that we deserve as his own In our place, as a substitute, it's a miracle. Jesus dying on the cross is a miracle. Not just an example, not just a lesson, not just any other death on the Roman cross. It is a supernatural work of God. Or Jesus spiritually, literally, took our guilt, our sin as his own, received the judgment of God as his own. And we put our when we put our faith in him We are forgiven. We are forgiven. I don't want to say this in an overcomplicated way. The guilt of our sin is erased. He cleanses our hearts with the Holy Spirit. He reconciles us to God. and he takes away that that threat of coming judgment. So he so where the sin is problem, problem, problem Jesus dying on the cross is solution, solution, solution all the way through. And I I love the Romans 3. 25 passage where It's talking about that Jesus is the propitiation for our sins so that God may be just and the justifier. Oh yeah. So it's not that our sins just got pushed into a corner. Yeah, don't worry about that. It's not a big deal. No second. Move on, nothing to see here. It's like Christ four then. Yeah. That God's justice was fulfilled in Christ. That his wrath was poured out to the dredges, as the Psalm says. He drains the foaming cup down to the dredges for us. So I I always want to keep that forefront. I love that passage, 325, Romans 3. 25, that he is the he is just and the justifier. He's the one accomplishing it. His he didn't excuse anything. We're not, he's not reworking a justice system. He's working within that system and yet redeeming us. Right. So, as a church, our message to each other, our message to the community, is the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is this is what we're trusting God to use to draw people And to save people. And when he saves them, he brings them into the church. They obey him in baptism. They join the church, and God grows the church by the power of the gospel. through the work of the Holy Spirit. We're not trying to entertain people in here. We're not trying to just create uh religious themed social groups and friend groups. Not that it's wrong to have friends, not that it's wrong to have groups, and not that entertainment is inherently wrong. That's not what the church is for. We are centered on the gospel. We wanted God to draw people with the gospel. Save people with the gospel, build the church with the gospel, strengthen the church with the gospel. It's all about this. Always. Not just for the believers, but for the b uh for the unbelievers, but for the believers and the body life of the church. We really didn't have time to talk about the resurrection, but you have to have the resurrection. Or this salvation can't happen. Because you can't come to Jesus for faith uh for salvation if Jesus is still dead. So we have a living Savior who any sinner When they hear this gospel, any sinner can come to that living Savior for salvation by looking to him, trusting in him, and being reconciled to God. So I'll let you get the closing word. And um whenever you're done, would you just wrap us up with a word of prayer? If if there's any questioning of the resurrection, read continue reading that first Corinthians 15 passage. Before uh I used to um during communion I would I would read 1 Corinthians 11 as our communion passage, but I would also say if you're not a believer, if you haven't been baptized Take this time and read 1 Corinthians 15 because it presents the gospel and it presents the hope in the resurrected Christ. So it's such a good passage for all of that. Um and it's it's our only hope. It's all we got. If you're looking for something else, you're not going to find it. You're not going to find anything better than the gospel. So we we preach it both to the lost and to ourselves for encouragement each day. I'll close this in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for this time and your word. We thank you for the truth of the gospel. Lord, we we rejoice that while we were weak, you sent your son. And while we were sinners, there was faithful men and women to share the gospel, to preach the gospel with us, to have confidence that the Spirit can redeem and save, can make the dead alive. We're not ashamed of it and preach it to us. Because of the work of the Spirit we believe. So Father, we ask that you continue that in us May we have that kind of zeal and passion to preach the gospel. May we have that confidence in your work that you are saving sinners each and every day. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.