Song to sing before this final lesson, at least at for the time being, on sanctification. Talking about holiness. Sanctification, all of our thoughts have to begin with God. The definition of holiness. Anything else that's holy is only holy Because it resembles God in some way. God is the definition of holiness. Um Romans six, I guess I'll leave my Bible up here. I was so worried about this whiteboard, I didn't bring the The the Bible up here. Romans 6 uh verse 20 through 23. I'll read it. Pray for us Do a quick review and then get into the new material for tonight. And tonight's topic is the goal of sanctification, the end goal. Where is it all leading? What's the final step? What is the mountaintop that we reach? Romans 6. 20. For when you are slaves of sin, you are free in regard to righteousness But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death But now that you've been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit that you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So twice in there you have the word end. Twice in there you have the word end. Okay, the end of those things is death. That's where they lead. And then uh later in the in the next verse Sanctification and its end, eternal life. That's where it leads. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for all that you've done and all that you're doing and you are our only hope. We thank you for your salvation in Christ. Father, I pray that you would continue to work in our hearts and sanctify us and continue to use us for kingdom purposes in this world. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. So the goal of sanctification, the end goal of sanctification, is glorification Sanctification is is but the path to glorification. And that doesn't minimize it. It's not like just the means to an end, so it has no significance. I mean , but that is the significance. It is the path to glorification when we are 100% transformed and conformed to the likeness of the of Christ in glory. Sanctification is the path to glorification. Before I do the review, actually let me map out this evening and then I'll go ahead and do the review. Um as we're talking about this Goal of sanctification, glorification. We're picturing this path to glorification. Uh what I want us to focus on tonight in terms of practical application are hindrances. What are things that creep into our lives That are hindrances that hinder us in progressing in sanctification. And I want to get most of those from you. So I'm giving you this question at the outset so you can drop it in the pan, turn up the heat, let it simmer. You have plenty of time to let the wheels turn and reflect on what are the hindrances to my sanctification in my life. What what is it that sneaks into my life like a snake in the grass that hinders my progressing in sanctification. And we'll do those together. We'll get those on the board And so just to help you think about those so you can formulate your answers, um, one way you could answer would be testimony examples. Right? Those would be specific things, maybe from your life now or from your life in the past. This has been something that has hindered my sanctification. So it could be like temper. Okay? One of the things that's hindered my sanctification or In the past season, even though God has grown me in this area, one of the things that's hindered my sanctification is a short fuse. Okay? And we'll put that on the board. Another way you might answer is a common example, more something less specific to you, just a common example, a gen that would be more general than specific. Uh you maybe could just come up with one. One that I came up with that's I think is a common hindrance to sanctification is spiritual pride. Spiritual spiritual pride. We think highly of ourselves. Knowledge that puffeth up and uh doesn't lead to humility is a hindrance to sanctification, and so spiritual pride And then after we 'll get those on the board, testimony examples that maybe are specific to you, common examples, maybe principles or different things. And after we get those on the board, what I want to do is give to three overarching hindrances to sanctification that come from chapter six. Just overarching um hindrances. for progressing in sanctification. Because if that's what chapter six is about, things that will help us grow in our sanctification, we'll just look at those things and say, well, okay, now the opposite is going to be a hindrance. Right? And so I'll isolate those and summarize those at the very end. Does that make sense? Is that a good plan? So you're letting this simmer? Things in your life That hinder your progressing and sanctification. And they could be things in your heart, things in your mind, habits and hobbies, could be things from the world warring against you. It could be all kinds of things. Now , the review. Sanctification, God's gift of holiness. So, what's justification? Justification would be the gift of righteousness Right, righteousness imputed to us, or righteousness counted to us, so that we're counted right in God's eyes. Sanctification is God's gift of holiness. I'm going to do this quick, but we talked about two aspects of sanctification. One is the aspect of consecration of God setting us apart for use in his kingdom. And the other is the uh aspect of inner purification. So as God plucks us up out of the world and sets us apart for use in his kingdom, he also purifies our heart so that he would use us in his kingdom with a proper use. And just quickly on this, we've d we also talked about um two different uh I already used aspects for this, two different aspects. Uh I don't want to say phases, but two more aspects of sanctification is there's a sanctification in the past, in our conversion. And there's a sanctification that's ongoing. That's progressive. So when we were born again, the Bible says we were sanctified. We were washed. We were cleansed. And we are positionally sanctified, set apart. We are definitively sanctified. That means there's a definite Break with the ruling power of sin. And that gets us into our review. So the first message we had was on the reality of sanctification. Sanctification is a reality for all God's children. And it is the reality of dying to sin and being resurrected to newness of life in Christ And then last uh last week in the evening we talked about striving for sanctification, and we didn't try and be advanced or complex with that. We talked about the common means of grace that God has given us. the word and prayer and the church fellowship and baptism in the Lord's Supper And those aren't the only ways God works in our lives, of course not, but those are the central, primary means of grace that God has given us. We need to feast on scripture. We need to devote ourselves to prayer. We need to commit ourselves to the body life of the church. And Always trusting in the Spirit. Always trusting in the Spirit, not trusting our works. This morning we talked about the essence of sanctification. If if there's only one point out of all this we've been going through, I hope it would be this, the essence of sanctification. is being conformed to the likeness of Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. I mean that's it right there. That's the Christian life. That's spiritual growth. There's so much talk about spiritual growth these days and so many discipleship movements. What does it look like? What give me a resource. Look if we just We're being conformed to the likeness of Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. If we can just get our hearts fixed on that for the glory of God, we'll be heading in the right direction. Now, tonight the goal, the end goal, obviously glorification. Now it says in here eternal life. Says it twice. Says it in the uh verse twenty-two. The fruit the fruit you get leads to sanctification. Which is holiness growing in sanctification, and its end is eternal life. Now, eternal life is something we do possess now, but here he's using it specifically for um our glorification. Once we reach that eternal state of glory that will never be reversed and there's No more sin, no more temptation, no more tears, no more sorrows, or even the sad remembrance of those things. And he says it again in 23, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. And of again, that's a gift that we possess now, truly eternal life, but we do not possess the fullness of all the blessings of eternal life Once we die and go to heaven, we'll inherit heaven, and then when Christ returns, we'll inherit the new heavens and the new earth. So that's the goal. The goal of sanctification. The end goal is Glorification. Let's work through quickly, but let's work through that paragraph, and then I'll give you some crawl good cross-references we'll look at for glorification. What he does in this last paragraph is summarize and bring together everything he said in the chapter. So this should out this should sound familiar to us. We should know what these things mean. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. Now we know that if we if we're honest, we think back to when we were lost. When we were slaves to sin, we did not have any desire. We did not sense in ourselves A commitment to give ourselves over to righteousness. Righteousness was not our master when we were lost in sin. We were not slaves to righteousness. We did not present our bodies as obedient slaves to righteousness when we were slaves of sin. Because we were slaves of sin. That's what he said, sir. When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. Righteousness was not your master. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you were now ashamed? It's a good question. Now, when we were slaves to sin, we weren't asking ourselves that question, were we? We were blind to that. We weren't sitting around now. Now, what does God say is the fruit? of being a slave to sin. No, we had to have our hearts changed to even think about or be concerned about those things. But that's what he asks. What fruit were you getting? And he tells us The end of those things is death. The end of those things is death. And there he's talking, again, he's he has his mind fixed on the eternal state after life on earth. Of course, the the end physically for these bodies for everyone is death. But eternal death, the second death, as it's called in Revelation. is what those things lead to unless you are we are saved out of them. That's what being saved means, basically being saved from that second death, being saved from that eternal death, that judgment. Verse 22, but now, but now you've been set free from sin and have become slaves of God. We've been set free from sin. We've been saved. We've been set free from the end of those things which is death. We've become slaves of God. And the fruit you get. That's it. I love that transition there. That is one of the great segues of Scripture. You have become slaves of God. Who are we as believers? There's many ways you can answer that. But one of the ways we must answer that is we've become slaves of God. And then there's a comma, and then he says this The fruit you get. The fruit you get, the fruit you get from being a slave of God is what leads to sanctification. But it starts with being a slave to God. It starts with belonging to God and desiring to be obedient to Him. And we do desire to be obedient to Him, right? Following the Lord, living for Christ, that's not something that we don't want to do, we just force ourselves to do it because we think it's the right thing to do. No, no, no. We desire to live for Jesus. It's difficult, and there's temptations and there's trials and difficult trials and there's struggles and there's doubts and there's fears because we're still humans and we're still in these flesh bodies and We still have all kinds of weaknesses and shortcomings and and um boy aren't those a good reminder of uh uh uh of our need for God's grace. But our heart's desire, at the pit of our heart, is to obey God. So we're we're not begrudgingly Trying to do the best we can because we think it's the right thing to do. No, we long to obey him. Having died died to sins One of the main th themes of this whole chapter. We've we've died to sin. We don't love it any longer. But it's but the fruit that you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. Eternal life in glory with God forever. The wages of sin is death. That's speaking there of what's earned and deserved, right? Wages. Something you work for and you get what you deserve. You reap what you sow. You reap what you sow. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus There you don't reap what you sowed. Jesus reaped what we sowed on the cross, and we reap what he sowed when we're saved. That's the glory of the gospel. He died as our substitute, and then he shares his reward with us. He died as a sinner so that we could become children of God. It's an amazing thing So , few cross references on glorification. Romans 8. 20. Romans 8. Romans 8. 22. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. It's a picture of cr the creation as under the curse. And the illustration is it's in labor. It's in labor. It's about to give way. It's about to give birth to something. Something new. The whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. But not only the creation, we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we eagerly w await our adoption as sons The redemption of our bodies. The redemption of our bodies. Glorification. Now Philippians 3, 20. Philippians three, twenty and twenty one. But our citizenship is in heaven. And from it, from heaven, we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. So he has infinite power, infinite authority, and by that power, this is so succinct. I love this. It's so succinct and clear. It's just a nutshell of hope. Enjoy. Transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. What a great verse. And one final one, first John three, one and two. First John three 1 and 2. Behold what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. But beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. Now that's future looking right. What we will be has not yet appeared. But we know That when he appears, it's Christ, when Christ appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. So we'll be like him in terms of uh being in heaven and then on the final day having uh resurrection, glorified body But there in 1 John, again, this glorification is connected to sanctification. Everyone who has this hope, everyone who lives in light of this hope, is being purified just as he is pured. And so we're becoming more and more like Christ from one degree of glory to the next. Now I hope you have your hindrances to sanctification. Solidified in your mind, on the tip of your tongue, ready to go, condensed down and summarized so we can get as many as we possibly can. Because Beloved, this is the battle, isn't it? This is the battle, isn't it? So I'll just put the two I came up with uh earlier. Um what did I say? Spiritual pride. And it's probably at the root of all of them. And what was the other one I said? Temper. Oh, and anger. Thank you, Vince. It's got us rolling. I know, that's I know that that's how you were using it, but I was trying to use you as an icebreaker to be the first one to To give feedback. Yeah, Tom. Oh hold on, we got one here. Prayerlessness. Prayerlessness I think is a huge one. Um and what's the other one you said? Judgment maybe being judged by something like suspicion. Alright. Paranoia. Okay, paranoia. Is that right? Just the habit, pretty good. That's right or not. Okay. Fear. Yeah, see fear. Alright, Tom, what did you have? Oh yeah, okay. Hobbies. Yeah, I like that one because a lot of times what hinders us is not things that are explicitly sinful, but things that become sinful because of the place that we give them. I think that's a great answer. Hobbies. Thank you. Neil. Yeah , but sometimes more at least I'm telling more less than the trust down to the So self righteousness Or self-deprecating. Check me on the spelling of that too. And both are just different forms of being self-absorbed and missing grace. I think that's a great answer. I really do. Boy, that comparison game because we do it on an individual level and we do it on a church level too. We compare y you know, and and when we do that w we're we're thinking in in in worldly carnal categories. Who else? What else? Yes, Meg. Yeah. Not witnessing Yeah, out of fear, fear of others, fear of how to react, fear of um trying to do an asterisk. Um all kinds of things. Yeah, and I think with this not witnessing and prayerlessness, I think there's a whole category there that that you guys are getting on to of um You know, just being lax in our duties, lax in our Christian duties. And um i it's a tough one. I mean that I fight that battle every day. That's that's a tough one. Thank you for that answer. Who else? Did we did we get any from that side? Yeah yes. Busyness. I'll put this right under hobbies. Busy Miss Yeah. Oh, and then we just got up here at distractions Distractions. Now that's one I struggle with too. Especially when I am exhausted. Physically exhausted, or emotionally, or mentally exhausted. Um It's it's good to go find rest, and we need to get away and get rest. Jesus did that. He modeled that. Um But sometimes we can We can just get so immersed in it, we just become too distracted. And distraction is a way of life for a lot. That's I mean our culture is a culture of uh of of being addicted to distraction. I think that's a A great answer. A great answer. And again, I think with that answer, like just with hobbies and with busyness too, they can they're they it can be from things that are not it's like on paper, they're not a violation of God's law. Could be checkers that you love more than God. It could be checkers, tournaments that you're that you're prioritizing over prayer or or witnessing or serving in the church. It c it could be things that on paper are not explicitly transgressions or whatever, uh violations of God's law, but they become sinful. There's nothing wrong um with bronze. But if you f if you form it into a calf and worship it as God, there's something wrong with that bronze. Right? And there's all kinds of things in the world and in our lives. Alright, what else? Who else? Yeah, sports. I would put that here right too, yeah. Whoop. You see that? It's because of my background in sports. That was a that was a big one for me growing up. I mean that was um that was my idol. And um Well I tell you it's it's a lifetime of of uh being sanctified as one who and like while playing to keep the right attitude. Um this is one of those other things on the smaller scale. You know you the adrenaline gets pumping and you're exhausted and things are moving quick and you're competitive and You can lose your temper, you say things you shouldn't say, and it's it's tough. And then, you know, the place of sports in my weekly schedule and all all kinds of things. I think that's a that's a good example. What other hindrances? There's gotta be more. Oh, gossiping. Oh no, that doesn't hurt anybody That's that's just your personality. Don't worry about that. That's fine. Well, you know, that's just who she is. No, that's a hindrance to sanctification. Thank you for sharing that one. Boy, I tell ya Sometimes we just need to keep our mouths closed, but that's tough. I mean remember the section in James where James talks about um how destructive the tongue is. And and And um said it's a world of evil. So yeah, gossip is one example of that. And it does hinder our sanctification. Loose lips hinder our sanctification. Thank you for sharing Yeah, sorry. Yeah, un unforgiving. You know, there is that phrase in the passage this morning, lawlessness leads to more lawlessness. And specific sins can be like that too. An unforgiving spirit just make can just fester and make you more unforgiving and um just make you harder and harder and you just y you let it fester and Streep things under the rug, it's it's a hindrance. It's a hindrance. It's a hindrance. Yes T V that 's problem Yes, yes, yes T V. Boy, I didn't even think about that. That's a great answer. Like screens in general. We j we just we s we connect ourselves in quotes, connect to the virtual world and um yeah it can disconnect us from other things. It can hi it can hinder our sanctification. Let's take one more. One more That's TV's gonna be har hard to beat. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's I mean there's So many ways to write that. The misuse of finances or time, poor stewardship. So money Time. Yeah. Absolutely. The way we're using what God has given us um will set a path for us. And we can apply the spiritual gifts too. And um in general there's just principles there of um he who has will be given more. He who have and so pro poor stewardship, not prioritizing uh our money and our time and our energies and our resources and our words in kingdom ways for kingdom purpose can hinder our sanctification. Absolutely. Absolutely Absolutely. Great answer. Boy, we probably could go on and on and on forever with this guys, because if we if we each just start thinking about our own lives, easy for us to pinpoint the things that have been tripping us up. Right? Lingering temptations. Each one of us have different temptations that we're prone to, and we need to discipline ourselves. This is what you brought up last week, brother, in our discussion here in this class. We just need to learn to discipline ourselves, to lock those things off, to avoid those temptations, not to plug ourselves into the den of iniquity. You know, we we just need wisdom. We need wisdom to avoid temptation and I think one I would just add up here in connection with prayerlessness would be not spending time in the Word. You know, the word and prayer and those means of grace are going to be the boosters, catalysts of sanctification. Right. That's the transforming power of the word, the the transforming nature of communion with God in prayer. Those should be this kind of the the center of our of our lives. Of our lives, really. Okay, now I'm not gonna uh first of all, thanks for your sharing with those. I'm not gonna go into write these on the board, but just from Romans six. It's uh sort of giving an outline, a th a theological outline for how to think about sanctification and how to think about um Spiritual growth. So just because we're justified by faith, chapters 3, 4, and 5. It doesn't mean our obedience is not important. We must pursue obedience, but we never pursue obedience as those under law. We pursue obedience as those under grace. Okay, so let me give you an ABC of just overarching, overarching hindrances to sanctification, to our personal growing in holiness based on Jeromans 6. Ceasing to grow in the knowledge of Christ, in the knowledge of his work Or the knowledge of our identity in Him. That's three things. Don't think of knowledge as intellectualism. This knowledge, spiritual knowledge, the knowledge of God, or God's knowledge of us in Christ. is relational, intimate relational, um, dynamic knowledge. And growing in knowledge True true knowledge in Christ will help us grow in godliness. Now those two things are connected. That's why it's interesting and when you re we read about the warnings again of false teachers, one of the red flags that's always put out there is um wherever you have false teachers there'll be ungodliness Wherever you have false doctrine, there'll be ungodliness. And the flip side is true. If we want to grow in godliness, we also will commit ourselves to growing in knowledge, knowledge of Christ. God's revelation in Christ, knowledge of his work, his death and resurrection, and knowledge of our identity in him. That's almost the The foundation of Paul's theology before he gets to pastoral concerns or practical concerns, he lays down the truth first. Because the understanding the truth, growing in knowledge of the truth, will help us grow in godliness. And so in chapter six, he wants us to understand that we're under grace. He wants us to understand that we're free from sin. He wants us to understand that we died to sin. He wants us to understand we've been risen to newness of life. Truth, truth, truth, truth. He hasn't told us to do anything yet. He's just saying things that are true about us, and we need to We need to plant our feet on these truths and grow in the knowledge of these truths will lead to more um it will help us to grow in godliness. So often we just I said this last last week in the evening. So often we just want to be told what to do. Just give me a list of things to do, and that's that's practical, and now go and do it. That's A. A hindrance to sanctification, A, is if we cease to grow in our knowledge, we just think we've arrived, we don't need to learn anymore, we've been doing this for years, don't need to grow. We should never think that way. We love him, we want to know more of him, we want to spend more time with him. The B is losing sight of the dangers of sin. And therefore ceasing to fight against it. Losing sight of the dangers of sin And ceasing to fight against it, which most of these are would fall under that category. Right, we lose sight of the dangers of sin and so there's a socially acceptable amount of pride I'll allow in my life. I'm not fighting against it. I'm okay with it. And sin that we're okay with we'll never repent of Now there's a socially, culturally acceptable amount of gossip that's allowable in the church. I've ceased. To fight against it, because I've lost sight of its diabolical nature and its danger. Well, that's a hindrance to sanctification. You've forgotten what sin is. And the C is the opposite of that. Lose sight of the reward of glory. Therefore cease fighting for it. We lose sight of the reward of glory. That's why he ends this chapter with putting that right before the reader. We lose sight of the reward. We lose sight of the goal. We lose sight of the hope that's in Christ. And therefore we cease to fight for it or strive for it. We looked at that verse last week in Philippians. Work out your salvation. With fear and trembling. Don't work for it. You work out your salvation. That means strive to grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Strive for obedience with all your might. Fight for it. Fight To honor God and glorify Christ. But if we're going to do that, we must keep our eyes on the prize. We must keep our eyes fixed on Christ in heaven and the reward of glory. If we lose sight of that, it's a hindrance to sanctification. So I'll I'll just repeat those and and then um Now I I'd I'll give I'll give three minutes if anyone does have any uh pressing questions on on anything from last week or this week, this morning or t or tonight. A hindrance to sanctification is when we cease to grow or want to grow in the knowledge of Christ, knowledge of his work, and knowledge of this, who am I in him? Our identity in him. Letter B, losing sight of the dangers of sin and therefore ceasing to fight against it. Letter C, losing sight of the reward of glory, and therefore ceasing to fight for it. Anybody have a question on the tip of their tongue they wanted to get to get out there before um before we close, before we wrap this up? You don't have to, but if you do don't make it too difficult 'cause it's Sometimes somebody has one. Jordan, now you always look like you have something that you want to say or ask. I can't interpret your face, brother No , okay. Yeah, that's good. If you raise your hand above shoulder level You're on you're on the spot, you're on the hot seat. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God Is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. We've received a free gift that we never in a million years could come close to deserving or earning Eternal life. Eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Fix our hearts on that. Strive to obey Him and just wake up every morning. I'm committing to Him. I'm committing to Him. I'm His servant Fill me with the Holy Spirit, Lord, that I may walk and be sanctified. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for all that Christ has done, for all that he is doing in our hearts, even this very moment. And the things he'll do in our lives as we move forward. Father, I pray you would sanctify us. And we believe because of your word, we believe your promises. We believe that you will sanctify us And I pray that you would keep us trusting in you and resting in Christ as our only hope, our only salvation before your throne. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. I 'm dismissed. Is it?