Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 2. Today we're looking at Ephesians chapter 2, verses 17 to 22 Ephesians, that's the Christians at Ephesus. The church at Ephesus. Ephesians. Ephesians 2, 17 to 22. And today we're looking at the one household of God. Alright? The one household of God Someone comes to this church, to any church, they should not experience different cliques. Different sects of people, what they should see, what they should experience is one unified Household of God. That's what the church is supposed to be in any given community, whether it's Ephesus in the ancient world or North Harford County. today, the one household of God. Before we read the passage and launch into it, just Just think of an illustration of what's been going on in this chapter. And what we'll see again today is God gathering sinners from different backgrounds under one roof. He's bringing different people together through faith in Christ. Uh it's hard to imagine, but try to imagine some kind of societal upheaval where we're all left homeless and we're all left hungry and we're we're lacking safety, maybe lacking shelter. I know that's hard to imagine, but just Imagine uh ourselves in that situation. But but then there's a wealthy landowner, and in his great goodness, he reaches out to all of us. And he gathers us in. He gathers us in from the fields. He gather gathers us in from our destroyed homes and neighborhoods. And he brings us onto his land, under his roof, to eat at his table, to be under his protection. What did he do? He brought all of us together out of our neediness. He brought us in under his household. And that's a picture of a church. That's what a local church is. Spiritually speaking, God has brought us all in from our different backgrounds, from our our different issues and struggles and sins. God has brought us in under his roof and his household to feast at his table and his kingdom to be under his protection forever and ever. Amen. That's what the local church is. One household of God. Let's read this passage in Ephesians 2. Going from verse 17 to verse 22. And he, that's Christ, he came and preached peace. To you who are far off, and peace to those who were near, for through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Can anyone guess the verse and the phrase from where I got our title and our topic from this morning? Yeah, nineteen. And you want to say that phrase for us, Denise? You get might as well roll with it. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Amen. Thank you. Members of the household of God. I hope that we all really appreciate the weight of the depth of what that means as being saved. By the blood of Jesus Christ, as being members of the church, is that we're not just doing religion here. We're not just doing external religion. We're not just doing good deeds to feel good about ourselves. But we have been brought into the household of God, to be of the family of God. It's a wonderful thing, and it's a thing To be cherished. So that's verse 19, members of the household of God. In Galatians 6:10, you'll see this phrase: household of faith. Which is uh it gives us a really good insight into the kind of family, the kind of household it is. It's the household of God. What does that look like? It's the household of faith. That's Galatians 6. 10. 1 Timothy 5. 8, you'll see this phrase. Members of his household. See those two words here too. Members, and you see. household. Now if we all go to a concert somewhere, are we in the same room? Yes. Are we doing the same thing? Yes. But we're spectators. We're not a family. We're not bound to each other in love. We're not devoted to each other in practical care. We're watching something together, being excited about something together in the same That's not what the church is. We could be at a movie together. Are we in the same room? Yes. Are we watching the same thing? Yes. But we're not a family. We're not bound together by the Holy Spirit. We're not committed to the same thing, the kingdom of God and the glory of Christ. We could be eating in a restaurant together. We could all be eating in a restaurant together, getting the same appetizer, getting the same entree, getting the same dessert. But we're not a family. So church is not just being in the same room doing the same thing. Listening to the same things, watching the same things, sitting facing the same direction. Now we we do sit and face the same direction for practical reasons And the congregational worship is important, but that's something the church does. That's not what the church is. Does that make sense? The church is A family of faith, the household of God. As a church, as the household of God, the household of faith. We are to be devoted to each other in love. To be devoted to each other in love. John 13, 35, Jesus said, By this everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Also as the household of God, not only are we to be devoted to each other in love, but we are to care for each other in practical ways. First Corinthians 12, 25. Paul prays that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. The same care for one another. Also, as the household of God, the household of faith, we are to always encourage each other in faith and in Christianity. We are not to discourage each other, we're not to tear down each other, we're not to get in little jabs and little daggers of sarcasm and jokes and sideways comments, we're to build each other up. We're to encourage each other, to support each other, encourage each other in faith and life. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11. Therefore Encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. Now, why devoted to each other in love? Why care for each other in practical ways? Why encourage each other in faith and Christian living. Because truly, we are a spiritual family together in Christ. We are a spiritual family together in Christ, bound by faith, joined by the Holy Spirit, the household of God. Matthew 12, 50, Jesus says, For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. That's a really important verse. an intriguing thing that Jesus says here. He's linking being of the of his family with doing the will of God. Right, so doing the will of God, that's a sign, that's the evidence that we are joined to Christ and part of his family. Whoever does the will of my father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. We are not consumers. We are not consumers of religion who are shopping for the experience that we think that is good for us or that we like superficially We're not consumers, we're not spectators, we're not customers, we're not shoppers, we're a family of faith, the household of God. Amen? We've got to grow in that, and we've got to know that, and we've got to love that and set our hearts on it. That's household of God, verse 19. Now there's this interesting thing in this passage. You have the church as God's household. Which is picturing people, different people brought together under one authority, under one roof, one household. The church is God's household, that's people. But you see the illustration of a building. You see an architecture. You see a structure is used as an illustration to describe what this household is like. And that is in verse 20. Well, that's not the only verse it's in, but this is what we'll look for now. We'll look at the rest later. Verse 20. Built on the foundation What's that making us think of? That's making us think of a building. That's making us think of a structure built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. In whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple. So that's the a metaphor, that's the imagery of a building to help us understand the nature of the household of God. You have The foundation, but not only foundation, you have the most important part, the foundation, that cornerstone, which gets you all started in the right direction. And then you have this structure that's built up on top of it to be a temple. That's a building. And so you have the household of God, the family of faith, but we have the metaphor, the illustration of a building of a temple to help us understand the nature of the household of God and of our place in it So for the roadmap this morning, for your outline this morning, which you know, hopefully you know, I try to keep this as simple as possible for the flow, what I call the flow of the message. We're just going to take this metaphor of the building and run with it. And we'll look at five design features of God's house. Five design features. Four or five architectural features. And you'll see we have one entrance, it's one kingdom, one foundation, one cornerstone, and one indwelling spirit. What does that mean, indwelling spirit? You go into this temple, you go into this structure, this house of God that's been built up, and there's uh the Holy Spirit of God that fills the whole thing. So you have these design features. Now, first of all, the one entrance. This is verses 17 to 18 that tells us that there's one way in There's one door. There's one threshold to step over. There's one entrance into God's house. Verses 17 And he, again, that's Christ, he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who we're near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. The key phrase, through him This is referring to coming to faith in Jesus Christ. The way we enter this household of God is through him. It's through Christ. He's the doorway. He's the gate. He is the only entrance into the household of God. To come to faith in Jesus Christ. That's how you become a member of this household. That's how you get into this structure, this temple, this house of God. It's a really nice verse on the doctrine of God too, where you see the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. You see the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit Because it says, through him, that's Jesus Christ the Son, we both have access in one Spirit, that's the Holy Spirit, to the Father. That's God the Father. So when we come to faith in Jesus, we're reconciled to God and we are filled with God's Spirit. That's not something you have to do later on, like I come to faith over here. And uh I'm I'm forgiven of my sins, and hopefully down the road I'll receive the Holy Spirit. No, it all happens at once. It's a package deal. When you come to faith in Jesus, Jesus Christ, your heart is changed by the power of the Holy Spirit. You are filled with the Holy Spirit. And brothers and sisters, isn't that what makes us want to turn from sin? Isn't that what makes us desire to live for God and not for things out in the world? We wouldn't have those new desires apart from the Holy Spirit. We wouldn't have new priorities apart from the Holy Spirit We wouldn't hunger for the Word of God and be thirsting for God's wisdom apart from the Holy Spirit. So when we put our faith in Christ, that's entrance into God's house. And that's being filled with God's Spirit, and that's being reconciled to God the Father. It's called salvation. And that was won for us by the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. And it's by virtue of his work that we can be saved and enter God's house. Now he said in verse 17, He came and preached peace To you who were far off. That's talking about Jesus bringing the gospel to the Gentiles. That's the context. Last week's sermon, if you missed it, was all about that. God bringing Jews and Gentiles together in Christ. He is Christ. Those who are far off is the Gentiles. Who previously didn't have the revelation of God. And so Jesus brought Gentiles the message of peace. Jesus brought the Gentile world. Jesus brought the Gentiles at Ephesus. And Gentiles here in Hartford County. Now, the message of salvation. That's what that means. Peace He came and preached peace to you who were far off. How did Jesus bring peace? How did Jesus preach peace to those Gentiles in Ephesus? He sent the gospel to them. And then by his spirit, he changed their hearts by the power of the gospel. This stuff is very simple. Jesus sends the gospel. Wherever you have the gospel, what you have is Jesus making himself known to sinners. You can't think of the message as a dead message. You can't think of the message in an impersonal way or an unspiritual way. Wherever you have the message of the gospel going forth, what you have is Jesus reaching out to sinners. Jesus preaching peace. And here in this passage you have Jesus bringing peace to Gentiles, those who are far off, and he brought peace also to those who were near. That was the Jews. That's what you see in the New Testament. Salvation coming to the Jews, and then salvation coming to the Gentiles, and then Jews and Gentiles together under one household of God in the kingdom of God. One entrance. Think of a room with only one door. Think of a city that has only one bridge going over to it. Think of a building with only one fire exit. How important is it when you only have the one way in or the one way out? There's a fire and there's one means of exit. It's so important. It's so important. We do not set the terms for how to be right with God. God sets the terms on how to be right with Him. And he sets the terms, but he also provides everything we need. God provides everything, a thousand percent of what sinners need to be reconciled to God. It's to be forgiven our sins. God does it all. Jesus provides it all. That's why salvation is spoken of in the Bible as a free gift. It's a gift of grace to be received by faith. One entrance. That key phrase, verse 18, through him. It's an enduring truth of Christianity. It's a central truth of Christianity that Jesus is the mediator, capital M. And you know what a mediator is: it's a go-between. It's a representative. If you have a court-appointed mediator, that's someone who officially represents you and is supposed to stand for you. They're supposed to represent your interests and your side of things and your perspective. Jesus is the mediator, capital M, between God and man. He is truly God, so he can genuinely and faithfully represent God's side of the situation. And Jesus also is truly man. He's truly God. And he also is truly man. So he can genuinely Faithfully represent our side of the situation. And as God is holy, and we are sinners and we've been separated from God because of our sin, Jesus is the go-between. Jesus is the official representative, the only qualified representative of a holy God and of people. And he stands in the gap for sinners. And he lives a righteous life that we can never live. And he dies a sacrificial death, dying for our guilt, dying for our sin, so that we might be reconciled to God. But we can't do that on our own. We need the mediator We need the entrance. We need the way. We need the bridge. We need the gate. We need the door. All these different ways that the Bible talks about Jesus as the way to God. He died in our place for our guilt. In fact, you see this in this passage in verse 13. If you glance up to verse 13, it says they were brought near by the blood of Christ. were brought near by the blood of Christ. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him Should not perish, but have eternal life. By his life, death, and resurrection, Jesus has provided entrance He's provided access. He's provided a way. He's provided an open door to eternal fellowship with God. And if any one of us, any one of you put your faith in Jesus, Immediately you're reconciled to God by virtue of his life, death, and resurrection. That's the good news. That's our message. That's the shining light of salvation that the Bible has for mankind. Free salvation through faith in Christ. Are you with me, church? Amen? That's what we're about. One entrance into God's house, but also there's one kingdom that this house represents. One kingdom. You can think of this almost like a capital building where all the authority, all the glory of one kingdom really boils down to this one house. where the king is living or where the king resides or presides over his kingdom. And the idea of kingdom comes from verse 19 Verse 19. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are what? Fellow citizens Fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. You see, there's not two different things there. There's one thing. Are we citizens of a kingdom or are we members of a household? Yes, both. Because the household of Christ constitutes the kingdom of God. And so you have both fellow citizens with the saints That means holy ones. That's not an elite group of Christians. That's every Christian is a saint, has received the Holy Spirit, has been set apart by God, has been set apart to live for God. That's what saints means. It's all Christians, not just an elite group of Christians that we think are better, that we think are worthy, that we'll vote into sainthood. That's a man-made belief. That's not real. In the Bible, if you believe in Jesus, you are a saint of God. God has filled you with the Holy Spirit. God has cleansed you. He's purified you. He's renewed you. He's set you apart to live for Him. That's what saint means. And so we are fellow citizens of the kingdom and also members of the household. No longer strangers and aliens goes back to verse 12. Again, if you want to glance up, Paul wrote, remember that you were at that time separated from Christ and alienated from the commonwealth of Israel. So alienated from a commonwealth is the polar opposite of being a fellow citizen in that commonwealth. So in Christ, their situation has been completely reversed. Used to be strangers, used to be alienated, used to be outside, but now you've been brought in. Now you're a fellow citizen. Now you're a fellow member Of the kingdom of God, of the household of God. One entrance, one kingdom. And we are all saints in God's kingdom through faith in Christ. Think of that word saints. It should make us think of practical application for the way we live. Should it not? To remember that God has set us apart to live according to His Word and according to His will, not just to go with the flow of culture. Practical application. You are the saints of God. We are the saints of God. To trust in Him and His work in our hearts. Not in ourselves, not in externals, not in good deeds, not in religion, but to trust in God to purify our hearts. To trust in God to purify our minds. To trust in God to enable us to live for His glory and not for the fleeting superficial pleasures. of this world. Saints should make us remember who we are in Christ, set apart by God and for God, but also how we ought to live as children of God, following his will. One kingdom, one entrance. You do not pay your way into the house of God. You do not work your way into the kingdom of God. It is not by family right or heritage. That anyone has citizenship in the kingdom of God or is a member of his household. It is only by faith in Christ. It is a matter of the heart. It is a matter of the soul. Of the soul, of the individual heart, the individual soul coming to the grips with the reality of sin. That I have sinned, that I am guilty, that I am alienated from God, but now I'm seeing the gospel because God has brought the gospel into my life And he's shown me Christ. And he's shown me the substitutionary death of Christ, dying in my place. And God Brings me to faith. And God shows you the gospel and He brings you to faith. That's the way into the household of God. And it's the only way into the household of God. One entrance, one found one kingdom, and number three, one foundation. One foundation, verse 20. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Think about how importance how important a foundation is. If the foundation is bad, the whole thing's in trouble. If the foundation goes, the whole thing goes. A structure doesn't need two foundations or three foundations or four foundations. It just needs one good foundation. If you have a good foundation, you're in good shape. If you have a bad foundation, you're in bad shape And the foundation of the church, the foundation historically of this household of God, this kingdom of God, it he says here, apostles and prophets. Now there's a lot here and a lot of study to go into this. I'll try to rip through and summarize, hopefully at least get the overarching picture of what's going on here. The apostles and prophets refers to the first generation of the church. And this is what you read about. In the New Testament. You read about the work of Christ to establish the church, and then you read about the first generation of the church. Ancient church. And you see, the apostles and prophets were the main offices of leadership of the church in that generation. You also would have pastors and deacons, teachers in the church, and those would remain. But the foundation of the apostles and prophets. This was the vehicle through which God gave new revelation, new word of God to the church was through apostles and prophets. An apostle means one who is officially sent. It's like an authorized representative. That's what an apostle is. One who's sent in an official capacity to represent someone else's authority. Like it almost like an ambassador. Who 's an officially sent representative of one nation into another nation? Secretary of State would be another good illustration of this. Not the president. He's not the leader, but he represents They've been authorized and sent without authority. That's what an apostle was in the church. Do you also have prophets, which just means spokesmen A great definition for prophet would be mouthpiece. One who speaks for, one who serves as the mouth for someone else, and here for God Now, this is not talking about Old Testament prophets under the Old Covenant. This is talking about New Testament prophets under the New Covenant in the first generation of the church. And you have these spokesmen. I'll give you just a few, not all, but just a few examples, just so you I don't want you to think I'm making that up. All right. It's not something we talk about a lot. It's prophets. In the first generation of the church, but it's true. In Acts 11 and 21, you have this prophet named Agabas. In Acts 15, you have uh two prophets, Judas and Silas. And in Acts 21, you have a man named Philip, and Philip had four daughters, and Philip's four daughters were prophetesses in the church You have prophets, you have prophecy in the first generation of the church, along with apostles. You had apostles and prophets, and through this is a big deal. Through them, the word of God came. That's a really big deal Through them the word of God came. Now this was a foundational time. It's not a time that would be repeated over and over again. That's not the way a foundation works. You need one foundation to get things started, and on that foundation you build the house. So we don't have apostles and prophets over and over again for the whole history of the church. You have them as what? You have them as the foundation. So today we have pastors, we have deacons, we have teachers, we have missionaries, but we don't have apostles, and we don't have prophets. We have false prop False prophets out there. We have false apostles out there. But as for the inspired word of God, we do not need prophets and apostles because we have the completed New Testament and the completed Bible. To give us the word of God that's been recorded, recorded from what? Recorded from the apostles and prophets in the first generation of the church. The church stands or falls with the Word of God. The Word of God, the Bible, must be our foundation. It must be our foundation in what we believe, in what we teach, in what we do, in how we do it, and how we treat each other, the message that we have for the world. The Bible must be our foundation. It is the Word of God. And the church will stand or fall to the degree that it's faithful to the Word of God as recorded in the Bible. You have one foundation. One foundation, the apostles and the prophets that brought the word of God to lead the church, to feed the church, to protect the church. We still have that word of God to lead us, to feed us, to protect us, recorded in the New Testament and the whole Bible. Now, what's the cornerstone? The cornerstone In that foundation, this is number four. You have one entrance, one kingdom, one foundation, one cornerstone. Verse 20, the end of verse 20, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone. Now if the foundation is bad, the whole building is in trouble. But if the cornerstone is off , The foundation is in trouble. So it all comes back to this cornerstone. Is it put in the right place? Is it square? Is it plum? Is it strong enough? The cornerstone. That's what goes first. That's what gets everything else going in the right direction, is this cornerstone. It will determine whether you have a good foundation and therefore determine whether you have a good structure. So it all goes back to Christ. It all comes back to Jesus Christ, the one cornerstone of the one foundation of the one household of God. What this makes me think about most is our goal as a church. As our goal, as our motive as a church. Our goal is not to be the big church. Our goal is not to be the exciting and fun church that everyone's talking about. Our goal certainly is not to be the church that the people think is really cool. Wow, they're cool. Big deal. There's plenty of cool things in the world. What the world needs more of are simple, biblical, spirit-filled churches. Households of God. Because in human society, those kinds of churches represent God in the world. And they bring God's will into people's lives, and they bring the message of salvation into people's lives. So that hearts would be changed and lives would be changed. And homes and families would be changed. People would be changed in the way they go to work. People would be changed in the way they vote. People would just be changed in all their hobbies and different th extracurricular things that we're doing. Local churches. Our goal is not to be big, exciting, fun, to be popular, to be really cool. Our goal, beloved , is to obey Jesus Christ and thereby please, honor, and glorify him. Can I get an amen on that? That's our motive. I like that one. That's our goal. To obey Jesus and thereby please, honor, and glorify him. Now I'm just going to camp out here for a little bit if that's okay with y'all. Dave, is that good? 2 Corinthians 5. 9, we make it our aim to please him. Isn't that a great memory verse? 2 Corinthians 5. 9, that's not the whole verse, but that's the key part of it. We make it our aim. To please Him. What are you aiming for? What are you shooting for? What are you looking at to please Christ? That should be overflowing in our hearts. If you're at work and it's more your goal to please yourself or to please your friends than it is to please your boss, you're on the wrong road. That's your boss. Do it the way they've asked you to do it. If you have an idea, okay, share your idea. But in your heart, your goal is to obey your boss and to do the job that's been given you to do the best you can with a good attitude. And in church, in all of every area of life, our goal is to aim to please Him. John 5. 23. Jesus says, whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. So first we make it our aim to please him. Second, we make it our aim to honor the Son. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father. who sent him. It's easy when you get up a group of people and you have a context wherever there's like a public speaker, or especially if you have a context where there's music It's easy to just get things stirred up and to and to get people emotionally revved up. That's easy. Pet rallies, concerts, whatever. It's easy to get people stirred up emotionally and make them feel like they had some kind of experience. But if Christ is not being honored, it does not please God and it does not honor God. The goal is to honor Jesus Christ. And to thereby honor God the Father for His name and glory, because that's what He deserves. of our singing. The point of the music is to join our voices to sing God's praises. To join our voices to express our gratitude to God. to join our hearts, to join our minds, to join our voices, to sing to God and to sing of his exceeding greatness and glory. That's the purpose of music and singing in the church. It's not entertainment. And that's what we're going for here. And that's just one example of how things could look differently if you don't have the right motive and goal. To please him, to honor him, also to glorify him. 2 Thessalonians 1. 12, Paul prays that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you. That his name would be glorified in you. The way that we talk about each other, let's make sure that's in a way that glorifies Jesus. The way that we think about each other. And the way that we treat each other. Let's make sure this is all happening in a way that glorifies Jesus. Not glorifies self, but glorifies Jesus. Jesus that pleases him, that honors him. Or how is it that we would please him and honor him and glorify him? Should we hold a vote and figure out what that looks like? Should we all should we take a secret ballot and every one of us can write down what we think it is that God wants from us so that we might please, honor, and glorify him? No, of course that's absurd. We go to Scripture. We go to the foundation. We go to the source. We go to the Word of God. We please, honor, and glorify him by obeying Him. John 14, 15. Put your seatbelt on it. This is going to send you right out of your seat if you're not careful. Jesus says in John 14, 15, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. So if I'm not keeping his commandments, if I don't care about keeping his commandments, what does that say about my heart? Don't be afraid to say it, just say it. I don't love him But I felt so good at church. I felt so you know I was so stirred up emotionally, it felt so good. I was doing these good deeds, I felt so good doing these good deeds This is God's will, right? God wants me to do good things. I was doing good things. I was going to church. I was doing religion. But if our lives aren't shaped by obedience The only conclusion is our hearts are not filled with love. If we love him, we will obey him. If we love him, we will keep his commandments. Now, stop with the counter-arguments in your mind, okay? No one said you obey him perfectly. No one said that. We don't obey him perfectly. We'll never obey him perfectly until our bodies die and our souls go to heaven. Then your soul will obey him perfectly in heaven. But you can have a true obedience. You can't love God perfectly either, but if you love God, would you say amen? And you can't love each other perfectly, but if you love each other, would you say amen? So let's stop with trying to find loopholes. We're not saying perfect obedience. We're saying a true obedience, the purpose of my life, the pattern of my life, is striving to obey God. Why? Because we love Him. And the love in our heart is the result of his salvation. I always give I always end up going here. It's never in my notes, but I always end up going here because I have to, it's part of my duty. Pastor Anthony, Jeremiah, is now part of our duty to make sure everybody understands we're not saved by our obedience. We're saved unto obedience. The love that we have is a result of being saved. The obedience we have is a result of being saved. But the salvation is free, it comes by faith, not by works, not by obedience. And not by having a really strong love. We're saved by looking to Christ and saying, I'm guilty, I cannot cleanse myself, I cannot remove this guilt, I cannot do anything to help myself, Jesus, I'm trusting in you. That's how you get saved. And then comes the love, then comes the obedience. If we love him, we'll keep his commandments Matthew 7. 24, Jesus said, Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. No matter what life you've lived, no matter what your background, no matter what decisions you've made, no matter what blunders, no matter what crimes, anybody can put their faith in Jesus Christ and be saved Anybody based on his life, death, and resurrection, in your heart, if you believe in Christ, you're a child of God, you've crossed over it, you've passed through the entrance, you've come through him You've been filled with the Spirit. You're a member of God's household. You're a citizen of God's kingdom. You're reconciled to the Father. All your sins are forgiven if you put your faith in Christ. Talk about reset Talk about a fresh start. What that's called is biblical Christianity. That's the gospel One entrance, one kingdom, one foundation, one cornerstone. It's our goal to obey the cornerstone. And by obeying him to please the cornerstone, honor the cornerstone, glorify the cornerstone, Jesus Christ, and fifth and finally, one indwelling spirit. Verse 20 to 21, in whom the whole structure Being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit Well pick one. Which is it? Are are we a people or are we a building? It's your people who's represented by a building, okay? It is a building, a temple filled with the Holy Spirit that represents You, the church, the people. Because each one of us, by faith in Christ, are filled with the Holy Spirit. I've got to move quickly here. A temple is a royal and a holy dwelling place of God. That's what a temple is. And in Scripture, heaven is called God's temple. Also a tabernacle, which was a portable tent, place of sacrifice and worship. That tabernacle actually is called in scripture a temple Because it was the royal and holy dwelling place of God. And then you have an architectural building, temple, and then Christ Himself is called the temple. Believers individually are called the temple of God, the temple of the Holy Spirit, and then the church as a whole is called the temple of God, the temple of the Holy Spirit. It's a royal and holy dwelling place of God. It's where God makes his goodness and glory known in a special way That's the temple filled with the Spirit of God. It's his presence. It's his power experienced in a special way. And that's what the church is. Temple of God, growing, growing, bound together for his name and for his glory. You could have come in here today, not part of that temple , not a member of his household, not a citizen in his kingdom. Not filled with his spirit, not having the benefit of forgiveness and the gift of eternal life. But in your heart, this moment, if you look to Christ and believe, you're brought in. And you're you're made a part of this temple. And you're brought into the household. And you're brought into the kingdom. And all the guilt of all your sins is blotted out for all eternity. If you come to faith in Christ, God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son Whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace, power, wisdom, and salvation. Pray that you continue to work in each one of our hearts. Continue to work in each one of our lives that we might live for you. not for ourselves, that we may obey your word. Fill our hearts with the proper humility, fill our hearts with the proper brotherly love and kindness toward one another. Fill our hearts with a peace and hope that transcends anything that we'll ever experience. Here on earth. Fill our hearts with your truth and your spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.