World was made before you spoke it to me You were the king of kings Yes you were Yes you were And now you're reigning still enthroned above all things Amen Joseph and Saints cry out, we join them as we sing. Glory to God, Glory to God, Glory to God forever. Glory to God, glory to God, glory to God forever, Creator God. But you gave me breath so I could praise your great and matchless name all my days, all my days. So let my whole life be a pleasing offering. A life that shouts and sings the greatness of our king. Glory to God, glory to God, glory to God forever. Glory to God, glory to God, Glory to God, forever. Let it be all for you and for your top. Take my life and let it be all. Take my life and let it be all for you and for your Take my life and let it be all Glory to God, glory to God, Glory to God for Glory to God, Glory to God forever. Good evening. And uh just a few moments. I'll pray, and we're going to watch a video from the BCMD. uh about the state missions offering, uh which this past week has been focused on the state missions offering and we'll take that offering tonight. Are there any new or pressing prayer requests that I could pray for this evening? Okay. Let's pray. Father, we worship you. You are our Maker. You are our Redeemer. And you Made us one with yourself through Jesus Christ, and we're so thankful for that. Father, you've made us one with each other by giving us the same Holy Spirit, and we're thankful for that. Father, we pray for our church. We pray for other churches that we support or help or pray for. Connecting church Engage Church. We pray for the Bruce Outreach Center. We pray for the Baltimore Baltimore Rescue Mission. Um there's a whole list of of partner uh brother and sister ministries, Father. We pray for them. We pray that you would use them. Effectively and fruit fruitfully in your kingdom. We pray that same prayer for ourselves. Father, I pray for the sick and hurting among us that you would minister to them. I pray for the lost that you would minister to them, wake them up from their slumber, give them the light of salvation, shine the light of the knowledge of Christ into their hearts. Pull back the veil and save them. That you might get the glory. Not them, but you might get the glory. Father, we pray for our community, for Jarrett's film, and the surrounding communities. That it might be a time of revival and great awakening in this area through the gospel of sinners repenting and turning to you through faith in Christ. To become worshipers of the one true living God. Father, we pray for these things. We pray for the state missions offering, not only uh our church, but all the churches uh in this in this region, Maryland, Delaware. That you would bless the giving and use it in your kingdom for your glory. We know you will, Father. We know that you will. All these things we lay before your throne, trusting you as a good God that you are. Amen. Okay, let's cue that video up. When you A part of changing lives physically and spiritually among the communities of our more than 500 churches here locally and beyond. Collegiate ministries are one of those impacted by the offering. College students make up nearly half of a million people in our convention, our churches have resources like apologetics training and missions opportunities to encourage and challenge our future leaders. The state missions offering allows Allows us to reach families affected by disabilities, which is today's largest unreached people group. Our special needs initiative provides both training and financial resources to churches, helping them minister to and include individuals and families affected. by disabilities. The offering also supports our partnership with the Kisi Baptist Regional Convention in East Africa. In Kenya, our ministry provides outreach to orphans and school children, as well as training for pastors and ministry leaders. To lead people to Jesus Christ. Through your prayers and 100% of the gifts provided, we are making a difference. You see, this is more than just a state missions offering. This is Maryland, Delaware, and the nations for Christ's glory. Can I ask the ushers to come up and um what a what a great thing to contribute to Ephesians 2 Verses nine and ten after Paul writes about Christian conversion talks about that we've been saved for good works. that God prepared in advance for us to do. And not all of us will go to Kenya and do those good works or do collegiate ministry and do those good works or some of the other specific things, but we can have a part in it through our giving. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to give and again we ask your blessings on our giving, the giving of the whole um convention. And Father, we pray for those ministries. We pray for the people, the leaders involved in those ministries, that you will guard their hearts, guard their ministries, that they might pursue gospel-centered, Bible-based, glory of God focused ministries. Father, we we put it again before your throne, trusting you to do what's right and what's good for your glory. In Christ we pray. Amen We love you, we worship and adore you. Glorify thy name. Thy name, glorify thy name in all the We love you, we worship and adore you. Glorify thy name in all the earth. Glorify thy name, glorify thy name. Glorify thy name it all We worship and adore you, glorify thy name in all the Glorify thy name, glorify thy name, glorify thy name. Thank you, worshippers. Let's grab our Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. What I'm going to do is put the outline on the whiteboard. And um if you come if you've ever come to my Wednesday night class, you know I really, really enjoy doing silly, but I think very effective cartoons, little diagrams and sketches and stick figures and quote bubbles and all kinds of to illustrate the um what's going on in the passage. I will try to refrain from doing that tonight. But if a good one pops the pops into my mind. Um I'll do one. So Second Corinthians three, one through eleven, transformative glory. Let me um let me just explain that title before I do this outline. So by transformative, we're thinking about one thing becoming like another thing, one thing that's being transformed and changed. to be like something else. It's transformative. But we're talking about transformative glory. And by glory we're not just talking about something that's really, really awesome or really, really cool in a general sense. We're talking about the resurrection glory of Christ. We're talking about the transformative glory of Christ. As we uh behold the risen Christ and grow in our relationship with the risen Christ, his spirit is transforming us to be like him. So that's the idea of transformative glory. If we if we get there, uh we'll see that in um Some cross references we'll do. We're going to focus on verses one through eleven, but I do hope to get down to verse eighteen at least in our reading because that's really the the climax And the punchline of what Paul's talking about here. Anyway, the first thing we're going to talk about will be the um and you'll see this word in our reading. The issue of recommendation. Does Paul need letters of recommendation to the people at the Church of Corinth? Just does he need letters and and sort of verification and validation from other people? Does he need letters of recommendation um to prove or to validate that he is a true apostle, that his is is a truly godly ministry or ministry from God. And then we're going to talk about the issue of sufficiency. That's also a word you'll see in your reading. Usually when we talk about the idea of sufficiency in Church, it's either the sufficiency of the Bible, right? It's the inspired word of God, and it is sufficient for all we need for life and practice of our faith. uh or the sufficiency of Christ that his sacrifice is enough to save us. We don't need to make our own little sacrifices. It's salvation does not come by Jesus plus something else, but he's a sufficient Savior. Well here Paul's talking about the idea of sufficiency in his ministry, and that could apply to us and whatever your ministry is. What is it that makes us sufficient for this task at hand? this uh this wonderful, extremely important kingdom task. Who is sufficient to that? Paul talks about that a little bit. And then we're going to see And we're going to see again, we'll see this phrase in our reading , ministry of the Holy Spirit. And I'll put a star near that one because everything else that Paul's talking about in this passage connects back to this as the rationale or as the way of of thinking about. So when he talks about the issue of does he need a letter of recommendation? No. Because of the ministry of the Holy Spirit. What makes us efficient in our ministries? The ministry of the Holy Spirit. Transformative glory. How are we transformed to be like the risen Christ? Ministry of the Holy Spirit. So it all goes back to the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Uh and then underneath here, and then this will be I hope we get I hope we get to these. This will be this goes up to verse eleven, and then these will take us down to verse eighteen if we get there. Uh there 's this issue of the a veil, a veil, a literal veil that Moses used, and then uh then a spiritual veil. that Paul talks about. And he compares and contrasts the two. So we're going to look at this question of what in the world is the veil that he is talking about And then finally, depending on your translation, you may or may not have this uh phrase. Either way, you definitely have something there, even even if it's translated a little bit differently. Being transformed. Being transformed What's happening in the life of a true believer? They're being transformed by the Holy Spirit. They're being transformed from one degree of glory to the next. It's a wonderful thing. That's what Christianity is. That's what serving God is. It's not just going through the motions. It's not just having this shell or uh or this appearance of godliness or religion. But it's um it's the power of the risen Christ at work in our hearts. It's a glorious thing. It's a glorious thing. So, there's our outline. Let's see if we can chip away at this thing. Second Corinthians three. Once let me pray for us. Father, we open your word now and we put ourselves under the authority of your word. We trust that you have blessed us according to your purpose. Help us in our reading. Help us in our study. Father, we thank you for transforming us to the likeness of God. Christ. We're so thankful to be liberated from the bondage of sin, liberated from the fear of death. We're so thankful that we have hope, a true and living hope in Jesus Christ Who lives and reigns in heaven with the power of an indestructible life. Father, we praise you, we worship you, we love you. We cannot wait to be with you. Till that day, till you call us home. Use us in your kingdom. Use us to be fruitful in the kingdom. Help us to love one another as Christ has loved us. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Okay. Ready? Alright, thumbs up. David Good gives me the thumbs up. That means we're gonna roll. 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 3. Verse verses one through three, first off, as some sum is that Paul's referencing It's another group of teachers, uh it's another contingent that's infiltrated the church. Have you ever been in a church where there's a little contingent that rises up, usually around a dominant or a couple dominant personalities or families? Do we need, like some do , letters of recommendation to you? Or from you? Do we need the word of other people to validate our ministry. That's a good question for us to uh Meditate on in our own hearts. What what ministry has God called you to? How are you serving? Um what validates that to your conscience and to your heart? Is it what God says about that and what God says about you? Or do you need the word of other people to say that's a good thing? You yourselves are our letter of recommendation. Written on our hearts, to be known and read by all. And you show that you are a letter from Christ. Delivered by us. So they didn't write it. They just delivered it. Who wrote it? Christ wrote it. Written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God. Not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts. So now Paul's using metaphor, obviously. So passages like this, uh we really just need to slow down and See, take it take a few extra moments to see what he's saying. So in verse two He's not sloughing off the question of is a ministry. There is a letter of recommendation that proves or verifies or vindicates his ministry. But it's a letter not written by people with ink on paper. It's a letter written by the Spirit of the living God on their hearts It's the work of the Holy Spirit in their hearts and in their lives that validates Paul's ministry. And for Paul, that's good enough That's good enough because that's what he wants. He wants God to be glorified. He wants sinners to be saved to worship the God of heaven That's good enough for Paul. He doesn't need the word of man. He's not looking for pats on the back. He doesn't need letters of recommendation. Like some do. Verse 1. Like some do. So keep uh your Bible ribbon there. Uh it's just a few pages for it, so you might not even need it. But Go to chapter eleven, verse four of Second Corinthians. Chapter eleven verse four. Look at look at this contingent I just for time's sake we'll have to rip it out of context, but I think you'll get the gist what he's do what he's dealing with. Group of teachers who were very persuasive and were gathering followers to themselves and were turning them against Paul. For if Someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaimed, or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received , Or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily enough. They're just allowing these false teachers to come in and they're putting up with it. Indeed, I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super apostles Here's that um vintage sarcasm coming from Paul. Uh probably shows up more in second Corinthians than any other book. Even if I am unskilled in speaking. Which is not he's not saying that he is unskilled. He's saying, even if I am unskilled in speaking, in other words, he's not like he's not a public speaker. Th these would have been philosophers. Which was a huge thing in that culture. Almost like self help gurus are a big thing in our culture, right? Great speakers. Listen, false teachers are the best Most persuasive speakers and communicators in the world. That's why you have to judge not by persuasiveness or p or of teaching. Even if I am unskilled in speaking in that way, in the worldly way I am not so in knowledge. You see, that's what's important. Knowledge, substance, truth. It's truth that transforms. It's the truth of the gospel that sets free. It's the truth of the gospel that's the power for salvation. Not Public speaking. Indeed, in every way we have made the things. But if you go back to um in verse four, right in the middle. Or I guess in the beginning, if they're proclaiming another Jesus, you're receiving a different spirit. Or if it's a a different gospel that you're accepting. You're on the wrong path. You're on you're on the wrong path. It doesn't matter how emotionally revved up these super apostles could be. Um they can really get a If you're preaching a different Jesus, run the other way. If you're preaching a different gospel, get them out. That's what's important. That's what's important. Go back to um let's go back to verse uh to chapter three rather. So There is a validation for his ministry. There is someone who writes a letter of recommendation. Jesus writes that letter on their hearts. Verse 3. You show that you are a letter from Christ, delivered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts. And of course with tablets of stone, he's alluding back to the giving of the Ten Commandments, where it was God supernaturally giving the law. And he gets more into that as we as we're about to read further here, when he c he's going to contrast the old covenant and the new covenant. Verse 4. Which point is this? Sufficiency. Ah, yes. What makes us sufficient in our ministries? Such is the confidence that we have through Christ Toward God. I love that phrasing there. You don't see that too often in Scripture. It's confidence through Christ toward God. That Christ mediates our confidence. to God. Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us. Our sufficiency is from God, who has made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant Not of the letter of the law, the letter of the law, right? But of the spirit. For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. Say that another I'll say that same thing in a different way. Not a better way. Paul says it better, but um The law can only bring condemnation and death. The law can only bring condemnation and death It's the gospel of Jesus Christ alone that can bring justification and eternal life. The law is good for instruction. But it cannot save and it cannot sanctify. It cannot sanctify. The power of sanctification is the Holy Spirit working through the gospel. And that's why it's so important. It's so important that we do n the gospel is not something that just gets us started on the Christian life and then we move on to other things in order to grow. No, the gospel all the way through is going to be the foundation stone and the key to our spiritual growth So whatever else we're learning, whatever whatever ministry we're focusing on, or specific temptation, or specific command we're trying to do better at It's all well and good if we keep that in the right perspective. Whatever whatever these other things are, these other aspects or other facets of our Christian life, we must keep the foundation Where it is, the proper foundation in place. That is seeing Christ by faith in the gospel. So he is deficient. But notice If you look at verse 5, not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us, our sufficiency is from God. Paul's not saying that him, that he and the other apostles Aren't sufficient to do the work of the gospel. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is they're not sufficient in and of themselves to be ministers of the gospel. He has a sufficiency. He's not confused about it. None of this power comes from us. It all comes from God He knows where the sufficiency comes from. So he's not saying that he's not sufficient to the test. He's saying he's not sufficient in and of himself. He's not the source But he has the Holy Spirit of God working in him, and he knows, see, Paul's not confused about how people get saved. Paul's not confused about church growth He knows that through the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ that people get saved and the church grows and the church gets stronger. That's the heart of his ministry from beginning to end. So He does have a validation, a letter of recommendation. It's written by the Spirit of the Spirit of the Living God on the hearts of those who were saved under his gospel preaching. He does have a sufficiency It's not himself. Paul doesn't trust in himself. Paul doesn't trust in himself. He doesn't trust in his strategies, ministry strategies, the latest trends in ministry to to uh to grow your ministry, grow up get it bigger, grow up faster. He trusts in God and God alone. That's where his trust is. And child of God, that's where our trust needs to be. And not only for ministry things and fruitful ministry, but in our own life and our own sanctification. What's next? Ministry of the Holy Spirit. I feel like we've been talking about that the whole time. Which is good because that's what Paul's talking about. The ministry of the Holy Spirit. specific things. But that's what he's talking about. Verse 7. Now if the ministry of death, well that's vivid Ministry of Death. Any guesses? Well, you probably already looked ahead. I should have told you ahead of time. Don't look ahead past that phrase. Carved in letters of stone. So what's the ministry of death? He's already alluded to it a couple times. The law. The law of God, ministry of death. Now the law's not bad. Plus says elsewhere the law is good. The law is not bad. The law shows us that we're bad. Right? And the law cannot save. It can only bring condemnation and death. That's why Paul gives it this colorful phrase, the ministry of death, the law of God, carved in letters of stone, came with such glory Uh so he introduces a concept here that is the dominant concept for the rest of this passage. Glory. The ministry of death Carved in letters on stone, came with such glory. So it did come with a divine glory attached to it. It was revealed supernaturally, in an unbelievable fashion to Moses and Israel Came with glory. It wasn't like boring at Mount Sinai, right? This was the divine glory really truly manifested on earth That the Israelites could not gaze at Moses ' face because of its glory Which was being brought to an end. Let's pause there and let's get straight on what's being talked about with Moses ' face. So keep your Bible ribbon there. And this cross-reference is a long way off. So keep your hand there, Bible ribbon. Go to Exodus 34 , 29. What it's talking about there is as Moses received the law and was a close beholder, he had close encounters with the divine glory. The divine glory would then reflect off of his face. His face would be transfigured and would be shining as he came down the glory of God Was reflecting off of Moses. Uh what did I say? Exodus thirty-four, twenty-nine. Are you there? All right. Ex Exodus thir Exodus thirty four twenty nine. When Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand, which Paul just called the ministry of death. As he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God. I guess that'll do it. Yeah. It's um I believe it's a similar uh shining, a similar unveiling of the divine glory that we see more fully at the Mount of Transfiguration, where you get a glimpse for just a moment there, the veil is peeled back and you see the true glory of Christ. Verse 30 Aaron and all the people of Israel saw Moses, and behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him. But Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them. Afterward, all the people of Israel came near. So they just had to call a meeting, right? And now they come near. And he commanded them all that the Lord had spoken with him in Mount Sinai. And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil over his face. When Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he would remove the veil until he came out. And when he came out and told the people of Israel what he was commanded, the people of Israel would see the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses ' face was shining, and Moses would put the veil over his face again. Until he went in to speak with him. We can go back to Second Corinthians three. So you see the picture there is this Transformative glory, sort of. Well, no, not sort of. It really is transformative glory to a certain degree. I'll say that. To a certain degree. Where Moses ' face is transformed to reflect the glory that he beheld. Right? And if we get there, ah, I'm not sure if we'll get there to verse 17 and 18. You have to read it in your in your evening devotions tonight. We don't. That's a paradigm for spiritual growth. That's a paradigm for spiritual growth. Okay, so we don't get to it. We all need to know that um Moses' face was shining, it became like the thing he beheld. It reflected the glory that he beheld. Now he put that veil over his face Paul seems to have a little bit of insight to Moses mo more of the rationale behind that. You saw part of the rationale that we just read in Exodus, that it was it was almost something that the people couldn't handle. They were a little bit afraid and so it looks like an or it looks like you know we saw they called that meeting. The agreement that they came up with was like a veil uh that he would put on. Maybe it was eased to the hearts of the people. But back in 2 Corinthians 3 Verse eight is where we're oh no no no though the middle of verse uh seven. Because I want to see this a little more insight that Paul seems to have in the nature of this glory Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end. Now he's going to return to that idea in just a few sentences. That this glory that that Moses ' face was shining was one that would not keep. It wouldn't increase After he left his encounter with God, it would come to an end, it would begin to fade That's important. Verse 8 he says, Will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? So there's a big parenthetical discussion there on the veil and Moses' face shining. But remember he started off that That question if the ministry of death has such glory that Moses ' face was shining to the extent that he needed he needed a veil Which is an amazing glory for a ministry to death. Will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? That's the point. Will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? Did we talk about the veil? In one sense we did. Oh. So not in that second. Not in that second size. We did talk about this. We're talking about this. All night. Okay. Okay. Oh, I just thought of a diagram. Maybe if I have time I'll do it at the end. If you come on Wednesday night, I've done it about eighteen times since since I've been here. Okay. The ministry of the Spirit has even more glory. Now I hope to look at a couple cross-references to maybe that the Spirit will drive this home in our hearts. Do you remember the glory and the power and the awesomeness of God's revelation at Mount Sinai? Thunder and fire and smoke, and it was unbelievable. What Paul is saying here is that God's work in your heart is more glorious. It's an unbelievable statement. And that's practical theology. The work God has done and is doing in the hearts of his people by the Spirit of the Exalted Christ is much More glorious than his revelation at Mount Sinai. It's an awesome thought. Verse 9. For if there if there was glory In the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory. That was one of the specific differences. The ministry of death could only bring condemnation. That's how it got that name, Ministry of Death. But the ministry of righteousness, which is that for those who have been united to Christ by a spirit-wrought faith, we have the righteousness of God credited to our accounts. The ministry of righteousness far exceeds the ministry of death and the ministry of condemnation and glory. Verse 10. Indeed, in this case In the case of Moses, indeed in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all because of the glory that surpasses it. I'm sorry, that's he's gonna make a comparison, but that right there he's talking about the glory of the old covenant, the glory of the ministry of condemnation. The glory of the law being revealed. Once had glory has come to have no glory at all. It's been replaced. It's been replaced. Because of the glory that surpasses it, which is the glory of the gospel, the ministry of righteousness. For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, much more will what is permanent have glory That's another specific difference. One difference was the law brought condemnation, Christ and the gospel brings righteousness. Another difference is the law, the ministry and the glory of the law. came to an end, but what Christ has done is permanent. That's why he uses that word permanent. Now we're pushing past our passage Verse twelve, verse twelve Since we have such a hope, we are very bold. Very bold. Not like Moses. Who would put a veil over his face? Here's that little insight that you don't get in in Exodus, in that passage at least that we looked at. He would put a veil over his face. So the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome of what was being brought to an end. So now there that's talking about Moses' face reflecting the glory of God. Just like the law came to an end as a whole. uh his his uh shining face that also would fade and come to an end and so he would put a veil over that so that the Israelites would not see that it was fading Verse 14, he takes a hard left turn here because now he starts talking about the veil as a metaphor for something spiritual. And uh it should stand out to us. But their minds, the Israelites' minds, were hardened. Because you read the Old Testament for five minutes, you know that. Israelites' minds and hearts were hardened. And they cannot make enough idols. I'm serious. It just They sin and they reject the law and they create idols for themselves. Their hearts were hardened. Their minds were hardened, for to this day, when they read the old covenant, the same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away. So there's still a hardness of heart. Paul is using Moses' veil as a symbol for People's hardened condition, Israel's hardened spiritual condition that that Hinders them from seeing God's glory. That's what the veil does. It blocks the glory of God. that you might not see it. So he's using that veil as a metaphor, as a symbol for the lost condition, specifically of Israel, but of all lost people. Um When the old covenant is read, the same veil remains unlifted because only through Christ is taken away. One of the passages that comes to mind is in one of Christ's Debates, discussions, arguments, rebukes with the Pharisees, where he tells them, You study the scriptures intently. Because you think that in them you have eternal life, and yet you refuse to come to me. These are the scriptures that testify about me. So they're in the word, they're in the scriptures, they're they're reading the old covenant. Care carefully, intently, Jesus says. And they're reading the old covenant intently because they think that in these scriptures is the way to eternal life. Are they wrong or right about that? You know they're right about that. But you could read the scriptures the wrong way and you could read the scriptures the right way. So when the fulfillment, the embodiment, and the giver of those scriptures is right before them, right there before them, talking to them They're they're debating hermeneutics with them and they're they're not seeing Scripture for what it truly means to point them to Christ who happens to be right there. So they're in the scriptures, they're looking for eternal life, but they're looking by way of works. And they're not seeing Christ. Why do I make that cross-reference? The veil over their minds. The veil over their minds. Only through Christ is it taken away. Only Christ can take that veil away. The law cannot take away the veil of lostness. Cannot. Cannot give sight to the blind. Yes, to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their hearts. She's talking about distill Israel in general at that point. Was still in mass unrepentance and rejection of Christ, not all of them, but many and most of them. Verse 16, but when one turns to the Lord We call that repentance. We call that conversion. When one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. The veil is removed. Now you see the divine Glory. Now you're transformed by the divine glory. Now there's not a veil over your mind that's blinding you from the divine glory. When you turn to the Lord, the veil is removed. Now the Lord is the Spirit And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's freedom. There's freedom. And we all Believers with unveiled face. So if face is unveiled, that means not only are you seeing the divine glory, but you're reflecting that divine glory to others. Remember when Moses went into the tent, he would lift up the veil. He would remove the veil so that he could see the divine glory. And when he when he came out He was reflecting the divine glory so he would put that veil back on. But to have the veil pulled back, and that's what he says there, we with unveiled face So not only uh we're unveiled, we are beholding the divine glory, not the glory of the law, the glory of righteousness in Christ, and and we haven't put a veil on, and we're reflecting that glory to others. Reflecting the glory of Christ to others. We all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord. Beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. The moon reflects the glory of the sun. Something of the glory of the sun. But the moon can reflect the glory of the sun for Uh what's what's the highest number you can think of? I don't know, a hundred trillion, hundred trillion and one? I don't know, you just keep going up. For in for an infinite number of years, the moon will never become the sun. The moon will never become like the sun, but But you see, Christians beholding Christ in the gospel is a different situation. We do become like Christ. We are transformed from one thing into another. We're transformed from who we were. To who we are in Christ, more and more like him, less and less like the old man of sin. Each day. Of course, our spiritual walk is up and down. But we're zooming out and we're just submitting ourselves to this paradigm, this this uh yeah, this paradigm, this pattern for spiritual growth. We have unveiled face, which is taken away by Christ. We're being transformed into the same image, the image of Christ, from one degree of glory to another. stages, it's gradual. As you behold him more, you become more like him. As you become more like him, you want to behold him more. So then you behold him more, and you become more like him. As you become More like him, you you desire even To to behold him more and more in your church. And this is how spiritual growth happens. By beholding Christ by faith. From one degree of glory to another. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. What a great way to end that. This comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. So yes, we talked about this. Of course, this connects back to there. Spiritual growth That's how it got the name, right? Spiritual growth. It comes from the Spirit. It's wrought by the Holy Spirit. It's something that He does. Fruit of the Spirit. It's something that He bears forth in our life So what is the veil? Well, the one was over Moses, the one is the veil of lostness, where you cannot see the the glory of God in his revelation. Okay, okay. Uh what I wanna excuse me. First take a drink is what I wanna do. Two things. And then we have a few more songs to close. Sing together to express our love and adoration of God for all He's done. But what I'd like to do is draw a little diagram for that. And I have two cross references. You wanna do both? Yeah, let's do both. Let's do both. Exodus nineteen. Exodus nineteen And then we're going to do one in Hebrews. We cannot chop off the cross reference from Hebrews. Brethren, I will not sleep tonight. If we chop off the cross reference from Hebrews chapter 12, I will not do it. Exodus 19 I would have slept if we cut off the Exodus 191. I just would have felt bad for you. Exodus 1916. I wanted us to have a glimpse into the glory of Sinai. On the morning of the third day there were thunders and lightning, lightnings, and a thick cloud on the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast. So that all the people in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God. They went to meet God. And they took their stand at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke, because the Lord had descended upon it in fire. The smoke of it went up like the smoke of a kiln. The whole mountain shook greatly. And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him in the thunder. The Lord came down on Mount Sinai to the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. Turn to Hebrews 12. What an entrance. What an entrance. The reason I wanted to look at that is because in this passage Paul is writing clearly that the glory of what you are experiencing right now in the fellowship with Christ is much greater than that glory of Sinai. It's much greater. Much greater blessing to have Christ and miss out on Sinai than to have Sinai and miss out on Christ. Which is where a lot of the Jews were. Hebrews twelve eighteen. No, did I get that wrong? No, that's that's chapter eleven that I'm in. Has to be right, twelve eighteen, yeah, that's right. You have come not to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a tempest. And the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages spoke to them. We just read about that. For they could not endure the order that was given. If any beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear But you have come to Mount Zion and the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. and to innumerable angels and festival gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous, made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Running out of time, but you see there he's just listing. He's only listening to the top five or six. He's not giving all the reasons why the new covenant is more glorious. He's not giving all the reasons Um why what you're experiencing in Christ is better than Sinai, but it's giving you the top ones. This is why it's better, this is why it's better, you've come here. You have this, you have this, you have this, you have this, you have this. You don't have thunder, you don't have fire, you don't have smoke, you don't have a shaking mountain, and an audible voice and a trumpet that's getting louder and louder, but you have fellowship with the risen Christ. There's nothing better. Nothing better you could ever have or experience. Oh let me do my diagram. That the spirit has to interpret. And if you don't come the Wednesdays And you think I'm hyping this up and and you're expecting like some really awesome diagram, you're not. That's what makes it fun. This is the crown. It just represents the exalted Christ. His ascension into heaven was his enthronement. He's seated at the right hand of God. He's seated as king. He's the great priest king over the people of God. This is that's you. Put a little ball cap on you. And this is your heart, your misshaped heart, which I guess is appropriate, although I did not do that on purpose, but we all need our hearts to be. Uh Changed and transformed to the likeness of Christ. But here's how spiritual growth happens. By faith, by faith, we behold Christ through the gospel. By faith. Has to be by faith. And as we behold him He transforms us by the Holy Spirit. In our hearts. Which then manifest and change in our words and our hands and our feet. Our lives. Makes us make us disciples. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. That's how spiritual growth happens, beholding Christ to the gospel. Worship team, won't you come? I'm going to pray for us and I believe we have two more songs. I could be wrong about that. Either way, let's close crying out to God and worshiping him for the great, great glories he's freely given us in Christ. Father, we worship you. We thank you and we give you all the credit and all the glory and all the power, all the honor for us being saved and being brought into a relationship with you. Father, be in our worship, be in our voices, be in our hearts, be in our minds. Rip away the veil. If for someone here tonight it's not yet been ripped away, only your Christ can do it, Father. Help us to worship in spirit and in truth. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. I can only imagine what if. Will be lying along by your side. I can only imagine what my eyes will see. When your face is before me, I can only imagine. Surrounded by By your glory, what will my heart feel? Will I dance for you, Jesus? Will all of you be still? Will I stand in your presence? To my knees will I fall? Will I sing Hallelujah? Will I be able to speak it all? I can only imagine. I can only imagine when I