It is suspiciously appropriate I didn't plan this, but it's suspiciously appropriate that we began our service of worship with a business meeting because Tonight, the text that we are going to look at from Luke chapter 12 has much to say to us about how we relate to our material possessions. Let me invite you to turn with me to the book of Luke. Chapter twelve, Luke twelve, we'll be looking at verses thirteen through twenty-one this evening. Luke twelve, thirteen through twenty-one. If you can remember back to the first time or to the last time that you had a job interview, which for some of you maybe has been a little while, and for some of you maybe has been quite recently. There's a question that you were probably asked at some point during that interview. Where do you see yourself in five years? It's not a question I particularly like, because I've found that I'm pretty bad at predicting where I'm gonna be in five years. It's also kind of a sick game where they're really just trying to Get at, are you gonna be here in five years and should we hire you? But if we think for a little while about how we would answer that question honestly, or perhaps answer a better question, where do you want to be in five years? The way we answer that question can reveal quite a bit about us, can't it? The way we answer and think about that question can reveal our hopes for the future, our aspirations, our longings. It can reveal our vision of the good life, what we think a good life would look like It can reveal the things that we believe that if only they were added to our lives would bring us and our families into a state of greater fulfillment and greater joy. If we think long and hard enough about this question, it can reveal what we believe might satisfy our hearts. And perhaps where we believe true life might be found. Well, God's Word has much to tell us about what will fulfill our longings and what will satisfy our souls, doesn't it? God's Word helps us to identify things that may on the surface seem appealing and satisfying to our sinful flesh, but if we build our entire lives around them will ultimately leave us empty. And God's Word opens up to us the path of true fulfillment. God's Word tells us where we can find true meaning in life, the true and abiding answers to our most fundamental needs. One of the things that we've seen as we've walked through the book of First Timothy and other places, and one of the things that we see over and over again throughout Scripture is that the gospel Entering into a relationship with Christ by grace, through faith, coming under the Lordship of Christ in our lives, fundamentally and profoundly reshapes our priorities. It fundamentally reshapes our longings, our desires, our aspirations. And when we come to Christ by faith, we recognize in that God's rightful authority To define for us what is good, true, and beautiful. We relinquish the right to define what is good and right for our lives when we come to Christ by faith. Well, this morning we saw in 1 Timothy 6 that the gospel profoundly reshapes the way we relate to our material possessions. Paul exhorted the rich not to be haughty or conceited, not to set their hopes on their wealth But rather to hope in God, and flowing out of that hope in God to live generously with the things that they have. Well tonight we'll see in Luke's spirit-inspired account of the teaching of Jesus that as his followers We are called to relate to and think about our material possessions in ways that are vastly different from the mindset of a fallen world. And in ways that are vastly different than the natural sinful inclinations of our own hearts. Luke is writing this gospel, this account of the life of Jesus to a man named Theophilus. And he writes to him so that he, and by implication and extension, us, may have certainty regarding the things that he had been taught about Jesus. He wants Theophilus in constructing or not constructing, but recording rather, this account. He wants Theophilus to have certainty about who Jesus is and what Jesus came to accomplish. And throughout Luke's account, if we were to read through it and walk through it, we would see that Jesus is portrayed as the eternal Son of God. The anointed king who has come to redeem his people and to establish his kingdom. We see several key things that we won't turn to, but I want you just to know and to have in your minds. In chapter 9 of Luke, we see Peter Confessing Jesus' identity as the Christ of God, the Messiah, the anointed one who was promised, who would come and roll back the curse of sin and redeem his people. And then we also see in Luke chapter 9 Jesus' transfiguration, where his glory is revealed, the curtain is peeled back. And the voice of the Father speaks from heaven and affirms, this is my Son, my chosen one. Listen to him. I say all this at the outset to emphasize for us that when we here encounter the teachings of Jesus, We are encountering the Almighty, eternal King of Kings. And Jesus is instructing us on what citizenship in his kingdom looks like. He's laying out for us the ethics, the obligations, and the heart posture of those who are citizens of his kingdom, those who are his followers. And here in Luke chapter 12, our King is teaching us how we, as kingdom citizens, are to relate to our material possessions. The main point that we are going to see this evening is that Jesus teaches us that seeking lasting fulfillment in material possessions leads only to death. But in knowing and following Him there is true life. Let me repeat that for us because it's the main point that we're going to see in our text this evening. Jesus teaches us that seeking lasting fulfillment Lasting hope, lasting joy in material possessions leads only to death. But In knowing and following him, there is true life. Let's look at Luke chapter 12, beginning in verse 13. Someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you? And he said to them, Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. And he told them a parable, saying, The land of a rich man produced plentifully. And he thought to himself, What shall I do? For I have nowhere to store my crops. And he said, I will do this. I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be? So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. As we walk through this passage will observe the point that Jesus is making through three kind of movements of the narrative. We will see first a revealing request A strong warning, and third, a sobering parable. So if you are a note-taker, those would be the three notes of an outline. A revealing request. A strong warning and a sobering parable. First, in verse thirteen, we see a revealing request. As Jesus is traveling and teaching, someone from the crowd speaks up with a request. Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. Evidently, this man would like Jesus to intervene on his behalf over a family dispute regarding his share of the family inheritance. It's interesting to note that we're not told whether or not his claim here is legitimate Under the old covenant there were laws that governed how inheritances within families were to be divided. You can look at passages like Deuteronomy twenty-one, verse seventeen. It's possible that this man was coming to Jesus and had a legitimate claim. Perhaps his brother was withholding his rightful share from him. Or it's possible that he's seeking to receive more than his fair share, and he's coming to Jesus to get some sort of spiritual stamp of approval on what he wants. Regardless of how legitimate his claim is here, based on the way that Jesus responds to him, and based on the warning and the teaching that follows. What we do see is that this request reveals something about the posture of this man's heart. It reveals a heart that's coming to Jesus, but is fixated on. Captivated with and looking for fulfillment in material things. It's clear in the way he comes to Jesus that what he's after is money. And perhaps the satisfaction that he thinks money will bring him. Tragically, we also see in the request of this man someone who views Jesus as a mere means to an end. He comes to Jesus not for Jesus, not because of who he is. But because he apparently is looking for some sort of spiritual seal of approval to force his brother into dividing the inheritance. He comes to Jesus not for who Jesus is, but rather for what he thinks he can get from him. He views the eternal Son of God, based on what he says to him, merely as someone who perhaps can be used to increase his own net worth. Well, friends, such a posture before Jesus is tragic and it is deadly. This posture is one of the fundamental flaws we see in the so-called prosperity gospel. In the gospel of health, wealth, and prosperity, Jesus, the eternal Son of God, is reduced to a mere means to an end. Ultimately, a way for you to, by faith, receive material blessings. Faith is essentially reduced to a weapon that you wield to get from God things that you already want in your flesh. Health, wealth, prosperity, security, safety. Well, not only is this so-called gospel nowhere to be found in the pages of Scripture, it's quite honestly absurd. It trades the unfathomable glory of being reconciled to the God of the universe and of being invited into a true, living, eternal relationship with Christ. For a pile of money, ultimately. It would be like if you were to go visit the Grand Canyon and stand in awe of its beauty. And instead of standing there and being awed by it, You'd rather just drive past it, go down the road, and get a slurpee from 7-Eleven. It would be absurd to trade the wonder and the majesty of standing before something so beautiful. And going and filling your stomach with weird sugar ice. Well, in verse 14, we see that Jesus refuses to play the part that this man seeks to assign to him. He responds sharply, Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you. There's some irony though in Jesus' response Because this is the sovereign, all-knowing, all-wise, eternal King of Kings who is speaking. This is the one from whom the inheritance laws under the old covenant came in the first place. Later in Luke, we're going to see that all the law and the prophets ultimately testify to Jesus. So if anyone in the universe would be qualified to judge this man's case, surely it would be Jesus. But Jesus hadn't come to settle inheritance disputes. He had come to do the will of the Father. He had come to seek and to save the lost. There's a further irony here, because Jesus in what follows does render a judgment It's not a judgment about how to divide the inheritance, but it's a judgment against the danger, the eternal danger of covetousness. And the emptiness and the destruction that come when we seek fulfillment, ultimate fulfillment in material things. And we turn to this next in the strong warning that Jesus issues. In verse fifteen, we see Jesus issuing a strong warning. He says, Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness. Notice these two phrases parallel back to back. Take care and be on your guard. It's a way of adding emphasis. Jesus is essentially saying, warning, danger. He's holding up a sign with blinking lights. There's a danger here. I see these kinds of signs when I'm on my morning commute that remind me that construction on I-95 will never be finished. Jesus here issues a warning, though, against the dangers of covetousness. The dangers of greed within our own hearts. To covet is to sinfully desire that which you do not have. One commentator defined it as the greedy desire for more. It's setting your desires and your longings and your hopes on material things, perhaps the things that you see others enjoying. And it's believing, even if it's subtle, believing that those things are the things that are going to bring you fulfillment and satisfaction. Implicit in a heart that covets is the belief that you deserve to have whatever it is you're longing for. You deserve to be happy on the terms that you dictate, and so if that thing over there makes you happy, then you deserve to have it. Well, Jesus issues a warning against such a posture in our heart, and then he grounds this warning. He gives a reason for it. He grounds it in a principle that appears on the surface quite simple. And perhaps if you just gave this principle to your unsaved friends, neighbors, coworkers, they might even agree with it. But what we're going to see is that this principle is actually deeply theological. Because it has to do with matters of eternity. It has to do with where ultimate life and fulfillment is found. Why must we be on guard against coveting within our hearts? Jesus says, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. You must guard your heart, church, against the greedy desire for material things because life is not and never will be found ultimately in your stuff Or in accumulating stuff. To the man in the narrative who's seeking his inheritance, Jesus is saying, your inheritance can't satisfy the deepest aches and longings of your soul. So don't build your life around seeking it. See, coveting is deadly because it presents us with a lie. It presents us with a false reality about the way the world works. It whispers to us that some thing in this world, some material thing, whether it's a nice house or the security of a fully funded IRA. Can satisfy our deepest longings, can bring us to new heights of life and vitality, and can deliver us from the misery we feel from day to day. It tells us that things can make us happy. And church, we must be aware that this lie is pervasive in our world. Advertisers are willing to spend millions of dollars convincing you that the things they are selling will make you happy They're willing to spend millions of dollars convincing you that their brand of detergent is the thing that's been missing from your life. And if you just add that to your life, then finally you'll be happy. Your social media feeds are finely tuned to make you long for the lifestyle you see other people enjoying. We must be aware, church, that these are not neutral spaces. And if we are not careful, we can allow our hearts to go astray. There are parties who have a vested financial interest in making you covet. We need to be aware of that as we live our lives in the world seeking to find satisfaction in Jesus. Jesus here calls us to be on guard against the lie that's presented by a posture of coveting within your heart. Material things, he teaches us, cannot give you life. And in fact, what we see is that seeking your soul's rest in material things ultimately leads to death. Jesus illustrates this very principle next with a sobering parable. A sobering parable Look at verse 16, Jesus tells them a parable, and the first fact of the parable that Jesus gives is that the land of a rich man has produced plentifully. I want us to pause here for just a minute, because I want us to see how Jesus is going to set up and then reverse our expectations in this story that he tells. He acts as a master storyteller, setting up expectations and then upending them in order to drive home the point that he's making. Consider the fact that if all we knew about this man is that he is rich and that his land is producing abundantly, In the eyes of the world, we might consider him successful. Perhaps we'd consider him a shrewd and savvy manager of his estate. And in fact, the crowds may have had warrant to think that the man in Jesus' story is actually blessed of God and is wise. Consider just several passages from the Old Testament. Proverbs 3, verses 9 and 10. Honor the Lord with your wealth, and with the first fruits of all your produce, then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats bursting with wine Proverbs chapter 10, verse 22, the blessing of the Lord makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it. In Deuteronomy chapter 28, this uh monumentally important chapter in the Old Testament. One of the things we see is that material prosperity for Israel was one of the blessings for covenant obedience. In verse 11, Moses, under the inspiration of the Spirit, says that the Lord will make you abound in prosperity, in the fruit of your womb, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground. Now these texts are balanced by other passages in the Old Testament that warn us against the danger of hoping in our riches or our wealth. We saw many of those this morning. It's balanced by passages of scripture that warn us of oversimplifying the relationship between material prosperity and blessing from God. Think of the narrative of Job's life. And ultimately, we need to recognize that all of the promises we find under the old covenant find their ultimate fulfillment in eternal spiritual blessings that come through Christ. But what I want us to see is that the crowd could have very well had biblical warrant for believing that the man Jesus is presenting in this story was a blessed man and a wise man. However, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks, doesn't it? And this man's words and actions are going to reveal the true posture of his heart before God. In verse 17, the man is vexed by what to do with his abundance. What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops? As just a brief aside here, one note of application for us is the fact that we need to recognize That there is a test of faith that comes not only when we are facing struggles and difficulties in life, but when we are facing blessing and abundance. It can be easy to see how our faith is being tested when life is hard, when we're walking through a season of suffering or difficulty. But when our needs are easily met, when the bills are easily paid, church, a battle for your soul is being waged. What will you do with your abundance? And where will you anchor your hope? When your daily bread comes easily, will you still put your hope in God? This is especially relevant for us as we live in perhaps the wealthiest country in human history. Will we continue to hope in God? Well in verse 18 this man formulates a plan. I'll do this. I will tear down my barns and build larger barns, and there I'll store all my grain and my goods. The specifics of our language can reveal so much about our hearts. Notice the language he uses: my grain, my goods. I will do this. There's an inward focus reflected in his language, and there's a certainty of success that's demonstrated in the way he uses the future tense. He seems to view himself as a man thoroughly in control of his own destiny, the master of his own fate, who has conquered and secured his fate with his abundant wealth and prosperity. Well the problem isn't ultimately barn square footage, is it? And it's important to note here that the enjoyment of material things in their proper place is not wrong. That was Noted this morning, and it's important that we recognize this. We are not Gnostics who deny or who view the material world as fundamentally bad, fundamentally evil. Nor are we ascetics who insist that to be truly spiritual, we have to deny ourselves every material pleasure and every material comfort. The physical things of this world that God has made are good, and they're to be enjoyed freely with thanksgiving as his good gifts. We see that in 1 Timothy 4, verse 4. Even today I have enjoyed many cups of coffee to the glory of God, and will continue to do so by God's grace. The problem isn't the stuff. The problem isn't the abundance. Rather, the problem is that he views his grain and his goods as a means of ultimate rest and deliverance for his soul. Instead of viewing his abundance as an occasion to thank God and to be generous, he seeks to hoard it for himself, and he seeks to find in it his ultimate comfort and security. Look at verse 9. These are tragic words that he speaks to his soul. I will say to my soul, soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, be merry. He's not just comforting his physical self. He's not just giving comfort that he will have some material things provided for him. No, he's seeking to find comfort for his soul. In the things that he's accumulated. He believes that his reign and his goods have secured his future and have delivered him into a state of ultimate rest. There's nothing more to do now than to eat, to drink, and be merry. One more note of application, and I I say this at the risk of being misunderstood as a legalist, but To you who are retired, or to you who may soon be retired, or to you who are not soon to be retired, but really want to be retired. Do you view your retirement as a rest from all toil that you are owed by right? Or do you view your retirement as an opportunity to be joyfully stewarding your time and your resources for kingdom purposes? Do you view your retirement as something that gives you the license to be free from all work or as an opportunity to be joyfully busy for God? Well, the man in Jesus' parable believed the lie that his wealth would deliver his soul from toil. But when the voice of God enters into the narrative, that lie is exposed for what it is. Look at verse 20. God delivers his verdict against this man and against what this man has built his life upon. God says to him, Fool! Despite all outward appearances of success, despite any notion that this might be a wise man for all of his abundance, God looks at his life, looks at what he's built his life upon, and calls him a fool. And notice the immediacy of God's judgment. This very night, his soul is required of him. He had just comforted his soul with the prospect of many long years free from toil, enjoying rest, enjoying what he had. He doesn't even get to enjoy it for a day. That night his soul was called to account. It's as though God's voice pulls back the curtain of his life and reveals the foolishness of his heart. God says to him, The things you've prepared, whose will they be? Well, the implication is not yours. You're not taking them with you. And they don't contribute an ounce to your standing before God. These things you have sought to find comfort for your soul in cannot deliver your soul from death. Well the verdict is delivered on this man's life, the judgment is passed, and Jesus Exposes the lie. He summarizes the point of what he is taught in verse 21. So is the one who lays up for himself treasure. Who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. To build your life upon the pursuit and accumulation of stuff Is not only foolish, it's a death sentence. It's to put your hope in an insufficient savior that when you stand before God will do nothing for you. But even in this harsh, sobering word, I want you to see that there is a glimmer of hope. Because Jesus tells us that those who lay up treasure for themselves, those who seek to build their lives on accumulating stuff Stuff, you fill in the blank of your own heart of what that stuff might be. Those who seek to build their life upon that find death and destruction. But those who are rich toward God find life. In knowing, loving, following, and enjoying fellowship with God as citizens of his kingdom, we find a fulfillment and a joy That money and stuff can never offer us. We find a true rest for our souls. We find an answer to our deepest longings. We find a remedy to our most fundamental needs. But here's the thing, to be rich toward God, to have hearts that desire God more than stuff. Our hearts must be fundamentally changed. Because the Bible's testimony concerning the human heart is that apart from a work of God's grace, we are dead in sin. We always will seek fulfillment in things that don't satisfy. We can't, by our own work and effort, change our desires. It's only by an act of God that this can take place. And the rest of Luke's gospel, and ultimately all of Scripture, make clear that this is precisely what Jesus came to accomplish. Jesus in his life on earth was perfectly rich toward God. He was sinless in his actions and in his affections. He never set ultimate hope on temporary things. And he died a sacrificial death for sinners, bearing the weight of God's wrath not just for the things we have done, but the things we have loved that are wrong. He bore the weight of God's wrath for our misguided love of stuff. And he was raised so that we might have life in him. Church, by grace, through faith, we are forgiven, we are redeemed, we are made spiritually alive and freed from enslavement to loving stuff more than God. Through faith in Christ and the new hearts we are given, we're set free to be rich toward God, to abound in love for Him, to overflow in lives that reflect His character, and profoundly. We actually enjoy our material things more and better when we come to Christ by faith and when we see that they are not ultimate. Because we can enjoy them properly in their proper place as God's good gifts to us. But we give up the fool's errand of trying to make them something that will ultimately satisfy our hearts. In fact, we see that the gospel and coming to Christ by faith frees us into a profoundly different view of our money. Jesus lays this out for us in the very next section of Luke chapter 12. I'll just summarize it By coming to Christ in faith and by becoming kingdom citizens under Christ's Lordship, we are free to trust God's provision for our physical needs and to seek first His kingdom. As we conclude, I just want to ask you to consider this question of your own heart. Where are you looking for fulfillment? Satisfaction and security. Individually or as a family, do you find your comfort in Christ or in your 401k? This text does not give us license to be financially lazy or to be irresponsible. And it's not a call to legalism It's not as though spending our money or not caring about our money enough is what gains us a right standing before God. It is the gospel. It is Christ. But all our wealth could be taken from us in an instant. And the greatest investment strategy in the world is no substitute for knowing and enjoying Christ. As a church, is our hope for the success and the future of our ministry in Jarrett's in Harford County found in our budget? Or is it found in Christ, who is our head, and who has promised to build his church through the proclamation of the gospel? Let me just say that the financial stewardship of this church is to be commended. My entire life I have benefited from it greatly every time I opened up the pantry and found brand name snacks. I benefited from the financial stewardship of my parents, but also of this church. But we have to reject the idea that in our budget we will find the key to our success. We could spend any amount of money, and if we are not preaching Christ, this church will not grow in likeness to him. Rather, in our budget, we have an opportunity to show what we truly value. We have an opportunity to steward God's good gifts for kingdom purposes. To those of you who have much, are you thanking God for it? And will you view your financial resources as temporary gifts that you get to leverage and steward for kingdom purposes? To those of you who have little, will you do battle with your soul by God's grace to be content with God's provision in your life? Will you refuse to define success in your life by the desire to gain more wealth? And to us all we must ask, what have we set our hopes upon? And will we, by God's grace and by the Spirit's work among us, trust that true riches Ultimate, abiding, lasting riches are found in Christ. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for your word to us. Thank you, God. That by your grace we are set free to find our joy in Christ. And in that we find a joy that will never leave us empty. God, would you work in our hearts? Convince us, God, that this is true. Convince us that in you we find our greatest treasure. Convict us, God, where we fall short. Help us as a community of believers covenanted together to hold one another to this, to exhort one another to this. And to reflect that in the ways we spend our money as a church. God, we trust that you are building your church, and we trust that you will do the work you intend to do through Your word. Thank you for the treasure that we have in Christ. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.