The words in which we'll examine this morning come out of Acts chapter 17, starting verse one. Acts seventeen, verse one. Title of the Sermon is Turning the World Upside Down. Turning the World Upside Down. May we see that this is what the gospel does. Turns the world upside down. It changes everything around us. It changes our lives. It changes our culture. It changes our families. It changes the government. It changes the world. So my goal this morning is may we be encouraged by this. May we recognize the warning of the attacks of the enemy that will come. But may we be encouraged and knowing and trusting that this is God's plan, this is his work, and he is victorious. And may we actually believe it. May we actually believe it that he will radically change. So let's read Acts 17, starting in verse 1. Now when they had passed through Amphilippus and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica. For there was the synagogue of the Jews. And Paul went in as was his custom. On the three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the scriptures. Explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and saying, This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ. And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devote Greeks, and not a few of the leading women, but the Jews were jealous And taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd. And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also. And Jason has received them. And they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things. And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. This short narrative here gives us a glimpse of what the early church was doing. It gives us a glimpse of Paul's ministry and how almost everywhere he went, he was preaching the gospel and causing an uproar. We actually see just the chapter before chapter 17. This was when Paul was imprisoned. And Philippi and and through the preaching and singing of songs and hymns, uh the the the prison gates were shattered open And the Philippian jailer, as many of you know this story, came in fearful that he was going to lose his life, so he was going to take it himself, and Paul and Silas cry out to him and say, Stop, don't He says, how can I be saved? And they preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to him. They go to his house. His house hears the gospel. And from that moment, we see an individual and his family transformed through preaching of the gospel, through the transformation of the Holy Spirit in the hearts of men. This story just takes up shortly after that event. They start going around, they continue preaching. Jail's not going to stop them just because they went to prison It doesn't stop them. They they continue to go throughout the nation at that time, the world, the known world at that time, preaching the gospel. And here we get to where they end up in Thessalonica It's a unique town. And it's one that actually comes up quite often in scripture. If you're if you are familiar with your Bibles, you'll know that we have two letters, 1st and 2nd Thessalonians, right? And that is to the church in this town. Through the preaching of what happened in Acts 17, we see a church formed that is worshiping God, and that we actually have New Testament letters that is written to that church to encourage them. And many of you know those letters, and you know that those letters are all about suffering. Those letters are packed full with you're going to be persecuted, you're going to suffer. We start to hear this this crazy language of the man of lawlessness. He's going to persecute you. He's there. He's present. You're going to feel the pain of being a Christian and preaching the gospel. And the letters don't stop there. What the letters do is they encourage them. Don't worry about the suffering. Yes, it's happening. Yes, you're being persecuted. But ultimately, brothers, you can withstand the trials of this world, not by your own strength, not because you're smart, not because you're rich, not because you're powerful, but because of the power, strength, and might of the gospel. Recognizing that the victory of Christ will defeat the most wicked enemies that you can imagine. This is what we see happening. And this story here in Acts 17 is the very interesting It gives us a glimpse of what's happening. But we must see that the gospel turns the world upside down. That was the accusation from the Jews. The accusation was that the world was turned upside down. These men who are turning the world upside down, these men who are changing everything that is our norm, are here in our town and we must stop them. Let's ask ourselves today. Right now, do you feel as though the gospel 's turning the world upside down or do you feel that the culture is the one turning things upside down? upside down. Right? The culture. We feel as though the culture is just it's winning. It's victorious. I mean we are in the middle of June. A month that the culture has stated and said, this is when we celebrate the the degrading of the identity of humanity. This is the month that we celebrate the degrading of the Christian and godly marriage image that we have in the very early stages of scripture. And we're saying, yeah, they're winning. We're saying they're turning everything upside down. The the pride celebration, they're the ones winning. They're the ones that have turned the world upside down. I want to go back to when it was my way. I want to go back to the forties and the fifties and the sixties when everything was perfect. I didn't grow up in those ages Clearly. I said that Ronald Reagan was in the 70s. I uh wasn't alive when Ronald Reagan was president, so I didn't know he was in the eighties. Sorry Yeah, I was corrected. It's the only correction I ever had to make. But do we see that we just think that's the better time? Now, those that lived in the forties, the fifties and the sixties, they had their problems There's there's trials. The church wasn't the the i the the nation wasn't just following and being perfect images of the church of Christ While the world looks like it's winning, it looks like the world's the one turning everything upside down, my argument today is that's not the case. That's not the case. They're just going against God. So to us it appears that way. But my not my only argument is not just that the world isn't winning, but My final solution that I want us to get to this morning is that the gospel actually wins. That we, the church, we Christians, are going out into Jarrett's field turning the world upside down. We are going out to Hartford County and we're turning the world upside down. The norm that the world wants us to follow, we're changing it. Because of the gospel. Because of what God has commanded us. The the the ordinary the customs that we're just supposed to go along with, we're not supposed to speak up, we're supposed to be quiet, don't don't push the envelope, don't get involved in politics Don't make a motion. Don't try to take over No, no. That's not the gospel. The gospel goes forth and changes the lives. That those people then go and live in this world and they preach the gospel. And the gospel changes those people's lives. And it just keeps multiplying. The special forces motto is that they go into indigenous places and they change the hearts and the lives of one person. That then they go into their countries and their villages and they form the armies to fight against the enemy. Well, Christians, we are the special forces that God has called. We take the gospel into the dark places. We take the gospel into the villages that have never seen or heard Jesus' name before. We take the gospel to the enemy that hates us, that hates Christ, hates God, and we teach them and we preach the gospel to them. And we trust the work of the Holy Spirit transforming one life at a time, transforming one individual at a time, that then that becomes a force multiplier. They go preach the gospel. The gospel transforms five lives, ten lives, twenty. And that when we see the end of history, we will sing the praises of our Lord with the multitude from every tribe and nation. And not think about how the culture maybe had a victory. No, no, we think about the victory of Christ. And that's what we see happening here in Acts 17 They're turning the world upside down. One person, one city at a time, preaching the gospel. So what happens here? Point number one is this is just a story. This is what Christians are called to do. There's nothing fancy, nothing special happening here. These men have been empowered by the Holy Spirit, and they're going on the mission God has laid before them. We see that Paul and Silas are on their missionary journey. This is just another town. We actually see no no understanding here, no nothing to hint to us that They were really trying to get to Thessalonica. Like this was their goal. That they were going there for this mission. We just see that these men were living their lives. They were going town by town, city by city, preaching the gospel. Wherever they were called to, wherever God led them. That's what we're called to do. Live your lives as Christians Day by day. Whatever job you're in. We we're just preaching the gospel. We don't have a special mission. Our mission isn't that by year 2027 we will have uh a Christian in this leadership, in this role. We don't have a mission and a goal that says by by twenty thirty Jarrett's Bill every single person in Jarrett's Bill will be a Christian Nope. We don't have that goal. We go on living our lives just like Paul and Silas preaching the gospel to whoever God brings before us, wherever they're called to go They go about, they're just jailed, they're liberated, and they just keep preaching the gospel. But notice what they're preaching. Notice what changes the world and turns it upside down. It's not that Paul and Silas formed a militia and rolled in on horses and chariots. That'd be scary. I could see the city getting a little worried about that It's not that Paul and Silas came in and were trying to sell. Uh they had the snake oil. You know, they they were the snake oil salesmen. They rolled in there and they were trying to sell something and and get all the money. I could see a town being concerned about that No, that's not what happens here. Paul and Silas come in preaching the gospel. Look at verse 2. They go into the synagogue, as was custom, and for three Sabbath days. Paul reasoned with them from the scriptures. Paul didn't have a degree in logic and rhetoric. Paul didn't have a degree in biology. Paul didn't have a degree in archaeology. He didn't have all these these fancy degrees to try to debate and argue and and do good apologetics on every single little argument that the pagans would bring against him. Where did he go to? From the scriptures. May that be our foundation Our preaching of the gospel, our foundation of apologetics, our foundation of proclaiming Christ must start in the gospels. It must start in his word. May we preach it. May we know it. May we be excited to talk about it. We don't need to go on different avenues and different ways of rhetoric. Those things are beneficial and are helpful. But ultimately, we must recognize that the scriptures is where we preach the gospel from. The Word of God has been provided to us as a people for our benefit, but also for the benefit of the world. The scriptures have been given to us so that we may know Christ and we may make the world known to who Christ is. The scriptures have been given to us so that we may grow in our love and obedience to God As we also call the world to love and obey God, we must start with Scripture. Don't be afraid of it. Don't worry about how the world views it. We saw in 1 Corinthians that the world hates the gospel. Those that reject the gospel find it folly, foolish. It will trip them, it'll break them. It doesn't mean we don't preach it. Stick to the scriptures So what do they explain? There's three key aspects that we see Paul explaining out of the scriptures. Verse 3, look with me, it says explaining and proving. That it was necessary for Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead and saying, This Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. This is you want you want your message? What are you to go take into the world? It's these three. things that Christ suffered and died, Christ rose from the dead, and that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah. That's our message. We start there. We preach that. We don't need to preach other things till we proclaim this. Why are these three things important? Let's first start with Christ's suffering. Paul wants to make it known that Christ suffered and died for his people. Why is that so important? That's the ransom that bought you and I. The ransom price that was paid on the cross so that sinners could be called saints. The price that Christ paid on the cross was so that the rebel, the enemy of God, could be called child. The blood Christ poured out for you and I is a great price. It's the greatest price. How deep is the Father's love that he would send his only son to pay the price that you and I deserve to pay yet never could in fool. It takes an eternity for the sinner to pay the price of sin. It took Christ a moment on the cross to pay for you and I What a great price has been paid for us. May we recognize this. May we proclaim this to the world, that Christ has died to redeem sinners. This is the gospel message. We 're the world here that someone has loved the world so much. Not just someone, but the Creator. The perfect judge, the holy and just one, loves the world so much that he sent his son to pay the ultimate price. And that a sinful person like you and I can be redeemed by that suffering. Paul preaches this. The other thing Paul preaches is that Christ rose from the dead. We see the image of ransom that we have been bought by a great price of Christ, yes and amen, but it did not end there. He also preached and proclaimed that he that Christ to rise from the dead. He proved this from Scripture. This is what Jesus did. Why is this important? is because our Lord who has bought us at such a great price is also the Lord that has the final and perfect victory over all enemies. O sin and death has no power to the one that can defeat them in the grave. O sin and death has no power over the world. When Christ has resurrected from the dead, defeating sin and death, sits at the right hand of the Father, having victory, power, and dominion over all things, both in heaven and on earth. This is the Christ we proclaim to the world. Not a weak God, not a weak savior, one that has no power, one that is being beat back and defeated every day. We don't preach a Christ who who has a little bit of victory here, but really the ultimate and the and the fulfillment of victory we will only understand in the future. No, we recognize and know that our Lord was victorious over the grave and he's also victorious. victorious now. He lives victoriously in heaven, having dominion over heaven and earth. He is King of Kings, Lord of Lords. This is the God we worship. This is our Savior. And Paul wants the Thessalonica Thessalonians to know that Jesus is victorious. Now he's preaching to Jews in the synagogue and this is important for them to hear. They've been waiting for the Messiah. They've been waiting for the Messiah, and Paul points out that Jesus, the one you persecuted, was the Messiah, is the Messiah you have been waiting for. Just as Isaiah 53 promised that the Messiah would suffer and die for sinners, Jesus did that. Just as the Old Testament proclaims the victory of God, the victory of the Messiah, Christ has fulfilled that from defeating the great, resurrecting from the dead. He's pointing to them saying, your own scriptures has already told you that this would take place. And Jesus He's the answer you've been looking for. This is the gospel that we preach to the world. We preach a gospel of victory, of power and might. We preach a gospel that proclaims that no enemy is strong enough to withstand the power. of our God. If your sins, if your rebel heart couldn't withstand the power of God, why do we think that any other world could lead power, any other demon, any other authority that thinks it's more powerful than God can withstand it? If God is powerful enough to redeem sinners like you and I, He is powerful enough to redeem all that He claims as His. The third thing that we see Paul preaching is that Jesus is the Christ. He is the Messiah, the anointed one, the Savior. Paul has been pointing the Jewish peers of his sermon to their scriptures. And then he's saying, the Messiah has come in ransom, the Messiah has come in victory, and Jesus is that Messiah you have been looking for. The very one that you persecuted. You start to see why maybe the world's getting turned upside down in the face. Could you start to understand why maybe the synagogue leaders weren't very happy with this gospel? Because now the accusation is put upon them The man they crucify is the man God has sent to redeem them. The man they crucified is the very Savior that they have been awaiting for. And now they're faced with a challenge. Will you follow after this Christ, this Messiah, the very Son of God and man whom God sent to redeem the sinner? Or will you continue to reject him? you have. Paul preaches this. Brothers and sisters, this is the message we preach to the world. We're calling people to follow after Christ. It's not a try him on, maybe Jesus will work for you type of gospel. It's not a gospel of if if we're correct Jesus is the Messiah, and if we're correct, then we will be in heaven in eternity. No, we're proclaiming the definite, the truth that Jesus is the Messiah. No questions. We don't doubt. We proclaim it because we believe it, hence why we are Christians. We call the sinner to fall into obedience to Christ. We call the sinner to either bow at the feet of the reigning king or be punished for your rebellion against him. This is the message we preach. One that we have been bought at such a great price. One that we have a victory through the work of Christ over sin and death. And one that He is the Messiah and our Savior and sits in heaven today. This is what we preach. This is the example Paul gives us. We actually see this message repeated throughout the book of Acts. You could turn to almost any sermon in Acts and hear these key elements there. It's because this is what Jesus taught them to preach. They are doing the work of God. And we too, to this day, in the year 2024, we too are called to preach this gospel. This is what we preach. This is what we believe as Christians. The issue is, is that Paul actually believes it and is preaching it with power and authority. The call to us is do we actually believe it? Do we actually believe that Christ ransomed us? I think for most of us that's a yes and amen. That's why we're here. That's why we were baptized. Do we actually believe that Christ has rose from the dead and taken victory? Still yes, but maybe that one's more challenging for us to grasp, right? Victory? Have you seen the world? Have you seen the struggles? Have you turned on the news? Victory of Christ isn't the word I'm going to use for that. Do we believe it? Do we believe that Christ is victorious? We need to start living lives that look like it. We need to start preaching as though we actually believe it. Do we believe that Jesus really is our Savior? There's no other option It's either Christ or or it's chaos. It's something else. You can follow anything else and it will lead to destruction. Even good things. You can think the church is your savior. It's not. It's Christ. The church is just his bride. It's his instrument here on this earth. You can think that good works and tithing is your savior. It is not. If you believe that is what's saving you, that is what is leading you to your destruction. It is Christ in Christ alone. You believe that the right political party and the right governor and the right politicians in the right places will save us, you are wrong. Is our Messiah Christ and him alone that is our Savior? And that we preach this to the world. So what happens is Paul preaches this message. We see the story here. This is when the world gets turned upside down. It wasn't through fancy rhetoric. It wasn't through a good presentation. It wasn't through selling by force. It was by through the preaching of the word. The gospel message The effects of the gospel is that the world gets turned upside down. Look with me at verse 4, and some of them were persuaded. So that's the Jews, right? Some of the Jews that were in the synagogue were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas. As did a great many of the devote Greeks. So that's the non Jewish people. And most likely here the devote Greeks would have been the really smart guys, the philosophers. Those guys that sat around and in the bathhouses and just talked about philosophy and how we think and how do you know that you know that you know that you know You've read philosophy, it's strange at times because these guys are thinking at a different level. But even they were convinced, persuaded by the preaching of Paul But it goes on. Not a few of the leading women. So we see here that all aspects of life have been transformed by the preaching of the gospel. The world starts to get turned up and turned upside down by the individuals and by the multitudes We see that every tribe and every class of people is found in this group. We have the Jews who who Paul has committed that he will first go to the synagogue and preach, but then he also goes to the Greeks and preaches to the Greeks. Greeks, the non-Jewish people. Really this this language could cover all people groups at that time. The gospel transforms both the the quote unquote religious and the quote unquote non-religious people of the time. The gospel transforms the most powerful, intelligent rulers, and also transforms the meek and mild and weakest among them. The gospel transforms from people in authority all the way down to the beggar on the street. The gospel transforms those who have the high status in life and those that who chose and vote and beg for those people on high status to recognize him. The gospel transforms everyone in every class, tribe, and tongue. That is how we have the gospel here in America. Nearly two thousand years after Paul preached it, in a foreign land that many of us will never see. It's how the gospel has gone forth and and changed the world here in America, to China, to the Middle East. To Europe, South America , many countries in Africa. And if we find a tribe in Antarctica, they will take the gospel there and transform those lives. The gospel goes forth and turns the world upside down, regardless of the status uh and state of people. What else does the gospel do as it goes forth? This one's hard for us to hear, but we see that the gospel divides. The gospel divides, it pierces our hearts and reveals who we really are. And unless the Holy Spirit transforms our hearts and calls us into obedience to the gospel, we will reject the gospel. We will reject Christ and we will reject God's commandments. Look with me in verse 5. We see it happening right here. But the Jews were jealous, and taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason. To bring them out to the crowd. So we see the gospel going out, and some of the people hearing the gospel, the Holy Spirit transforming their lives, and they are coming to follow after Paul and Silas to hear more about this Messiah. To hear more about God, to hear more about how to live in obedience to Him. And people hearing the same sermons, the same preaching, are rising up with wicked hearts to try to defeat it. The gospel divides. It separates. It calls those who are God's elect into his kingdom and it pushes the wicked of heart and pushes them away and causes it and stirs them up, causes their heart to rebel against God even. Now as the preachers of the gospel we don't know whose heart is whose, who is of God's elect and who is not And even those that appear to be rejecting the gospel in one moment may be redeemed in the next moment. We do not know, so we continue to proclaim the gospel regardless of how we see people reacting to it. Could you imagine yourself, and if if your story is any like mine, that you rejected the gospel over and over again, and then all of a sudden it was like a light turned on in your mind? Twenty years of hearing the gospel preached Sunday in and out, it wasn't until I was twenty that I acknowledged the truth of the gospel. If anyone would have given up on me then, said that person 's only of the wicked and stopped preaching. I would have never heard it. But we know that that's not how it is. We do divide. We see that there is those that accept the gospel and those that reject it. And we should not be surprised by this We should not be surprised when those who reject the gospel are stirred up in anger and frustration. I love the language here. In verse 5, some wicked men of Arabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar. These men are the ones accusing Paul and Silas of turning the world upside down. But the author of this wants us to understand that the city got turned upside down because the wicked man got everyone fired up and upset and tried to attack the gospel. They're the ones that are turning the city in an uproar, causing distractions, causing fights. And we see that this is another effect of the gospel, that the enemies will fight against the gospel. The enemies will fight against the gospel. While it divides and co identifies the elect and the enemies at that time, we see that the enemies will cause and uh start fights against the gospel. This is the testimony of most of Acts, story after story. The enemy is of God, those that reject the gospel get fired up, get a mob together, and they go storm and try to cause destruction. Read uh Acts 19, 21 through 41. It's a great image of an uproar. An actual riot breaks out in Ephesus. A riot breaks out in Ephesus. A war is almost about to uh break out in the city because the enemies of God hate the gospel so much. Because their God is being destroyed by the preaching of the gospel, that they want to kill and destroy anyone that preaches the gospel. Notice also that most of the cities that experience a riot and an uproar are also the cities that we see letters written to. It's interesting that persecution is just part of the game. The enemy rising up against the the Christian church is just part of our story It strengthens the church. It's it motivates us to continue preaching the gospel. It does not push us down and cause us to flee from the enemy. The enemies hate God. The enemies hate his message. Why do they hate it? Well, one is that they believe that their power and authority is about to be taken from them, and they are correct. Hearts transformed by the gospel change their allegiance. So the the rulers of the powers, the rulers of of the culture, the rulers that want to be in control and power should be fearful of the gospel because it will destroy their authority amongst the people. And we should be preaching a gospel so that their hearts are transformed, so they that those leaders stop worshiping themselves and their power and they turn to the true and sovereign God. What's another effect of the gospel preaching? Finances change. Certain people have been leading and running an organization that is relying on people to worship them and give them money. And when hearts are transformed and common to faith in Christ, their allegiance of money turn changes to their allegiance in God, sending money to send the gospel around the world, sending money to support the church and the bride of Christ. That's what happens in Acts 19 is that the those that are making money off of the worship of idols are concerned that their economy is going to be shaken up. And they should be worried about that. The economy that we live in worships and waits for the day that we give money and tithes are worship to them as they promote sex. as they promote the destruction of the family, as they promote the division of races and class amongst us. And they're waiting for us to give our money to them. And when we are transformed by the gospel, when our allegiance is to Christ and Christ alone, they will lose their budget. They will lose their finances. And it is a good thing that the gospel transformed their lives in such a way. This is what causes the authorities in this world to rise up against the gospel. Because they recognize that their time is short and they are losing their power. The last thing about in the of the effects of the gospel is that there is no neutral position. If you believe that you can sit in here today and take a neutral position, you believe that you You can claim to be a Christian and that the world's not gonna fight you, that the world's not gonna attack you. You're lying to yourself. Poor Jason. What's Jason's crime here? He housed these guys. He housed these men that were preaching the gospel. Now I believe that there's probably more to this, that Jason was not ashamed of his identity as a Christian, was not ashamed to fellowship with Paul and Silas But Jason is arrested and put on bond because he housed Paul and Silas. There's no hiding from it, brothers and sisters. And if you are trying to hide from the attacks of the enemy, it's because you doubt the victory of Christ. Stand with confidence. Trust and know that God is victorious. Trust and know that Jesus will win. And He is victorious now and that the culture will not overthrow him. Trust and know that Christ is the Messiah. Trust and know that the attacks of the enemy will not prevail. What are they going to do? Put us to death? Well praise God. We'll be in his presence forever. What are they gonna do? Shame us to say that we are those Bible believers, that those guys follow Jesus because they think they're forgiven? Praise God, what a good and and beautiful truth that we live in. May we not be ashamed of our identity as Christians, and may we not fall for the lie that there's any neutral position we can take Either you are a follower of Christ or you are an enemy of his. Walk in the life you have as a child of sin. C. Letter C. So what about us today? How are we going to turn the world upside down? How are we going to turn the world upside down? Preach the gospel. It's a simple message, right? Preach the gospel. What happens? What effects do we see in our lives as we preach the gospel? I have four areas of our lives that are transformed, that are turned upside down through the preaching of the gospel and the faith in Christ. Number one is your personal life is transformed. Number two is that your family is transformed. Number three is that the church is transformed. Number four is that the culture is transformed. So first, our personal lives. This one's the maybe easiest for us to understand. Your life has been turned upside down because of your faith in Christ. Because the Holy Spirit has radically taken your heart of stone, ripped it out of your heart, and gave you a new heart of flesh and a new life. You are now a forgiven child of God, not his enemy. You are now redeemed by the blood of Christ, not raging wars against him. Has your world been turned upside down because of the gospel? Has your world been radically changed? You used to follow after the flesh and the passions? of sin and lust, followed after your own desires, and now, because of the transformation, the transformed heart that you have, you are now a follower of Christ, and your life has been radically turned upside down. For some of you that was maybe so long ago that you don't remember it. For others, you may clearly remember that day. For some of you, that that transformation is maybe less and not as clear because You were six, seven, eight, nine years old, or you didn't you didn't live a wild life. But it was still a radical turning of your life. Some of you, you you remember the days of drunkenness and drugs and sex that you followed after. The day that Christ ripped out your heart and gave you a new one. It was so clear the radical change that happened in your life The world turns the gospel turns our personal world upside down. This then leads to our families. Our worlds are turned upside down by the gospel within our families. Fathers, this is your call. It's Father's Day, so I'm going to pick on us. Your call is to turn your family upside down. Because you're preaching the gospel in your lives. You're not just preaching by word, but you're living in accordance to the will of God. You're following his commandments. You are building up little warriors that are going to go out and mock the culture in the world that hates God. You are building and raising up little warriors that are going to fight the fight, going to fight the dragon of the enemy and take the church into the ends of the earth. You're building up and raising little warriors that do not tremble at the attacks of the enemy, but stand bold with the shield of the gospel. Stand bold with the truth of his word that strikes down the enemy Are your families being turned upside down? The way that you love one another, forgive one another, you address problems. Has that radically changed because of the gospel in your lives? I hope so. You continue to fight with your spouse and cuss each other out, and then both of you claim to be a Christian and and go to church and raise your hands and never address that problem that you have. You're missing what God has called you to come and live as Christians within your family. Husbands, are you loving your wives in a way that is foreign to you as a man? Women, are you respecting and submitting to your husbands that is foreign to the way that you were made and the uh and trained in this culture? Our lives should be transformed because of Yasla. Children, are you obedient to your parents even when they are lame and weird? Yet you submit to them knowing that they are raising you to love the Lord. Are you preaching the gospel to your families, your your parents, to your cousins? Are you living in a way that's your f your family that rejects God looks at you and sees something different? It transforms our families. From the personal upside-down world that the gospel does, it it turns up our families, it then turns upside down our churches. Is our church transformed by the gospel that there's nothing that can hold us back from proclaiming his word from the pulpit to the pew and out into the streets? I do see it in this church. We are inviting hundreds of children to come and sit and interact with us so that we can preach the gospel to them. We are opening up our doors Sunday morning, Sunday nights, Wednesday evenings, and saying, all who are far off, come into this room and hear the gospel of Christ. I know and see that you people are living lives within your workplaces, inviting your neighbors into these walls to hear the preaching of God's word. But have we been transformed that we don't follow after a tradition or a trend in the culture? We don't follow after this is how my papy did it, my dad did it Well but are we following after the the king of this church, this good shepherd, the b the the husband of this church, Christ? Are we transformed that we're willing to change our world and our traditions to follow Christ? We're called to do it. Even this church is called to be turned upside down because of the preaching of the gospel. The fourth turning that needs to happen and will happen through the advancement of the gospel is the culture. This one's so obvious to me, yet we struggle to recognize it. As you become Christians and your family becomes Christians and you guys go live your lives in the world, you are proclaiming the gospel and making Christians around you That's why we are the special forces that God has called upon. We are preaching the gospel, transforming lives around us, transforming our workplaces, transforming where we're working out at, transforming our schools. Everywhere we touch, the gospel is going forth. You think I'm making this up? I heard uh president of Southeastern speak this week, President uh Dr. Aiken, and he spoke about how uh in w at one point when he first took over as president of Southeastern twenty years ago that that North Carolina was going blue politically, is very worldly, and rejected anything conservative, rejected anything of the gospel And what does he then point to? That for 20 years, Southeastern has been uh training up gospel Christians Bible believing Christians to go into the world. That they have been taking their students and sending them into the capital of uh North uh North Carolina has been sending them to go plant churches in the places that have political power and authority. Dr. Aiken himself pointed out that he can see on the map the change that has happened because of the advancement of the gospel in North Carolina. May we take hope and actually believe that that's what happens with the advancement of the gospel. May we trust and believe that in some day all the politicians in the system of the United States of America will bow down to Christ. May we actually believe that there will be a day when abortion is completely eradicated because the gospel has transformed the hearts of our leaders May we believe in a day that the gospel goes forth, that there is not a month that celebrates pride, but there is a month that celebrates the unique image of man and woman. Because the gospel has gone forth and transformed the hearts of our nation. We may not see that day. Your grandchildren may not see that day. But there is coming a day when the gospel will transform all people, that every heart Every tongue, every knee will bow and confess that Jesus is Lord. May we live in the reality that we actually believe that's going to happen. I'm not going to try to lay out a timeline for us, but may we actually believe that the gospel transforms cultures We think of of Europe and and the decay of Christianity there, but at one point they didn't even know who Christ was. And now in Germany you can't turn a corner without seeing a cathedral But because they've worshipped other gods, they've fallen away from the Word of God, they're now just tombs of a past life of Christianity. I mean, we believe that those tombs will be revived, will be brought back to life someday. May we not lose hope in the church in America and believe that there's no hope, that that it seems to be falling down, it seems to be falling away, that every time we look on the news it appears as though there's another denomination that's followed after their own passion. Who cares? We preach the gospel and they will receive the just punishment for rebelling against God. And we take hope and faith that God will transform the multitudes. May cultures be transformed through preaching of the gospel. May the worlds be turned upside down. May the politicians fight against the church because they see that their time is coming to an end. Their power and authority will not overcome the authority and power of God. Let us rejoice in this truth, brothers and sisters May we take the example of Paul and Silas. May we go into the cities, cause a mob and a riot to start, and may we sit back with joy and laughter, knowing that that's the gospel at work. Are we ready? Are we ready for the mobs to rise up against us? Are we ready for their world to be turned upside down and us be accused of doing it? And we joyfully look at them and smile and say, We sure did because of our God. We sure did turn up your world, and we'll do it over and over again until every knee pass. And we rejoice that the worlds are turned upside down. That the wicked change their hearts and come to Christ. We want to see the transformation of this world that we live in, and we actually believe that's going to happen. Because of the work of Christ. His victory on the cross who has bought you, his victory from the dead in the tomb that has brought us new life, and that he is our only mess messiah and savior. May we preach this gospel and turn the world upside down on Amen. Let's pray. Father, we rejoice in this truth. We rejoice that we have salvation. Now, Lord, I pray and I ask that you give us strength to believe it Give us faith to trust that you are at work. Lord, may we see how little our enemies really are Lord, may we recognize how powerful you are. May we see that you are king. May we believe that your work in this world is not finished. Continue to use this church to proclaim your gospel. Continue to use this church to build your kingdom around the world. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.