Think with me on the last uh few years that we've gone through. Maybe the first thing that comes to mind is uh living with a pandemic, the coronavirus, but We've gone through a lot more than that. And I know every generation, every era does, but disputed elections, what people thought of the presidents that we elected, particularly President Trump, uh very uh outspoken uh comments and opinions about about him and within every church different opinions about coronavirus, president Uh race relations, something we went through and are will always be going through by the way. Um what is justice in communities? What is law and order? What should it be in communities? You remember Defund the Police? Well we kind of saw how that went in certain areas and i it was a a sad time to walk through these things. Uh the Me Too movement, and I'm sure I haven't listed them all, others would would come to your mind. I'm saying all that to say this. There's no excuse for us to be distracted by any of that or divided by any of that because the church has a commission. And that hasn't changed, and none of those things that I mentioned should change it. And the five that we saw uh in the videos are committed to this commission and so is the North American Mission Board, you know it. Jesus came up and spoke to his disciples, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore. And make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age And so presenting the gospel clearly and teaching believers all of God's will in Scripture All that I've commanded you. Well, the North American Mission Board, in light of what we've gone through as a culture, realizes that unity Is essential to the mission. It's not that the mission doesn't go on, it does. The mission is bigger than our disunity, but unity is essential if we to are to honor God. And the North American Mission Board chose as a theme passage the one that we're going to look at just for a few minutes tonight, Romans chapter 15, verses 5 and 6. So turn there. And I'll read this, make some comments on it. There is a three-part outline. You'll catch that as we go along. So Father, we ask for your blessing as we think about the mission and as we are thankful for the ones supported through the Annie Armstrong offering and thankful for the leadership of the North American Mission Board. I pray that you would help our church to grow in unity. In Jesus' name Amen. Romans fifteen, verses five and six. Now may the Lord, who gives perseverance and encouragement, grant you to be of the same mind with one another according to Christ Jesus. So that with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The context of this prayer is, of course, the book of Romans. Paul uh begins uh declaring in chapter one , I'm not ashamed of the gospel, it is the power of God for salvation. to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. And then in chapters one through eleven, or the main body of the letter, he didn't put the chapters there, we did. But through those chapters he explains the the most um detailed explanation of the gospel and its implications that we have in Scripture. And then verses I I should say the greatest explanation of the gospel, and it's Just the different aspects of the gospel. Then in 12 through 15 come the implications of the gospel. And unity is one of those. Chapter 14 is about that But in these verses, as he's closing his letter to the church He prays. And so I want you to see that there's a power we need in verse five. Look at it again. May the God who gives perseverance, perseverance to stay on course And encouragement to keep our hearts and heads in the game is the idea there of encouragement. So perseverance to keep going, encouragement to stay in the game. Be ready, be looking for missions to take place. May he grant you to be of the same mind with one another. Notice That God gives in the first part of the verse and God grants. You may have different words there, but God gives perseverance. May He grant you to be of the same mind. So, question. How can we with different backgrounds, certainly different opinions, although we have a lot of the same opinions, I understand, about the things that I I mentioned. But certainly we have some different opinions. How can we, as a church, think maybe larger than us, as a convention of churches, And by the way, the different opinions are sometimes on display when we have our conventions each year, and they were this past year in regard to some of the issues. And and that's to be expected. Different opinions, different experiences, different thoughts, different um places that people live and they see some of these things that have happened recently. in different ways. But how can we all be like-minded? Well the first answer to that is prayer. Prayer. May the God who gives perseverance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind. So the first answer in this passage to notice is is prayer. Prayer for unity is essential to unity. Now just think about that. Prayer for unity is essential We know we are to be unified. And there's things we know about it. It means loving one another, so forth, giving preference to one another. There's many ver many one another verses that teach us unity, but Paul here is praying for it. And we should learn from that. Prayer for unity is essential to unity. The second thing I would say is that Jesus is essential to unity because notice the prayer. Notice that he is the pattern that we follow. May he grant you, may God grant you to be of the same mind with one another according to Christ Jesus. So the pattern we follow is Jesus. The mind of Christ, to have that, to be developing that. And let me just give you two aspects of the mind of Christ that are Important for missions and unity in a church that wants to be obedient in missions. It is to remember that Jesus is building his church Matthew sixteen, verse eighteen, I will build my church. Secondly, a second thing would be to remember that he expects his church to love one another, members of the church to love one another John thirteen thirty-four. A new commandment I will give to you that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another. Such love is, by the way, an essential aspect of our witness to the world. The very next verse By this, by your love for one another, by this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another Yes, it identifies us with Christ, but that's not the full purpose of what Jesus is saying there. It identifies us with him and becomes a part of our witness of him. We image him. We magnify, we exalt him in the community by our love, one for one to another. So a commitment to Christ and Christ-likeness, coming from that phrase according to Christ Jesus in verse 5. Is essential to unity. Well, how do we learn that? We learn that through a commitment to Scripture. Uh a great verse concerning that is Second Corinthians chapter three, verse eighteen. Let me read it to you. We all, all believers, with unveiled face Beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord. Think of the Word of God being our mirror, the revelation of Christ in the Word. Beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord are being transformed. into the same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord the Spirit. It was Mike Christ that I first heard share this quote. I don't know where it originated, but he said this When the child of God looks into the Word of God and beholds the Son of God, he is changed by the Spirit of God into the very image of God. Uh you can look at that if you want to write that down later. I have it on my page. But the pattern we follow is Christ and the way we grow in that pattern. Through prayer, we've already seen that, but I would say, along with that prayer, going to the scripture, as we talked about this morning, to want Jesus for Jesus, to learn of him. And then notice in verse six the praise we offer. So We just saw the pattern we follow, the power we need, and the praise that this leads to. So that. This is a purpose clause. So that Okay? Get your grammar out for just a minute so that, for this purpose, so that with one accord, there's unity, you may with one voice, there's unity, glorify. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We use that word glorify a lot. It's in our hymns. It's in the scripture. We say it. I want to glorify God. What does that mean to you? Well, it certainly means to express praise. Ultimately, it's talking about manifesting the excellence of God. And so we do that with praise. We do that with living a Christ-like life. So the pattern we follow is important to the praise that we offer So the purpose of unity, notice, is the glory of God and Christ. God is glorified when we are unified. And one of the things that certainly we are to be unified for is The Great Commission. It is also something that helps unify us to see our purpose, uh to see our purpose with those five that were represent five families represented on the videos. And And uh you know, some twenty-eight or thirty eight hundred more like them around the United States and and Canada and some American territory. territories uh that that we are with them and that we show unity with by supporting them, by speaking about them, by hearing at least a bit of their story tonight. So our purpose, the glory of God and Christ. What does that mean? I've suggested manifested excellence in what we say about the Lord, in our preaching, in our testimony, in our praise, in our thankfulness in and about. Wherever you are, to be a thankful person and to express that with words. And in your prayer, manifested praise to God And manifested excellence in how we image the Lord, and that would be living righteously. And I would say along with living righteously, living with compassion. Jesus had much to say about sin, particularly to Pharisees at times. We have those passages, but Jesus had much to say about compassion. And he acted in that way. We saw that this morning. So what is necessary to achieve this purpose? This purpose of God's glory, according to this passage, it is to be of one accord, which would be thinking. The same thing. That's what one accord has to do with, and to have one voice saying the same thing. Now not about everything because we will have differences of opinions, but same the same same thing about Jesus and his will for the church. That's where we come together. That's where the things that are going on in society Don't change the unity within the church. We'll have different angles on those. We'll have different experiences. We'll have different wisdom, quite honestly. Maybe maybe because of what we've read or what we've experienced in life. We may not all agree. We may not all vote for the same people and so forth, but we can all say that Jesus is king and we follow him. So some implications, real quick, about this prayer. As I was just saying, we will sometimes have different perspectives, different understanding, and different opinions on things, but we come together, we are in unity. On Jesus, his salvation, and his commission to the church. Secondly, commitment to Scripture, to a sound statement of faith which we have at our church, to training and thinking of our missionaries that we support, coaching. Uh they help the North American Mission Board. keep the ones we support with our offering money, it helps to keep them on track. So they require training, they require coaching of church Planters. They don't just say, okay, you take that territory, do your best. No, that there's supervision, there's encouragement. I've been a part of that Uh I actually was quote unquote the coach for Phil Gifford for the first year and a half or so of of his ministry. Uh he he was beyond my need of coaching already, but it was great fellowship and it was it brought our church to pray for that work in in a special way during those early years. particularly. Um and so I know that it works. I've I've been on committees with at the uh uh on the state level where we've been talking about such things things. We have a wonderful team that is leading the state efforts along with the North American Mission Board watching over. uh the use of money to church plants in Baltimore and all other places And Connecting Church is is an example of a church that has done well um uh still still wanting to grow, but has done well with the support of the state and the North American But I want you to know that that support includes a commitment to scripture and making sure that church planters are going in that direction. where that needs to be improved. Just like there's no perfect church, there's no perfect missionary strategy, but there is checks and balances to it according to to scripture. So unity among ourselves around his commission, commitment to a scriptural understanding of that. And then as this passage leads us, your prayers, your prayers for this work. in a national way, in a statewide way when we hear about that, and in our own churches and association. But your prayers and your gifts right now to the Annie Armstrong offering are expressions of unity and they're needed. Uh I believe that we can give confidently And should give generously, helping the work of church planting and chaplaincy in North America through the North American Mission Board. And so I chose their scripture. I think it is applicable to our church. I think it is applicable to you as a believer. But I think it calls me Calls us to be in unity in our prayers. We've just come through a week of praying for our missionaries, but it doesn't stop there to continue to think about these and others that we hear of and just the total work of the North American Mission Board. I know some of you are very familiar with Southern Baptist life, but some of you are not. And so you're hearing your pastor say you should be, you should grow in it. uh nam. net, namb. net. Go there. Explore it. Find out what's going on on the national level. And when you hear me talk about Maryland Delaware Baptist, go to that website. Which is uh you uh I'm I'm not thinking of it. Um Baptist Convention of Maryland Delaware. BCMD, thank you. BCMD. org maybe, but you'll find it. Or just spell it out. and you'll find it. But these th these are things that we give a lot of money to. Twelve percent of our general offering goes to these agencies, the state and particularly North American and the International Mission Board. Each of us should probably know more about what's going on through the mission efforts. You would be encouraged, but it would also be an answer to this prayer for unity that we would sense uh the greater work that's going on i i through our convention. And we're not the only convention in the world. I understand that. There are other good conventions, uh good denominations, biblical denominations doing good work. But we should know more So I just exhort you when you see those things in the bulletin, take some time with them. Look things up, pray, be appreciative of where God has brought Southern Baptist. Not perfectly. Not his fault, it's our fault, because we're people who have sinned, but in a direction of the Great Commission, and I think in many ways, in a direction of this prayer. uh of unity. We have survived a a lot of different things over the decades. And I don't I I won't we'll not go on a tangent, but but thankfully uh we have survived and are strong biblically today. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we do thank you for the work of this part of our convention, the North American Mission Board. We do thank you, Father, that uh that they are seeking to make use of offering dollars in a way that please you in a way that is taking the true gospel to people in need in a way that is overseeing pastors in a biblical way in a way that is uh developing unity and and and father in a way that keeps the main thing the main thing. So we thank you That the North American Mission Board, at least from my perspective, has not been distracted by all of the different distractions and even divisions of the past several years. Thank you that they've been on task. Thank you that these videos are evidence of that. And I pray that each of us who are members would participate in this offering if we haven't already. And Lord, that you would use our gifts multiplied with many other churches. And Father, use it to bear fruit in our land, in Canada, and in other territories. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.