Each one of us will be judged according to what we have done with Jesus. Each of us either rejects or receives him. To ignore or to simply give him lip service, understand, is to reject him. To humbly see that you need him as your savior and believe in him, to humbly see that he is to be your Lord and to follow him is to receive him. John 's prologue proclaims Jesus as the Word. This is the outline, the light. As the bearer of grace and truth, and of course the incarnate Son of God. So I want us to look, I want us to see his glory, and I want us to believe in Him as he is presented to us here. First of all, Jesus is the Word. Verses 1 through 5. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Now, we read earlier the passage because I wanted you to hear that the word became flesh and confirms that John is calling Jesus the Word in verse 1. Why is Jesus called the Word? A Jew in John's day would have thought word of God Scripture, God's revelation, they also would have thought word, God's will, as in Isaiah 55, 11. Which says, speaks of my word, God's word, will not return to me empty without accomplishing what I desire. To call Jesus the Word is to say He is the embodiment of divine revelation and divine will. We remember in the Gospels he speaks truth with authority. And he also spoke with power. To create, to rule the created world in his miracles. It's vital to note that by calling Jesus the Word, John declares this. That not only those who receive Jesus , that only, excuse me, only those who receive Jesus honor God's word and honor God's will. I hope you see that. Around the world, only those who receive Jesus. Honor God's word and honor. God's will. John was saying that, we say it today. So let us understand what John says about the word Jesus. First of all, Jesus has always existed just as the Father. In the beginning was the word. No doubt God intends us to think of Genesis 1:1, which begins: In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earliest Place in time that we are introduced to God, Genesis 1. 1, we are introduced here to Jesus in the beginning, that is, before creation. Jesus already was being when the beginning took place. He, like God the Father, has always been. Heretics today claim that Jesus is a created being, or was a created being, however they would say it But no, at a point in time he did take on human flesh, according to the verb became in verse 14, but at no time Did he begin to exist? He has existed eternally. Another great cross-reference would be Revelation 22, verse 13. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. The beginning and the end. The same is said about God the Father as well in Revelation. Jesus has always existed just as God the Father has always existed. You may take that for granted. But I've met those who claim to be believers in Christ who did not realize that Jesus existed before what we celebrated Christmas. But oh my Yes, he did. If we read Scripture, we know. Secondly, Jesus is a person separate from God the Father In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God. The phrase means, that is, was with God, means Toward or face to face with God. Jesus and God are and always have been separate persons. When Jesus came to earth, he left his place with God in heaven, but God the Father didn't leave. And so we see in the Gospels and we'll see. Jesus on earth praying to God in heaven. God did not leave. God did not divide in two. Jesus is an eternally existent person separate from God the Father. John goes on. Jesus is God equal with the Father. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Two persons, but the same divine nature, the same essence. As God, the Father is God, Jesus is God. Jesus was not the next best thing to God. He was not a lesser God. He did not somewhere along the line become a God. John is saying that Jesus, who walked on earth, was God in the beginning. Verse 2 echoes that. He was in the beginning with God. That doesn't mean there were two gods. The Bible declares one God. One divine nature who exists in three persons. That's the teaching. That's what we gather from what we see of God in Scripture, the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son. God the Holy Spirit. And these three always working together as one God. An example of this working together is what we see in verse 3. And the fourth truth about the word, Jesus was the Father's co-worker in every act of creation. Verse 3. All things came into being through him. That's Jesus. And apart from him, Jesus, nothing came into being that has come into being So this verse shows us that Jesus himself was not created, but that all things were created by him Now remember the word of God the Father in Genesis 1. Let us make man in our own image. It does point to the fact that the Trinity was working together. Jesus is creator of all as God the Father is creator of all. It is correct to say that of both. And thus Jesus is Lord of all, as the Father is Lord of all. It is correct to say it. of both. Colossians 1. 16. For by him Jesus all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. We would expect that of the Father. We learn that of the Son, the Word of God, through Him and for Him. He is Lord of all. Fifthly, Jesus has the same life in him as the Father. In him was life. The word is Zoe, which means the absolute fullness of life which belongs to God. Or you could think of it as all of God's attributes, and I'll summarize: holiness, truth. Love, omnipotence, sovereignty. Jesus as the Son of God embodied these divine attributes And so we read in Colossians 2. 9, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. He has the same life in him as the Father. And then Jesus as the light Shows the world, the Father. So in him was life, and the life was the light of men. Think of it this way, when life was put in a form, the fullness of God, put in a form that people could see John calls it light. And he's referring to Jesus' incarnate life on earth. In human flesh, he was God. And the people saw in his earthly life. Divine attributes of holiness, truth, love, power, sovereignty. Notice verse 5: the light shines in the darkness. Jesus' light shone in the darkness, that is, on people in a world that prefers its own ways rather than God's truth. That's darkness. In a world the devil has sought to deceive with false teaching. That characterizes the darkness. And thus we read, sadly, in verse 5, and the darkness. Did not comprehend it. The word translated comprehend means to lay hold of, to seize. Those in darkness failed to lay hold of the light. They Did not and today do not recognize or they choose not to believe that Jesus is from the Father, that He is God the Son. So may God open our eyes wide to see and to comprehend Jesus in the Gospel of John as a person of eternal existence, a person equal with God, as creator, as Lord. Let me encourage you Afresh, humbly acknowledge Jesus as God the Son. Appreciate the incarnation that Jesus came from heaven to earth. Oh my Think carefully, correctly, and deeply about Jesus. We're forced to in this gospel prologue. See Jesus as your invitation to know the truth, to know the power of God, see the Scripture. As the way to know Jesus, the Old Testament picturing our need of Christ, the gospel showing his life and teaching, the epistles explaining his significance. Read the Bible with Jesus the word in view, your need of him, his provision, his instruction, his glory. That's where John is pointing. To lay hold of the life he offers, you must let go of your own ways and humble yourself before Jesus, the eternal Son of God. So let me encourage you, don't if you're in darkness, don't spend one more hour in darkness living life without knowing without being willing to acknowledge Jesus as Lord. You can be wrong about a lot of things in life and it'll keep going for you. You won't be seriously affected. But to be wrong about Jesus is a matter of eternal consequence. After 400 years of silence From God, turning to point two, God sent a prophet to proclaim, Jesus is the light. This is verses 6 through 13 We see 1 John's witness to the light. Verse 6, there came a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify about the light, so that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but he came to testify. about the light. Before Jesus began to shed his light on the people through his ministry Through his teaching, through his example, through his miracles, God prepared the way through the ministry of John, whom we know as John the Baptist. Verse 6 tells us that John's ministry was God's idea, sent from God. Verse 7 tells us the purpose of his ministry. He was to be a witness. telling people Jesus was the long-awaited Savior. Purpose of John's testimony was, notice. That all people would believe that Jesus, the light of the world, who would shine in a world darkened by sin, was God in human flesh, and that he had come. But most rejected, and today still reject him. And so we see the rejection of the light in verse 9. There was the true light. Which coming into the world enlightens every man? That's an interesting phrase at the end of verse 9. What does it mean to say Jesus enlightens every man? The text is indicating that it is something he does, Jesus does, not just wants to do or has the potential to do, but actually gets done. Well, universalists would say it means Jesus coming into the world accomplishes salvation for each and every person for all time. But we don't believe that. That's not scriptural. Quakers would say it means that to every man there is given an inner light that is a sufficient guide. Then they're responsible to do something with it. I believe it is a statement of the mission of Christ. and his church to preach the gospel to all creation. Not just the Jew, but every man, that is, every nation, every tribe, every language, is to know How the problem of personal sin against God is solved in Jesus coming to earth, living a righteous life, dying for sin, rising from the dead, and ascending to heaven. He enlightens every man through the kingdom going forth. Listen to the tragedy of the next verse. He was in the world, verse 10, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He's in the world, incarnate. The world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came into the realm of mankind, a world he had created. We saw that in verse through, a world that should have joyously acknowledged him, and the world did not know him. They failed to recognize him as the son of God. It is perhaps more accurate to say they refuse to welcome him as God's son, as their creator. There was ignorance, but there was also deliberate rejection. Verse eleven is an indictment of the nation of Israel. He came to his own, that would be Israel, for he was born in the line of David as prophet. Messiah. He came to his own, and those who were his own did not receive him. They did not accept him by and large to be who he professed. And showed himself to be. And who John, the first prophet for 400 years, testified him to be They withheld their commitment to him. They withheld obedience to him. They withheld any belief. The lesson here is that Israel and the world rejected Jesus as the true life and held on instead to the false light of their own man-made ideas. They loved darkness more than light. There were, however, some exceptions to the rule. We see also the reception of the light. Only the rejection, verse 12. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name. Listen, if you're out here this morning and you've trusted Christ, take these verses personally and celebrate them in your heart. Who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. These words describe a certain group of people distinct from the rest of the world. What makes them distinct? They have received Jesus instead of rejecting him And they are ready to, it means they're ready to acknowledge him and have acknowledged him and obey him rather than cling to their sinful ways. They have believed on his name. In the Hebrew culture, one's name stood for one's person. And so to say that they believe in his name means they accepted Jesus as the person he claimed to be, God the Son in human flesh. They would come to believe, as we must believe, that Jesus died on the cross as the only fitting sacrifice for sin committed against holy God. But as they saw him in ministry, some, these , Believed his teaching and were committed to wherever that teaching would lead them, whatever it meant to follow him. To receive and believe Jesus is to say from your heart, He is my Lord. He is my Savior. And to those who received Jesus in this way, what does it say? He gave the right to become children of God. That is, he sees to it by his authority and power to accomplish it, that they become what they were not before, a child of God, forgiven, and part of God's eternal family. Experiencing fellowship, guidance, and an inheritance in heaven. The distinction between a child of God and one who is not Is the commitment they have made concerning Jesus, a commitment that is possible only by God's grace. Notice that. John makes it clear in verse thirteen, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man. But of God. You see, no one is a child of God because of blood. That is who their parents were, their lineage, their ancestors, their race, their nationality. No one is born a Christian And no one is a child of God because of the will of the flesh. From time to time, a person might think, well, I need to do better in my life. But that desire, even if you act on it, won't make you a child of God. Salvation is not because of what we We can do. Nor is it because of what someone else can do. No one is a child of God because of the will of man, the desire of another. Others can pray for us, witness to us, but others can't save us. Only God can save So, how does one become a child of God? By being born again by God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, their own desire or works, nor of the will of man. Someone else's desire for them, but of God. When God does this work, you believe that God the Son came to earth died upon the cross as the sacrifice for sin, and you receive, you welcome Jesus to be your Lord and master for all of your life Salvation is God's work, so that the saved will be forever thanking Him, and so that the lost will look beyond their own efforts, their own efforts to be good, and they will cry out, God, be merciful to them. You remember the publican praying that way in Jesus' story. So if you're here in darkness , John the Baptist says, and God says, the light of the world is Jesus. Believe in him. When God says the word I'm sorry. Let me just say first it it is sad That many people are content to live out their lives in darkness. Some of them in your own families, your friends, acquaintances, co-workers. Spiritual darkness in which people are often satisfied with the light of their own understanding or another's understanding of right and wrong or of God or how to be right with God or their own understanding of the afterlife. And darkness, understand, is thinking, and you might be one Darkness is thinking that your understanding is sufficient to get you through life and to face whatever is beyond death. But your understanding is not sufficient. I want you to know that it's not God's will for you to live in what He calls here the darkness of your own understanding. Or the world's understanding. It is his will that you walk in the light of his son Jesus. And John is motivated in this way in writing the gospel of the John. It it is only through Jesus that one can be a child of God. The blessing of relationship with God is part of being a child, fellowship with God is part of being a child So this morning, you and me, others, likely prayed to him, thanked him for the day, asked him for grace, safety on the road, whatever, but fellowship with God An inheritance to come in heaven that we get really good glimpses of now and we look forward to. Those things are not known apart from Christ. It is only through Jesus that we can be a child of God. Believers be thankful that by God's regenerating work Verse 13, born of God. By God's regenerating work in your heart, you were born again, and you have humbly received Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Well, John wants us and God wants us to see that Jesus is the Word, Jesus is the light, and Jesus, thirdly, is God incarnate One of the most important questions that you have to answer during your life is, who is this Jesus? I started by asking you, what would you do with , what have you done with him? But who is he who lived for about 33 years and was nailed to a cross? Well, some will acknowledge him as a great teacher, even a prophet. Some say he was a man who became God. Some say he was a man who filled the office of Christ for a time. Some say he was a spirit being in the form of a man. But there's only one correct answer, and it comes in verse 14. He is the Son of God incarnate. And so we see the declaration. of the Incarnation. And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth God says the word became flesh. Remember what we learned about the word. The word who has always existed. who is a person as God the Father is a person, who is God as God the Father is God, who is creator, verse 3, who verse 4, has within him life All the attributes of God, this one, this word, became flesh. And when God says, when John writes Became flesh. He means he still was all of these things, but at a point in history became something that he was not before, that is, flesh human. Through God's miraculous power, Jesus was conceived in a virgin 's womb. The angel Mary asked the angel, how can this be, since I'm a virgin? But the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. Now, I don't think we can fully understand that. I think we honor God by trying and by saying the right things about it. that he was what he had always been, God, the Son, but now he was also man He was God who became flesh, not part God and part man. He was all God and now all man, with the exception of not having the sin nature that we are born with. In this one person was both the divine nature and the human nature. As a man, he would become tired. Thirsty, hungry, his but he never became hangry because that would have been a sin, but hungry His internal physical structure was just like ours. He exhibited emotions. He slept. He ate. He was not God who entered a body of flesh like an evil spirit might possess a person. He was God who became flesh. A mystery. Incarnation. We honor God by saying the right things about it as we see them in Scripture. Secondly, the implication of the incarnation and the word Jesus, the God man, notice, don't take it for granted, dwelt among us. The word literally means tabernacled. Remember the tabernacle in the Old Testament. It was where the presence of God dwelt In the midst of the Israelites. Well, God the Son, by becoming flesh, pitched his tent with Men. Holy God entered a sinful world. Emmanuel, the prophet says, which means God with us. John writes that he and the others who were there saw his glory. The attributes of deity, holiness, divine love, power, mercy, omniscience. were seen by John and others in his earthly life. Notice how he puts it glory as of the only begotten from the Father. Now only begotten confuses people. It does not mean created. Only begotten emphasizes the uniqueness Of Jesus. He is the one and only, the one of a kind, Son of God from all eternity. He has always been in relation to God the Father as the only begotten Son. He did not become the Son of God through the virgin birth Through the virgin birth, the Son came forth into the world by taking on flesh. So, what John and others saw was the glory that God the Father shared with his only Son who came forth into the world. Remember, the prophet Ezekiel witnessed the departure of God's Shekinah glory from the temple at the time of Israel's exile. And John here, the long-awaited prophet of God, announced that in the person of Jesus God's glory had returned. Oh, not to the temple in a better way, in the person of Jesus Christ Those who experienced the Shekinah glory were struck by God's awesomeness and holiness back in the day. Well, Jesus revealed this And so much more. Jesus' glory is described, look at it, full of grace and truth. His miracles of healing especially showed the grace, the unmerited, undeserved favor of God. And so did his contact with sinners, people that others would shun. Think of his favor toward the lepers, other scenes in your mind from the gospels where he shows the grace of God. Of God. His teaching, which carried a note of authority they had never experienced before, showed God's truth. Certainly, definitely, in Jesus we see God. Father. We see God. Third, the verification of the incarnation. John the Baptist, God's prophet, affirmed that Jesus was from God. John testified, verse 15. John testified about him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for he existed. before me. Now we know in his birth and in his public ministry, Jesus had come behind John. But John knew who he really was, both in existence and in rank and in dignity. Fourthly, the invitation of the incarnation, verse 16. For in for of his fullness we have all received And grace upon grace. Jesus in all his glory is listen, not just to be looked at, not just to be studied, not just to be admired and appreciated like other historical figures. I enjoy learning about Abraham Lincoln or Winston Churchill, a number of others in history, but Jesus is to be received as Personal Savior and Lord. We are to put ourselves under His authority. I don't do that to anyone else that I might learn about, but we do that. To Jesus. We are to believe that his death was for sin. And those who receive Jesus in its fullness receive, what does it say? Grace upon grace. Grace is not going to run out, but specifically here perhaps it means grace that saves from our sin, but then grace for living. Grace Grace upon grace. Like the manna that God provided in the wilderness. There will be new grace for the needs of your life each day. Your need to know God, your need to grow in Christ-likeness. Your need for strength. Your need for forgiveness. And then grace one day to depart the body at death and be with Christ. Grace to be raised with a resurrection body like his. Grace to know eternal existence as his bride. Yes, grace upon grace. Look at verse 17. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. Now there was nothing wrong with the law. I spent some detailed time or some time detailing it in Sunday school this morning in the gospel project class. There's nothing wrong with God's law. It was from God. His commandments show that we have sinned against him. The sacrifices show our need to be forgiven, or we will be judged for our sin. But whereas the law kept and keeps showing man his need, Jesus showed that He was the final answer to that need. He was grace because in his death for sin, his punishment for man's sin We can receive complete pardon of our sin. And he was truth and is truth because in his death he became the reality. Listen, the reality of that which the law appointed Think about that. The sacrifices, the tabernacle worship were not an end in themselves. The blood of animals pointed to the blood of Christ. The requirement of an unblemished uh sacrifice and a cleansed high priest pointed to his perfect righteousness that he as priest laying down his wife the sacrifice In perfect righteousness. This one who is God, who is Lord, as creator, who is man, come in the flesh, is saved. And I urge any listening who have not to receive him as your Savior. And then the revelation of the incarnation, verse 18. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, that means the intimate presence of the Father. He has explained Him. Remember, Moses prayed, Show me your glory. And God said, You cannot see my face. And live. We cannot see the fullness of my glory. But the way that God has given us to see and know the fullness of his glory is to see it in Christ. For in Jesus, who had the closest relationship with the Father, a relationship of equals, we see God. And he who enjoys the closest and most intimate relationship to God the Father is the one who came to earth. Notice to explain. Verse 1 18. That is to declare, to reveal the unseen God. To see the life of Christ Jesus in the Bible is to be As close as we can come this side of heaven to the glory of God. Colossians 1. 15, He is the image, Jesus is the image of the invisible God. Colossians 1. 19. It was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him. In Christ, believers can see what God is like, his very nature, his being. Jesus makes God visible to us. Philip said to Jesus in John 14, 8, Lord, show us the Father. Do you remember Jesus' answer? Jesus replied, He who has seen me has seen the Father. Jesus Christ is fully God. No part of divinity is missing from him. He is equal to God the Father, and in Christ we see and learn many things about God. God the Father. Think of some of them with me, as we'll see them in the gospel. His love of children, that he's a champion of the common man. We see that God yearns for fellowship in Jesus' example, his own example of praying to God. We see that God loves when we show faith in him. Remember Jesus' excitement at the centurion's faith? We see that God is not too busy to care. Remember remember Jesus responding to the blind man calling out from the side of the road? We see that God is touched by acts of love, the poor widow who gave all she had. That God is Lord over all creation, the wind and the waves obeyed him, that God seeks and saves the lost. Think of the talk with Nicodemus. Think of the transformation of Zacchaeus in the Gospels. Well the implication of this prologue is so much more than what I'm going to say, but just to be brief, Jesus was more than a great teacher. John presents him as as the word, as the light, as God incarnate. He is God the Son. Who remained God and took on humanity that he might show us God and that he might have a body that could suffer and die for sin and be raised again. And today he is. the living Lord, who offers grace upon grace to those who receive him as personal Lord and Savior. And if you have That's a description of relationship with God through Jesus. Grace upon grace. We close with a quote from Martin Luther, who wrote God neither wants to be known Nor can be known in any other way except through Christ according to his word. He was commenting on John chapter. Chapter one verse eighteen. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has expressed the Let's pray together. Father, I pray that in our studies in the Gospel of John you would show us Christ. And that in deepening our understanding and our knowledge of Him, you would deepen our commitment, but you would also draw the loss to salvation. And Father, we also would experience grace upon grace in our individual lives, our families, and the life of this fellowship as we seek to do your will. Sincerity Jesus' name that we pray. Amen