Alright. We'll be in Mark chapter 1, beginning in verse 1. We're looking at verses 1 through 8. Welcome to the good news of God. Welcome to the good news of God. Of course you know the word for good news is gospel. I'll use those interchangeably tonight But just so you know, gospel means good news, the good news. Capital T, capital G, capital N. The good news of God, the good news of his salvation, right? That he's made a way for us to be with him. This is the good news, that God has made a way for sinners to know him. And if God has made a way for sinners to know him, that means that I can know him. That means that you can know him. That means that any sinner can come to know God through Jesus and what he's done. This is the good news. So Mark 1, 1 through 8, welcome to the good news. In just a moment, I'm going to pray again for this our time together in the Word. But as a side note and very, very broad application, I would just say that One of the things that you should have in your life is a steady diet of the Gospels. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And you can cycle through them throughout the year. Work through Matthew, work, you don't have to do them in this order. Work through Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Cycle back. Again, you don't have to do them in that order. And a good idea maybe when you're over your done Luke, just go right into Acts, because Acts is part two to Luke. It's part one. But a steady diet of the gospels will keep us grounded in the significance of Jesus' first coming. And all of Christianity is based on this, the significance of Jesus' first First coming coming. God's climactic revelation of himself. Okay? God's um climactic Work of redemption for sinners. This is Jesus' first coming. You understand this had to happen for us to be able to have a relationship with God. Jesus had to come. He had to do what he did To reveal God in a climactic way, to do the full climactic work of redemption, to establish the kingdom of God that you and I are a part of today. So, a steady diet of the gospel narratives is one of those staples of a growing, flourishing Christian life. Let's pray, and then we'll go specifically into this passage. Father, we come under your word and ask that you would help us, humble us, cultivate within us a holy Affection for you in the midst of a world where we are surrounded by lesser things, surrounded by distraction. surrounded by lies, surrounded by temptations, and even our own hearts and minds filled with temptations. Father, we ask that you would help us. Help us by your word and by your spirit. Would you stir us up for Christ? That we would see him and cherish him and seek after him and live for him and come to him empty-handed, falling on our faces, crying for mercy, Father, only you can do this. And so we ask that you would. In Jesus' name. Amen. Mark 1, 1 through 8. Welcome to the good news of God. Here's verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: Behold, I send my messenger before your face. Who will prepare your way, the voice of one crying in the wilderness? Prepare the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight. John appeared. Baptizing. So you know this is John the Baptist. John appeared. baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey. And he preached, saying, After me comes he who is mightier than I, the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. I think a really neat book title would be right there from the middle of verse Uh seven. He who is mightier. Wouldn't that be a good book title? A book about Jesus and his might. His power, his great work of redemption for sinners, he who is mightier. We could learn a lesson right off the bat from John. The essence of his ministry was to point to Christ. That should help us remember our purpose In our own individual lives to point to Christ, but our role as a church in the community, to point to Christ, to shine the spotlight on Christ, to turn heads to Christ. Draw attention to him, or as we say, bring glory to him, to glorify him, to exalt him, to lift him up. It's all about Christ This is what John was about. God has made a way for sinners to know him. This is the good news. This is the gospel. And I will quickly add What is the way for sinners to know him? Jesus and the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus. Then he says some things about Jesus. We'll talk about those tonight. But this is the way we know God. Right? It's one thing to say God has made a way for sinners to know him. We actually have to answer the question, yeah, what is that way? Jesus and the Holy Spirit. Verse 1, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus. Go down to verse 8, John pointing forward to Jesus, I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. The blessing, the outpouring of the Holy Spirit that comes from the exalted Christ. After he accomplished his work on earth, he rose from the grave, ascended on high, where he reigns As the great high priest over the people of God, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, with supreme authority over all things, it's that Jesus who gives sinners the Holy Spirit. And by Jesus Number one, giving the Holy Spirit. Number two, sinners can come into a relationship with God that will never end, and nothing in the world can take that away from us. This is the good news. This is the good news. If we were to offer gift cards to a store, free gift cards every week, people would be flooding in To church. If we were to offer free pizza or free hamburgers, people would be flooded in. I am much more excited to have God This is the prize. This is what we have to offer. Eternal communion with God Almighty. And there's only one way to have that. Jesus and the Holy Spirit. That's the brackets of our passage. And all that's going to happen in this book of Mark, this is the first paragraph of Mark. All that's going to happen in this book of Mark, and all that Jesus is doing, is working to this end that he would be the one to give the Holy Spirit that was promised in the Old Testament. The climactic blessing and indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Jesus is ministering to that end as you read through the book of Mark. And that's What he does today, when people are saved today, this is what happens. People hear the gospel and by the power of the gospel they are born again. Where does that come from? How does that happen? It comes from Jesus and it happens because Jesus gives them the Holy Spirit and gives them a new heart. So the good news is there is a way for sinners to know God. What is that way? Jesus In the Holy Spirit. The way I've structured the study this evening is very simple. We're going to talk about the start of the gospel And we're going to talk about the heart of the gospel. You can see the first phrase in Mark 1. 1 is the beginning of the gospel. That's where I got the idea to call the first section the start of the gospel. The beginning of the Gospel or the start of the Gospel is the arrival of John the Baptist. So first we're going to talk about John the Baptist and the significance of his arrival. That's the start of the Gospel. Previous to this, there had not been a prophet, there had not been a special revelation from God for over 400 years. There was an era of silence, waiting for the Messiah, waiting for the Christ. So the start of the gospel is the arrival of John the Baptist, and the heart of the gospel, we should all know this, is the person and work of Christ. Okay, so first the start of the gospel. Number one, the start of the gospel is John as, number one, the prophet of God's arrival. The prophet of God's arrival. Look at verses two and three. As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, behold, I send my messenger before your face. Who will prepare your way? The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his paths. Now, it says, this is uh an interesting and important point. It says, as is written in Isaiah the prophet. Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way. That first statement comes from Malachi chapter 3. And then verse 3, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. That comes from Isaiah. And he says, as it's written in Isaiah, to highlight The major prophet. But this is from Malachi, whose name means my messenger, and from Isaiah, whose name means the Lord saves. So you see the significance. But you see that a messenger is coming, I send my messenger before your face A messenger from God who will prepare your way, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of whom? The Lord. The Lord is coming. The Lord is going to arrive. Make things ready for him to arrive. Prepare the way of the Lord. John is a prophet of God's arrival. The fact that John is prophesying and ministering in fulfillment of these passages means God's climactic revelation or God's climactic coming. Is about to happen. In Luke 7. 26, Jesus says, What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Talking about John the Baptist. And then he answers his own question and he says, Yes. I tell you, and more than a prophet. Officially John the Baptist was the last prophet under the old covenant administration or under the old covenant, the nation of Israel He was the final and climactic prophet of God, the prophet of God's arrival. Now, the issue for each one of us and for those who sat under John 's preaching or who heard John's preaching, the issue is always the same. We're in a different perspective. They lived in John's day. We don't. But the issue is still the same. What will you do with God's arrival? What will you do with the fact that God has come to earth and made a way for sinners to be with him, to have a relationship with him? Which is going to be the next point, right, of how that happens, and how you see that in John 's actual ministry. Will you ignore it? Will you receive him favorably and say, yes, I received the Lord. I believe that the Lord came. The prophet of God's arrival. It is not a small thing. It is not a small thing. Number two The start of the gospel is John as a prophet of repentance for forgiveness. He's the prophet who cries out, repentance. For the sake of forgiveness. Look at verses four through six. John appeared, baptizing, which means immersing in water. uh in this with a in a spiritually significant way, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism Of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. So what that means is those who receive John 's message, that God is coming, they are called to repentance. If they repent for the forgiveness of sins, they're baptized. And that same structure, that same paradigm is true for the church today. Those who repent, those who turn to Jesus through faith and repentance are baptized. We baptize believers. We baptized believers. Verse 5, all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan. Confessing their sins. The confession of sins. Admitting that we're a sinner. Admitting that we're guilty before God. Acknowledging our corruption. Acknowledging our law breaking. But turning from that in faith. Verse 6. Now John, here's the part you all wanted to get to, right What in the world is he wearing? Well he's wearing clothing that reminds us of Elijah. This is I mean, that's the basic point. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts. and wild honey. He's wearing clothing that reminds us of Elijah. Now that relates to his call to repentance. Listen to Malachi 4, 5 through 6. Behold, God says, I will send you Elijah the prophet. Before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers. Lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. So judgment is coming, destruction is coming, but there's going to be an opportunity for salvation. There is going to be a an opportunity to repent for the forgiveness of sins so that you would be spared from that judgment. But he says, I'll send Elijah the prophet before that day comes. John The Baptist is the fulfillment of that prophecy. He comes in the spirit of Elijah. He is not Elijah reincarnated. Elijah is Is a shadow, is a type that's used for this prophecy of John. So he is a prophet of God's arrival. But if you're proc if you're proclaiming that God is coming and implied in that based on the Old Testament scripture, they would have understood he's coming with two things that always go together, two sides of this coin. He's coming in salvation for his people and judgment against his enemies. So if he's a if he's a preacher of God's arrival, he better be, and he was, a preacher of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. Otherwise the only message you have is one of dis destruction and judgment. But that's not the only message John has. That's not the only message we have. We have a message of salvation. You can turn from sin. You can be saved from judgment. The guilt that you have can be blotted out and you can be made right with God. This is the good news. And the start was the arrival of John the Baptist, a prophet of God's arrival, a prophet of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. Verses 4 and 6 Forgiveness is the removing of the guilt of sin. Now, this is only the first paragraph of Mark. You know the story. You know how it ends. What happens That makes possible the removal of the guilt of our sin. Jesus dies on the cross This is going to be the climactic event in the Gospels, the climactic event of history. Jesus dying on the cross. a miracle, a supernatural death, whereby he bore our sin, he bore our guilt, he received the death penalty that we deserve. He bore all of our sin, all of the wrath of God for us. So that we could go free. This is the heart of the gospel. The heart of the Bible is the good news, and the heart of the good news is Jesus dying on the cross To make provision so that our sins could be blotted out. Here you say, see, forgiveness is the reason they're turning , forgiveness of sins. But you see that word repentance, which is the actual turning. It doesn't mention the idea of faith here, but in the context, not only of Scripture, but the book of Mark, it's abundantly clear the the way you return it the way that we turn is by turning in faith. Don't sever repentance From faith. And don't sever faith from repentance. We turn to God in faith. We're turning from sin, turning from disobedience. To live for God, to obey God, but we're doing that in faith, trusting in Him and His mercy and His forgiveness and His power. We turn in faith and we believe as we turn. So forgiveness As a result of repentance. John is a prophet of God's arrival, a prophet of repentance for forgiveness Number three, he's a prophet of Jesus. Hopefully you've been getting that. He's a prophet of Jesus. Now that should make perfect sense because Jesus' arrival Is God's arrival. Jesus' arrival is God arriving to planet Earth. The fullest revelation in history. The person of Jesus of Nazareth. God in flesh. Jesus' arrival is God's arrival. So if John truly is the prophet of God's arrival, he must be a preacher of Jesus Christ. And And if he's truly going to be a preacher of forgiveness, he must also be a preacher of Jesus Christ. Why? Because Jesus is the only source of forgiveness. That's what the story of this big old book is about. Jesus Christ, the only one Who can take away our sins? Verses 7 and 8 makes this explicit that he was a preacher of the Lord Jesus Christ. That he preached. Verse 7. He preached. saying, after me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. That's the start of the gospel. These events really happened on earth. The ministry of John the Baptist The start of the gospel, now the heart of the gospel. Jesus, the person and work of Jesus First of all, the heart of the gospel is seen, and I have four of these points, all right. It's the heart of the gospel is seen, first of all, in his name, which is Jesus. Look at verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus. His name means the Lord saves, or the Lord is salvation. His name Jesus. He is the Lord and He saves. He saves us from the judgment against our sin. He saves us from sin. In fact, in Matthew 121, which is one of my favorite verses, the angel says to Joseph in a dream, You shall call him Jesus, because he'll save his people from their sins. His name. The gospel, the heart of the gospel is seen in his name, Jesus. You know, it's not my final goal And it's not our final goal as a church, just to get people to believe that a God exists or that there is a creator, or that he is he or it is wise and good and powerful We want, and we pray that God would do this in people's hearts, because only God can do this in our hearts or anyone else's. We pray that people would come to know The God who does exist, and here's the central of all the attributes of God, here's the central thing we are striving and praying for people to believe that God is a merciful. This is the centerpiece of our message that God is a merciful Savior. He's a gracious Savior of lowly, undeserving sinners. How so? Through Jesus Christ. God is a merciful Savior. The hungry need food. The sick need doctor. The lonely need friends. Sinners need a merciful Savior. This is what we need. And we should set the example. We should be the ones in the community, in our homes and workplace, who model this, who show the example of people who live in light of God's mercy. Live in light of our desperate need for a merciful Savior. And this is why we must be preachers of the cross. of Christ. I hate to get so far ahead of myself and because that's not mentioned in the passage. But this is where the story goes. To preach the name of Jesus, the Lord saves. We need to know the central moments that make that possible. The salvation that He's achieved was through suffering and death. We preach the cross. You know, lack of money is not our problem. Lack of fame is not our problem. Lack of worldly comforts is not our problem. Lack of material possessions is not our problem. Lack of God is our problem. We need God Apart from Christ, we are without God. We're slaves to sin. We need Christ to free us from our sins and to give God to us. As much as we talk about Jesus bringing us to God, really what's happening is Jesus is bringing God to us. His name, Jesus, the Lord saves, shows us the heart of the gospel. And he can save you today He can save you today. If you today are hearing this online or came into here alienated from God, you've not repented, you've not put your faith in Christ, you've not been baptized. You can do it today. Cry out to God to save you in mercy. And He's faithful to hear those cries. Secondly, we see the heart of the gospel in his office. The Christ. Christ is not Jesus' last name. It's his office. The Christ, the Messiah. Look at verse 1 again. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord's anointed. If Jesus means the Lord saves and it does, Christ means the Lord's anointed. He's called and equipped to do the work. He's installed in the office that no one else could be installed in, the Christ, the Messiah. He makes a way for sinners to know God. Under the old uh covenant in Israel, you essentially had three offices for ministry. Prophets, you know the other two, prophets Priests and kings, or different offices. They were all people with sin Just like you and I. And some of them were imposters and phonies and fakes and corrupt through and through, not all of them. There were some true prophets and there were some false prophets. There were some good priests and there were some priests that were some of the worst idolaters ever. And same with kings. It's a very small percentage of good kings and a large percentage of just ungodly kings. But all of those offices point forward to Christ and his work. What did the prophet do? Speak a word from God. Jesus in his office as the Christ. speaks the final, the climactic word from God. This is God's Son. Listen to him. What do priests do? Priests represent the people before God. They bring sacrifices Before God on behalf of the people. Jesus is the ultimate priest, the perfect priest, and he is the offering itself that brings us to God. He represents us before God. And what do kings do? Kings rule. Kings conquer. Kings defeat the enemies of God's people. And bring security and peace and victory. And they rule over the kingdom of God in righteousness and justice. At least they were supposed to. Well, who is the king? Who actually does all of those things? Jesus. So all of these different offices. Coming together in Christ, in his one office, the Messiah, the Christ. Not only did Jesus die for sins, but he rose from the grave. We preach the death of Christ, but we do not preach a dead Christ. We preach a living Christ, the Lamb who was slain, who yet lives and reigns. So the heart of the gospel is seen in his name, Jesus, which means the Lord saves. The heart of the gospel is also seen in his office. The Christ, which means the Lord's anointed. Thirdly, the heart of the gospel is seen in his unique identity, Son of God. Look at verse 1 again. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ The Son of God. He is the eternal Lord. Now, son and Son of God can mean a few different things. There's a dual significance of this phrase when it comes to Jesus. First of all , the phrase, the idea of Son of God, had been used for Adam. And it had been used for Israel as a nation. And it has to do with the representative of God on earth, God's chosen representative on earth. Adam as a son, Israel as a son, and the Son of God was called to obedience and to holiness. So Jesus, as a human, God 's perfect representative on earth. And where Adam and Israel failed in obedience and where they fell short in holiness, Jesus succeeded. He did not fail in his obedience. He overcame temptation. He did not fall short in holiness. He was holy in every thought In every desire, in every affection, in every word, in every tone of voice, in every action, in all of his ministry, in all of his motives, Jesus is the holy, unstained Son of God. the perfect representative of God on earth. But for Jesus this idea of Son has a dual meaning because his God's work of redemption through Christ on earth is just a a reflection and a revelation of who God is and his invisible nature. The eternal sonship of Christ is in view. God is one eternal essence who exists in three distinct persons: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit Jesus, before he came to earth in human flesh, the Son of God had already existed. Not already existed as a human, but as the co-equal, co-divine, co-eternal. Son of God, or better yet, God the Son. So God the Father sends God the Son to do the work of redemption. What does the Son do? He completes that work of redemption to perfection, and then from on high, that Son of God, Jesus, pours out the Holy Spirit. And so that's why when we think about the gospel and when we talk about the gospel , It is not only God's way of saving sinners, it's also and simultaneously God's way of giving us the fullest and clearest revelation of who He is. He is Father, Son, Holy Spirit, merciful Savior for sinners lost. This is our gospel. This is our God. The gospel is a revelation of who God is. So when you see this Son of God, there's so much there. There's so much there. And that's why one way to summarize our Christian confession as we come to faith is this. I believe that Jesus is the Son of God. That's saying more than that he is a man. It's saying he's the eternal God, the Son, who became a man to save us from our sins. You see the heart of the gospel, Jesus in his name, that means the Lord saves, in his office to Christ. Which means the Lord's anointed. And his identity, Son of God, which means he himself is the eternal Lord. God the Son. Jesus was a man and is a man, although a man who now has a resurrection body and lives in heaven, not on earth, but he still has a human nature. But he also is God. He also is God, and he had to be God, and he has to be God in order to save, because only the Lord saves. Jonah 2. 9. Salvation is from the Lord. A boat can get you across a lake, not a truck. A truck can get you through a forest, not a boat. Certain things can get you certain places Only God can get you to God. Only God can reconcile sinners to God. Only God can do this work. Only God has the power to do this. Jesus is man, Jesus is God. Isaiah 43. 11, I am the Lord, and apart from thee there is no Savior. Apart from God, there is no Savior. And we cannot save ourselves. We cannot be saved by other people. We cannot be saved by angels. We can only be saved by God. And how do we partake of that salvation? How do we partake of that salvation based on what Jesus did, his death and resurrection, based on who he is, God and man, how do we partake of that? Well, hopefully you remember My opening spiel, what is the way to God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit? Let me review those first three points in the heart of the gospel, and then our fourth and final point will be On the Holy Spirit. The heart of the gospel is seen, number one, in his name, Jesus, the Lord saves. Number two, his office, the Christ. The Lord's anointed. Number three, his identity, Son of God. That all came from verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Son of God. He himself, the eternal Lord. Number fourth, the heart of the gospel is seen in his gift. His gift, the Holy Spirit. Look at verse eight. John says, I have baptized you with water. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. You see some of the symbolism of John 's baptism, not only what was happening for the individuals who were baptized, cleansed from sin, entering the kingdom of God through that baptism, but it's pointing forward to Jesus. greater baptism of the Holy Spirit, giving the Holy Spirit. And we don't have time to study this or or even me to give too extended of a comment, but we see that the fulfillment of that begin on the day of Pentecost, where Jesus pours out that spirit. From heaven, establishing the church. Establishing the church. And from that day on, through the ministry of the church, the ministry of the word and the power of the Spirit that was poured out on Pentecost. Sinners can come to share in that spirit, to receive that Holy Spirit through faith and repentance and have a share in Christ. Verse 8, he'll baptize with the Holy Spirit. So I'm calling this one where Jesus is the Lord of the new covenant. Try to give a phrase for each of these. His name Jesus, the Lord saves. His office, Christ, the Lord's anointed His identity, Son of God, the eternal Lord Himself, His gift, the Holy Spirit, the Lord of the new covenant. Let's turn to Jeremiah 31. I have a couple passages of why I'm calling this point on the Holy Spirit, the Lord of the New Covenant. Jeremiah 31, 31. Many promises of God in the Old Testament. They all are birthed from his promise of a redeemer. And as the Old Testament goes on, you learn more and more of the details of who that Redeemer is, what he'll be like, what he'll do. And one of the climactic or one of the summary points of what the Redeemer will do is He'll establish a new covenant for the people of God. And essential to that is the giving of the Holy Spirit. So I have two passages here to introduce us to that. The first is Jeremiah 31. Verse 31, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. The first two words of verse 32 are so important to understand the Bible. Not like. Not like the covenant that I made with Their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. Now, how was it not like it? Well, I would love to launch into a two-hour lecture on that, but I'll just give you the short version The covenant at Mount Sinai with their fathers, the one he's referring to here, it was a law covenant. It was a covenant of law, the Mosaic Law. The new covenant will not be a covenant of law. It will be a covenant of grace. It will be a covenant of grace where you receive righteousness based on someone else's obedience, Christ's obedience. So the new covenant will not be like the old covenant. That was a covenant of law where your reward would be based on your obedience. It's a covenant of grace where your reward, praise God, is based on Christ's obedience. My covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. We're back in Jeremiah 31, now at verse 33. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them. That's the act of grace. Not going to give you a law that's outside of you, as he's going to put his law within us. In other words, he'll give us hearts for obedience and he'll give us obedience. And I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. So it's a new covenant, and then right from introducing that promise of a new covenant that's not like the old covenant, he goes right to this issue of The internalization of God's law on the heartin within us. Now He didn't mention the Holy Spirit, though, so we'll look at a cross-reference. Look at Ezekiel 36. Ezekiel 36, 25. I'll give you a chance to get there. Ezekiel 36, 25. So the new covenant has been prophesied. It's already been established. It's not going to be like the old covenant. And the central way it's not going to be like that, according to Jeremiah, is the law will be within us. It will be within us, written on our hearts. Well, the obvious question for any student of the Bible at that point will be, well, how? How are you going to do that? What's the mechanism for doing that? Well, it's the Holy Spirit. Ezekiel 36. 25. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean from all your uncleanness, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and I will cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Do you see it? Do you see it? The Holy Spirit that Jesus gives us Is God bringing us into the new covenant, the covenant of grace? That's conversion That's regeneration, being born again. That's turning to God in faith. That's becoming a Christian. That's coming into a relationship with Jesus. However, you want to say it, the Holy Spirit is the issue. His gift, the Holy Spirit. John baptized with water. That was very important. But that was a prelude. That's a preview for Jesus baptizing with the Holy Spirit, which is signaling that God is coming. He's going to establish this new covenant. So John was a preacher of Christ. We should be preachers of Christ. And we we should delight ourselves in the preaching of Christ. And we should see it as our duty to be preachers of Christ to the world around us. Those two things, not one or the other We should not see preaching Christ and that he is the way to God strictly as our duty to the world around us. It is our duty to the world around us. But before that, it's our delight. We delight in Christ. We delight in having Christ preached to us. We should think about our own personal devotions that way. It's the middle of Tuesday, going to read the Bible, going to spend some time in prayer. Why in the world are we doing this? To see Christ. To have God minister to us by the Holy Spirit. This is our delight , gospel blessings. It's the way to God. It's the way to grow in God. It is our duty to preach Christ. It's our delight to preach Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the good news that you've made a way for us to be with you. And I confess and we confess that if you didn't do a work on our hearts, we wouldn't even care about that. But you've given us your word, you've given us your spirit, you've shown us compassion, you've come to us, you've made us alive spiritually so that we can worship you. It's for your glory. It's for your goodness. We're thankful to be in your kingdom. It's in Christ we lift this prayer. Amen.