If you went to Matthew chapter three 25. I'd like to read the passage, verses 14 through 30. You are probably familiar with this being called the parable of the talents at the That's what it's called. There's a a heading in my Bible. That's not a uh inspired heading, but the New American Standard uh uh the ones who put this together put some headings just to help us find our way through the scriptures and it's called the parable of the talents and it's not talking about uh a talent for playing guitar or singing or um whatever you're good at. And it's talking the talent actually is a a measure of weight. We'll talk about that. It's talking about money. that is given in the story to to servants, to slaves. Verse 14. Matthew chapter 25. And Jesus, this is the context of the He's talking about departing , being ready for his coming. There was the parable of of the virgins with oil just before For this in chapter twenty-five. He says in verse fourteen, for it is just like a man about to go on a journey. And context It's just like a man about to go on a journey or the consummation, who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them. To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, each according to his own ability. And he went on his journey. Immediately the one who had received five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. In the same manner, the one who had received the two talents Gained two more. But he who had received the one talent went away, dug a hole in the ground in the ground, and hid his master's money. Now, after a long time, the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. The one who had received the five talents came up and brought Five more talents, saying, Master, you entrusted five talents to me. them See, I have gained five more talents His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things I would put you in charge Also the one who had received the two talents came up and said, Master, you entrusted two talents to me. See, I have gained two more talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of Many things enter into the joy of your master. And the one also who had received the one talent came up and said, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you sowed Scattered no seed, and I was afraid, and I went away and hid your talent in the ground. See, you have what is yours. But his master answered and said You wicked, lazy slave. You knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I scattered no seed. Then you ought to have put my money in the bank. And upon my arrival I would have received my money back with interest. Therefore take away the talent from him and give it to the one who has him For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away. Throw out the worthless slave into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Perhaps you've been in the position of the master, where you have given someone under your care or under your authority, a job to do and a time to do it in, and have come back sometime during that period. And checked on their work. Maybe more likely, you've been on the other end of that, you've been given a job to do and had your work checked on. Remember giving children chores and checking on those. Um and you know, we all have done that or been on the receipt End of someone checking up on us. Well this parable focuses on the behavior of believers or at least least professing believers in one case, while waiting for Jesus' return. And its lesson is is primarily twofold. That while Jesus is away, the believer is to do something, that is to be active. To work faithfully and diligently with whatever has been given to him for the Master's interest. Okay? It's about him, his glory, his will. So what is he given to us? How would we equate talent to us? Well, we could think of the wealth of the kingdom, which would include the truth of the gospel that we understand It would include access to God and the ability to pray and receive answers to prayer. It would include the opportunity that you have in your life. Because of the circles that you're in, because of the positions that you have in life, it would include the resources that God has given you. Now that could be money, but Gifts, maybe abilities thrown in there as well, but mostly these are things given to us In our salvation, so the gospel, the truth of the gospel, access to God, the opportunities once we're saved. Could be with family, with friends, with neighbors, co-workers, etc. The ability to be salt and light with all the resources God has given So while Jesus is away, the believer is to do something, and while Jesus is away, the believer is to know something. That is, his work will be Greatly rewarded or severely judged if found to be unfaithful. So a real question to ask ourselves themselves, what resources do I have? Help me father to identify them as we go through this passage. Help me to think about them. And am I being faithful? Help me to answer that question. tonight as we go through this text. By the way, I mentioned I'll tell you about it. A talent was a measure of weight. The resource I had said seventy-five to eighty pounds So that's a heavy amount of gold or silver. So just some uh I think the I'm not sure which translation it is. One of them translated as bag of gold. It might be the NI I'm not sure. But as a way of getting our minds around what this was, this was here you go, invest this for The benefit of the master. So the value of the talent would would differ based on whether it was gold, silver, copper. But the idea here is great value. So again, I want to encourage you to realize God is giving you, giving me, things of great value, the truth of his word. And we have a special Special stewardship in a part of the world where we can read and where we have copies of the Bible so easily. So the truth is something that we should Cherish and feel a responsibility for. It is one reason why a Nicholas Pietrowski wants to help train people in ministry. It's one reason why Mike Chris is doing that in a place where they don't have enough adequate training of men. in the scripture. So he is taking what he has been given a good mind and opportunity to study the scripture. taken that overseas just a couple of examples. So God has given us things of great value, the truth, the word, the prayer, the word God, the prayer and prayer, and then opportunities in our lives because Circles we're in maybe wealth, giftedness, abilities can be of course used as well in the kingdom word. Mostly these are things he gives to us. That's what the parable is is presenting. He gives you A bag of gold. What is this? So maybe not that natural sports ability you grew up with. Although he may show you how to use that to run a basketball game. Okay? And to Bring glory to him. But whatever you have, he wants you to use it. He wants you to invest it for his glory. From the parable, the wealth was his and what was gained from it came back to him. So he is Central using it for him. So let's see the significance of this parable step by step. In this parable, number one, by the way, the outlines of the book. Number one, the Lord foretold his departure from the earth. That's one thing that's happening in this area of the book of Matthew, in this discourse of Christ. Verse 14, for it the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven is just like a man About to go on a journey. So Jesus is saying that he is like the man traveling to the far country. And indeed, he ascended into heaven to sit at the right hand of God. So recognize then that this parable is our encouragement and also our warning today because he has I've gone to a far land and he has yet to return, and we have a stewardship while we live on this earth. Number two, the Lord entrusted his possession possessions to his servants. Really, we need to think of this as slaves. That's that's what the word means here is the word gulas. Verse 14, he called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them. One he gave five talents to another two, to another one, each according to his own ability, and he went on his journey. Notice Notice some things here. Notice that the Lord called his own slaves. Verse 14. He owns us because we were bought with a price, 1 Corinthians 6. 20. We are his slaves, his bondservants. And I believe God uses that strong a word to make us realize that we are To serve him. We're not independent uh creatures. I mean we are in in some sense that we have freedom of thought and so forth, but we We are not to think of ourselves as believers as independent from our Lord, we're to think of ourselves as waking up each day with a master to serve. He owns us, we are his slaves, his bondservants, we are to serve in life. Isn't that what the parable is suggesting to us? Teaching of Jesus here. We need to think of ourselves as a slave while he is at the right hand of God. Notice also in verse 15. That the Lord gave each a different portion of his possessions to look at. No one was left out, and all were expected to work and to serve. So no one in the room tonight or anyone who would listen to this should think, well I you know, I just I haven't been given anything. That's not true. You have the Word of God, you have prayer to start with, and that's why I keep emphasizing those two things. You have the Holy Spirit to work in and through you. So you are rich Indeed, if that's all you can think of. Thirdly, the Lord gave to each according to his own ability. Four things here. No two servants have the same ability and opportunity. But Jesus knows what our ability and opportunity are. Second, the Lord gives his possessions. Again, truth. Prayer, position, opportunity, circles of influence. He knows all of that. All of it comes together. He gives his possessions as he wills, knowing each servant. Perfect. Third, each servant receives all he needs and can use. And each servant has equal opportunity to be faithful in using what God And we are judged on our faithfulness, not the size of the work assigned to us. I hope you heard that. We're judged on our faithfulness, not the size of the work assigned to us. God called me into the tower. But that that doesn't mean my work is weightier in value than the work of one of our Sunday school teachers, but a work of one of our members committed to prayer. Each of us would be judged on faithfulness to what we have been given, to what Jesus wants us to invest in. Now I think a great lesson here that I want to mention before I Go on is that Christ has made every necessary provision for his church While he's gone from earth. In other words, he's given us what we need to invest. We haven't. And he is building his church from his right hand of God. God through the Spirit, blessing the work of his servants as they invest in the kingdom. Alright, number three on the outline. The servants treated the Lord's possessions differently. That's what we find in the story. Immediately, the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. In the same manner, the one who had received the two talents gained five Two more, but he who received talents one talent went away and dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. So we see that two servants were very responsible. They were faithful and diligent. They used their abilities, their opportunities, their energy, their resources immediately, verse 16 tells them. One had more to work with, but both worked equally hard and equally well. And they were successful. That's the second thing we notice about. responsible servants, slaves. Each doubled what the Lord had given him. Each one bore fruit in proportion to what he had received from the living. Then we see one servant was irresponsible. He simply did not use what was given to him. Instead, he buried the money given to him. And say this carefully, that's how some act with their and I'm gonna say quote unquote Christian life. They leave Tuck it away somewhere safely, or perhaps we should say somewhere comfortably, out of view of others within the circle of their influence. I think that's one good application of this circle, and we will find I think you know, we will find that he is not a true believer, like an unbeliever. So there's something wrong that when you come to this point in the Parable. There's something wrong if that's you, okay? If you're like the irresponsible servant. Now we should all be challenged by this. We can all find ways that we're not being responsible enough. But irresponsibility, one question you would have to ask yourself. If if this doesn't resonate in your heart that I want to be a faithful slave to the master, is that if that doesn't resonate in your heart, then we need to talk about Being saved. And coming to Jesus as the Lord and Savior. But the lesson here is clear, the 16 through 18. Use what the Lord has blessed you with. Time, money, position, opportunity, knowledge of the Word of God, prayer. Use what the Lord has blessed you with, no matter how great or small it is Immediate, diligent work will bear fruit, and that fruit, no matter how great or small, it is, is significant to the world. We see that what comes next. The day of reckoning came, verse 19. Now after a long time, the master of those slaves came and settled a I think it is significant that Jesus says that it was after a long time. It seems to us a long time to wait for him. his return. And so we see this phrase and we can identify with it after a long time. Be faithful during the time. Do expect Jesus to come in our lifetime? Well we don't know. The Bible tells us to to know that events can can certainly uh happen as God would will them and come together and things will happen in his time. But just be encouraged that maybe not. Because it's after a long time. I don't mean don't think of the immediate the possibility of immediacy of his coming which Paul said seems to indicate in some places. So the healthy attitude is come Lord Jesus, I'm ready for your coming. But I'm also ready to keep working. So my God. Does that make sense? Because there have been a lot of uh believers, those who lived during let's say uh civil war, World War One, World War Two. And who are up in age might have very well thought this is leading to the coming of Christ. This is an upheaval. Look at the world. And they died. And others have been born and died. And and so the healthy attitude is every day I wake up, I'm going to be faced this way in the world. And it may be our lifetime. Even as we pray. Come Lord Jesus. So it was after a long time. Secondly, notice he had a reckoning with his soul And I think it's important to understand the truth in Scripture that professing believers will give an accounting to Christ. 2 Corinthians 5 10. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Now the issue for the believer is not heaven or hell at that point. The issue for the believer is one of rewards, as we see in that passage in 2 Corinthians. But there is a day of reckoning. So Jesus, as he talks about coming back to church , Fourthly, or fifthly, the Lord commands the faithful, verse 20. had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents saying, Master, you entrusted five talents to me. See, I have gained five more talents. And by the way, he's presenting these to the master. It's his. The five were the masters, gave them to the slaves. to invest, the slave made five. Well they don't stay in his account. No, they're they're they're giving back to the master. We serve him for him. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things in terms of the joy of your masters. So you see the the the two part commendation here you you'll you'll have more responsibility and you'll have joy. Verse twenty seven Two also the one who had received the two talents came up and said, Master, you entrusted two talents to me. See, I have gained two more talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. If you were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. So the reward will work well done. Will be the master's commendation and the honor of more work to do and doesn't that help our understanding of the kingdom to come, the concept Of the kingdom, the new heaven, the new earth. We think of it in terms of worship. The book of Revelation gives us that picture. We think of it in terms of rest as we should uh a perfect we think of it in terms of the presence of God, the glory of God. Maybe we should also, well yes, we should also think of it as work for the master. But work for the master in a perfect way. What I mean if you enjoy serving the Lord, you will enjoy this verse. Now what exactly that means, I don't know that we can can spell that out. But it's more than worship and rest, it's work as well, and it will be perfect and enjoyed. So notice some things here in these verses 20 through 23. They both acknowledged God's gifts and graces. You entrusted five talents, you entrusted two talents to me. They acknowledged it was from God. And all that was accomplished was due to God's gifts. So they're acknowledging his grace. They both had a testimony of fruitfulness in their work. I have gained. What are examples of fruitfulness today? And this is a question for you. Chime in. What are some examples of fruitfulness where we would take this uh and and apply it in real life terms? What is fruit in real life? Don't flinch, I'll call it. What was that? Proclaiming the gospel and people responding to to the gospel. one aspect of truth that we greatly rejoice in is people converted. You've had children converted. You were a part of that. You know the joy of that. Or a neighbor or a friend that you prayed for. What else? Good good deeds, I heard. And what did you say? Answers to prayer. Amen. And good deeds, of course, uh means a lot of different things, but but certainly we're absorbed in that way. Um but people converted, people being ministers Or two answers to prayer maturity and your Christianity, your Christ-likeness, so that you bring glory to God on Earth, that is fruit. And it may not be people converted, but it might be seeds planted or seeds watered, as Paul speaks about. But whatever. They both had a testimony of fruitfulness. their work , so should you and I. We may not know all of the fruit. We may not be able to give names to all of it, but God does. Revelation fourteen thirteen says that after we die, our works follow with us. Interesting verse there. I don't think we know know all of our influence, all of uh you know, as we stand before the Lord, it is likely that he will not understand. All he sees As fruit in our lives. Thirdly, in this part of the passage, the Lord commended both well done, good, and faithful Servant. They were good. The kind of servants, slaves he wanted them to be. And he came And they were faithful. They did the work that he wanted them to do. So notice the twofold comments. Commendation there. Good and faithful. So and then notice that the Lord gave them great rewards. They were given greater responsibility in the Lord's kingdom And they were given entrance into the joy of the Lord, into his kingdom with all its blessing. And this for slaves. You need to realize how uh surprising it is that the Kingdom and the joy of the kingdom is for slaves. It just didn't happen in the real world. But Jesus wants us to understand How we should see him and how we should relate to him as our master, but he wants us to understand he is a master who will bless us in this unlikely Alright, then number six, the Lord punishes the unfaithful. The one also who had received the one talent came up and said, Master, I knew you to be a faithful Hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed, and I was afraid and went away and hid your talent in the ground I just want you to notice as I'm reading this how uh self-centered, how creature centered this unsaved slave was. He would be afraid and think only of himself. And he hid the town in the ground. See, you have what is yours, as if that was enough. Really, in this statement, he is covering his disobedience and laziness. But that was because Because we would say, understanding it from the point our our viewpoint of scripture of salvation, that is an unsaved man. Wicked, lazy slave. What did he say to the ones who were faithful? Good and faithful, but now it'd say condemnate You knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I scattered no seed. The other slaves were were Doing it for his glory. This slave doesn't do that. Since you knew that, you ought to have put my money in the bank, and on arrival I would have received my money back with Interest. Therefore take away the talent from him. Give it to the one who has the ten talents. For to every one who has more shall be Given, and he will have in abundance, but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away. Throw out the worthless slave Into the outer darkness, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So I I think Christ, I it seems to me he Is speaking of a professing believer but a false one. I think that's how we should interpret it in the balance of scripture. So note the excuses for not using the resource, the gift that the Lord had entrusted into his care. He accuses the master of being hard, verse twenty-four. That is one who expects more than he has a right to expect respect and who profits from the labors of others. And I would say to this one, well, yes, he's the Lord. And we are to bring glory to him. That is why we are here. That is the primary reason we have been created. But he accuses the master of being hard and he view that's being hard. And he was afraid of losing some of the master's money. And that's self centered because he would have to come up with money on his own. So afraid of losing what he was giving, he He justifies keeping it safe and offering it back. Then note the reasons that the Lord condemns the servant. Verse 26, the servant Servant was wicked rather than good, the servant was lazy rather than faithful, and the servant was dis For if the servant really believed what he said about the master, he would have at the very least gained interest on his master's money. He tries to excuse himself Well, I think here, I think we are deceived here by attacking the character of his master. In truth, he is not devoted to his master's interest. That's the point of this third day. And then note the judgment of the unprofitable servant. He was stripped of what he had been given. He was To have nothing else to do with the Lord's work. His responsibility was given to one who was faithful. And of course, don't miss that being faithful. Uh certainly Jesus sees that in our understanding of history and can open up more responsibility, more opportunity for those Who are serving the law. Secondly, not only is he stripped of what he was given, he is cast into outer darkness. He was not allowed to stand out Note its description in verse 30. The outer darkness, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing It is the description of hell that Jesus uses to speak of God's place of punishment for unforgiving sin. sin. He does so if you want to write these references down in Matthew 8, 12, speaking of unbelieving Jews. And he uses the same description in chapter 22 of Matthew. Matthew verse 13 of the man not dressed in wedding clothes. So in context, how do we deal with this here? How do we interpret it for this third person? We interpret it that He is cast into hell. So this servant represents a false believer. It's evident in the lack of fruit. It's evident in the lack of Lack of understanding of his master. fruit. It's evident in the attitude expressed, fear and rationalization, rather than humility. And it's evident. What's the lesson of the parable? Well, let me quote D. A. Carson, who summarized It this way, and I thought this was good. Here's his view on the lesson of the parable. Wait for Jesus as slaves committed To improve our master's assets. Wait for Jesus. He's been gone a long time. Our understanding is time. As Slaves committed to improve our masters' assets. If there is no investment of your life for the glory of God, Jesus for the gospel's sake, no service to others, no tithe or offering, no investment of time or energy for Christ, then this parable puts you on dangerous ground and calls you to repentance and true faith. And true faith is always, we see here, a working faith, an active faith. James is one of the reasons that God inspired that book to be in our text, that we would understand that faith is a working faith. The way James put it, puts it, faith as works. If you have a true faith, this is to encourage us in the work that Jesus has given us resources for, and ability for , and opportunity for Be diligent, for your work will be rewarded. And it will be worth everything when you stand before the Lord and be doing. And He will assess Because just as you checked on your son or daughter's room, or just as your work was checked on by an employer, we do have an accounting with him. With With the opportunities, the wealth we've been given, truth, access to the throne, circles of influence I haven't exhausted all of the wealth, but those things we will give an accounting of it and we want to be good stewards. It'll be worth everything Well done. So just as Pastor Matt exhorted us this morning to keep things in the proper place. And you're going to hear that next week too because The church health essential has to do with contentment. Um there are things in our life that are proper to be there, but they can never be the main thing and they should always be seen in light of our relationship to Christ. We are not independent of this paramount tells us we are slaves, non -slaves, duons. That's our, I was about to say, our first priority. It's our only priority. It's who we are And it's the way we should think about life. And if uh let's say you exercise weekly, let's just get practical. you go to a club to exercise, that's good stewardship of your body. Hey, but look for it to be stewardship of kingdom truth. Seek to engage in conversation. God will use our personalities, who we are. He'll use our uh our divine appointments as we're out and about. Be open to that. You carry with you truth that the majority of the people you see each day do not understand. And you can pray for those people and you can engage in conversation with those people and I can as well. And you have resources and uh that can be put toward kingdom work and so forth. Th this is just telling us well we should do that for the joy of it. We should do that for uh our burden for souls, we should do that Because Jesus is worthy of it. But we should also do it because everything we have is from him and we are his slaves. That's what he's saying. And it honors him. It brings glory to him and it brings commendation for him when you see it that way. Let's pray together. So Father, help us to be diligent because this parable puts us in our our rightful place that by your grace we have Become your servants, your bond slaves. And by your grace, you have enriched us, given us Wealth of knowledge and access and opportunity and ability And I thank you. As I look around this room, I thank you for evidence of faithfulness. That's just my viewboard. We answer to you. And we pray that you would help us to see our lives as you see it. Help us to examine, help us to Grow in sensing your joy at how you live with what you give us. In Jesus' name of Christ. Amen.