Let's take our Bibles and turn to First Corinthians ten fourteen. First Corinthians ten Fourteen to twenty-two. Thank you, Jordan. New believers Are to be baptized, entering into fellowship with the church. But then all believers in the local church continue to celebrate the Lord's Supper together Not only as a symbol of the gospel, and not only a reminder of the work of Christ for us, but also a reminder that we are one in Christ. This is why we celebrate together. And it's called communion. It's also called Lord's Supper. Why is it called Communion? Why is it called Lord's Supper? Which one is The biblical terminology, both of them. Both of those come from First Corinthians. Tonight we're looking at the passage where we get the term communion, 1 Corinthians 10. 14 through 22. Not that you need to give it a title, but if you want to give this a title in your notes, you could just call it Why is it called communion? Alright? Why is it called communion? Let's pray together before we look at the passage. Father, would you search us? Search our hearts, search our minds. If there be any snare of sin in us, would you root it out? Would you free us? There be any stronghold of skepticism, of despair, would you help us, minister to us, cleanse us, strengthen us? Father, we come seeking a blessing from you. We come in the name of Jesus and by virtue of his mediation on our behalf. We come as those filled with the Holy Spirit, trusting that through your word and by the work of your Spirit in us, trusting and fully expecting, you'll continue to conform us to the likeness of Christ. Father, you are faithful. You are faithful. You are present. You are good. You're merciful beyond comprehension. So we pray that you would Minister to us as we come to your word. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. First Corinthians 10 40 uh 10 14. Why is it called communion? First of all, let me just go ahead and read the passage. Verse 14. Therefore, my beloved Flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves. What I say, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread We who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than him? In other words, if we provoke the Lord to jealousy and to judgment upon us, are we so strong that we can withstand Him and fend for ourselves? Obviously the answer is no, we cannot. We don't want to invoke the Lord's jealousy and not going to expound on the The context of the really important pastoral issue that Paul's addressing here in 1 Corinthians, there's some members of the church who it appears pretty clear that they're still participating in pagan worship. And then also coming to church and participating in communion. And Paul, you can see in clear language is speaking into that. It sh it should not be so. It cannot be so. You cannot go out and worship demons practicing idolatry and then come to church like everything's okay. It's it's uh something that needs to be repented of. But I want to focus on this idea of communion. We call this communion because we come together as a body not only to commune with each other in the name of Christ, but to commune together, to come together and to commune together with the risen Lord and to be strengthened by his grace. To be strengthened by His grace. Just as the preaching of the Word, God administers His grace to our hearts, so also through the sharing of the Lord's Supper, a symbolic meal. God strengthens our hearts and administers his grace to our hearts. There's no greater practical need. No greater practical, practically relevant daily need of the Christian Than for God to administer his grace to our hearts and to strengthen us. It's called communion because we commune with each other and together commune with the Lord through this meal I don't know if you can tell that this is wobbling, so I've got to move over to the left Um, so you saw in my translation, which is the ESV, the word participation. Let's zero in on this word. Verse 16, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? And then he says, the bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? And then in verse 17 There's one bread. We who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Participation is from the Greek word koinonia. And uh in the King James and the New King James, it is translated. Does anyone have it out there? Communion. Communion. And then in the New American standard, it is sharing. It's a word that means sharing one with another. It's a word that means communing together. Par uh mutual participation in something. It means coming together in spiritual communion. Participation with the bread, participation with the cup. He calls it here, verse 16, participation in the blood of Christ. And participation in the body of Christ. We'll get down to that in a later section. But right now, I just want to continue to focus on this word communion. And we can't emphasize enough the importance of spiritual communion, one with another, and then together with the Lord. This is a mutual spiritual um sharing or uh co-participation. In the blessings of the gospel. This word that's translated participation or communion or sharing is also used in Scripture to describe our relationship with Jesus. First Corinthians 1 9. Paul writes, God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship, same word, called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. And beloved, this is what salvation is. It's being brought into fellowship with Jesus. It's a relationship with Jesus, to use the popular phrase. It's being united to Christ, to use a more traditional phrase. Either way you want to say it, whatever phrase you want to say, this is a being brought together, spiritually brought into a relationship with Jesus that will never end. This word also is used in Scripture to describe our relationship with the Father. And this was in the preaching passage from last week 1 John 1 3. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you. It's talking about the uh the incarnate Christ. We've seen, we heard, we've heard, we proclaim also to you. So that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ Once we come into a spiritual communion with Jesus, there's no extra step we need to take to come into spiritual communion with the Father. When we're united to the Son, we're united to the Father. If we see the Son, we see the Father. If we know the Son, we know the Father. If we worship the Son, we worship the Father. The Father and the Son are one, Distinct persons But one in their essence. Our relationship with Jesus, our relationship with the Father. But this word is also used in Scripture, this word communion. Sharing, fellowship, partnership. It's also used in Scripture to describe our relationship with the Holy Spirit. 2 Corinthians 13, 14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Fellowship, same word, fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. We can walk in the Spirit because we live in fellowship with the Spirit. If we didn't have the Holy Spirit, if we didn't live in Communion with the Holy Spirit, we wouldn't be able to walk in the Spirit, or to be led by the Spirit, or to cry out for the Spirit's help But we have communion with Jesus, our Lord and Savior, God the Son. We have communion with God the Father, and we have communion with the Holy Spirit. This word also is used in scripture, this word communion, or fellowship, or sharing, or partnership. This word also is used in Scripture to describe our worshiping together and to describe our serving alongside one another in the local church. Obviously, you should have been able to guess that that was the next step. Fellowship with God, the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, and fellowship with each other. Acts 2, 42. And they , talking about Christians, early church on the day of Pentecost, this got launched, and they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and to the fellowship, same word, and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayers That's a really nice paradigm for the body life of a church. We devote ourselves to the apostles' teaching, which for us would be the New Testament, the completed canon of Scripture. We devote ourselves to the apostles' teaching, to the fellowship. That means each other. That means serving the Lord together, caring for each other. Praying for each other, worshiping the Lord together, celebrating the Lord's Supper together. We devote ourselves to the apostles' teaching, to the fellowship. To the breaking of bread and to prayer, communion, spiritual communion, and mutual Spiritual participation. Many people sharing in one thing: communion with Jesus, communion with the Father, communion with the Holy Spirit Communion with each other, with the local church, worshiping and serving the Lord together. And this word also is used In Philippians 1. 5, Paul uses this word communion or partnership for describing how we labor together for the gospel and missions. Now there's a financial cooperation for the sake of missions to the lost world. Philippians 1 5, Paul speaks of the Philippian church's partnership in the gospel. He says, because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day Until now. Partnership. Same word. Partnership in the gospel. He's talking about their mission support for Paul and his ministry. From the first day until now. The Philippian Christians were right on it Supporting Paul, supporting gospel missions work from the first day, from the first opportunity they have. Communion. It's a mutual spiritual participation So this word is also used in our celebrating the gospel together in symbolic form. That's what the Lord's Supper is, or it's communion is. It's celebrating the gospel, remembering the gospel. Just exulting and glorying in all the blessings that flow from the gospel. It's remembering Christ and his perfect work on our behalf It's remembering the gospel through a symbolic meal, celebrating the gospel together as one body in Christ. Through a symbolic meal. We commune with each other as we do this, and together we commune with the risen Lord as we do this. So this is why it's called communion. That word does come from the scriptures directly. You only see it if you have The right translation where it's translated communion, but either way, the meaning of that Greek word remains the same. Koinonia. You could just use that if you want. Don't worry about the English. Koinonia. We celebrate quininea, fellowship with each other, and fellowship with God through this meal Now let's zero in on verses sixteen and seventeen. If we interpret these improperly, we'd be in trouble if we which would mean if we interpret these in the in a strictly literalistic sense. uh we would misinterpret it and misim misapply it and celebrate the Lord's Supper the wrong way. We have to understand the symbolism here and the use of figurative language here in verse sixteen and seventeen. Or we'd be in trouble. Here's what Paul says. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Now, if I refuse to recognize the figurative language here, And if I insist on interpreting this in a strict literal sense, what is my interpretation going to be? It's going to be saying that the bread literally becomes or literally is in some way the literal body of Christ. And I would say something similar to the cup, that the contents of that cup literally become or literally are in some way, some mysterious way that we we don't see it, but it's real by faith. Literally the blood of Christ. Not every scripture is meant to be interpreted in a strict, literalistic way. Some things are literal, many things are figurative, many things are symbolic. It's determined by the context, and it's determined by the overall teaching of Scripture, the context of Scripture as a whole, the context of the paragraph, and the use of the language in a specific way within that context So in the blood and in the body are figurative uh figurative statements. They're in a figurative sense referring to the spiritual blessings achieved by the body of Christ. They're referring to their um the representative of the spiritual blessings of the blood and the body of Christ. They don't be these elements don't literally become the body and blood of Christ. But they symbolize to us all the rich spiritual benefits that are ours because Christ shed his blood, because he gave his body. His body was broken for us. so that we could be saved. His blood was shed for us. That's what it means. We are our participants of the blood of Christ and participants of the body of Christ. It means we're participants in the spiritual blessings that those things achieve. He purchased our redemption by his own body and blood. This is our way to safety. This is our salvation. This is our hope. The body and blood of Christ. But if we're just to interpret in a strict literal manner, we'll completely miss that spiritual dimension of it. The spiritual dimension is everything. They're symbols. They point to something else. Symbols point to other things. And the true significance and the true meaning is the other things. So the bread and cup are physical, yes, and they're symbolic, but the communion, the communion is spiritual and literal. spiritual communion with each other and literal spiritual communion with the risen Lord. So you have the elements that point to the reality, but brothers and sisters, then you have the reality, the glorious reality. of the spiritual communion we share by virtue of Christ. Apart from his death, none of this would be possible. Apart from his death, you couldn't have the Holy Spirit, and neither could I And if we didn't have the Spirit, we wouldn't be bound together in this sweet, sweet, precious spiritual communion. So that's called the local church. So this is what we're celebrating. We must never forget that God truly meets with his people in worship. When we gather to worship, God meets with us there. We come before the throne of God. We don't supernaturally step out of the visible realm into the invisible realm and Stand before the throne of God in heaven. But by faith we come before him. The same thing happens in your bedroom when you go to the Lord in prayer. You come before God. And call out to him and lay your request before him by faith coming before God in prayer. And in worship, God meets with us. In worship, God is the minister. Jesus is the preacher. Jesus administers his truth and his grace and his mercy and his power to his people through his word and through his spirit, the Lord's Supper, the communion is part of that. Christ meets us here. He meets us here. We're not doing something for him that he's far off watching And so just to make sure that we do it and make sure we do it in the right way. No, no, no. He's with us here. We're communing with our Lord and Savior through a symbolic meal. He's with us. God meets with us in worship. That's just a few points to wrap it up and hopefully Put some um puts a specific framework for what's going on in communion Communion is a symbolic meal that Jesus uses to administer grace to his church. Administer grace means he strengthens us, he reminds us of what Christ did for us. He he puts our hearts in touch with Christ's completed work. And our hearts coming in touch with Christ's completed work is the seed of any true spiritual life and any true spiritual growth Because Christ died for us and Christ gives us life. It's a symbolic meal that Jesus, who lives and reigns and serves in heaven as our great high priest, he uses this to administer grace. To his church by visualizing the gospel. Here's a practical summary uh point hopefully you can remember. Because if we say Jesus uses this meal to strengthen us by his grace, how does he do that through a meal? It visualizes the gospel. When we hear the preaching of the gospel, it's the audible gospel. We hear it. It goes into our ears, into our minds, into our hearts, and the gospel strengthens us. And God administers his grace to us through the gospel spoken. The Lord's Supper is not the gospel spoken, it's the gospel seen. Not with our ears, but with our eyes. We see the elements. It visualizes the gospel. It visualizes Christ and his perfect work of redemption. This is how this symbolic meal strengthens us. It's not advanced theology or some deep spiritual philosophy going on here. It shows us Christ. The meal shows us our Savior, and the Savior strengthens us. This is the center of Christianity, and that's why when God When uh God determined that the church would have two ordinances that we habitually and consistently and biblically uh obey. One is baptism when the new believer enters into The fellowship of the church and makes a public confession and then one that we do over and over and over and over and over again to remind us of Christ visibly. It visualizes the gospel. And it's the gospel that strengthens. This is the source of grace. So Visualizing the gospel. Did you ever think about this? That this meal, not this particular one right here, this will be gone tonight But this meal of the Lord's Supper will continue to be celebrated until Christ returns. Did you ever think about that? I mean this has been going on going on since that last supper, the last Passover Um under the old covenant. This is not the Passover. This was instituted at the last Passover. Um But this will continue to be celebrated all over the world and increasingly so until Christ returns. Isn't that cool? Isn't that neat what God is doing on the planet that He created? It visualizes the gospel. Secondly, still on this how, how does this strengthen us? How does this administer grace to our hearts? First of all, by visualizing the gospel. Secondly, by supplementing the preaching of the gospel. By supplementing the preaching of the gospel. It's the word of God that gives power to any ministry. Any ministry. That's why this church has had a rich tradition of Word-centered preaching and committed to Bible studies and committed to sound doctrine And it's such I gotta tell you, it's such a blessing and such a grace of God in my life to step into a church that's already there. That's already there and I don't have to fight those battles. I so glad I don't have to convince you that the word should be the center of everything It's the word that gives power to any ministry, to any Bible study, to any private devotional time that we would have uh alone or any family devotional time that we would have or any counsel that we would give to a friend or any small group discussion. It's the Bible that gives it true spiritual power. The power of the Word of God, which is the sword of the Spirit. In other words, that's what the Holy Spirit uses to cut to the heart and awaken the heart and change the heart and encourage the heart and comfort the heart and convict the heart when we've fallen into sin. The Spirit uses the Word. So communion doesn't stand alone in isolation from the Word Just like singing doesn't stand alone in isolation from the Word. Just like in your daily uh quiet times or your daily devotional times Your praying doesn't stand apart from the word in isolation from the word. No, you're probably reading and praying, praying and reading, devotional reading, going to the Lord in prayer, calling out to the Lord for help. than going to the Word for actual specific guidance that God has already given. So the visualizing of the gospel must be supplemented by the preaching of the gospel so that we actually know what the gospel is. It's not a subjective or arbitrary. It's not just supposed to be this sentimental or nostalgic thing. It's to help us grasp And exult in the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's all about the gospel. Have I said that to you lately? It's all about the gospel. God's work of redemption through Christ. So this is part, this meal, this ordinance that'll continue till the Lord returns is just one part of God's great gospel ministry on earth to the lost and to his church It visualizes the gospel, supplementing the preaching of the gospel. One last part. Because it's not simply visual. It's participatory. It's there's a physical participation That that we experience in the Lord's Supper. And you know what it is, because you know, whenever I'm done ranting about communion You know that we'll actually we'll enter into that time where you've physically come up and take the elements Or even if we did it the way we used to do it pre-COVID where the elements would come around to you physically and you would get your own and then you would physically eat and physically drink And that part, that element of communion, is as important in the symbolism, because that symbolizes that we must partake of Christ in order to enjoy his benefits. We don't just see the gospel from far off, but we receive Christ by faith. We need to be strengthened by Jesus. We need to be nourished. Spiritually by Jesus. Do you all naturally have the strength that you need to fight the spiritual battles that you have to fight? I certainly don't. I need Jesus to strengthen me. Jesus is all I have. He's all I have. I have nowhere else to go. And neither do you. So the part of the symbolism is the elements themselves. But the other part of the symbolism, or one other part of the symbolism, is our receiving them. Think about um think about How we're strictly recipients. You know, we don't uh we didn't set the table It's a spiritual realities. Everything that everything that's represented here is been is based on the accomplishments of Christ. We're just recipients. When we finish celebrating communion, we have nothing to boast about. There's no good work that we did that we could boast about. All we could say is that we are blessed because of Christ All we can say is that by his blood and and by his body we've been forgiven. All we can do is shine the spotlight on Christ. All we can do is point to him and praise him and fall down before him. All we can do is boast in Christ. Not ourselves. So it's not only a visualizing of the gospel, it's a symbolic participation in the gospel. We must receive Jesus And as we celebrate this over and over and over again until the Lord returns, we're reminded that we never outgrow our need for the grace of Jesus. We never outgrow it. I have I have sin left in my life. And you have sin left in your life. So we still need the grace of Jesus. So we don't fall into despair, so that sin doesn't come to rule us in a way it shouldn't We still have weakness, we still have shortcomings. We need grace and strength from Jesus. And one of the ways we receive that grace, and one of the ways we receive we where you receive that strength is by celebrating communion together. Commune with one another And we commune with the risen Lord. We remember his blood, his body, and all that he achieved for us in doing that