Well we we live in what one uh Frenchman called the age of the spectacle. As humans, we are hardwired with an appetite for a sight, for a performance. For a show. And our world does not disappoint in giving us that. Think about it. Social media platforms spend literally billions of dollars customizing spectacles that will ensure that you give them just a few more seconds of your time. Or think about a 24-hour newsfeed, news cycle provides endless updates, all of which just happen to be breaking news, which if you miss will be hopeless hopelessly out of touch. Smartphones pinged with retina display notifications engineered to pull you in, to look again at your smartphone. Theme parks offer non-stop amusement, choreograph for both for the child and the parent, and spending millions of dollars to get and keep your attention. The list is endless. You can think of many more. You think of amazing viral videos or flawless halftime shows. uh sports arenas or or concerts. None of these things inherently wrong, but all of them calling for our attention. As Tony Ranke observes, we are distracted spectacle seekers. And why do we seek spectacles? Because we're human, hardwired with an unquenchable appetite to see glory. Our hearts seek splendor as our eyes scan for greatness We cannot help it. Or, as another writer writes, man has an almost infinite appetite for distraction. Just think about it. What distractions did you have to cut out in order to have a meaningful conversation this week? Or what distractions did you have to cut out in order to listen to Pastor Matt's sermon just this morning? Quite honestly, this appetite for a spectacle is in you. And it's in me too. And yet meanwhile, as we turn to tonight's text, as we prepare to begin this study through the book of Psalms, this text speaks to those of us who will listen. It says something far more consequential than this world's passing amusements. In three words, Psalm nineteen says God has spoken. That's right. Amidst a world of infinite spectacles, consider the wonder of this. The God of the universe Has chosen to reveal himself to mankind, to you. He has revealed himself in the physical creation. around us in in a way that cannot be ignored and should not be missed. He he's chosen to reveal himself in his written word, speaking in a way that is of incomparable value and worth And both of these should lead us to humble contrition. I want you to see this in God's Word today. If you brought your Bibles, open to Psalm 19. Psalm 19 has three clear sections which build on each other. For my sermon, I'm just going to simply structure what I say around those three sections. So if you're taking notes, I plan to talk about one, the witness God gives. Two, the word we need, and three, the response it deserves. So witness, word , response First, let's begin by asking what is the witness that God gives? Well, follow along with me as I read verses one through six, and notice how creation is the witness which God gives of himself. Psalm 19, to the choir master, a psalm of David The heavens declare the glory of God. And the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech Nor are their words. Their voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber And, like a strong man, runs its course with joy. Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. Notice that the central idea of this passage is found directly in verse 1. It says, the heavens declare the glory of God. And the sky above proclaims his handiwork. So there is an announcement going on here, a witness, a declaration, a proclamation. More than just a sight to see, creation here is speaking We see it testifies here to three things in the text. It points to the existence of God, to his glory, and to the fact that creation is his handiwork. Friends, in our fallen sinfulness, we cannot know anything on our own about God unless He reveals it to us. Here we see that even in creation itself, God has designed a testimony to Himself. The heavens declare it, the sky proclaims it. So perhaps can you picture a glorious sunset that you have witnessed? Or perhaps remember the last plane ride that you took and You found yourself breaking through the sunlit cloud cover to see the expanse of the blue sky. I remember that just this week as we took off over Europe. to to look out and to see the the the sun streaming through the clouds and breaking through with the blue expanse above. Or perhaps recall in your mind A clear starry night where you witnessed more stars than you could count. The heavens are pointing to God 's glory. Notice the text does not say the heavens are God's glory, but they declare the glory of God. They announce it to us. As I reflected on this, I couldn't help but wonder if God's creation is itself so glorious, and here we see it is only the messenger, how glorious must God Himself be? What will it be like to one day see him and not just his handiwork? Well, notice here in the text that God's relations revelation as the Creator here is a continuous revelation. Do you see that? These verbs here declare and proclaim They emphasize the continuous, ongoing nature of this. It's imperfect. It's not completed. It's not finished. Sumper Longman comments, it's a continual outcry of nature to God from the moment of creation until now and on into the future. And verse 2 restates this. This is what verse 2 is saying. Day after day after day, God 's creation in the sky can't stop speaking about his glory. Night after night after night is revealing and exposing and uncovering knowledge about God's glory. This is continuous. Well, listen to John Piper's reflection on God's continuous glory in his book, Providence. I think it fits so well with this passage and what's happening here. He writes this. He says I used to look at sunrises when I was jogging and think that God had created a beautiful world. Then it became less general and more specific. More personal. I said every morning God paints a different sunrise. He never gets tired of doing it again and again But then it struck me. No, he doesn't do it again and again. He never stops doing it. The sun is always rising somewhere in the world. God guides the sun 24 hours every day and paints sunrises at every moment, century after century, without one second of respite, and never grows weary or less thrilled with the works of his hands. Even when cloud cover keeps man from seeing it, God is painting spectacular sunrises above the clouds. Friends, this is incessant. The skies and the clouds, the expanse above, is always present, ever testifying, ever pointing to the reality of the Creator. and to his glory. Well, if verses one and two are emphasizing this testimony that speaks all the time, verses three through six seem to emphasize that this testimony speaks to all places and therefore to all created people. Now at this point you might say, Jeff, the the skies don't actually have a tongue. They have no mouth. What do you mean to say that they are saying things to all people? Well, actually, this is the point that verse 3 emphasizes. Look at verse 3. There is no speech, nor are there words. Their voice is not heard. Yet these these mute witnesses, these are witnesses without words And yet look at verse 4. Yet their voice goes out throughout all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. You see that the picture between verses 3 and 4 is that even without physical tongues, the message of creation is everywhere. It is clear and it is universal. As one commentator says, these are mute witnesses without sound and language, and yet are loudspeakers. Heralds understood everywhere. Understood everywhere. Our family is coming back from the Middle East where I just share that we spent the last eleven and a half years. uh trying to learn to speak Arabic. We arrived there many years ago and began studying Arabic every day. Four hours a day in class, several hours a day in study, several hours a day out in the community. We studied full-time for two years. And then many years after that, just to become fluent. And in all this, we worked hard to be understood in just one place. Then this week, on the way back to the Middle East, we had a layover in Brussels, where the common language is French. We met with a French pastor friend of mine for dinner. We entered into a restaurant in Brussels, and I found that all of my linguistic abilities got me almost nowhere. I realized that once again, here is another language where I can communicate almost nothing. My words do not go to the end of the earth. I am limited. But the revelation of God through creation is not limited. Throughout all of the earth, this voice speaks. See, this language, these words uttered by the Creator through creation, need no translator. They are heard far and wide. Think specifically just about the sun. That's where the text goes next. The sun 's reach across the world cannot be ignored, and it touches everyone. Verse 5 gives us two back-to-back illustrations. Both about the sun. First a groom, and then about a runner. David writes, In them, the skies, God has set up a tent for the sun. Verse 5, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber. How would a bridegroom leave his dressing chamber in a wedding tent Well, his entrance would be public. It would be glorious. It would involve the whole village. It would it would be a celebration. This would be an event that you couldn't miss. Think in our own culture, perhaps, of a of a bride walking down the aisle. It's the moment that in that ceremony no one looks away. Everyone turns and looks. And in a similar way, the sun rises from the end of the heavens and completes its circuit to the end of them. And its beauty is created to be glorious in our way in our eyes in a way that we cannot ignore. He explains further. Look at the end of verse 5. Like a strong man, it runs its course with joy. So how does the an athlete run his course? Perhaps picture the the strongest runner, a man like Hussein Bolt, who in ease and grace crosses the finish line with a smile on his face. This is what the sun is like on the finish of a day. With every sunset, it finishes its course with joy. There's nothing hidden from its heat. And with this joy, we too are meant to be happy in God as we are compelled to see Him in His creation. The Son compels us to open our eyes to see Him. I have to read you this quote. It's so good. Listen to how John Calvin explains this for us. He writes, the final goal of the blessed life then rests in the knowledge of God. Lest anyone be excluded from access to this type of happiness, God not only sowed in man's minds the seed of religion, of which we have spoken, but he revealed himself. And he daily discloses himself in the whole workmanship of the universe. Then he says this, as a consequence, men cannot open their eyes without being compelled to see. This is what Paul is saying in Romans 1, isn't it? When Paul says that God's invisible attributes Namely, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made, so that the world is without excuse. I wonder for us here today as as we're talking to non-believers or unbelievers who who don't believe in this God. Let me encourage you, church. Let us speak with a gentleness that can pose the question, how do they explain the existence of this world? Ask that question to your friends. Or if you're here today as a Christian who might sometimes doubt, well, first of all, welcome to the club. But second of all, when facing doubts, look to the way that God revealed himself in his world. It does take faith to believe in a God we cannot see. But I would argue it takes greater faith to believe in a world like this one without a creator behind it. If you're here today as a Christian, let me encourage you, next time that you marvel at a sunrise or a sunset or a starry night, don't just merely marvel at at the sky. No, the heavens are declaring the glory of God, not themselves Worship God when you see his glorious world. His world is saying, Look, O spectacle seeker, here is a glory that points to my glory. That's what the world is saying. Well, this psalm not only points us to the witness God gives, but it also shows us, number two, the word which we need. It does this in verses seven through eleven. See, God has spoken generally in his world, but next we see that he has spoken specifically in his word. And even before I read this, let me just show you something that's fascinating that's happening here in the text. This is too good to pass by. See, in God's word, his revelation becomes personal. Notice back in verse 1. Do you see there that the psalmist refers to God? The heavens declare the glory of God. And the original language he uses here is the general word for God, the word that all the nations would know and understand. But then here in verses 7 and 8 and 9, and then down in 14, when he speaks of God's special revelation in his word. He changes to use the covenantal name for God, Yahweh. In the ESV this is noted by the the uppercase letters, Lord in your Bible there. Do you see how he switches here? The implication is that if we may know we may know God's existence and his glory generally through his creation. But North Harford, if you want to know God personally, covenantally, you need to know him in covenantal relationship. And this comes through his word. His general revelation is enough to hold us accountable for his existence, but it is not enough to show us the full character of who he is and how he redeems. Well, how does God work in his word? Verses 7 through 11 are this poetic chorus for the choir master. You can almost imagine this being sung. Even in English, you can see there the rhythm and the symmetry of these verses. Each verse offers a chorus with praise, each delighting in God's word. So listen as I read 7 through 11. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned In keeping them, there is great reward. Notice first here the the different terms for God's word that are used here: the law, the testimony, the precepts. The commandments. The fear of the Lord, which is a robust idea in Scripture, but I believe here we can rightly interpret it as the instruction in the fear of the Lord. And the the rules of the Lord. Each of these terms working as synonyms, pointing us to think on God's revealed word in Scripture. That is in the Bible. Now, we should understand here that for the original context of David and his hearers, this psalm and these references were likely speaking of the Torah. That would be the first five books of the Old Testament. By the way, what a fascinating lesson for us to think about the value of every part of God's Word. Even the Torah, even the Old Testament, is sweeter than honey for David. However, as new covenant Christians, I think reading this we can understand that the canon has been completed. And that as 2 Timothy 3. 16 says, all scripture is inspired by God. And it's profitable to us. So while David was looking here in a special way to the Torah, I don't think it's wrong for us to read this with the whole Bible interview. Because for us, the whole Bible represents the law of God, the testimony, the precepts, and the commandments of God to us. Notice then the descriptor words which the psalmist sings to delight in God's word throughout these stanzas. He says it's perfect. It's meaning complete. It's lacking nothing. He says, sure. It's meaning that the testimonies are trustworthy. He says it's right, meaning they are straight and level. They're not twisted or false. He says they're pure, without error, they're free from impurities. He says they're clean. The word is unmixed with falsehood. He says they are true. They are firm and faithful. I'm working here out of the ESC currently. I'm not sure what version you're with. But here we see that God's word is reliable. Because it is an extension of himself without any error. Then notice that also in this song, notice what God's word does. Do you see what it's doing? That is, why do you need the Bible in your life this week? Why do you need the Bible in your life tomorrow morning before you start your day at work? Because God 's word brings transformation. Look at the text. Do you see it? Is your soul weary? Verse 7, it's in its completeness that God's word revives your soul. It brings healing. Do you need true wisdom or eternal wisdom this week? Verse 7b. In being trustworthy, God's word makes simple people wise. Does your heart need joy? Verse 8: The precepts of God's word are so straight and untwisted that they will bring true, lasting joy to your heart. Do you need to see clearly? Verse 8b, God says that the commandments of God are pure, like a lens, free from imperfections. They enlighten your eyes. Do you need to stand on something that is firm and unshifting in this world? Verse 9 says that the instruction which fears God is not mixed with any falsehood. So it will endure forever. It reminds me of Isaiah 48. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. Do you long for true goodness, for for true righteousness? Look at verse 9b. The rules of God are never false. They are righteous altogether. In them is only goodness. Friends, God 's word transforms. It is for your good. Now, with each of these relationships, there's there's more insight and joy than I can possibly explore in just a few minutes here tonight. You need to return to these stanzas and meditate on them for yourself. you need to consider how God's word is effectual in giving life to his people. But let me just to just to kind of prod you forward in that, let me just give you one example of how this has encouraged me in my life. Recently. Notice verse 8. So we just read this. It says, the precepts of the Lord are right or without falsehood. Rejoicing the heart. Recently, I was in a situation where, regrettably, I was being lied about. I don't think it was ill-willed, but it certainly wasn't true, and it was very painful for me. These lies were not right. They did not rejoice my heart. And so for several days afterwards, going about my work in my life in the Middle East, I was just discouraged. My heart was heavy. And then I meditated on this verse. And I remembered that God's word never lies about my condition. His word always only speaks rightly about me, both about my sin and about my obedience. I thought about his precepts here in this verse, his instructions, and how they tell me that it is to a man's glory to overlook an offense. And then his word reminded me that my sin is actually far worse than the lies that were being said about me. And I was thankful for the gospel that covers my sin when I thought on his precepts. Do you see how that works? This is just one personal example from my life from one of these choruses. What about you? Let me encourage you to pick one of these this week, to pick one, and see if it's true in your life. Meditate on it and see if God's word works like David says it does. And if you do, I guarantee you'll arrive where David arrives in verse 10. Do you see where he lands? Verse 10, more to be desired than gold. even much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey, and drippings of the honeycomb. So think about it, gold with this valuable wealth of great desire. Find gold. So the the most valuable riches you could have, the best gold that you could find. The honeycomb, the sweetest taste the psalmist could experience. The honey being the sweetest taste, the honeycomb being the storehouse of pleasure dripping from it. Think about this. God's word is more valuable than the greatest riches you could find and tastes better than the sweetest taste that you can imagine. So here's just a brief application for you this week. Christians, as I've already encouraged you, meditate on God's word this week Fathers, fathers here in the room, do you lead your family to see the incomparable greatness of God's word? Mothers, do you mother your children alongside of your husband's leadership to center your word, your home rather, around the word of God? If you read the word for yourself and study it deeply, you'll find that it gives you this life that we're reading about. Lastly, as a church, North Harford. Do you understand that this supreme value of God's Word is why this church and so many other Christian churches around the world make such an emphasis of sitting under the Word of God? so regularly. It's the Word of God with the Spirit of God that creates change in a church. So come eagerly every Sunday morning and sit under the Word of God and let it shape you. Come Sunday evenings. Make it a priority. Don't be distracted by lesser amusements. Well, speaking of the shaping of the Word of God, this leads us to our third and final point. We've seen that the witness God gives and the word we need Lastly, let's conclude with the response which God's revelation deserves. Look at verses 11 through 14 with me. We read there, moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them, there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Friends, when we see God 's self-revelation clearly, as sinful humans, we become aware of our own sinfulness. This is the flow of the text. This is the point that the psalm is driving to. So let me just say it again. Listen carefully. When we see God's self-revelation clearly, Especially in the Word, as sinful humans, we become aware of our own sinfulness. That's what's happening here. So in verse 11, the psalmist had just recognized that God 's rules warns his servants. And obedience to God's commands, verse 11, brings great rewards. But in verse 12, he admits: who can discern his errors? The rhetorical answer is no one can. We all know this. We are all plagued with what David here calls hidden faults. Do you see that in the text? These would be those those sins that you find yourself doing even unintentionally. Even when you want to do right, your life is riddled with sin. selfish motives when you serve another church member with hopes of being recognized or impatience in traffic or in a slow line at the grocery store. Or failing to care about your nerd needy neighbor that you just pass on the way, or pride creeping in and under every good action that you try to do. You fill in the blank. Hidden faults. But not only these hidden faults, Christians also fight what verse 13 calls presumptuous sins. These sins are the open, willing acts of disobedience against God. This is like the last time you chose to lash out in anger against a family member. Or perhaps when you chose to share gossip that you knew you should have let die. So both presumptuous sins and hidden faults. are categories of sin which are concerning to David as he has seen God's self-res -revelation. See, David has seen the purity and the perfection of God's law, and now he sees how his life is not pure and it is not perfect. The response God's revelation requires is seen as David asks two things in the text. First, David asks for God's help in his sanctification. Do you see this in the text? Verse 13, keep back your servant from presumptuous sins. So God must hold us back from sinning, not on our own power Verse 13, let them not have dominion over me. That is, let Christ reign forever over me, not the dominion of my sin. Verse 14, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. He appeals to God to let both what is in his mouth And what is in his heart be pleasing to God. God must work this holiness in David. And David sees that and cries out to God, God, work this in me. Do you pray like that? Do you pray like that in the secret of your prayer life as a church? To ask God to do this in you? Do you see this here? Your sanctification is dependent on God. God must work in you if you are to obey. We need to fight sin like this. David knows he needs a rock that is stronger than his own will. His own resolve against sin is weak and it is short. Yours is too. Mine is even shorter. But Yahweh, his covenant God, verse 14, the end of the verse, is a rock He is the rock who hung the stars in the heavens. He is the rock who was there when the sun was put into place. He is the rock that can preserve David from sin. He is the rock that David turns to for his hope in sanctification. But second, and this is where we'll end tonight. Notice David not only asks for God's help in his sanctification. But it seems he also asks for it in his justification. I wonder if you've noticed the end of verse 12. See, after acknowledging that our sin is so great that we can't even see it all, David makes a fascinating request. He says there at the end of the verse, declare me innocent from hidden faults. And you could interpret this to mean help me to walk rightly so that I will be declared innocent. I don't think that's what he's clearly saying, declare me innocent. So earlier that the heavens were declaring, and here David asked that God too would declare something. Here David isn't looking forward, asking to be prevented from sin. Isaac is looking backward at the the sin that he's already committed. He needs to be declared innocent How can a sinful man be declared innocent and God not be unjust? Friends, this is one of the questions that the whole Bible holds in tension and doesn't really answer in Psalms fully. It doesn't answer fully until it finds it's Full resolution in Jesus Christ. See, all of us are like David, having both hidden sins and high-handed sins against our glorious Creator. Yet the story of the Bible and its fulfillment is that the good news of Jesus is that he came as the Son of God and He lived the life that you should have lived, and He died the death that you deserve to die. In our place. He took God's wrath for us. He was crucified, buried, and rose again, defeating both sin and death. And if we place our faith in Jesus Christ, we can be declared innocent of our sin. If you're not a Christian here tonight, let me just invite you to talk to someone here today about this message. Find me after the service, or find one of the pastors. Or actually just find a church member. Because that's what it means to be a church member, is we hold to what I just said, and we know this and we cling to this and we believe this. Christ is our hope to be declared innocent. See, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the one whom Colossians says, by him all things were created, both in heaven and on earth. This creator Died for us. And as Tony Ranky reminds us, this is the great spectacle of all spectacles which demands our fullest attention Jesus dying for us. Jesus declaring us innocent. This is the spectacle which all revelation is pointing to. Jesus paid the debt we owed, and in doing so He redeemed us. And that is why we can say with David in the end of the psalm, O Lord, my rock and my redeem. Let's pray together. Father God, we praise you for Jesus Christ. He is our hope. He is the one that we cling to. He is the one that we look to. He is our rock and our redeemer. We thank you, O God, for the clear and unignorable revelation that we have as you have revealed yourself in your world. We thank you, O God, for the preciousness of your word. Father, let us be a people that live in line with your word this week God, we thank you for Jesus Christ, who declares us innocent of our sin and equips us to fight sin in the future. We pray for your help this week in Jesus' name.