Chapter Two We'll begin with verse twelve. You have the outline in the bulletin. As we look at zeal for God's house, and we see that in the life of Christ and Want to follow him and what that means for us. Verse 12 is a transition verse, John 12, 12, and it describes what happened after Jesus' miracle. At the wedding at Cana, and it becomes for us kind of an introduction into the message. Verse 12 says, after this, he went down to Capernaum. Now from the wedding at Cana. Uh they went down because that was higher ground. They're actually going across to the north shore of the Sea of Galilee. And here's who was with him, he and his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there a few days. Capernaum was the home of James and John, and we're not told of the purpose of this trip. Perhaps it became an opportunity for Jesus to assess his mother and His brothers of his ministry. But no one of his family or his disciples could have imagined what came next It wasn't what they expected after the gracious miracle at the wedding. And you and I need to come to this passage. Forming our understanding of Jesus not from thoughts of what we want him to be, or merely from what others say about him, we need to form our understanding of Jesus from Scripture, from thought Passages such as this. So let's look at it in a fresh way. In this passage, we learn that Jesus has, first of all, zeal for the temple. That's obvious. Verses 13 through 17. The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. He was living as a faithful Jew. He had to. He was perfect, where Israel was imperfect in so many ways as our Savior he had to be. The perfect Adam, the perfect Israelite. So he's living as a faithful Jew, fulfilling the law as a son of Israel Passover was the annual feast that celebrated how God brought the Israelites out of Egypt, the death angel, the blood on the household, uh household the doorposts of the Israelite homes, and The death angel passed over, and all the firstborn of Egypt died, and Pharaoh finally said, Leave, and they left. All Jewish men were required to celebrate in Jerusalem. This was the first of three Passovers mentioned in the Gospel of John, and that's the primary reason that we know Jesus' ministry lasted three Passovers. We think three years, but over two, anyway. Verse fourteen. He's there in Jerusalem. And he found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves and the money changers seated at their tables. Now everyone was to bring an offering, either money or dubs or lamb, and those who traveled a long way certainly would probably plan to buy an an offering, a sacrifice when they arrived. That would be for convenience and for necessity, but animals would be available. And those who would bring their own sacrifices were sometimes, maybe often, told that they that their sacrifice had a defect and couldn't be used, and so they had to buy one of the approved sacrifices. Money offerings had to be in Jewish coins, and the money changers would charge a transaction fee. Well, we know about that in our day, transaction fees, but this place dedicated to worship was being used to make a profit. It had become a place of merchandise. And the phrase in the temple here doesn't mean the the rectangular structure where you had the the holy of holies and the holy place. It's talking about the temple grounds. So this was taking place actually in the court of the Gentiles, which was an open area. Just think of a courtyard, but it was a place that had been dedicated to be a place of prayer for all the nations. This was as far as they could come But it existed as an invitation to anyone who wasn't a Jew, Gentiles, to worship the God of Israel, the one true God. And so an area that was intended as a blessing for the nation The picture we get is it's now crowded with business activity and self-seeking motives of profit. And all of this taking place At the temple, his father's house, made Jesus angry. I want you to see that his anger And action because of that is deliberate. It is intentional. It is not out of control. That's how we should read verse 15. He made a scourge of cords. He didn't just start pushing things around. He made a scourge of cords. of courts, and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and the oxen. I mean you can think of the What this might have looked like, and we're probably correct, it would have been crazy. And he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables, again deliberately doing this. And to those who were selling the doves, he said , Take these things away. Stop making my house a place of business A place of trading, a place of making a profit. Now for Jesus to say, my father's house The same thing that he had said as a 12-year-old boy when his parents found him in the temple. Remember, he said, I had to be in my father's house. It was a claim to be the Son of God. This was personal to him. This was his house. And so he is acting on his own interests as God the Son. His disciples remembered verse 17, very significant. His disciples remembered that it was written, zeal for your house. will consume me. We don't know exactly when they remembered, but they remembered. And John, by God's inspiration, puts it in this passage that they are Connecting scripture, Old Testament scripture, with Jesus' life and works. Hey, that's a good thing to do. That's what we're told to do. That's what Jesus did on the road to Emmaus. Connecting Scripture with Jesus' life and works. In this case, his actions reminded them of David's words in Psalm 69, verse 9, as David declares In that psalm, that no matter the consequences, he would defend the interests of God. Jesus is defending the interests of God. As God's Son. We note that no one attempts to stop Jesus. His anger was a righteous anger. He was not a man out of control. So ask the question, who was this? Well, this was the Son of God, cleansing his father's house of corruption. Zeal for his father's house. Secondly, we learn that Jesus has zeal for the Father's will. Verse 18. The Jews, and when we see that phrase the Jews, often in the Gospel of John, it is the Jewish authorities. Pharisees, priests. The Jews then said to him, What sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? They don't focus on the morality of his action. Perhaps they knew on the inside that he was right in what he was doing. What they question is his authority for taking the action. Who made you a sheriff of the temple grounds, in other words, that you could do this? They demanded proof that he had the right to stop the selling of animals and the money changing. After all, profit was at stake. And so they ask for a sign. What sign do you show? Now a sign was commonly sought to prove that one was acting in the will of God. But this does show their blindness to some extent because The temple cleansing itself was a sign. Remember, we should connect Old Testament scripture. There was a scripture in Malachi chapter 3. Verses 1 through 3, the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. But who can endure the day of his coming? And he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver so that they Safe may present to the Lord offerings in righteousness. Certainly a fulfillment of that prophecy here. One commentator wrote, The majestic manner in which Jesus performed this task so that none seeing him even dared to resist was proof sufficient that the Messiah had entered the temple. and was purging it as had been predicted. Notice the division that Jesus is producing here. Those who see him fulfilling the scripture, the disciples, And those who question his authority, the Jewish leaders. And let me just say that seeking a sign also shows their wickedness. They were unwilling in this moment that it's happening, unwilling to admit their guilt. They should have been ashamed at what Jesus had to do in the Father's honor. They should have been ashamed and repented of such merchandising and greed within the temple grounds, but instead The challenge when they should have been confessing their sins. People do the same thing today. We do the same thing today. Conscience shows that behavior offends God, who has created us. But instead of humbling ourselves sometimes, some people think God should prove Himself to them. If this is really wrong, show me that it's wrong. I had a colleague at a place of work before going into the ministry who struggled with homosexuality. He knew it was a sin. But instead of repenting in light of scripture that others had shared and I was sharing with him, he expected some supernatural sign from God. I remember him saying, I I wish I could see a statue cry or bleed, whatever he said at the time. That's where his mind was. God prove yourself to me. And maybe I'll listen to your word. Verse 18, what sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Well, that sounded outlandish to them. They didn't understand what he was saying. The Jews then said, it took forty-six years to build this temple, and you will raise it up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. Now I want you to realize, because we don't see it in the English translations, but the word Jesus used for temple here is a different word. It means place where God dwells. It was the word used of the Holy of Holies, always used for the Holy of Holies, the inner chamber of the temple where God said his presence would dwell. Think with me on That. The Bible says of Jesus, in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. His physical body was indeed. A temple. Destroy this temple. Jesus was saying, destroy, kill my physical body, and I will raise it up in three days. Zeal for the Father's will would indeed and did indeed consume him. Because he went to his death. And the night before the cross, Jesus prayed three times. You remember, my Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will. That as you will. That is zeal for the Father's will. Let's remember the question the Jews asked: What sign do you show? What sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? Now Jesus would perform many signs: healing the blind, the deaf, the lame, cleansing lepers, raising the dead. But when asked by the Jews to prove himself, when challenged to show his divine authority, this is the sign that he offered: his resurrection. Fast forward, you can do it. Fast forward to early Sunday morning resurrection day. Just in your mind and listen to this passage, also in the book of John, chapter 20. Turn to it if you want to, but I'm going to read what happened on resurrection morning. On the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came early to the tomb while it was still dark, and saw the stone already taken away from the tomb. So she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple. That was John. whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter and the other disciple went forth and they were going to the tomb. The two were running together. And the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came to the tomb first. And stooping and looking in, he saw the linen wrappings lying there, but he did not go in. And so Simon Peter also came following him and entered the tomb, and he saw the linen wrappings lying there. And the facecloth which had been on his Jesus head, not lying with the linen wrappings, but rolled up in a place by itself. So the other disciple who had first come to the tomb, then also entered. And he saw and believed. Did you hear that? He enters the tomb, sees what's there. The linen wrappings, the facecloth, he saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Verse 22 says, So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had sinned. Said this. They thought back to this temple cleansing and Jesus saying, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. So it's not, we're not directly linked to John's entering the tomb, but it might have been then that he thought back to what Jesus said on this day that we're reading. In John chapter 2. And they remembered that, and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken. The scripture references in the Old Testament. Again, that comes up as something important to the church. Psalm 16, Isaiah 53. Speak of the Messiah's suffering , death, and his resurrection. But also they remembered the word which Jesus had spoken By the time of the crucifixion and resurrection, Jesus had said on several occasions, spoken plainly to the disciples about his death by crucifixion and his resurrection on the third day. Day. And when he rose from the dead, it came together for them. They understood, they believed the scripture. They believed that this was the sign that he had given. Let me ask you, do you need proof? Does anybody need proof? Maybe somebody watching online, do you need proof that Jesus is God's Son? Proof that you must receive him as Lord and Savior. Well, this is the proof. His body was killed and three days later He rose alive. So believe the scripture and the word which Jesus has spoken. The resurrection is proof of the person and work of Jesus It calls you to acknowledge his deity. It calls you to trust him, to rest in what he did for salvation, a savior from sin. And it calls you to submit to his lordship. It's the sign that he gave. Don't be like those who look at Jesus and stubbornly say, maybe you don't think of it as being stubborn, but you're still looking for some sign. What sign do you show me? When the sign that he promised already took place. He rose from the dead as predicted here. Believe in him, if you have not. If you want somebody to talk to about that. Yeah, Pastor Matt, Pastor John, others in this room would be glad to sit down with you and talk with you about that Thirdly, we see Jesus' zeal for the kingdom. Verses 23 through 25. While he was in Jerusalem at the Passover festival, many trusted in his name when they saw the signs he was doing. That sounds good, doesn't it? Isn't this what John said the signs were for in chapter 20? That people would believe? But Their faith, we'll see in verse 24 and 25, was somehow deficient because Jesus, however, would not entrust himself to them Since he knew them all, and because he did not need anyone to testify about man, for he himself knew what was in man. If you had asked them. After Passover, do you believe in Jesus? Yes, we saw his signs. They weren't believers. They weren't born-again believers. They weren't part of his kingdom. He knew that though they believed his signs were real, they fell short. Of believing that he was the Christ, the Son of God. This kind of faith that we see in verse 23 failed to receive Jesus as Lord. They saw power. They saw a blessing. They might have thought, oh, he's going to do great things for Israel. There was no repentance and faith toward God, toward Jesus. Jesus turned a lot of heads during his few years of ministry. But the kingdom is not made up of people whose heads have been turned by what Jesus could do, but by people whose hearts have been converted. A work of God's grace. And that wasn't happening here. People who turn from sin in repentance and turn to Jesus for forgiveness. Turn to him as Lord and Savior. Jesus was not a populist candidate trying to say and do whatever would get votes in our lifetime. We've seen those come and go. He was not building popularity, but a kingdom made up of those who by God's grace would believe and follow whatever the cost. We mirror this zeal for the kingdom when we practice a like caution. When we continue to preach repentance of sin, as John the Baptist did, when we exalt Jesus and call for faith in him alone as the Son of God and faith in his death for Sin and faith in his resurrection, uncompromisingly, that that has to be understood. And embraced. When we refuse to allow anyone to think that their own goodness makes them fit for the kingdom. And so it is zeal for the kingdom that would cause Pastor Madarai to ask someone about their faith. And what their true assurance is based on. Why would God allow you into heaven? One of the questions you might be familiar with. How do you answer that? Jesus has to be central. Jesus has to be only in that answer. Yes, it's good that we want to follow him, but that doesn't give us entrance. Into the kingdom. You understand, zeal for his kingdom is to ensure that people have saving faith. Faith in Jesus alone. But God by grace alone has saved me, brought me to the point of seeing my sin in need of forgiveness. And my only hope is that Jesus went to the cross and died. for my sin. Yes, I want to follow him, but I don't add one thing to my assurance. It is all of Christ. So, yes, zeal for the kingdom when we refuse to allow anyone to think that their own goodness makes them fit for the kingdom. Zeal for the kingdom when we tell people as Jesus did to count the cost. Following him. Some implications. God has a house today. Did you know that? It's not the physical Room that we're sitting in now. We call this building the church. But we understand that the church is the assembly. So it is a place for the church to gather. God has a house today. The church is his temple. It is called so in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 16. We assembled are the temple of the living God. There's another temple, and it is the individual believer. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 19 and 20 tells us, 19 says, your body, your body, physical body, is a temple. of the Holy Spirit who is in you. So just as we were seeing Jesus as a temple, destroy this temple, there's a sense in which, yes, our bodies are a temple of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. So God has a house today. The church is his temple. The individual believer is his temple. Secondly, God has zeal for his house today. Don't be merchandising. Don't be seeking self in his house. James 4, 4 and 5. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the Scripture speaks to no purpose? He jealously desires the Spirit which He has made to dwell in us. made to dwell in the assembled church, made to dwell in the individual believer. He jealously desires it. He has zeal for his house today Thirdly, God cleanses his house today. Hebrews 12 and verse 6. Those whom the Lord loves, he what, you know, disciplines. And he scourges. He makes the cord. Jesus made the cord. But the same picture is used of our discipline. He scourges every son whom he received. What does he scourge us of? Anything not consistent with his glory It's an ongoing process. We call it sanctification, where he is more and more helping us to see what it means to be set apart unto his glory. So Christians, acknowledge this morning that just as he had the right to cleanse the temple in Jerusalem, he has the right to cleanse the church. He has the right to cleanse you as a believer, a temple of the Holy Spirit. He does so in love. He does so for your own good. But he does so for the glory of his kingdom. He's zealous for that. He does so that you might experience the peaceful fruit of righteousness, as Hebrews tells us. And so let us ask ourselves: what in our lives do not honor Him? What is for self-interest and not for God's interest? Are we really zealous? For the temple. And I want to say there is joy in yielding those areas to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. So if anything is making you convicted this morning, let me just say the other side of that repentance and obedience is joy So let us follow Jesus in having zeal for God's house, zeal for God's will, and zeal for God's kingdom. Join me in prayer. And as your eyes are closed, I I want you just to think about Jesus looking at your life. I mean he sees it. So you really don't have to imagine it too much, but You think about your life. And Jesus looking around at all of it. He wants what honors God. And what honors God is best for you. And if you're a believer, you really do want that too. So don't resist his authority. Honor him if you haven't by professing faith in him publicly. Honor him by seeking baptism. Honor him by joining this local fellowship or another one where the Bible is taught. Honor him, as I suggested earlier, by asking questions you need to ask to understand. Honor him by not allowing things of the world that you know are sinful. To be a part of your personal life. Or God forbid, a part of the church life. Father, thank you. Thank you for showing us Jesus' zeal for your house. Thank you for showing us through the Scripture what that means personally for us today. And I pray, Lord, that uh There would be joy for anyone who is under conviction this morning, myself as well, that there would be joy in laying down In getting rid of, putting out of the courtyard the things that shouldn't be there. So pray that you'd help us in this. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.