All right, so we are down to the concluding verses of First Thessalonians. Our two objectives for today will be, one, finish up the letter, and two, introduce the second letter. So we're gonna start with reading verses twenty-three through twenty-eight in First Thessalonians five, twenty-three to twenty-eight. So the it's not on the handoff, but you have to do it. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, who also will do it. Brethren, pray for us. Greet all the brethren with the holy kiss. I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read to all the holy brethren. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. So just to give us a context here, in a stretch of twelve verses from verses eleven through twenty-two Paul has presented a long string of commands in a rapid-fire fashion. I mean, if you just count all the imperatives in verses eleven to thirteen, I'll just list them for you. You see there's a lot. Comfort each other. Edify one another. Recognize those who labor among you. Esteem them very highly. Be at peace among yourselves. And that's just verses 11 to 13. But we should never think that Christian life is done in our own effort. By grace alone, we got eternal life in heaven. And again, by grace alone, we will get through this life on earth. And that's why we need prayer. And to be clear, prayer and intercession are not just end notes of a letter. Prayer should permeate our lives as we seek to obey Christ. If I may offer one of these short terse axioms. As you do God's will, pray God's will. As you do God's will, pray God's will. Let me try to explain what this means. So we know from this letter. That God's will is sanctification. We know it clearly. That's why we should make sure that we are acting on our sanctification by abstaining from sexual immorality. That's in uh chapter 4, verse 3. But we should also pray, as we see in this uh section here, that God would sanctify us. As you read here in verse 23. And that earlier in this chapter, we know it is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you to rejoice always. So go ahead, rejoice always, in verse 16 of chapter 5. As you do that, make sure you go on to the next verse in verse 17. Pray without seizing. Open your Bible to know God's will. Open your mouths to pray God's will. So let's reread verse 23. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, because Paul is an authoritative apostle, and because he is closing his epistle in just a few words here, you could say he's uttering a benediction, a parting blessing for his beloved saints. And we know the one who answers this prayer is the God of peace. You recall the letter begins with the recognition that true peace along with grace comes from God the Father and Lord Jesus Christ. the very first words of this letter. In addition, peace with fellow saints is only possible through the shared faith in the same gospel. And through this gospel of peace, we have access to the God of peace. So, with this prayer, there are two verbs of wishing in verse 23. They have to do with sanctification and preservation. So it says in verse twenty-three, Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you. That's the first part. And then after that semicolon, we see the second part. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved. Sanctification and preservation And what connects these two ideas together grammatically is the conjunction AND, which you see after the semicolon there. And you know, as we expect, the conjunction acts as a kind of a joint in the original language, where the two parts of the prayer touch. At this touch point, the first half of the prayer in the original language ends with the adverb completely. And the second half of the prayer begins with the adjective whole. So it's sort of like a chiasm format for those, you know, Bible nerds. All that to say, completeness is the key idea in this prayer, right? That connects the two wishes. Now you realize, okay, well what does that mean matter? Now imagine for a second if God doesn't provide complete sanctification and preservation. What if God doesn't sanctify us completely? Well, we might be sexually pure outwardly, but without God granting grace to us, we might commit adultery in our hearts. If only our souls are kept blameless, how can we comfort one another with words about the resurrection of the dead in Christ at the rapture in chapter 4, 13-18? Praise God that He does not sanctify and preserve a quarter, half or even 99% of us. He completely sets us apart and preserves all of our being. Our whole spirit, soul and body, blame us at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. I heard a story about soldiers, you know, thousands of years ago, that um because the uh the king wished that they would become Christians, they were all required to be baptized. So when they entered the water to be baptized, for some reason they had their sword in their hands with them, and then when they were immersed under the water, they made sure to have their hand outside of the water. Right when they're immersed. They thought that uh they wanted to be baptized and they had to do it, but they wanted to make sure that their hand isn't baptized so that they can still like commit uh you know horrendous things and stuff like that. Right? That's not how sanctification works. That's not how salvation works. All of you is given to God. And He will work in you. And He will work in your thought light. you know in your um speech, uh in your outward acting, in your emotions, everything. So many cite verse 23 as a proof text for the view that human nature is composed of three parts, a trichotomy. Hebrews 4. 12, you can look that up, also gives credence to this view, as the author of Hebrews asserts that God's word is powerful enough to divide between the soul and the spirit. Um some people think just our invisible nature might be composed of two parts, soul and spirit, joined together. So maybe it's body, soul, and spirit, those three parts. Others look at Matthew ten twenty eight, Second Corinthians seven one James 2. 26, Matthew 10. 28, 2 Corinthians 7. 1, James 2. 26 in support of a dichotomy view. Like that we're composed of body and soul or body and spirit. To make things even more complicated, we have to think about the heart, the conscience, the mind, all these other terms. I just know God's word can divide between those parts, the invisible parts. Now, anthropological discussions aside, how are we to view the spirit, the soul, and the body in light of this prayer? Thomas Constable thinks that the spirit is what allows one to communicate with God. The self-relation to God. Self-relation to God. The soul is the seed of personality, self-consciousness. It's like the self's relationship to self. So self-relation to God is the spirit, soul is the self-consciousness, relationship to self, and the body is the recognizable part of the human nature which allows self-expression. So if this is true, um and w we want to piece all these things together in light of this prayer, Paul's emphasis might be more relational. That is relationship with the self, relationship with God, and relationship with fellow humans, that we must be blameless and sanctified in all those areas. So let's ask the Lord to make us holy and blameless in our relationship to ourselves, and obviously with our relationship with God, and with uh in our relationship with Our neighbors, our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. If there is a difference between sanctification and preservation, it is that in this prayer That one is focused more on the present and the other is a future idea. We need to be continually sanctified in the present, but there is also this future assurance that we will be preserved blameless in the end. And remember that's no way that's possible in our moral rectitude. We fail in so many ways. We fail again and we ask for grace and mercy again and again. But we have this promise found in the gospel that is not dependent on us. But on the faithful character of God. Verse 24, he who calls you is faithful, who will who also will do it. And Paul knows he needs God's sanctification, preservation, and faithfulness as much as the Thessalonians do. So he asks in verse 25, Brethren, pray for us. Moving on to verse 26, it commands believers to express affection, greet all the brethren with a holy kiss. It was common in Paul's day, as it is common in many cultures today, to greet with a kiss on the cheek. Um at least in Paul's time men did this with other men and women with other women. Um now I was talking with Mark Burks, right, and um I think he's attending a conservative Mennonite church. And I think he said that they put this to practice literally. So they when they go to church, all the people there Um greet one another with a holy kiss, you know, just on the cheek, right? Men to men and woman to woman. I'm not suggesting we do that here. Okay. Because culturally um applied, it's probably a little bit different here in America. I think a hug, a pat on the back, and a or a handshake would be fine. And I try to, at least for me personally, I try to put myself at a location where everyone anyone can come in and talk to me after service. Um I definitely offer a handshake, right? And then sometimes I awkwardly offer a hug. And, you know, but um yeah, uh not very good, but um gotta give it a try, right? Um right. And if the occasion halls for it, like I mean, with the Murrays, no hesitation, like I I give hugs, right? But um at least at this season. Um But for us maybe this would mean that we make sure that we say at least hi to the people that come to church every week Um I know that it's hard to catch them sometimes. Sometimes like right after service they just make a beeline and they're out of here. But um if they are sticking around, you know, just go say hi and don't just say hi to the people that uh you're always gonna say hi to. Right, the people you're comfortable with. And I think for the most part you guys are really good at it. Um but in terms of showing physical affection, you know, I'll let you pray about how to apply this. But no matter whether you pat on the back or handshake or high five or if you ever see those basketball games where before the game they like do all these elaborate, you know, fist bumps and You know, whatever. You can do that too. But whatever you do, do it with holiness. Holiness must accompany these displays of affection. And holiness means sexual purity, not immorality, sincerity, not hypocrisy, love, not hate. In verse 27, Paul places the leaders under oath to read this letter to the entire congregation. He says, I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read to all the holy brethren. Now they're many years away from the printing press and copy machines, pew Bibles and Bible apps. So the most expedient and efficient and effective way to disseminate the contents of this letter was by reading the letter aloud at the weekly congregational meeting. And they didn't even have microphones, so It must have been a bit of a challenge. So I'm sure everyone sat up in the front of the pews or whatever they had. But Paul likely wanted to put the burden of following the letter. to the entire group. And he probably also understood that this letter content was inspired and authoritative by his position as an apostle. This conclusion section from verses 23 to 28 is book-ended with prayers. That again reminds us of the first verse of this letter. The conclusion started in verse twenty-three with the benedictory prayer to the God of peace. At the other end we have a prayer for grace in verse twenty-eight. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. So I hope that you know God's peace and grace deeply from the gospel. That's 1 Thessalonians. Let's go right into 2 Thessalonians. Just background information. Recall that Thessalonica is located in Macedonia, where Paul's first European missionary activity took place. Now he had to leave behind the area due to the intense persecution from the Thessalonian Jews. After a short stint in Athens, Paul went to Corinth. And Paul's ministry in Corinth is significant for many reasons in New Testament chronology, trying to piece piece together, you know, when Paul did this and when Paul did that. Right. Paul's friendships, uh he made some important friendships there. And the Thessalonian letters. It was in Corinth that Paul wrote The Thessalonian correspondences, I believe both of them, first and second. Before we discuss the details, let's just read Acts. Okay. eighteen one through seventeen, just to show us what happened in um in Corinth Okay. Acts eighteen, one through seventeen. Again, this is where Paul wrote first in Second Thessalonians. After these things Paul departed from Athens and went to court, and he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla. Because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome, and he came to them. So because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked, for by occupation there were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every sixth Sabbath and persuaded both Jews and Greeks. When Silas and Timothy Had come from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ. But when they opposed him and blasphemed, he took his garments and said to them, Your blood be upon your own heads. I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles. And he departed from there and entered the house of a certain man named Justice, one who worshipped God. whose house was next door to the synagogue. Then Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his household. And many of the Corinthians, hearing, believed and were baptized. Now the Lord spoke to Paul in the night by a vision. Do not be afraid, but speak. And do not keep silent, for I am with you, and no one will attack you to hurt you, for I have many people in this city. And you continue there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. When Galeo was the pro counsel of Achaia, The Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him brought him to the judgment seat, saying, This fellow persuades men to worship God contrary to the law. And when Paul was about to open his mouth, Eliel said to the Jews, If it were a matter of wrongdoing or wicked crimes, O Jews, there would be reasons why I should bear with you. But if it is a question of words and names and your own law, look to it yourselves, for I do not want to be a judge of such matters. And he drove them from the judgment seat. Then all the Greeks took Sastanes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. But Galeo took no notice of these things. So I'm gonna connect this with Thessalonians in a second just for chronology's sake. Here's a quick rundown and I put the points there for you. We're working backwards from the various verses in Acts 18. So Acts 18, 12 and the important archaeological data from Delphi inscription confirmed Galeo as the Po Council of Achaia, which was a one-year term. In 51 to 52 AD At Emperor Claudius' 26th out of total 27th imperial acclamation. So it was toward the end of his reign. Paul may have met Galileo at the start of his term. It's probably because the enemies of Paul were saying, maybe we can test this new official. And maybe test his resolve. As you can see Galeo was pretty hardened and didn't want to didn't care about it We know Paul stayed 18 months in Corinth, Acts 18. 11. Timothy rejoined Paul fairly soon after Paul arrived in Corinth, Acts 18. 5. Timothy brought back report of Thessalonians' growth and appears to have easier access to that city of Thessalonica. So it's probably that when Paul and Silas was taking care of the preaching and uh the major uh brunt of the ministry in Thessalonica, maybe that uh Timothy s sort of strategically stayed low. Paulus Orosius reported that Claudius expelled Roman Jews in his ninth year, around 49 A. D. , because Claudius started reigning in 40 A. Acts 18, 2. So if Paul arrived in early 50, he would have received Timothy's report and wrote his first letter in the spring of that same year. So because we saw in 1 Thessalonians, Timothy seems to have arrived pretty fairly recently, and now he's saying, Okay, um, I'm giving you a letter in response. The second letter was written with much urgency while still in Corinth, likely within six months of the first letter in late spring or summer of 50 AD. This means that Paul wrote two letters during his second mission trip, as little as a few weeks apart, at most few months. So we can settle on early to mid-50 AD as the time the Second Thessalonians was written. So I tend to believe uh It's easy to remember for me. This is how I remember the letters that are written during Paul's mission trips. First mission trip, one letter Galatians. Second mission trip, 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. So two letters during this second mission trip. Three letters during the third mission trip, 1st and 2nd Corinthians and Romans. So that's how I remember. One letter at the first, two letters at the second, three letters at the third mission trip. So that's the just the date of it and the background of the letter. Now we're gonna talk a little bit about why it was written. External evidence from early church suggests universal acceptance of Pauline authorship. That means that most people in early church said, yeah, Paul wrote it. Uh if you want if you like names. I you know I said a lot of names today, might as well add to the list. Um Ignatius, Justin Martyr, Polycarp, Irenaeus. Um and here are some translations, Old Latin and Old Syriac. They all confirm that Paul wrote Second Thessalonians. I mean, I guess they weren't credible enough because modern scholars tend to place 2 Thessalonians among the so-called disputed Pauline works. So after the pastoral letters, 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus and Ephesians, 2 Thessalonians is the most doubted letter of Paul. And those who question Pauline authorship usually present these five arguments from internal evidence. So those five points there is not what I believe, okay? It's what they're saying. First, they point to less imminent eschatology. Compared to the second, first Thessalonians appear to present a more imminent return with Paul participating in the rapture. with other living saints. W why is it is there a shift, they'll say. It's two different linguistic features. They seem there seem to be some different um in words and vocabulary and style. Speaking of which number three, formal and distant tone. For example, he now writes, we are bound to think. Second Thessalonians 1 3, 2 13, verses, we give thanks. First Thessalonians 1 2. I don't think it's a big difference, but you know. Just hearing out there, nitpicking. Also Paul is more commanding in the second letter. Second Thessalonians 3, 4, verse 6, 10, and 12. They also say, well, there seems to be readers with more Old Testament knowledge in the second letter. Mm. They seem to have more of that knowledge. And then they'll say, it's superfluous. Why write on the second uh same topic another another letter about eschatology in such a short span of time? No, within a few months apart from each other. Now, I'll admit that there are some differences between the two correspondences, but I don't think we need to jump to the conclusion that there are two different authors here. Let's see if there is any explanation from the context. I think a key passage in defending the Pauline authorship and the differences between 1 and 2 Thessalonians is 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 1 and 2. Second Thessalonians chapter two, verse one and two It says there now brethren, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ And are gathering together to him, we ask you not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled, either by spirit or by word, or by letter, as if from us, as though the day of Christ had come. Paul is indicating in verse two that a letter or letters of forgery have arrived. This is a shocking development. What happened? You know, uh now with Paul's letter, uh we have to sort of kind of piece together what's going on. You know, it's We're sort of like listening in on a conversation between two people. Um and there will be inside jokes, tensions, and problems that we can only speculate on. But there must have been something that happened between first and second Thessalonians. that we should pay attention to. Here's my hypothetical reconstruction. As we read as we just read in Acts, Paul left the young Thessalonian church and he could not easily return. Jason, one of the members of the Thessalonian church, was forced to make a pledge that he would not harbor Paul and his companions. So Paul could not come back to Thessalonica without harming the believers there. And Silas too, because Silas was also um in trouble at that time. Now so what what are they doing? The the persecutors, the the Thessalonian Jews, were probably on high alert for Paul at the city gates. But they could not stop Timothy from sneaking in. So like I said earlier, it's likely that Timothy strategically kept a low profile during their ministry. So that he could be dispatched to go back and forth and help churches that they would visit. Which is really smart by Paul and Silas to do that. And like I said also, Timothy brought back good report concerning the Thessalonians, and then Paul wrote 1 Thessalonians in response. In First Thessalonians there's no indication that Paul knew that there was this forgery going on. Now to deliver that letter, because Timothy just returned, there's this anonymous letter carrier we don't know about. Which is smart because if Timothy was detected going back and forth, now they'll send a different face that they wouldn't recognize. This sounds like some kind of spy or like but it was important. Paul had to reach them, and letter was the best way to do it. Now this unknown letter carrier who carries the first Thessalonians. Okay, went there, delivered the letter, had it read, and then returned to Corinth, but he's bringing back some bad news unlike Timothy Between the time Timothy left Thessalonica and the letter carrier arrived at Thessalonica, unbelieving Jews there somehow infiltrated the congregation. They must have learned about Paul's main strategy to use epistles to teach and strengthen the congregation. So then the Thessalonian Jews turn to an insidious plan. Discredit Paul's teaching with the fake letter. The bourgery probably focused on twisting the apostles' end-time teachings. And that would create panic, confusion. And it seems to be saying that the day of the Lord has already come. That they missed out on something. Now you can just imagine um what that must have felt like. I had a friend who was studying in London uh School of Economics and she was called in one time and said with the other students like um Um were you participating in plagiarism? Somehow they got a hold of her paper and they were forging it and like they they copied off of it and so she thought she was in trouble. And she was she said she was shook to the core, right? And that's sort of what it would feel like. Like someone says that hey there's a letter out there saying that it's from you. That must have been shocking to Paul. So Paul urgently went to work on Second Thessalonians with some care He had to address the believers, but he could not allow this infiltrator or infiltrators to learn the details of Paul's teachings, or else they would try to distort more of his teachings. So at times we see Paul had to resort to general language or even cryptic language throughout the letter and just more generally reinforce what they already knew. And you'll see a little bit of just the imprecatory tone as well. That explains verses five and six in chapter two. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things? And now you know what is restraining that he may have he may be revealed in his own time. That restrainer, we're like we're trying to figure out what it is, but Paul knew, the Thessalonians knew, but someone hearing it had to sort of guess, right? And as we will have to do as we study this letter. But whatever Paul knew, Tip uh Thessalonians knew, and he could sort of point to it more vaguely. So now let's look again at the so-called problem number one, right, these five problems In 2 Thessalonians, Paul no longer focuses on the moments of Jesus' second coming, but zooms out to the preceding signs with a less intimate and more impregatory tone, like I said. And I think like Paul is carefully guarding doctrines like rapture and and he doesn't want it distorted. Remember what Jesus said, do not give what is holy to the dogs, nor cast your pearls before swine. Um lest they trample them under their feet and turn and tear tear you in pieces. Now, forgery is easier to detect today, uh but back then it Ob obviously, and still today it always has disastrous consequences. It would undermine Paul's apostolic credibility and would obviously, as we see here, shook up the believers. Let's also deal with the linguistic features and the tone together. Those are two and three on that list. I never liked subjective linguistic arguments. Some people see too few similarity between the two letters, while others see too much. It's like, okay, it's very subjective. And it's only three chapters in section Second Thessalonians. I don't think you can judge so much from that. There's not enough data. And just imagine for a second, like circumstances such as this infiltration, the shakeup of the congregation, the coded language, and maybe even a change of the amanuensis, the one who uh wrote down Paul's dictation of the letter, it could have that could have been changed. And that probably affected the language and and the tone. As for the increase in the Old Testament allusions in Second Thessalonians We must recall that there these are not your typical Gentiles that made up the majority of the congregation. Acts 174 says there were synagogue attenders who were devout. Probably with some depth in the knowledge of scriptures. Also we must recall that some of the Jews were persuaded too. And by Paul's preaching and became part of the congregation. They were probably the leaders, appointed elders and leaders, in accordance with Paul's church planting strategy He starts with the synagogue, finds some Christians there, hopefully through the gospel ministry, and because they know the Bible the best, being Jews, they will normally be the leaders of that church. So the Old Testament you know the increase of Old Testament allusions in Second Thessalonians is perfectly explainable. Lastly, the argument that Paul's eschatological teachings are superfluous has little weight if we accept this theory that unbelieving Jews distorted Paul's end-time teachings. with the fake letter. Of course Paul has to address the topic again. His eschatology, his last time, end time doctrines are being distorted. Alright, now let's get to um so first of all I just want to say Paul definitely wrote Second Thessalonians, so if you pick up a more liberal commentary, you know you're gonna see these arguments. Um but just letting you know, here's why I believe Paul wrote it. And then now we can get to the purposes behind Second Thessalonians. One, address the false teachings in the forged letter. Two, encourage the believers to persevere. And three, discipline those who were deceived about the day of the Lord. So next week, Lord willing, we will begin with the first verse of the Lord, I we just thank you. We thank you for faithful men who have shown example to us. We thank you for these apostles through whom we received your revelation, your word. And Lord, um we did talk about a lot of technical things tonight, but we thank you for um just uh just giving the apostles as foundation for the church and And we have just human examples, uh albeit imperfect examples to follow. And we thank you for um just um this having this plan to have this church or that and the case of Hades would not um prevail against it. And Lord, uh, we thank you for uh these words and then we pray that we would just apply them in in our lives. And we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen