So what's being passed around is the Thessalonian First Thessalonians outline. It has the in outline of the entire book. Um boo. But uh there's some parts of it that still needs to be filled in. You'll see what I'm talking about in a minute Is there enough or okay? So you'll see there at the top of the page the Thessalonians outline. The first verse of the letter is a salutation. And then we cover the first major section of this letter, the personal reflections, from the second verse to the end of chapter 3. And I've given you a like a short summary of each paragraph. So Paul's thanks for Thessalonian selection. And then Thessalonians exemplary imitation. Defense of Thessalonians' beginnings, Paul's thanks for Thessalonians' endurance, Paul's desire for Thessalonians, Paul's ending of Timothy, Timothy's return with the good report and Paul's prayer for them. Today we're starting the second major section, the instructions. And then we're going to talk about the first eight verses of chapter four, which the first two being general guidelines, and then the second one Uh the verses three to eight is the topic of avoiding lust. And then we'll continue in chapter four and chapter five. Lord willing, next weeks, next few weeks, and then we'll get to the conclusion in chapter 5, verses 23 to 28. So let's just read chapter four verses one to eight together, all at once, and then go back to it. Finally then, brethren, we urge and exhort in the Lord Jesus That you should abound more and more, just as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God. For you know what commandments we gave you through the Lord Jesus For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you should abstain from sexual immorality, that each of you should know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor. not in passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. That no one should take advantage of and defraud his brother in this matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all such. as we also forewarned you and testified. For God did not call us to uncleanness, but in holiness. Therefore, he who rejects this does not reject man, but God who has also given us his Holy Spirit. So I'm just gonna go over the first two verses. Let's re- re-read them. Okay Finally, then, brethren, we urge and exhort in the Lord Jesus that you should abound more and more, just as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God, for you know what commandments we gave you through the Lord Jesus. So we see Paul starting out with a general exhortation there. Now Paul is not just asking as a suggestion. He's not just not saying just Take this for what is word. These are authoritative commandments as you see in verse 2. And basically what these are going to give in These commandments I'm going to give is an answer to the question, the core question, how shall we live and please God? And what I've done for you is I highlighted some of the words in those two verses. Not like with the highlighter, but by italicizing it and emboldening it and underlining it. Maybe the italicized one might be harder to detect. But there's three answers in verses one and two. First, we should know who is commanding us. It's not Paul, Silas, or Timothy. They're just heralds and messengers The chain of commandment is from God to Jesus, to the apostles, to the churches. The true head of the church demands that the members respond in obedience. And when we speak on God's behalf, we have his authority. So I italicize the phrases there. There's an appeal in the Lord Jesus to obey the commandments given through the Lord Jesus. And this is the same Lord, Jesus Christ, who grants us peace and grace. It's the same Lord whom we beseech in prayer. It's the same Lord who will return. In his majesty. Second thing we should note is that God wants us to abound. Commandments are not meant to just Hold us down. He wants what's best for us. At the middle of verse 1, you see the purpose behind Paul's urging and his exhorting. I italicized and emboldened the phrase that you should abound more and more. Abundance. That's what God wants with his word given to us. And how do we abound? We abound by being bound to his word. And we've got to remember why Jesus gave himself to us too. Why he gave us his word, why he gave himself to us. He's not some cosmic kill joy. Remember in John 1010 what he said, the deep does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly. And Paul and his friends are here to point you to that abundant wealth, to the endless blessings that come through obedience. Thirdly, as I said last week, we need to know apostolic teachings and know them well. I mean they are vessels, but God used these men. in the first century. And I italicized, underlined, and emboldened the phrases, we urge and exhort, receive from us and we gave you. We, you know, from us, we gave you. God gave certain men in first century special authority, revelation, and insight into holy living and church ethics. So these are apostles, these were eyewitnesses of Jesus' death and resurrection. And now God has used them to write these letters to us. And through them God teaches us how to be Gentile Christians in this fallen world. And that still applies to us 2,000 years later. And Apostle Paul were especially sensitive to unique challenges that Gentiles would face as believers who didn't really grow up reading the Bible, right? Didn't read Moses, didn't read the prophets. So Paul is going to give them specific instructions on how to do this. And that leads to the next paragraph, which is where I'm going to spend the majority of today talking about. There are many things that Paul could have brought up. He could have talked about in time prophecies, and he will later. But he chose to put at the top of the priority list sanctification. Let's reread the first part of verse 3. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. Let's talk about the phrase will of God before we talk about the sanctification. Now, as a pastor of Yom Odos at my prior ministry position, I would receive many inquiries about God's will. It's sort of clear what they want to know. They want me to pray for them about some job opportunity or some guy or girl they're interested in. And these are major decisions for men and women in their twenties. Now many uncertainties lie ahead, and as a pastor I try my best to provide some comfort and guidance. The unknowns of life are intimidating, but it's also somewhat interesting and exciting to know what God has in plan for us. And discerning God's hidden will is definitely important. But I'm as I I don't know if I'm just getting older or whatever, but I'm really excited to see young people know and follow God's clear and revealed will for their lives. More so than like, oh I'm not sure what God has in plan for me in the future. But when they say this is what God wants for me now, and it's clear in the Bible, What is God's will? Let me just pray about it. Let me just ask my pastor. Let's ask my friends about it. Let's look at fortune cookies. Whatever they want to do to look for God's will. Well, it says right here. It's very obvious. Night and as is light of day here. And I see them so much like tiptoeing into the uncertain future, but why can't they just step obediently and confidently? in the un in the certain present. That's what makes us say, what makes me say, praise God. Now I will try to be sympathetic as young consultants explain to me how one job offers more retirement benefits while another provides flex time and I'm trying to understand what's going on. And I'm sure it's a major decision. I'm not trying to belittle that. But I may ask this kind of question when they're trying to discern between job A and job B or job C. Which job allows you to focus more on your sanctification? This is the question of questions. We should ask those kind of questions first. How can I pursue God's will if I take this position or that position? And then the minor questions like benefits, and I think those will sort of align and be placed under the major question. Now let's properly define sanctification. I think I'm used to the bigger pulpit, so I'm just like dropping things all over. But I'll just put it here for a second. So let's properly define sanctification. It's an act of setting apart as what is common is made holy and enemy are buried, which is common, is set apart as holy. There are two types of sanctification. What theologians call positional and progressive. Positional and progressive. Believers, those who trust in Jesus Christ for salvation, are positionally set apart. Made holy, sanctified through Christ Himself at the moment of salvation. Now, you guys may know in 1 Corinthians 1. 30 and 31. That's a very good proof passage for what is called positional sanctification. Paul writes, you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification. A redemption. That as it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. But those who are positionally sanctified are also progressively being sanctified. Now it's really important to differentiate between the two, because one of the Roman Catholic errors is confusing what happened at the moment of salvation and our growth process. More on that another time. But those who are saved definitely are being shaped definitely. And what is that shape? That definite shape? God predestined us to be conformed to the image of his son and not to the world. Romans 8 and Romans 12. We have been saved from the consequences of sin in the past and we will be saved from the presence of sin in the future, but there's what's called salvation present. We're saved from the power of sin in the present. And that takes place through the sanctifying work of God, the Holy Spirit. And more on Him a little bit later. In this passage, Paul is going to stress certain things about sanctification and three ways that he defines sanctification. I've got to make sure you pay attention to the colon and the semicolons here. These editors and translators, they put it there for a reason. After the colon that follows sanctification in the middle of verse 3, we see two semicolons, one at the very end of verse 3, and at the end of And the other at the end of verse 5. So these two semicolons are going to give us three divisions. These punctuation marks mark out three explanations of sanctification. And you know in teaching stuff again. I'm sure it went out the other ear. But let's talk about these three infinitives. First explanation of sanctification is sex relational. It says in the rest of verse 3 that you should abstain from sexual immorality. Semicolon. And then verse 4, that each of you should know How to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor not in passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God. The second explanation is self-relational. Like how do you relate to yourself? So you have self-control. Okay? Another semicolon at the end of verse 5. The third explanation is social relational. That no one should take advantage of and defraud his brother in this matter. Because the Lord is the avenger of all such as we also forewarned you and testified. Sanctification is so important because it relates to our relationship to the opposite gender, to ourselves. to our neighbors and we'll talk about in a minute to God as well. Sanctification respects boundaries while sexual sins run boundless in all different directions. It destroys every good boundary that God has created. The boundaries of male and female, married and unmarried, chastity and covenant faithfulness Boundaries that lead to self-control, self-respect. Boundaries that allow space to esteem our neighbors, their spouses, their sons and daughters, to love them properly And once God's boundaries are transgressed, He is the avenger of those wronged. And you can't draw near to God if you can't draw lines between yourself and others. Verses 7 and 8 sort of loop back to the idea in the first part of verse 3. When we talked about God's will, it's sort of like as a bookend. Because sanctification has to do with our relationship with God, our supernatural relationship. Let's read verse 7 and 8. For God did not call us to uncleanness, but in holiness. Therefore, he who rejects this does not reject man, but God, who has also given us his Holy Spirit. To reject God's will is to reject God's calling and ultimately to reject God Himself. When God calls believers, he provides them all that they need for sanctification. And the most important thing here when we're talking about for today is the Holy Spirit. Now let's look at another verse, another passage, this time by Peter in 2 Peter 1, 2-4 And we'll see what we have in the armory to do battle as Christians, to to live as um sanctified, to be progressively sanctified. So 2 Peter 1, 2 to 4. And we'll come back to 1 Thessalonians, but let's go there real quick. 2 Peter 1, 2 to 4. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. as his divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of Him who called us by glory and virtue, by which have been given to us exceedingly great and precious promises that through these you may be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. Now Peter is saying for our sanctification's sake, we have the knowledge and the promises of God. We're partakers of divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. The world is corrupt through lust, but praise God, he called us out of that decadence. And Peter seems to be stressing more the moment of salvation, what I said earlier as positional sanctification. And Paul is stressing more of the progressive sanctification in the passage we have for today. And Paul would definitely say amen to Peter. And say, not only do you have the divine knowledge and the promises, you have the divine spirit to help you. That's what we see in verse 8, back in 1 Thessalonians 4. 8. He gave us his Holy Spirit. I like what Thomas Constable, this one pastor and commentator, says about this verse. Verse 8. The exhortation is to avoid sexual immorality. The enablement comes from the Holy Spirit. The exhortation is to avoid sexual immorality. The enablement comes from the Holy Spirit. We have the indwelling spirit to obey these commands. This command to be sanctified, to abstain from sexual immorality. Augustine prayed one time. This is a sort of a popular prayer. Lord command what you will and grant what you command. Lord, command what you will and grant what you command. You see what God is doing here. The Lord is commanding holy living. So he grants us the Holy Living Spirit. You see what I'm saying here? And the Thessalonians, they needed him desperately, the Holy Spirit. They lived in a pagan world where sexual looseness was encouraged and openly practiced. Prostitution was a priestly rite in Greekly relig Greek religion, and this is very perverted, but extramarital sex was at times an act of worship. And why is this so significant to us? Because the battle rages on. The battle for sexual purity is a war on all fronts. Whether it's gender or sex, the creation designed for male and female. Self, the relationship to ourself, self-respect, self-image, self-esteem. Social, the love of our neighbor, someone else's daughter, someone else's son. And supernatural, our love for God. This is all Sanctification touches all of those things and sexual immorality destroys all those things that are good. Satan in all fronts has schemed to distort society, beset beset the saints. And even try to breach the walls of the church. Last week I prayed for the Southern Baptist Convention as many allegations and accusations of sexual abuse among church leaders have surfaced. And the battle's gonna go on institutionally. This past week we had some victory as the United Methodist Church denomination and the conservatives within it. And by our standards they're probably not conservative enough, but at least there's some evangelicals there and conservatives there who said You know, they decided to affirm the conservative position on homosexuality. That means that UMC ministers cannot be homosexual and they cannot officiate homosexual marriages. So the battle goes on out there and it also goes on in here, in our church, in our lives. We have enough temptations to face ourselves. Every moment when bombarded with sex, pictures, languages, books, magazines, music, film, news, propaganda, LGBTQ movement. And how did it come to this? Now I'm gonna go on a little bit of a philosophical aside, like a little bit of history. Please bear with me. I'm sort of expanding on the idea of what is sexual immorality. It's been a like problem since almost like beginning of time. And we're having a problem, obviously, this society too. It's always been an issue, but what is most relevant to us is what's called the sexual revolution. And my former preacher, pastor, would say, let's pray for the singles, let's pray for everyone who may be deceived by sexual revolution. It's a very important idea that we should know what it is. And it has a history. It's a social movement that challenge the traditional codes of behavior related to sexuality and interpersonal relationship throughout the Western world, so it's more of a Western issue. From nineteen sixties to nineteen eighties. Some of us grew up right in the midst of this revolution. At the core was a revolt against Judeo-Christian ethics. And there was an acceptance of the idea that sexual repression is detrimental to your health. You should just let yourself go. Mm. And there's even philosophical uh underpinnings. Wilhelm Reich, I don't know if I'm saying this is my D. H. Lawrence, and you guys know this psychologist, Sigmund Freud, and there's even artists. The surrealists. They were the big thinkers behind this thought. They thought that you have to release the unconscious creative potential of humanity. By confronting them with strange ideas, strange images. And in the sexual revolution, eroticism went unchecked. Free love and experimentation were shocking concepts, obviously, at first. But why did people buy it? Well, sex selves. Sexual liberation spread throughout erotic novels, TV, radio, magazines, and movies. And once the birth control pill was developed and abortion became more commonplace, Premarital sex increased, casual encounters, one-night stands, open homosexual relationships also increased. And so now we're in the you know twenty-first century, how are things going? With this arrival and spread of sexual revolution, are people happier now? Well, there's more divorces more than ever. A more recent survey of college-age students who sort of grew up in the sexual revolution. revealed a generation struggling with pornography. And the other one that was at the top of the list was suicide. Pornography and suicide. Like what's the connection? Ravi Zacharias sees a clear connection between suicide and pornography. Quote, the one is a devaluation of others. The other is the result, the ultimate devaluation of self. Violation of the sacred ultimately victimizes the victimizer. This is the result of a quote selfie society. It's fine to keep it to a photograph, but when it moves the struggle of the soul, the self-portrait is one of desolation. See how sanctification, what God has intended for us to abound more and more, it respects the boundaries It respects others and it respects yourself. That's what God intends. And that's what Paul wanted for Thessalonians and he wants for us But sexual revolution and all kinds of immorality hurts others, hurts yourself, as you see in increase of pornography, and you see in increase of suicides. Even feminists like Ariel Levy asks, why is this the new feminism and not what it looks like, the old objectification? The first wave of feminists stood with conservative Christians to fight for the dignity of women. This is way back when. But the new feminists parade themselves in front of a camera Selling themselves short. This is a self-defeating circle, a snake eating its own tail. This is a self-defeating ideology. This is what we're up against. A revolution. It was it's not just individual sexual sin. This is decades in making, fed by worldly philosophies, it's a powerful momentum carried by mass media. The LGBTQ community doesn't just rise up overnight It's like the final push of a revolution that started decades ago. A dam was opened, and it's drowning everybody. And Paul knew this in Romans 1, when we sort of, in a way, broke up with our Creator, walked out on God's truth, and we gave ourselves up to simple desires. Philosophers say God is dead to a generation, and now we prefer to define everything ourselves. But this is not freedom, it's slavery. It's not sanity, it's madness. Malcolm Mugrich, a British journalist and author, wrote, quote, One of the peculiar sins of the 20th century which we've developed to a very high level is the sin of credulity. It has been said that when human beings stop believing in God, they believe in nothing. The truth is much worse. They believe in anything. Elsewhere, he wrote, if God is dead, somebody is going to have to take his place. It will be megalomania or eroptomania, the drive for power. or the drive for pleasure, the clenched fist or the ballast, Hitler or Hugh Hefner. And that's what has happened with this sexual revolution. Now back to us. What do we do? Like any battle, first we must make sure our homes and churches are safe havens, sanctuaries, and fortresses. We rid ourselves of any trace of porn from our computers and our smartphones. Have accountability measures and checks at home. In any romantic relationships that are detrimental to your sanctification. Commit and recommit ourselves to our spouses and make sure our children are protected and prepared. For the hostile world. Pray for your single children. Pray for your single friends. This is a tough challenge out in the world. In our churches, we ought to make sure that our all our leaders are sexually pure. I was very encouraged. I mentioned Southern Baptist Convention earlier, but a more local body, Baltimore Baptist Association is a local branch of Southern Baptists. They acted swip swiftly in response to the moral crisis they faced in their convention. And this happened February 19th. Just a few weeks ago. They unanimously passed a motion for four things. One, approved $25,000 to provide free criminal and sex offender background checks for every church in their association. during the calendar year of 2019. Two, assist member churches with updating their child safety policies by sharing examples of policies and offering their assistance to any church that may need help rewriting their own. Three, reinforce a zero tolerance policy with regard to mandatory reporting of suspected sexual misconduct. And four, remove churches' membership Should they not protect children by requiring background checks for all leadership and child care personnel? However, we approach this, whatever we decide to do, Any parent that walks through this, you know, our doors should feel safe in trusting their children to us. Any woman who visits FBC should be able to trust the males, vice versa. That's all we can do on the defensive. But we should also take the fight to the world, be on the offensive. How do we do that? There may be a traumatic example. A few months ago I gave this, I spoke about a woman named Lilius Chouter, who eventually became a missionary to Algeria. She bravely canvassed the streets near Victoria Station in London, alone at night, in attempts to persuade prostitutes to leave their profession, at least just for that one evening. Yeah. I'm not suggesting that. That's pretty brave and you know, that's pretty dramatic. But we can support um local ministries that protect these kind of women, or try to help these kind of women. We can support causes that protect and rescue victims of sex trafficking. And what what about we personally? Well Maybe we're at a water cooler at work. We have one of those water cooler talks. Or you're at a locker room. And if the participants there who are talking, Begin objectifying the opposite gender or they start bragging about their sexual adventures, just walk away. Just refuse to participate in those things. That is how we can be offensive. But most importantly, going back to this passage, whatever we decide to do individually as a church, We rely on the indwelling Spirit of God to help you on the defensive and the offensive. Because you can't follow God's will without God's Spirit. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that We don't have to guess that your will is not some abstract thing we need to search with our emotions That you have clearly revealed to us from the beginning of the world. You revealed to mankind your will. That we be holy as you are holy. We know that our first parents, Adam and Eve, sinned against that. And now we're in a mess. But Lord, we're also in a way We're guilty of our sin. Our own sins and And we thank you for saving us from the consequences of sin. But we still struggle with sin because we're in this fallen world. But we thank you that you made your will clear to us that you want sanctification. That you made it so clear to us in these verses that it's for our own abundance, that we may abound more and more. Lord, may we take that to heart this week. Lord, may we fight. Lord, may we see that we can't do this on our own, that we need your spirit. And we thank you that you have sent your spirit into our hearts. Lord, the same spirit that cries in us, Ava Father, we pray that we will cry to you as we battle, as we fight for purity in our lives, in the lives of our brothers and sisters. And we thank you for this message. Lord, we pray that you would be with us and strengthen us, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen