And he preaches with the same boldness as he preaching the gospel for the first time. I mean they were imitating Paul, Silas, and Timothy, and they became worthy of imitation. nor a cloak for covetousness, God is witness. Yeah. Right. at the first song, but it was at about the fourth verse as I was singing this final hymn that I realized, oh okay. And and that's a that's a really good type of conviction. But even after we had suffered before and were spitefully treated, at Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. As you know, we're bolding our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. And Paul is not using, you know, you know, as an interjection or a conversation filler like some of the younger people. They were forced to leave and stay away from Thessalonica because of the dangers they would bring to the congregation. But even after we had suffered before and were spitefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. Um I had a friend named Daniel who said that you know you know, Daniel is the only person in the Bible who says that there's no mention of sin. is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged source, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of thoughts and intents of the heart And there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man observing his natural face in the mirror. you know, young children with them or is he acting like a nurse with them? Greek manuscripts, the ones that correspond to what's called the majority. Let's see. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil. Okay. And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. Explains how among the Thessalonians there were visible signs of repentance from idolatry, how they served the living and true God and waited for Christ. And that in the original language is exactly the same word as the coming in chapter 2, verse 1. when he's basically grilling the believers hair. Baby, you know I love you, right? But when Paul exorcised the demon from a fortune-telling slave girl, her Gentile owners were not happy. or so. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. error, uncleanness, and deceit. Secondly, the reason NIV translators favored young children is because they depend on a different set of Greek original manuscripts from the ones behind KJB and NKJB. And this is a bit beyond uh uh like the scope of a normal sermon, but I believe the KJV and the NKJV translators pick the right group of A a book about pastors called They Smell Like Sheep. That chapter contained the standard salutation to the saints of Thessalonica. For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness, God is witness. As you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his own children, that you would walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. What we gather from chapters chapter 2, verse 1 through 12, is that Paul was defending his ministry. You see that I tell uh well I don't have the notes here, but I had already. And just look for how many times we see um Paul is saying, you know already what I'm telling you. Never behave wrongly toward them. I confirm my relationship with you. Look at verse 10 as well. Beaten with sticks and thrown into prison, right? And that's what I strive for. as a pastor, okay, or deacon, or elder. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful hearer or but a doer of the word, this one will be blessed in what he does. And then make sure we are practicing the word of God. Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. Longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you have become dear to us. They were just nice to them. But Paul never yielded that power in domineering ways. I remember being yelled at by Tony uh Evans. But I don't get to see how they are faithful pastors at their church. Paul followed that example everywhere he went, including with the Thessalonians, even though he didn't get to spend too much time with them. never seeking financial gain. For our exhortation did not come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. So here's what it is. Learn from Paul. It's like Paul's like, you know, you know I care. And even there God used them to share the good news with the suicidal jailer. Now since NIV is a very popular translation out there, we need to deal with the difference. He even washed the their feet like a servant. And I am convinced I'm gonna see that him or her in heaven. We're going to read verses 1 through 12 and just read it straight through before I talk about some of the particulars. But the focus is slightly different. And this was where I had the handout with all these underlying things ready. You know how my I was pure in this way. Now you may not find this section of the letter exciting, but relationships need to be guarded. They need reminders, the Thessalonians and our wives, need our reminders of our past and present devotion to them. And I believe there are four interconnected answers. If we just go back to Acts 16, I'm not gonna go through that entire chapter, but I'll just summarize, you'll get a glimpse of what kind of trouble Paul faced at Philippi. Paul and Silas were dragged to the magistrates, stripped of their clothes, and beaten with rot before being tossed into prison. So I think that's what you see with Paul. But does this mean here that Paul is some what somehow a perfect Christian? First, we gotta see, as we see in these verses, we he chose to please God, not men. So all we can do is confess and claim the promise from 1 John, which I also mentioned this morning, that He is faithful to forgive us and cleanse us. So we make sure we test our motives. Jesus, remember, gave apostles like Paul the authority to rule over multiple churches and direct their growth. I know how I know that I have to teach and preach well. But we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children. this morning. the site of his last gospel ministry. Ministers who do that. Paul sought to please God. You guys memorize, I don't know if you guys memorize Jeremiah 17, 9. If people say follow your heart, no, it's deceitful, don't do it. All because of Christ. So you I like what it says in verse 22. We were gentle among you. Remember when the first readers of these letters got 'em, you know, they didn't have these verse markings and chapter numbers. Here's another proof that Paul is defending his ministry, and I'm gonna shift from Romance to more judicial image. I I think that would probably be enough for me to take a few days off or a leave of absence. You will probably at least understand if my voice is a slightly weaker than following Sunday. He must truly believe the gospel. Now Paul could have x-ray tests of his heart modus and there will be no sign of error, no trace of uncleanness, no spot of deceit. And the word of God isn't there to just make us feel good about ourselves. Read the word, listen to it, practice it. Any motives that are impure. Nurses are likely to be gentle. The NIV translators thought it was best to rely on the oldest manuscripts, even though they weren't as influential throughout history. Just because a pastor is good here on a pulpit, up here in a pulpit, doesn't mean that they're necessarily good down there among the members. Um actually let's read it first altogether. So the big picture of what's ahead of us in the 12 verses, we have some links with this passage and the previous paragraph in chapter 1. So let me just read it for you real quick or reread it from last time. And if we look at the word there in the middle of verse 9, it says entry, right? Now we're gonna get to the uh big picture. So in chapter 1, it was about how you received the gospel, how the gospel came to you, and you showed all these signs. And even if you do nothing wrong, even if they already know. If we're just if we just have Bible knowledge, that's not a way to examine our motives. So it was hard for me to understand how to be a pastor. Now Paul is pivoting in 2. And defending your ministry means defending relationships. Remember, only Timothy was able to go back and forth for correspondences. And if you were reading straight through, from verse 1 to the end of the book, you may notice a very sudden shift of tone here. Paul is defending his ministry, saying, you already know what I'm telling you, but you need reminders. So now with grateful, cleanse hearts, we can examine our hearts daily. Well, I I fai favor the NKJV reading, and I think it's correct for two reasons. I remember listening to R. In verse 9, the image switches from that of a tender nurse to a rugged paternal provider. But there's some important links between chapter 2 verse 1 and the end of chapter 1 verse 9 and 10. If you know husbands here at FBC, if by some chance we may mess up this week and our wives start doubting our love for them, what do you say? And that's why you can put a stamp of approval on Paul's ministry. Chapter one was very you know happy. For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness. So we'll be able to sort of infer from these verses what kind of attacks were coming. For neither at any time do we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness, God is witness. 4. Why does Paul feel the need to reiterate how they behave toward the Thessalonians, Paul and his team? 2. First, Paul ministers despite persecutions. For our exhortation did not come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. So that's how we can be like Paul. Next, because Paul's motives were pure, he never sought status. Paul and his companions were not interested in running for some political position at the church. Paul and his companions not only shared the gospel with them, but gave their lives to them. The way he deals with churches is something even men can learn in uh in our romance lives, right? It's interesting that Paul will call to stand, as it were, God and the Thessalonians themselves. I'll reread verse one and two. Now also Paul's inward motives were pure. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day, that we might not be any uh not be a burden to any of you. You are witnesses, and God also, how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behave ourselves among you who believe. Now this is part of the sermon or Bible study where it gets a little bit geeky and nerdy. He sought to provide all that he can. That's how he defends it. Just as the Thessalonians genuinely received the gospel, Paul and his team genuinely delivered the gospel with integrity. His inward motives were pure, verses 3 and 4. He's talking about Paul the minister, not Paul the individual. But we don't think that minister is perfect in his life. Well I realized I forgot to print out the notes and it would have been good if I realized that And praise God for such grace. For laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. C. I hope you would understand. He they're primarily interested in them. The new international version, I don't know if people read that, um has we were like young children among you. Verse eleven, as you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his own children. You know how much I care for you. Sprohl, even though he's more like a lecture guy, and you hear like chalk on the background. So verses 9 to 12 is that he sought to provide all that he could 1 to a next major section. So last time we finished of First Thessalonians chapter one It's from Paul's angle, from the perspective of the preacher and the minister, not the preached and the ministered. Remember James 1, 22 to 25. It started out well. When someone does you know, s when someone goes to work in spite of a flu or you know, instead of a broken limb, you know that person really believes in what he is doing. And in fact, knowing that we are sinners help us to preach the gospel of grace well. Another time he kept saying, You know, you know, is in 1 Corinthians 6 Then we can know that our motives can be pure, just like Paul's But here he's more gentle and earnest in tone. And you know who was included in that? You know, you're at a whether you're at a funeral or you're somewhere and you're like, yeah, I know that person's safe. The problem with young children is that it creates a confusing mix of metaphors. If we have good aims, it'll show in our shot. His own circumstances do not prevent him from faithfully preaching the gospel. It's as if some doubted Paul and his ministry among them. Be doers of the word and not hearers only deceiving yourselves. Uh we're gonna see the twelve verses ahead of us and I want to give the big picture of that first. Skip down to verse 5. So how can we have good ministry, whether it's Sunday school or music minister or Verses 9 to 12. Lydia received the gospel and became a key member of the church there. It's like or you're like, just dust it off and get back off there and preach. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. So we're gonna go to First Thessalonians chapter two. He shows us the moment we believe and praise them for his continual mercies each and every day. But let's read verse one real quick. He never wanted glory from them. First admit that in our own power we can't do that. You know, Paul is thankful, there's all these good things going on, and then chapter two changes a little bit in terms of tone. For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we have to you. And Paul and his team didn't do anything wrong to the Thessalonians. For you yourselves, no brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain It reveals our thoughts and intentions. That's verse one. But four times verses one, two, five, and eleven, that they already know what he is saying. We pray and we say, Lord, reveal in us through your word. Realize that our hearts are wicked. Majority text. And I had plenty of examples. David Jeremiah. Relationships must be defended because they're essential to ministries. It doesn't really make sense, first of all That's not something you can learn through radio. And then he sees in them exemplary character, growth, and behavior. But it's a good question for pastors to ask themselves. So affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you have become dear to us. Why why you can kinda guess where it's going with that. He's still on the topic of how the Thessalonians first received the gospel. For neither at any time do we use flattering words, as you know. You know I truly love you. That's verses one and two. And then from verse two on, in that first major paragraph, we have some words of gratitude from Paul, who is convinced that God chose them. First, he ministered despite persecutions. We just respect the ministry that he has presented. Now, if you're married, you will understand why Paul needs to speak like this. Who can know it? Paul's inward motives were pure. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. For he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But Paul, he just gets right on up and goes to the next major city, Thessalonica So okay. Judas. And we talked about that a little bit. So how can we have pure motives? Is it gentle or young children? For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain. And just because the Thessalonians already knew all these things, doesn't mean that they don't need a reminder. You guys would understand if I wanted to take a break next week, if I got dragged across Elk Ridge stripped And I'm sure there were doubts creeping in. I remember him a little bit. I'm calling God and you guys as witnesses of my genuine ministry to you. They were upset that their source of income was gone. I'm sure as he was speaking, he was wincing from the bruises and scars that were still fresh. But the main question here is: how does Paul defend his ministry? 3. So I'll repeat these points as I go along. The same word of God that used to condemn us now corrects us and shape us to be Christ-like. Instead, Paul, Silas, and Timothy were like nursing mothers, watchful, sacrificial, and vigilant. First, gentle reading makes more sense in context. But he must have left a great impact with them. And I'm just gonna highlight Well God knows it and God knows that it's wicked. Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. I think it's possible for us to have a ministry with integrity. Remember what happened with Jason and all that Um, it's vital that Paul is connecting with them as if to remind them that he and his team Now honestly, if that happened in one week Be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. Realize that the Word of God reveals in us our intentions and motives. Now, this is remarkable. And I can listen to a lot of sermons. Hebrews 4, 12 to 13, for the word of God God is witness Verse one, for you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain. There's no hiding, our wickedness. By knowing God, you will best know yourself. Let's read verses five to eight. He never sought status. There was an earthquake. We have to make sure that we are practicing what we know No, I think what Paul is saying here when he's talking about his motives So let's look at verse five again. That's verses 3 and 4. For you yourselves, no brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain. First admit that with our um just hearts on its own, we can't do that. Paul was a gentle caretaker and at the same time a fatherly figure who gave and gave. Who can know it? They didn't say nice things to them to get nice things from them. Um I remember listening to Chuck Swindah. Um but I I would hear a lot of these features and be like, wow, that's a good illustration or wow, that's a good insight. But we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children. Now I have much to learn from this example. And that's what Paul is doing here. In the span of 11 verses, Paul reminds them four times. In the Mosaic Law, we know that two or three witnesses are required to confirm a testimony. Manner of entry there. As he told the Galatians, if he still pleased men, he would not be a bondservant of Christ. Paul ministers despite persecutions. But we know by what what we see in the Bible that every man is a sinner except Jesus. Wake up again. Am I Okay. Now I'm gonna say things from my perspective. You know, so you you say that you know, right? But hopefully, um it'll be easy to follow what I'm doing here tonight. You are witnesses, and God also, how devoutly and justly and blamely we behaved ourselves among you who believed. I don't know. Well And that's how chapter one ended. Paul knew that he was the chief of sinners. So though that was like my last point, last time we were in this passage. You know, you know, how I behave towards you Verses 1 to 2. Now this may be confusing, that like is Paul some kind of perfect man? We need more people in authority to be like Paul and his this um his companions. But um let me stop at verse seven for a minute. So Paul, if we remember from last time. I don't know if that's what you would do, but Like I seen that person's life. Okay, so let's look at verse eight now. Does Paul really care about us? Verses 5 to 8. I grew up listening to a lot of radio sermons. The difference between is it gentle or young children? I haven't got a chance to read through this book, but there's uh God tells us right there that our hearts are desperately wicked. Is Paul and his companions acting like To say So I'm just letting you know. Verse two, but even after we had suffered before and were just spitefully treated at Philippi, I haven't seen him in a while. Um So And that's important. That's why he can preach the gospel of grace. We preach to you the gospel of God. The New King James Version reads um In fact we respect Um I talked about that a little bit. So affectionately Um