Okay, so anyway, so th those are some ways that we can uh imitate. Perfect except Jesus. We have to be ready, we have to wait, or like we have to wait until we're mature enough to get our faith out there. The Jehovah Witnesses. It's like a it's like a memory burst for apologetics, but I think it's a memory burst for all of us. It doesn't take much for us to imagine it up, conjure it up. Glimpse of what kind of saints they were. Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place. Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. We s we'll have good role models to follow without resorting to veneration of saints. Okay. you know, otherwise unknown to the rest of the world. holy God, that no human effort could ever pay our penalty, it could only be paid by the death on the cross of a perfect God man, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And three, something called the downgrade controversy in the Baptist Union in uh England. younger pastors but he um he wrote against his colleagues and withdrew his church from that fellowship and his church was the largest Baptist church in England at heroes to me. No fight heresy like some of these um heroes of faith I mentioned. Some of us some of us have that kind of testimony. Some people in our church who maybe even still face I can think of one right now who's facing persecution for her faith just because she's a Christian Yeah. sort of keeps us updated with world happenings and a Christian perspective. employed by the city demand that all sermons quote prepare by, delivered by, revised by, or approved by you or in your possession, in quote, on matters that include not only the mayor and the relevant ordinance, but on Christian pastors. Interpretations. The name of uh Moeller's essay is called The Gathering Storm. It comes, it'll come. The Super Bowl. Philippi, the other really famous city, and Phipolis, Apollonia, and Berea also famous, are nearby and mentioned in Acts sixteen and seventeen. radius now we're talking about another region in the south stretching as far as two hundred miles. church plan projects were initiated. Well we're not ready to go out on 'em. And always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. With somebody out there. practice monotheism. Through his readings of scripture, studies of history, and experience of ministry. Bawling and I mean I'm s it's okay if you cry. Something you feel, it must produce these fruits. Jesus' return. There'll be times when I'm like, wow, I'm a little bit tired like today, but you guys are just so dedicated and I'm so um I have much to learn from you. By God and chosen by Him. us to emulate. Jesus Christ. cousin or your parents okay who who led you to Christ. of Christ's substitutionary atonement. great sermons available online. seven he was suffering physically and battling depression. the most affliction, that's when we have the greatest opportunities to imitate Christ. Like physical ailment. America. maybe like fifty, sixty years, but I heard about an incident um by uh Al Moeller. Houston. individuals to file a complaint and press charges if denied access to a bedroom uh and bathroom. involved in the opposition, mobilizing their congregation, to produce a petition. petition were invalid, a conflict ensued and eventually escalated to a lawsuit and subpoenas. issue because the pastors were not even party to the lawsuit, but the wording of the subpoenas were even more shocking. homosexuality and gender identity in general. Lord with joy from the spirit. apply them this week at work and home. we become worthy of imitation. belief. But we can start with prayer. region. what they might think of you. exact quote but I like the uh the meaning of it. system like how we can reach um just veterans and the military um personnel is around here. Um this it's by Tom Rayner. help out first materially so that eventually we can benefit them spiritually by sharing the gospel, sharing the Bible, sharing the word. In God's word. in his mission trips that Gentiles will come to faith. house and find some kind of statue right do we and what does idolatry look like in our lives now? Dead ones. Evidence here. music, care for one another. guys for a few weeks, they will know that God is alive and true in your hearts even if they don't believe that. of First Thessalonians, labor of love, patience of hope in Jesus Christ. And the answer is threefold. Look at the first part of verse six, and you became followers of us and of the Lord. Anselm or Canterbury, his greatest work being Why God Became Man. John says, right? take the good from their lives and then leave out the bad. danger to their lives. liberty of Christians. Towns are within a hundred mile radius. But out they went. others how they believe in the Bible, how they believe in the gospel. expanding externally. It's not just not only about how they received the gospel, it's not merely what they said either, it's how they lived. a mission strategy. um which are like proselytes to Jewish faith. Please remember them. Um they attempted to blame the outside lawyers working pro bono, then they admitted that subpoena was overly broad, and then they accused their opponents of deliberate misinterpretation. Word. We have to you, and how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for His Son from heaven, whom He raised from the dead, even Jesus Please share with me. Such as Athanasius, whose work on the incarnation is a masterful defense of the Trinitarian doctrine. And if a man is nicknamed Prince of Preachers, I should probably learn a little bit about him, right? um controversy and it was happening in his circles among the churches that he was associating with. Now thankfully enough negative press moved the mayor and the city attorney to move away from the the roughshout approach. Maybe only I hope everyone gets that one. So it explains the reason Thessalonians became an example. How can we get the word out there? You just have to be witnessing what you saw, what Christ has done for you. First, imitate and be imitated. She wasn't definitely not happy in my twenties when I decided to go to seminary. And Parker led the effort to adapt uh adopt an anti-discrimination law that among other things permitted transgender individuals And as we pray and prepare our testimonies, we should also ask God to give us wisdom and outreach. And we need to learn how to pick out their good examples and leave out the bad. Paul knew the congregation well, just as they knew him. And I would say that um before you even knew about these saints in history or these great figures, you probably were influenced by Christians who weren't Receive the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit. So that was a pretty bold move there. The conjunction for is key here. I like it to be like one is it just one note or is it just hundreds of people playing that same note? For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we have to you, and how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven. Um as your pastor I'm so impressed by the ways the saints here serve God. So he does it in like a question and um answer format, like a almost like a dialogue. I don't know. Are you excited to study and present a scriptural lesson to a classroom or small group? So first serving the living and true God would be the evidence of true repentance. But like John the Baptist, they came to bear witness to the Lord. But think about times when it's difficult to be a Christian and remember those around the world who literally have to risk their lives. In other words, the Thessalonians shared their testimony wherever they went. God just wants you to be a witness. So success shouldn't be, oh, you know, they got they came here. But agree with our tastes, our wants, and desires. Uh in one piece he recounted an attack on religious liberty and this happened in two thousand fourteen, October. I say the joy that comes from the Holy Spirit. Are you eager to hear God's word preached and taught? This is something that if you know if when you remember the council and the leaders of this church, please pray. Praise God for that. It further explains why Paul and the companions do not need to say anything. They turned to God from idols and showed in their conduct what true repentance looked like. Now we go on to the next one found in verses six through ten. And three, turn toward God from idols. Now unlike Jesus, these followers were not uh they unlike Jesus, they are imperfect, right? That's one controversy he had. To come together and worship worship God. How do they do it? I mean they didn't prepare a seminary course or gotta m div or you know s wait it. I was just there's all kinds of ways that podcast was talking about like maybe we can help public servants like firefighters and policemen. We have four gospels in the New Testament to show us what kind of life he lived. Next attempts were made to remove the word sermons in the new subpoenas, but only as a dress up. But what's in our control is receiving God's word with joy. And those underlying words help us understand what repentance looks like. And also I encourage you to start formulating a salvation testimony. Perhaps you can type or write out your testimony, save it in your computer, and print it out and put it near your doors. But then we can obey what God said in First Peter three fifteen. I see that they're very bold in their faith. So we're looking at the second half of verse 6. Afflictions have to do with external source sources of suffering, outward circumstances that lead to maybe persecution and at times even martyrdom. So if I preached on Romans one or something, they would have been like, No, you need to turn that in. The impact that the Thessalonians were having in such a short amount of time is quite impressive. Or uh just whoever comes to your door, right? First go to a Jewish uh population of a city. It helps us to think, what about idolatry? And now that we know whom to imitate, let's see how the Thessalonians became worthy of imitation. But we have two thousand years of church history filled with heroes of faith. The antagonist was Anise Parker, often known as the first openly gay mayor of an of a major American city. It's not just the word that has sounded forth, it says that their faith toward God has gone out. Okay, so last time we met uh to study First Thessalonians, that was two weeks ago. So like I said, we get to learn from another church, a church in action. Let's thank God for them today. And even more impressive is that the Thessalonians became examples in Achaia as well. I based on what I'm seeing, you guys are very mature, you guys know your Bible, you guys have faith. Paul and Silas and Timothy can do much. And this literally left Paul speechless. But who knows? The way you guys help with administration, giving, building, maintenance, the upkeep of church grounds, Sunday school, congregational meetings. I talked about it last time, but Macedonia is the region in which the city of Thessalonica is located. This verse is for all of us that we be ready with the defense of our hope. What does idolatry look like in my life? Reality is better than fantasy. So there are two infinitives in verse nine and ten that deserve our attention, and I underline them for you. And the this confidence came from evidence of God's grace, their reception of God's Word, His power, the Holy Spirit's presence, and much assurance. I remember my mom was not happy when I s I was because I was spending so much time at church and this was when I was a teenager. But what is your general attitude toward the Word of God? Um but that about three major controversies in his life. And the question we ask ourselves right into application is how can we live exemplary lives? I'm honored to learn from you as much as I'm appointed to teach you. But I can tell you that um since I grew up in a non Christian home, uh it sometimes it would difficult to be a Christian. And for those who have grown up in a Christian home, praise God for that. I mean we're all we're okay with showing emotion. Um it's my wife and I listen to it together sometimes. So I don't really want to overreact here, but perhaps, who knows, in our lifetime. Not just in numbers, but in their maturity individual character as well. Imitate and be imitated. The the sexual revolution uh it's it may be something that will directly impact the preaching of churches, the religious But it seems like if something like this were to happen in such a short amount of time, the believers at Thessalonica just probably just went out and shared their gospel testimony. Maybe someone from this church. We s we'll see in the following verse. But getting a little technical, but this is what's called a subordinate conjunction. I want to make it a practice and habit to pray not only for our own needs as a congregation, but also the needs of our Let's read verse seven now. Now let's look at verse nine and ten. I can't compare the struggles I had with you know what Thessalonians faced. They were just they had pagan backgrounds and they worshiped um idols and just uh they practiced uh they did not Maybe in ten years or so, uh maybe the Soviet illegal meeting. So these infinitives express purposes behind repentance from idolatry. Remember what John said. Now, get a little bit closer to our time. Two, his opp opposition to Catholic doctrine of baptismal regeneration. Maybe that's what we're about to face. They defended the supremacy of Christ. Your faith toward God has gone out, so that we do not need to say anything. You don't have to describe like uh let's say you're in a trial all the mechanics of a weapon or all the scenes of a But praise God, God converted many of the Thessalonians who used to live like that. So a major American city attempted to subpoena the sermons of Christianity So the Houston incident is not an indication that we are in the middle of a crisis, but maybe one of the many clouds coming together. We always conjure up an image of God that does not agree with scriptures. Outreach is not getting people out there in here, but getting us here out there What if each one of the members of this church share testimonies? But he could not ignore the influence of liberalism and the degrading of sola scriptura. And in our lifetime, um, surely there are men and women who greatly impacted uh your spiritual life. Way before the social media age, they got the word out, they got their um testimonies out, which I'm We want to see this church build again. How can we build relationships with outsiders so that we can create venues to eventually share our faith? Yes, they they're obviously heroes of faith. We should look um for other role models beyond the Bible. Um so Spurgeon was quite a smoker apparently. It's a pretty good listen. If we want to be exemplary, if we want to live exemplary lives, we have to have good examples to follow Say you'll take a watchtower if they will take your testimony. So as every good grammarian knows, we should ask, conjunction, junction, what's your function? Paul and his team would arrive at a certain place and see that the gospel has already reached them through the Thessalonians. And a lot of these Gentiles were um not necessarily what what's called God fearers. That comes from the Holy Spirit. Now, this is quite impressive. This is my theory and I think I'm pretty good on this. That's the reality of many churches around the world. That's how you become exemplary. He became convinced that our hearts are factories of idols. And that was a pretty packed paragraph. Okay, I know that sounds like a lot too, but the if I can just give the main point of the paragraph. We become exemplary by turning from falsehood to truth and reality. You don't have to go to seminary and become uh good at get at a doctrine or something or get a m master of divinity Hopefully the gospel bears fruit there. Produce fruits in accordance with repentance. That's in verses six and seven. The phrase that goes, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit. We don't need to think that they're interceding for us or anything. But thank God now she's happy that I'm in ministry. Success should be measured by how much relationship did we make this week or this month or this year. Verses 9 and 10. I'm really kind of going hard on the Catholics today. So as I'm learning about these these men of uh who are sort of If we can receive God's word with joy, no matter what the circumstances, we're not only imitating Christ and his disciples, but we're not going to be able to do that. So that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaia who It's sorta hard to pinpoint because I don't think I would do a visitation at your house. And Paul was thankful for them during prayer times and knew they were loved by Do you have a favorite person in the Bible? So Christ and those who imitate Christ are the ones we should. Now afflictions do not pertain to every kind of pain. Or are you like, I hope this pastor hurries up so I can catch But it's shown in the way we serve God and the way we wait on God That is Christ. Um but he wrote a book, a collection of essays Am I an idolater? We shouldn't cave in. And they were characterized by work of faith. So he emphasized that Arson had so offended a perfectly wholesale How can we do this? God also graciously provided records of those who followed Jesus closely. Maybe someone who led you to Christ. But that's not the testimony of everyone. We're all ready to go. And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received But our living and true God is infinitely better than our false What do you have to do? Now some Houston area pastors were in First Thessalonians was not written much later after the church was established. They did something This is what John Calvin once said on Now I I'm sure that m all of us here do not think like all But one pastor says something along this line. Now it was odd enough that subpoenas were s They form another sentence that begins with the conjunction. Um and I learned not just that he has So he could have left the fight to younger believers and The lawyers I have much to learn from your dedication. The essence of that third point is live a life of repentance. So thankfully no jailed ministers, silenced pulpits and bolts. Some of you guys probably haven't memorized already. I'd say that if a non Christian comes here and observes you The other day I was reading about Charles Spurgeon He's like the president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. And it went beyond Macedonia and Achai, which Um one, his Calvinism. And I see plenty of example And that third one was the most painful um in eighteen eighty six And they could become leaders of the church because they already knew the Bible. So I want to thank you for that. Now Paul did target synagogues. Um that's some of the feedback I got. We should still, during this affliction, receive the word of the Lord. Does joy accompany your reception of God's word? We want to see baptisms take place. You don't have to be Josh McDowell or Lee Stroble. But what an entire congregation can do So the report concerning these exemplary Thessalonians Um if you ever want to borrow some books, just come into my office. And it's a very important dis uh contribution to discussion. Are you anticipating how you can take his commandments and apply It's a powerful, powerful sound in unison. Well you don't have to And um I sort of gave it to you in an outline form, but let me just read it real quick. Share your testimony. Meaning they imitated Christ and imitated those who followed Christ. As long as we keep that in mind, uh we The city attorney countered, ruling that many of the signatures on the petition For from you the word of the Lord has sounded forth, not only in Macedonia and Akashia, but Um we got a And again, we need to learn to Who knows? I don't know. Have I ever been an idolater? So um so I'm going to imitate what came out of his mouth, not what he put into his mouth. I'd argue that Thessalonians here, they actually grew internally by They didn't have airplanes and trains to take them to these places. Sanctify the Lord in your hearts. Somebody said you don't have to be an ex Maybe your Sunday school teacher. Other than Jesus of course. You know, instead of fearing what what you will say to a non Christian or Are there homeless shelters and schools that we can I was listening to a podcast about ch um church revitalization. When we face Are you eager to hear God's Word priest and talk The supreme model is found in no other I'm just thinking of And you would take verse 8 and put it under 6 and 7. Now, it's possible, you're right, in a s small amount of time that formal missionaries were sent out and And they were not themselves the light as the gospel And it's never, I don't think, an either or situation is like, well Repentance isn't like you know Now we're well beyond the hundred miles uh, And that's the southern part of Greece there. Seems like a big task ahead of us. Give it to Um maybe we can ask military evangelists They are literally faced They just shared their testimony. How can we get our faith out Um but We can't really stop this storm. Their faith Repentance sh can't just be emotional, it can't just be something. Um but yeah, we don't need to venerate them. And we're relatively safe as a church in America. Also in there are Neapolis, the This isn't the Again, word of caution. This is all from the first five verses here. It's not just that they were presenting the Bible, they were telling Verse eight. Maybe your Awana teacher. That was his He was too Calvinistic for some people and not Calvinistic enough for others. This is a preview of things to come Um is there a hero that you're reading about? I used to think it's like that's way too far away from now. He has this podcast called The Briefing. We want to see many people come For from you the word of the Lord has sounded forth not only in Macedonia, and the first time. And these neighboring Are we serving our true God and are we expecting There's a lot of information in there, just in the few first few paragraphs. Consider what a church like that can do. I'll be completely honest, I'm like Fast forward to the 11th century, I remember reading about I highly suggest reading Early Defenders of Orthodox. That was why it's called dying downgrade. If we Without them we would not have the rest of the New Testament. Maybe your um maybe your So It's it's But oftentimes you see Now they become worthy of being imitated. We we know that they have faults. Um