Handing out to you some outlines to help us follow along. You'll find a Venn diagram in the back. That's not meant to patronize you as if you're third graders or something. Um I think it's I find Venn diagrams useful whether you're thirteen or thirty or sixty, whatever. Um and I'll explain why it's there a little bit later. But for the time being, turn to the the side with the text on it. Okay. And if you don't have your Bible, you can use follow along there. Otherwise, if you have your Bible, turn to 1 Thessalonians. four nine through eighteen. First Thessalonians four, nine through eighteen But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you For you yourselves are taught by God to love one another, and indeed you do so toward all the brethren who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brethren, that you increase more and more. That you also aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you, that you may walk properly toward those who are outside and that you may lack nothing. But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus For this we say to you by the word of the Lord that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with him. Therefore comfort one another with these words. Okay. So before we delve into this passage, um we need to talk about an important Pauline phrase. And when I say Pauline, I'm saying Paul's phrase, one of his uh idiosyncrasies or the words you like to use. And that would concerning in verse 9, not an adjective or a verb, it's a preposition. Concerning this, concerning that. It's a signaling device in didactic portions of the New Testament. Not just with Paul, you'll find it in Jesus' debate with the Sadducees You can look at it later, but that's in Matthew 22, 31, Mark 12, 26. So you'll see say like concerning this or concerning that Jesus uses it. James uses it with Paul in Acts 21, 25, Acts 21, 25, and Paul uses it most frequently in 1 Corinthians. I feel like I talk about First Corinthians a lot. Like, but I mean, it's a good book. Um But anyway, it's it it signals a change in topic several different times and I'll just give you the verses and the topics that it's talking about. You'll find it in 7. 1. It says the matters which you guys, the Corinthians, wrote about. You'll see it in seven twenty-five, unmarried virgins. Food sacrificed to idols. 8-1. Spiritual gifts. 12-1, that's always fun. Um special collection offering, 16-1 And Apollos 1612. So various places in that letter, Paul will say, concerning this, concerning that. So it's a way to signal that he's about to talk about something. Which is good for us because we know that usually it's like the you'll see it in the first sentence of a paragraph and it's almost like a topic sentence. You know, that's how you were taught to write when you were little, right? Write the topic sentence and then the s paragraph should support it. So it helps us to uh go through it. So in First Thessalonians, we see the phrase concerning this, concerning that, launching discussions of three topics, and two of which we're covering today. Brotherly love, believers who died already, and times and seasons. So I wrote down those verses for you. It's exegetically significant as it helps us to divide up and portion out Paul's arguments. And remember the Bible didn't come to the first readers in these nice headings and verse numbers and things like that. So um But thankfully, these phrases are there for us. So we have verse 9. But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. Look at verse 13, but I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep. Lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. And chapter 5, verse 1, which we'll get to next week. I mean I'm sorry, in two weeks. Um so but concerning the times and the seasons, Reverend, you have no need that I should write to you. Yeah, we'll get to that verse next week. So let's read the first sentence found in the paragraph, which starts from verse 9 and ends at the middle of verse 10. But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another, and indeed you do so toward all the brethren who are in all Macedonia This is a pleasant um statement by Paul. Probably a different attitude than when he wrote the Corinthians or Galatians, right? Like, you're doing great, right? Keep it up. They're doing just fine in the first topic of our discussion. And the second topic they need a little more guidance. And the third topic which we'll cover in two weeks. They're also doing well on that. In brotherly love and times and seasons, they're doing good. The saints there in Thessalonica knew what brotherly love looked like in theory and practice. You may recall Paul's delight in chapter one, encourage you to reread it, as Thessalonians were exemplary in their perseverance Faith and testimony. Their love was evident. No doubt their good reputation among outsiders included their special familial relationship, the love taught by God toward one another. And what's amazing about them is that not only did they love their congregation in Thessalonica, right, they loved churches and surrounding cities in the region of Macedonia. That's really good to hear. And this is a young church. Already they're helping out other churches. So Paul simply encourages them to do more of the same. And I hope that our church is like that. It starts and that's one of the reasons I want to continue to pray for churches in the area, that we will be a blessing to them, to other saints. So Paul simply encourages them to do more of the same. Let's look again at the second half of verse 10, all the way to the end of verse 12. But we urge you, brethren, that you increase more and more. Do more of it, that you also aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind your own business, and to work with your own hands as we commanded you, that you may walk properly toward those who are outside and that you may lack nothing. Now there are two exhortations here, even though you see a lot of things in there, and there are two purposes behind these exhortations. The first exhortation is that they increase more and more in brotherly love, which I just said they should do. You may recall from last week as we covered verse 1 that Paul gives all these commands for our abundant life. Paul gave commands for our own good. And b God ultimately gave it to them, obviously. But he also gave us comrades for our maturation. God gave us each other. And we ought to follow the Thessalonians' example in love for our own growth. Not just for the growth of others, but we need each other so that we can grow. It's why membership is so important, our commitment to one another is so important. Now, secondly, Paul wants them to aspire to do three things. There's not a Um things connected here. Aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind their own business, and to uh work with their own hands just as they commanded them. Now we're gonna look at each of these aspirations, but let's just comment on them generally. Loving one another and These three aspirations to lead a quiet life, to mind our own business, work with our own hands, they seem quite ordinary. Like but these are these are like everyday habits. These are things we should be doing already. And what we find interesting here is that These everyday habits of caring for one another and just doing our part in the society, you know, they're more important than we think. More important than these special spectacular demonstrations. I I used to grow up in a church where we're like, you know, we have the revival week. Right? Like we we get this great speaker and maybe you guys grew up in a church like that where We'll pack the pews with people because this great speaker's coming, you know, with you know eight titles after his name with like thirty books written and like you know if he comes he'll fill up this this room and then we'll have this special you know event where we grow tremendously. Or let's go to this retreat and have a conference with like fifty speakers to come and fill up our schedule and that's how we'll grow. And I'm not saying that God doesn't use those things, but Paul is saying do the normal things, do the ordinary things, and you'll have extraordinary growth in your spiritual life. Do the things that are common. And God uses mundane things to accomplish great things. So one aspire to lead a quiet life, so it's like a sub point. Aspire to do three things. Thomas Constable, a commentary I keep using for 1 Thessalonians, comments that quiet life here is closer to the meaning of calm restfulness more than silence. Paul is not saying shut up, put a duct tape over your mouth and don't say anything. Because obviously the Thessalonians weren't doing that. They were going out and sharing the faith and sharing their testimonies. Calm restfulness. In other words, Paul is telling the Thessalonians to be undisturbed, settled, less frantic, peaceful, not constantly on the move. A saint that rests in God and his promises benefit others. Secondly, aspire to mind your own business. This is a tough command because We need a proper balance, and I think the focus here is more on the outside. Okay. Amongst each other, we obviously need to be watchful and affectionate toward one another. We're more than just friends, we're siblings in Christ. But at the same time, even among us there are boundaries we need to respect. And definitely so with our neighbors, right? Even as we pray for unsaved among us, our neighbors, our even family members, we do have to respect the boundaries. We can't tread in areas of speculation and uncertainty. I say you can ask this to anybody, Christian or non-Christian Can I pray for you anyway? I go to church in Elkridge. I'm a Christian, I'm a believer. Can I pray for you? Even I think non-Christians would wouldn't refuse that. Well maybe they will. I don't know. You guys have more life experience than I do, but I would think that they would want some prayer. But anyway, I think we can start with that and move forward as the circumstances allow. When they open up to you, then I guess it becomes more of your business. So ask how I can pray for you and see what happens. Maybe the Lord will open more doors with our neighbors, with our coworkers, with our friends. So aspire to work with your own hands. Quiet does not mean idle. The first aspiration does not I contradict the third aspiration. I said be calm and restful doesn't mean that you rest your hands and you need to work. This is significant because Greeks thought manual labor was a lowly thing. It needs to be relegated to servants. On the contrary, Jews thought that it they took pride in the fact that they can do manual labor And Paul's tent-making skills, if you recall, turned out to be a good apologetic against detractors back in chapter 2. I'll just read chapter 2, verse 9 and 10. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preach to you the gospel. You are witnesses and God also how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believed. So whoever these detractors were, Paul is saying, We har we worked hard. We work with our hands. We did we made sure we weren't a burden to you. So when we love each other and strive to live ordinarily in society in these three ways, we will fulfill extraordinary purposes. Two come to Paul's mind in verse 12, that you may walk properly toward those who are outside, and that you may lack nothing. So we shouldn't be isolated. We want to walk among them and show them that this is how we love one another and this is how we should function in society. So be proper and functional in society and love the brethren Next, Paul shifts gears in verses 13 to 18. Let's read verse 13 first. But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. So unlike the previous topic of brotherly love and the upcoming topic of times and seasons, the Thessalonians needed more guidance in this one. Like why is it that the Thessalonians were somewhat deficient in this subject? Do need I we do need to speculate a little bit, but I think if you read um You know, acts you'll see that this theory might probably hold up. That I believe Paul was teaching biblical theology during his missions and church planting efforts. He was probably proceeding chronologically from the beginning Genesis all the way to end times. And before he got to the last portions of his curriculum, which I take to be you know the end-time events, he was forced to depart. As you know that from Book of Acts. So naturally these saints had some holes in their eschatology. or doctrine of end times. Maybe they knew generally that Jesus was coming back, right? They need to be ready. They knew that in general, but they didn't know some of the specifics. And in particular, the fate of Christians who died before Jesus' return. And soon these holes would be exposed. I mean many Christians throughout history like us today have to say goodbye to their brothers and sisters in Christ. But remember, Thessalonians were under intense persecution, so They lost brothers and sisters in Christ, not through natural means, but through violent persecution. So it must be devastating not only just to see close friends leave them, but face some ignoble deaths as well. So Paul wanted to impart to them not mere facts to store away in their minds, but hope to comfort their hearts. But before we go on, let's make sure we understand this verse, verse 13. Why does he refer to deceased believers as those who have fallen asleep? We must remember that figure of sleep is used in various ways. The word sleep Okay, first we can talk about it literally, as when we go home, get in our beds, and slumber through the night. And that's just literal sleep, the normal sense of it. Secondly, we talk about it figuratively, not only in the Bible, but in everyday speech, as an expression of complacency, apathy, insensibility, or inertness This type of talk is quite relevant for sanctification, and we'll see why in the next paragraph in chapter 5. The third type of sleep, which we will concern ourselves with today, is the sleep of death. Now, when we talk about the sleep, we are talking about the sleep of the body. We don't look, I don't know if it's possible for us to have like special glasses to look at people's souls. We don't tell the soul, are you sleeping? Okay, we're talking about the sleep of the body. Upon death, the immaterial, consisting of the spirit and soul, continues on, right, while the material goes into a rapid state of entropy. We know this. The physical ceases operations and if you want to call it goes into sleep mode, right? And uh you know the the the forces of nature is going to accelerate that. It's decay. And then what happens the moment we die? Ecclesiastes 12. 7 says, then the dust will return to earth as it was, and the spirit will return to God who gave it. Who gave the Spirit in the first place? God did. So we return to Him. We meet our Maker, and I pray all of us, family and friends, are ready for that judgment. Now some people think, okay, well, Christians don't get judgment. Well what kind of judgment are we talking about here? For believers, we face what I call a judgment of saints regarding rewards and loss of rewards. We do still have to give an account to our Lord Jesus. But we don't face what I call judgment of sinners regarding our eternal destiny. If you were to attend the judgment of sinners, You will be judged based on your works, and I guarantee you will be found guilty. So we don't want to go to that judgment. But Christians, our sins were judged 2,000 years ago on Calvary. Amen to that, right? So there's nothing to fear, no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Our spirit will go straight to God at death. There's no intermediary stage of purging our sins, right? No, we go straight to God. And we talked about this yesterday. Um with some of the men, Second Corinthians five, six through eight. Why is it that Paul and his Fellows, uh fellow ministers could be so confident when they're facing danger day and night. They're facing danger as ministers of God. Well, it says in 2 Corinthians 5, 6 through 8. So we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord, but we walk by faith. Yeah, not by sight. We are competent, yes, well pleased rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. So you have two options. You're holding the body, we're absent from the Lord, but when we die, we're absent from the body and we're present with the Lord. Now what happens to the human body? God never intended that humanity's final state should be disembodied spirits. The final sentence at the end of the FBC statement goes like this. I don't know if you guys read it as much as I do. Yeah, I'm not sure if that's like a fun read, but for me it is. We believe in the bodily resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust and in the eternal conscious punishment of the lost and eternal joy of the saved. And the proof passages there we have from Revelation and 1 Corinthians 15. We could also add Daniel 12, 1-3. And another text we could add is John 5 29, 25 to 29. I'll just read that for you, that's John passage. Most assuredly I say to you, the hour is coming and now is when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. Whereas the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself, and has given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear his voice and come forth, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of life. of condemnation. So we're at that moment, okay? Uh we're still alive, but in the future, there's gotta be this moment when Jesus calls. People out of the grapes. Now during his ministry Jesus gave small and individual signs, tokens if you want to call them, of the future resurrection. So that we will trust them for eternal life. In the same gospel of John in chapter 11, he told his disciples, Our friend Lazarus sleeps, but I go that I may wake him up. And they didn't understand what he was saying, so he said, Lazarus is dead, okay? And I'm glad for your sakes that I was not there, that you may believe. So it was a sign so that they would believe. And only the voice of Jesus could raise up, wake up Lazarus. And in other gospels we have the daughter of Jairus, the ruler of synagogue. Remember what he said to the mourners and the family. Why make this commotion and weep? The child is not dead, but sleeping. That's in Mark 539. Jesus woke these individuals up so that we would believe that in the future he will raise everybody up. Back to First Thessalonians. Okay, it's a lot. The question to ask here is why shall we mourn for our departed Christian family in hope? How why is it that we can mourn differently than the people of the world? Why is it that we can do it in hope? Two reasons. One, the security of the dead in Christ, and the preeminence of the dead in Christ. Yeah. Let's reread verse 14. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus. Paul presents this idea of security of the dead in Christ in one of those if-then statements. If you believe that Jesus died and rose again, which you already do, then know that our fellow believers will come back with Christ. He's resting the glorious future hope, the rapture, on the secure, glorious past fact of death and resurrection of Jesus. He builds one spectacular miracle upon another. And the crucial link between the two is Jesus who rose from the dead to secure the dead in him. So is gospel fact, you know, what's in the past, it gives us certainty about what's gonna happen. In the future. Paul talks about it in a different place that Jesus is the first fruits. Meaning he is the guarantee of a harvest that's coming in the future. That's in 1 Corinthians 15. And so when he rose from the dead, he was giving us a glorious preview of what's going to happen to those who are in Christ. So that's the security of the dead in Christ. Verse 15 to 17 relates to the preeminence of the dead in Christ. Let's reread that again. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord, but will by no means precede those who are asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with the shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord. So Paul thought it possible that he and the Thessalonians would be alive at the rapture. We know historically that didn't happen, obviously. But whenever it happens, we have a revelation from the Lord given through Paul that we will not meet Jesus ahead of those who died before us in Christ. I don't know if it's gonna be a line, I don't know if it's gonna be some sort of formation, okay? Whatever God wants, right? All we know is that those who die before us in Christ will precede us. And it will it will all begin with Jesus' descent from heaven with heavenly fanfare. I'm not gonna get into whole the discussion about the archangel and the trumpet. I don't know what it's gonna sound like. I don't know what the voice of the archangel is gonna sound like. Um I have speculations, but I have no biblical proof, so um we can guess all we want. Oh, I know it's gonna be it's glorious, okay? All right. The dead in Christ will rise first, and then we will congregate with them to meet the Lord in the air. Never again will we be separated from our brothers and sisters. And that's really comforting. Especially to a congregation that just bury their dead. They're gonna be together with them again. I mean think about it, like when I say we have Christians all over the world that we have brothers and sisters with, I mean you're like, yeah, I find comfort in that, but don't we find it special that we have a local body of believers that we feel attached to? Right? I mean I'm sure we'll get to know a lot of Christians in heaven. But like, you know, we're our favors, right? Each other's right. Hopefully. And Paul is saying, we're gonna be t oh what what's the laugh about? It's like no. Um anyway, we'll never be separated from our beloved special brothers and sisters again. And you can always say this to a fellow Christian. See you here, there, or in the air. Ever heard that one? It's like called greeting. See you here, there, or in the air. Maybe you can say that tonight as you go. Together we'll enjoy the Lord's presence forever Now, um you may be wondering why did I give the Venn diagram in the back? This paragraph Even though it's short, you know, 13 to 18, is an important piece of the puzzle as we seek to understand the order of in-time events. And I'm not intending for you to You know, fill this out today. It's almost like a homework I want to sort of intrigue you with. A good question to ask is this. You could put 1 Thessalonians 4, 13-18 in that one rectangular box. if you want. Okay. And on the other s rectangular box you could put Matthew 24 to 25, the chapters 24 to 25. And I encourage you to go through that this week. And what I'm asking is, what are the commonalities between the passage, the Pauline passage of 1 Thessalonians 4 13 through 18. And what are the and Matthew 24 to 25, which we call Oliver discourse. Okay? And what are the differences? And this is going to be very important if we think about it. And uh I'm just gonna read one portion of that Olivet discourse in chapter 24, 36 to 42. I'll just read it. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, but my father only. But as the days of Noah were, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. Whereas in the days Before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark, and did not know until the flood came and took them all away. So also will the coming of the Son of Man be. Then two men will be in the field, one will be taken and the other left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken and the other left. Watch therefore, for you do not know what hour your Lord is coming. So if you want to in that uh circle where it overlaps, you may want to just say, we don't know when it's gonna happen. Whether right? That's something that's true. Okay. At this point, we don't know when the rapture is going to take place, and correspondingly, we don't know when the second coming is going to take place. That seems to be the stress in both Matthew 24-25 and 1 Thessalonians 4, 13-18. There's no indication of date. So anytime someone predicts for you, turn off the radio, whoever is saying that you know exactly when the date's gonna be. And there's other things, obviously, like it's a it's a comforting thing for believers, right? Whether it's Matthew, Matthew or 1 Thessalonians. I'm gonna talk about what kind of believers in a second, but those who trust in Jesus, those who seek to see his coming, those who say may or not that come quickly, right? It's a comforting thing to know in advance. But let's also talk about the differences. How does this passage, Matthew 24, the passage I just read, and other parts of that Olivet discourse, relate to the rapture passage? Now covenant theologians, which is are sort of different from dispensationalists, is another tradition in the reform tradition, they tend to blur the details between Matthew 2425 and 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18. They will say something like, Jesus and Paul are talking about the same event. They just talked about the same thing. I think that's suspect for three reasons. And this is where we get to the the side parts of the circle, the unoverlapping, the parts that do not overlap in that Venn diagram. I'm just going to talk about three things. In Jesus' discourse, the analogy is Noah's flood. And I just read that passage. That was in Matthew 24, 36 to 42. And what happened at the Noah's floor? Who were taken away and who stayed behind? Obviously the wicked were swept away and who inherited the earth? Right? Noah and Estanlet. In the Noah's flood, and correspondingly with Jesus' uh what's talked about in Matthew 24, the saved stay And the unsaved are taken away. Swept away, whatever we want to use. In Paul's teaching, the unsaved are, you know. The famous book title by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins, Left Behind, right? The unsaved are left behind, while the saved are taken away. So that's a important difference. So you can put that on the s the on uh the the parts of the circle that's not touching Secondly, Jesus is talking about the second advent when he touches down on Mount Olives. Matthew 24 to 25 isn't the only place you can look at other passages about Jesus' coming in Zechariah. um all these other places where we see Jesus' feet touched down in Mount Olives. Paul here is talking about a meeting in the air. Like the last hymn we just sang sort of kind of put all of it together. The third verse was talking about a meeting in the air, which I think is separate than the second coming. Thirdly, Jesus spoke with his disciples as representatives of Israel, a nation that has rejected Messiah, but I believe during a seven-year tribulation they will turn back. In hope toward a Messiah. So I think there will be a revival of an Israelite people, not at this moment, they're in a state of hardness and disobedience. But during the seven year tribulation, I think that they are going to turn back to the Lord in many ways. From many places. And Jesus is addressing them, and Jesus is addressing them through his 12 disciples in this Olivet discourse. Paul here is definitely addressing the Thessalonians as representatives of the church, believers from all nations eagerly awaiting the Messiah. So once you know this church age which I think we're living in is over, God is going to turn his attention to his chosen people of Israel. But right now um they are uh we are privileged. People from all nations and tribes. Okay, so those are three differences. I encourage you to do more homework and fill out the the the circles and have fun with it Do some coloring. Um I'm not gonna grade anything, so do whatever you want. So I believe that rapture is separate from the second coming of Jesus. I believe that rapture before a literal seven-year tribulation makes the most sense biblically. Yeah. Jesus teaching in the Olivet discourse prepared believers, believing Jews, for that during that intense tribulation. Now this is very pedantic. We could go for hours, right? But please do not forget the big picture here. Why are we even going through these details? Verse 18, which we're gonna finish up with. Very simple. Therefore comfort one another with these words. I hope that you're comforted just by reading it. It's not a coincidence that we read this passage in funerals. Read these words when you remember a a believer who has passed before us. No, people relegate end-time teachings as matters of secondary importance. Um but if we're gonna be just reading through the Bible, if we're gonna be following Christ, if we're gonna prescribe to Paul's um teachings on how to uh go through church life, we have to read 'em. And we have to see that these future indicatives, what will happen, are accompanied by this present imperative, comfort one another. So prophetic words of the last days become comforting words for today. So I hope that you know even though eschatology is a tough topic, you know, be sure to keep the end goal in mind. Lord we thank you for this word and this these two paragraphs we looked at. Lord help us to be like the Thessalonians in in excelling in love for one another. Lord um and help us to also have good rep reputation with those outside. Lord, um just Lord we pray that we would aspire to have a quiet life, to mind our own business, to uh just and to work with our own hands. Lord, we pray that you'll help us in this area. Lord, may we be able to provide for each other's needs And Lord um we also ask that as we look at end times, Lord, as we look forward to what's going to happen in the future, Lord we pray that uh you would we will comfort another with these words. Pray that we will study your word diligently so we can Uh just see that you have a great plan for us, that death is not the end, but that you have an everlasting, glorious life ready for us. And Lord, that we will have enjoy and continue our fellowship in heaven. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.