Well we're getting close to the end of this book. So next week we're actually going to wrap up 1 Thessalonians, but I'll give a small introduction to Second Thessalonians and then we'll go right into the second correspondence. I made about fifteen. I thought couples could share or or fr friends can share or hope that's okay. If they if they inst if We need more. I think Tim is making copies. Um Okay, so why don't we just start by reading the passage? So we're at first Thessalonians five, twelve through twenty-two. Twelve through twenty-two In my um Bible it says various exhortations um as the heading, which is not part of the inspired word, but sort of group them together. But I think there's some structure to it which I hope to un unpack for you. Okay, so verses twelve through twenty-two. And we urge you, brethren, to recognize those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake, be at peace among yourselves. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted. Uphold the weak, be patient with all. See that no one renders evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue what is good both for yourselves and for others. All. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies. Test all things. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. So that's the passage. Let's just start with the big picture of First Thessalonians. We got the first verse, which is the salutation. We have personal reflections. The first major half of the letter. So it went from the second verse of the letter all the way to the end of chapter 3. Hopefully that's all there for you. you. The second major section, which we're wrapping up today, is called Instructions. It stretches from Chapter 4 verse 1 to 5 22. Next week, Lord willing, we will finish this book at the conclusion, chapter 5, verse 22. and get us started with an introduction to 2 Thessalonians. So within three instructions, we have paragraphs with seven topics listed there. for you. General guidelines avoid lust. Love the brethren. Be good citizens. Concerning those asleep, concerning times and seasons, interpersonal relationships, relationship with God Thus far we covered from A to E. Let's go on to F and G for today. From verses 12 to 15, we have the topic of interpersonal Relationships. So I'll read it again. And we urge you, brethren, to recognize those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Peace among yourselves. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint hearted, uphold the weak, be patient with all. See that no one renders evil for evil evil to anyone, but always pursue what is good, both for yourselves and for all. So like the earlier paragraph, the previous paragraph, I think the word brethren is key. It's not just a filler. It neatly divides up verses twelve through fifteen into two subsections. Verses 12 to 13, that's the one subsection, and verses 14 to 15. And I would say that there's some difference between those two subsections. It's not just various exhortations that have been um put together like a mosaic, I think there is some kind of structure there. I would say that verses twelve to thirteen Mainly focus on maintenance, while verses 14 to 15 focus on repair. Right? For those of us who have car issues or own a home. Uh you understand what maintenance means and you understand what repair means. You have to have both. You need to have car maintenance and repair. And Um and same thing with the house, same thing with whatever equipment you may own. And in church context Maintenance is supporting key members who are already doing well. Repair, on the other hand, has to do with key members who are not doing so well. Or problematic outsiders. And both subsections have to do with interpersonal relationships So we're talking about maintaining orderly structure of the church or addressing um repair issues of concern. So let's start with maintenance. I know it for me it feels like a very long time ago, but you might recall that back in January, Pastor Jim Shufi preached from verses eleven to thirteen. We already went over eleven um last week, so we're gonna focus on twelve and thirteen here. But that was his charge to you, the congregation, and then Dr. Beal gave a charge to me. Now in his sermon, he observed in verse 12 and 13 two vertical or hierarchical commands. Hierarchical as in relationship where he said this, you are one up and one down. There's a lot of good things in there. Encourage you to listen to it again. And here are the commands that are hierarchical or vertical. Recognize and esteem the leaders. And we talked about how to do that. I think one application is just get to know them as you were getting to know your spouses, right? Just you know, take them out on meals and and I just wanna say you guys have been doing a great job with that. Um Jim Shoopy also discussed um three horizontal commands. Two of them were in verse eleven, which we studied at the conclusion. of last week you might recall comfort one another. Um I'm sorry, not comfort one another. Sorry. Um yeah, it is comfort each other and edify one another. Right. So those were The two horizontal commands he talked about. But verse 13 has the third horizontal command: be at peace among yourselves. So he talked about these three separately. Now, I want to add to Pastor James' preaching in two ways. First, I want to argue that be at peace among yourselves is not only horizontal. It is a command that intersects with the vertical commands of recognizing and esteeming. And I sort of visually show that for you there on the handout. Here's what I mean. Some of you know way better than I that how raising children can be difficult, right? Now if the Lord has blessed you with well behaved sons and daughters, do not brag, right? Most parents have to do uh deal with some behavioral issues, from toddler stage to child to pre-adolescence. and adolescence. If this is bringing back m nightmares and memories, I'm sorry. Right? And then when they grow up and have kids, you're just like, ha, see. But individual issues are compounded when we have what? Sibling rivalries. When the brother and sister are fighting, when they're not sharing, when they're arguing. And you would think it would stop when they grow older, but sometimes they fight as adults. Again if this is bring back memories or you're going through that, right? You see it. And one of the best things kids can do for their parents, mom and dad, is get them all. Share. Protect each other. And I think that's the idea behind verse 13 there. Be at peace among yourselves. So it is related to esteeming the leaders and recognizing them. It's not just a random horizontal command. It's all related. And that builds the structure of the church that maintains the goodness of a church. We look up to the leaders and we support them, but also we gotta look to each other and be at peace with one another. So another point I want to emphasize is the second point that is the fatherly function of leaders. Meaning that if we're going to be leaders, whether it's Sunday school or elders or deacons, it's not just about just giving out commands and or doing things. We have to be father We have to be warm. We have to be loving. Now, verse 12 contains three participles that summarize the leader's job description, and I take these leaders leaders to be something like elders. They are to labor among them, be over them, and admonish them. You see the Those three there. Labor among them, be over them, and admonish them. And let me just talk about these three and You know, I think the council and the deacons are all good at the labor part. We had a deacons meeting yesterday and we meet as I mean we get things done. Like we have um you know to-do lists, um we got things we have to do and we usually get them done. Okay. Elders meet biweekly and I make them suffer through the agenda, right? And try to end before midnight. There are times when I get really close and um I'm sorry to the wives of the elders. for sending your husbands early. I mean late. Not early in the morning, but late at night, right? And also in terms of individual works, I I mean I generally spend like more than half of my time. Just preparing sermons, you know, twenty-five to thirty hours. Um Steve Conrad works hard in preparing the music for every Sunday, these practices. Mark and Carrie aside from their full-time jobs are key leaders in Awana do many things behind the scenes. And without your support and prayer, we could not labor among you. Right. But I think generally we're doing a good job. I would say that more difficult, at least I'm not sure if I can speak for all the elders, but Would you pray for us that we would do also do a good job of being over you and admonishing you? It's not that we're not doing that. It's not that we're not capable. It's not that we're scared of doing that. And it's not that you guys aren't a delight to lead. It's just that three of our four council members are in their thirties. And let's just say most of the congregation isn't in their thirties, right? Right. Okay. Now fulfilling the second description over be over you can be somewhat of a challenge. Um the verb for be over is found eight times in the New Testament. Um it's found in Romans twelve, first Timothy uh three times in uh chapter three of 1 Timothy. You see it in chapter 5, Titus a couple times. And in most cases describing church leaders. Three of those instances, three of the eight, have to do with managing households well, including children. You know, first Timothy three, four to five and twelve. And the fluid way in which Paul goes back and forth between managing church members and managing family. But reveals the importance of those close relationships in discipleship. It's not about just standing up here and telling what to do, it's just standing beside you and leading you like a gentle father. Elders and deacons must not only get things done, but deal with dust like family Now, I've only had a family of my own for two and a half years, and my late father was mostly absent. And most of you have way more life experience, you know, being over a household, and even had godly parents who taught you as you were growing up. For you, head of the household is more than an income tax filing status. It's a respectable title you've earned over time. Please pray for us so that we will be over you well, like a good father. You can imagine admonishing is also a challenge. You know, I can't imagine what Mark Conrad goes to like trying to admonish men and women who are his father's age and above, growing up and being taught by them, addressing them as Mr. and Mrs. And Carrie w didn't grow up in this church, so I think it's a different type of relationship. And even with Steve, I mean, it it can't be easy dealing with longtime peers and friends. Um I don't maybe it's easy for him, but when I w meet up with friends that I've known for a while, you know, I have no trouble supporting them and being for there for them But like it's it can um you know and I would always be there for them through the thick and thin. But my first instinct isn't to try to correct them But as God has given us these positions of leadership, please pray that we will fulfill these duties. over you and admonishing you. We need your recognition, esteem, and love when we are unrecognized, suffer from low self-esteem, and feel unloved despite our work. We need you to be at peace among yourselves so that we can better serve you. So that's verses twelve and thirteen about maintenance. Verses 14 and 15 relate to repair. The word brethren is repeated, and now we have some issues of the church. The unruly. The faint hearted, the weak. Within the church and outside of it, we are going to encounter people who try our patience. There will be temptation to render evil for evil. Both for internal unity and external witness sake, the church must heed these commands. Now, just a couple notes here. The exhortation to warn, comfort Uphold, be patient, not to render evil for evil, to pursue what is good for all. That is an exhortation for everyone. Not just for leaders, all of us have this responsibility. Whether you're a leader or a follower, counsel or non-counsel, clergy or layman, we all have much to do here. Interestingly, Paul notes that every church member, regardless of position, um, has to admonish. The Greek word for warn in verse 14 is the same one for admonish in verse 14. Verse 12. Note to tale. So leaders have to admonish, and the members have to admonish too. So both church leaders and church members must take on the tough job of confronting sin, admonishing. The unruly is a general description of certain members at Thessalonica that we will encounter again in the second letter. S see how Paul urges an appropriate response to different types of people. At times I think applications can be difficult, just trying to identify who's who, who is unruly, who is faint hearted. Who is the you know part of the weak? We're gonna need discernment to judge whether a person is faint hearted and weak. Is it because of their own sin or the sins of others? That in itself requires discernment. When is it being patient and when is it enabling sin? No. When do we speak up and when do we wait a little bit? These are all requiring us to seek God's wisdom. Now we refuse to render evil for evil, but maybe taking an action is pursuing what is good both for yourselves and for all. The balance is delicate. It's not about Christians being pushedovers or vengeful. Sometimes the churches need to push back and seek justice to protect victims of society. Or those endangered by the loss of religious liberty. Ask the Lord this week, and this is for all of us here, to help us identify those described in verse 14. The unruly, the fainthearted, the weak, people we need patience with, where we are tempted to render evil for evil. And you know, proper applications of verse 15 as well. Okay, now let's go on to verses 16 to 22. And I'll read it again. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit, do not despise prophecies. Test all things, hold fast what is good, abstain from every form of evil. You know, some of these verses are like like easy to memorize, so you can after you memorize it, you'd be like, yeah, I memorized like three or four verses today. Especially like verses sixteen through eighteen. But they're important. And I think verses sixteen through twenty-two are focused more on our relationship with God, whereas the previous verses were more focused on interpersonal relationships. Just as we saw with sanctification and sexual immorality in back in chapter four, Paul likes to dwell on the obvious And we should too. We should like to dwell in the obvious, obvious revelation of Scripture Rejoicing, praying, giving thanks, you can bank on those. You will never be out of God's will when you practice these three acts. Through Jesus. That's why it's part of our worship. We rejoice and even clap, you know, during during songs. And we pray during service. We give thanks, expressing expressing it with words or in our giving. We always do that. We're always in God's will when we meet together for those things. And you know, like I said last week, I never want to get rid of the prayer meeting because we're always going to have in God's will when we're praying. I just want to move its time. Okay. And there was one Wednesday evening when we had some inclement weather and you know Tim Burke showed up and we prayed, just the two of us. in the office. And that's something former pastors like Dan Trayer believe to be vital to our church. And that kind of tradition we want to continue. Traditions that are centered on God's clear will. Let's keep going with that. Whether it's two or twenty of us, we need to continue to pray always, be thankful, rejoice in what God has done for us, doing for us now, and will do for us. Now, unlike verses sixteen to eighteen, verses nineteen to twenty-two deal with areas of less certainty in relation to God's will. Okay. We're gonna need the leading of the Spirit in situations where scriptures are not specific. Now, verses eighteen and nineteen show the progression of revelation in a Trinitarian framework. As God the Father reveals his will to God the Son, who in turn promised us, God the Spirit, to guide us into all truths. That's found in John 16, 13. So I think that um when we center on the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, their revelatory function that will be at the center of God's will. No, the command in verse 19 is do not quench the spirit. We're gonna have to talk about this a little bit. So I heard a famous story from Steve Lawson. He's a famous MacArthur was ten minutes into a sermon when a man bolted onto the platform and began publicly rebuking the preacher. The man shouted, quote, I rebuke you, John MacArthur, in the name of God for your quenching of the Holy Spirit. Maybe like wow, crazy things happen, right? Even at a church. Um Apparently this guy was commissioned by his church in Scotland, uh far from home, to carry out this protest. And Lawson brought up this vignette to point out how MacArthur calmly and gently diffuse the situation. I'm bringing up the story to ask Why would anyone accuse John MacArthur of such a thing, quenching the spirit? My guess and I think some of you are already guessing too, I'm fairly certain that it's MacArthur's cessationist view they have issues with And what is the cessationist view? The view which says, um, uh among other things, the gift of prophecy has ceased to operate today. So that guy was like, okay, you're quenching the spirit when you're saying that. It's probably not his view on the inspiration of scriptures, okay? Regeneration, sanction. Sanctification or other works of the Holy Spirit. No, um we don't have time to unpack and compare the cessationist and continualist positions. But in quick summary, my position is that divine prophecy cannot be wrong in details. Some people who say that prophecy continues today, they'll say like, well, it could have some mistakes in it. I'm like, no. It can't. Okay. Um I wrote my master's thesis on that. But um back to this strange Scottish charismatic man. Um He assumed that verses 19 and 20 have the same thrust. Despising prophecies is the same as quenching the spirit. But he's wrong on two levels. First, MacArthur doesn't despise prophecies because he loves prophecies. He preaches from the Bible, which is filled with prophetic revelation. Right. So he doesn't actually despise prophecies. He just de defines it differently than this guy. Secondly, I think that quenching the spirit is not the same as despising prophecies anyway. I think they're true different things. They're spirit related topics, but they're not the same. Now we might be able to forgive easily this misguided Scottish man. But what about someone like this guy? Sometimes I bring books to recommend them. This is not a recommendation, so please don't go and buy it. He Samstorms. Um he's a pastor, author, blogger, and founder of Enjoying God Ministries. With the support of another popular preacher, Matt Chandler, he wrote a book entitled Um Practicing the power, welcoming the gifts of the Holy Spirit in your life. It's sort of like what Jack Deer wrote I think in the nineties. Um By the Holy Spirit. So it's just like sort of like a modern version of it. So I specifically read the chapters about the practice of prophetic gifts, and I'll share with you some quotes, which should be on your handout. This one's in one thirty five, page one hundred thirty-five. And see if you can identify some issues with it If a word is shared publicly, we believe that every believer in the congregation has a personal responsibility to pay close attention to the prophetic word. and to judge or evaluate biblical validity of its content. So he has cited there 1 Corinthians 1429. And the passage for today, and the one we're talking about at this moment, 1 Thessalonians 5, 19 to 22. Now, 1 Corinthians 14 is the right proof passage to consider. But he's su he's assuming that all of 1 Thessalonians five, nineteen through twenty-two is about this process of uttering and vetting prophecy. He's blending together the ideas of quenching the spirit and despising prophecy. He may not be as combative as that Scottish man, but he has the same exegesis here. The same idea that if you despise prophecies, you'll propose quenching the Holy Spirit. And he has his definition of what prophecy is. And the next quote gives us a clue about what his definition of prophecy is. Don't despise prophetic utterances when they go badly, when people are offended, or when someone gets wrong. Okay Now I agree with Sam Storms that things can go badly in the sense that people may not like a prophetic revelation. And people can be offended. I I'll even grant him that. But someone getting it wrong, isn't that proof enough that they're not prophets to begin with? Like if you get your prophet Prophecies wrong, right? I mean, I don't remember Moses, Elijah, Isaiah, Jeremiah, you know, getting their prophecies wrong. Now why are the prophets in the New Testament held to a lower standard? Why would we tolerate mistakes? So Sam Storns and these guys are sort of putting us in a bind here. They're saying, okay, you better not despise prophecies because you'll quench the Holy Spirit. But then we'll be like, Well what is your definition of prophecies? Well it's words that could be wrong. I'm like so if we follow their definition of prophecies And they connect these verses together. We're doing something against the Holy Spirit. So it's sort of like a trap here. So I don't agree with that. So what exactly is quenching the spirit about? Okay. I separate it from despising prophecies, right? I think we should consider other passages that speak of similar acts against the Holy Spirit. I've always heard when it comes to the Spirit, resist not. Grieve not, quench not. Let's just talk about grieve not. And I want us to turn to Ephesians 4, and we're not going to just turn to uh verse 30, but We want to turn to Ephesians four, twenty-five to thirty-two. And that gives us the context of what it means to grieve the Holy Spirit. Ephesians four twenty five to thirty two Okay, I'll just read it. You can follow along, Ephesians four, twenty-five to thirty-two. Therefore, put away lying, let each of each one of you speak truth With his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands, what is good, that he may have something to give him. We see from the context that things that grieve the spirit, we can list them, lying, unresolved anger, stealing, corrupt word. Bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking, malice. Galatians 5 has similar works of the flesh Which I think is uh when we refuse to be led by the Spirit, which is the same as quenching the spirit or grieving the spirit. So you know the list in Galatians five, I'm I won't go to the passage, but here are some adultery, fornication Uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, reveries, and the like. So passages like Ephesians four and five, Galatians five do not talk about prophecies, but they focus on again the clear will of God. It speaks against immoral living that opposes God's clearly revealed will. So I think quenching the spirit too is an act of following the flesh, going against God's will. in morality. So I think it probably belongs in that innermost circle about um in the clearly revealed will of God. So, what about prophecies? Paul had to promote prophecies among the Corinthians, so it's possible that the Thessalonians didn't esteem them either Mm. Now it could be that the prophets lacked the credentials of the apostles. Um it could be that gifted individuals like Timothy needed reminders to live out their callings according to the prophecies. made about them. But we don't really know much about the prophets. We know one name, Agabus, which Again I wrote about him. But it could also be that there were false prophets who were wandering and causing trouble. I mean last week a gentleman came in and said he has the gift of prophecy and he wanted to us to uh be KJV only. Um and he started to say to me, Are you willing to be taught and corrected? He did not seem to belong to a church, which worried me, and he wasn't under any No um any accountability in a church. So anyway, uh we had an interesting conversation. So I'm sure it was like that in first century too. Okay. But there were true prophets sent by God, and Ephesians two twenty tells us they were foundational to the church along with the apostles. That's why I believe the age of prophets in the New Testament. Died out along with the age of apostles. So I don't think it extends beyond first century. So to put it all together, I picture a concentric circle as I see there. We focus on the center and start there, the universal. We have God the Father revealing his will through Jesus with the Spirit as our guide. We should not quench the Spirit by going against God's will. We have the canonical scriptures today recording the clear revelation from our triune God. We should expend the most energy and effort in this innermost circle. That's why we read scriptures, we expound scriptures, we do expository preaching here. We want to focus on that center circle. Now, next there are prophecies that may apply to an individual Christian. Okay. That's the next level. But since I believe that prophecies ended in first century, this doesn't really apply to us. But if you were Paul or Timothy, In first century, you would have heard prophecies concerning their ministries. They would have to consider those But that does not apply to everyone else, but it is specifically for Paul. He was promised that he would make it to Rome in spite of all the things that happened. He was promised uh prophesied that he's going to be locked up. But he's gonna make it to Rome alive. That's why he was so confident during the shipwreck and all that And Timothy had prophecies spoken over him, you know, that he about his ministry to come. But furthermore, we will face situations in life where we need to experimentally test all things, asking the Lord for wisdom and discernment to distinguish between what is good and bad. We need to be careful in this area. Having identified such things, we hold fast what is good and abstain from every form of evil. evil. And that's the final outermost ring which I call experiential. I don't want that to be misunderstood as like we need to experiment with bad things out there and just to see if it's good. That's not what I'm saying at all. Yeah. But we need to be careful and there are areas in our lives where we just need prayer. Yeah, and we just need just uh counsel decisions. We need You know, do I marry this person? Do I take this job? Okay. Aside from the fact that that person is a Christian, you know, which is from the clear will of God. How do I know? There are things that when we need guidance and wisdom. So we move, we start with the universal, and then we go with individual revelation, which I don't think Um it's really there because uh the uh the the prophetic gift and the experiential in discerning God's will and properly relating to them. This all has to do with our relationship with God. So put all together if we follow these verses we have guidance for how to live with our fellow humans, right? We got our church, outsiders, and how to live with God. So it's not just various exhortations. I think these verses are important. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the church and we thank you that you've given us leaders here. Help us to fulfill our calling. Help us to admonish, help us to be over the congregation. Lord, help us to labor among the congregation, we pray that you would help us to esteem and recognize them, Lord, um, and be at peace amongst ourselves. Lord, we pray that you would help us to identify the fainthearted, the unruly. the weak. Lord help us to just pursue what is good for all. Be patient. Lord now And Lord, we pray that you would help us to um just deepen our relationship with you, Lord. That we would dwell on the clear and obvious will that you have revealed, whether it's sanctification. um whether it's um rejoicing, praying, um we we pray that we would help us to fulfill your clearly uh clear will and when we have to Uh when we when there are um issues of uncertainty, may we ask you for wisdom and in humble prayer. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.