Now, what does vigilance look like? And that was sort of the theme I was going for with the selection of hymns too. Now, I'm gonna take you back in time to Tuesday, December 16, 2003, around 10 AM, to a specific address. 9161 Commerce Center Drive, Columbia, Maryland, 21046. Some of you could, you know, if you have a Google Maps, you could look that up. But I'm just going to paint the scene for you. I arrive in a car with some college friends, okay, revealing my age here. Uh we approach the building and stand in line to enter just before midnight. What is this scene? What would compel people to lose sleep, leave their warm homes, and venture out into darkness in cold weather? Now, my friends and I were in the middle of final exam week. I remember at least one colleague actually had a final to take the following day. What is this? Well, it's the highly anticipated theatrical release of the Lord of the Rings, the Return of the King, at United Artists Snowden Square 14. I don't know if it's still there. You know, I thought I was pretty fanatical to be there at that time of the day in that weather. But my passion could not match those who were there in line already. Many hours ahead of me. I saw someone dressed up as Gandalf. There might have been some elves and dwarfs too. During the film, nobody is passively watching. They're cheering and hooting during the Battle of the Pelinor Fields. I felt like I was in the word, you know, not only because of the special effects, but the emotional reactions of the audience. Now at the end there was much groaning as the ending stretched on and on, as fading to black like multiple times, only to begin another scene. I heard that the book is even longer. I think I got home around five AM. Yeah. Now these movie premieres bring out the most vigilant of fans. So don't they do that? Yeah. So I don't think I'll ever forget that night. It makes me laugh, but it also challenges Me. It reminds me how devoid of fanaticism we are for things that truly matter. Right? Now those J. R. Tolkien fans didn't complain about the twelve AM movie time. They wanted to be the first in this country to see it. Now I wouldn't mind if a line forms at seven AM Sunday morning at our parking lot. Um well I mean what if someone dressed up like Jonah or Paul and sat in here? I mean Now I'm not even sure how to tell tell the difference between Jonah and Paul, but but you might think it's a bit strange, but you can't blame the effort. I mean I hope that we uh cheesy line here. I hope that we can be more excited about the Lord of Lords, the return of the King, right? So we're going to look at First Thessalonians 5, 1 through 11, and which teaches us basically how to be vigilant. And if you don't have your Bible, you it's also in the handout, even though I kind of spread things out a little bit 1 Thessalonians 5. But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I shall write to you. For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night. For when they say peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them as labor pains upon them. on a pregnant woman, and they shall not escape. But you, brethren, are not in darkness, so that this day should overtake you as a Feet. You are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet the hope of salvation For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. Therefore comfort each other and edify one another just as you also are doing. Just as a big picture, uh you may recall a few weeks ago, that the phrase concerning this or concerning that is to used to divide up the three major sections of this letter, stretching from chapter four to five. You see I have it listed on the handout in four nine, but concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. 4. 13 we read, but I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. Finally, in 5. 1, but concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I should write to you. And the main topic of this paragraph is not new to the Thessalonians. Paul himself says in the second half of verse 1, you have known me that I should write to you. It is interesting though that it takes 11 verses to talk about this, more than the two previous paragraphs combined. Okay. Brotherly love for four verses and rapture in six verses. And just from the amount of ink and paper used, I believe there are two lessons. These two lessons are not listed on your handout, but just very simply I want to say two lessons concerning relevance and repetition. First, I gather, and I hope that you understand too, that eschatology is very relevant to us now. Our future determines how we live in the present. Secondly, pastoral leadership requires not only revealing something new, but reinforcing something old. Often preaching and teaching is not bringing a shiny new toy to show and tell. It's sewing continually It's about repeatedly convincing, rebuking, exhorting with all long suffering and teaching. And I hope that's the same with the way you Teach the Bible to others, way you lead devotion, way you the way you talk with your friends and fellow brothers and sisters in Christ that yeah, it's good that we reveal new things, but also make sure they're following up. Right. Repeatedly telling them, Well this tells us that we need to do this. And unless all your friends are the ones that listen to you the first time, listen to the Bible first time around, you probably need to repeat things. Okay, so with those big ideas in mind, let's look at the details of the paragraph. With this kind of lengthy passage, I believe it is useful to pick out transitional clues. So I underline, emboldened and italicized, I think, the word brethren in verse 1 and verse 4. Okay. It's a s it marks a slight transition in verse four there. So brethren in verse one and verse four. So consequently we have two major subunits With verses 1 to 3 related to the arrival of the Lord's Day, verses 4 to 10, the vigilance before the Lord's Day, and verse 11 as an exhortation in the present as a conclusion. So let's begin with verses 1-3 and reread those verses concerning the times and the seasons, brethren. You have no need that I shall write to you, for you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night. For when they say peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them as labor pains upon a pregnant woman, and they shall not escape. So Paul's discipleship of the Thessalonians included teachings of end times, specifically what's called the day of the Lord. And when I say the day of the Lord or Lord's Day, I'm not talking about Sunday, a day in the week. We're talking about a familiar Old Testament expression. Commentator D. Edmund Heavert provides a helpful definition. If you want to write this down, I think it's a good quick summary. It denotes the day when God intervenes in history. It denotes the day when God intervenes in history And he does three things. To judge his enemies, deliver his people, and establish his kingdom. Okay, so I'll repeat that. To judge his enemies. Deliver his people and establish his kingdom. So altogether, it denotes the day when God intervenes in history to judge his enemies, deliver his people, and establish his kingdom. I think it's a helpful summary. You'll run into it frequently when you read to the Old Testament. And I hope that as you read to the Old Testament, I encourage you to carefully note the significance of that day, the day of the Lord. Now what does it mean? Why do we call it the day of the Lord? Um I'm going to borrow from pop culture to illustrate. There's lots of movie references today. Um now I didn't actually watch this movie and I'm not sure if I can promote it either. I don't think I would but I mean you just learn these kind of things just from beams or just talking with people. The one of the greatest quotes in American cinema cinematic uh universe, uh Is the um 1983 film Sudden Impact, uttered by the protagonist, Dirty Harry Callahan, um played by Clint Eastwood, right? At the beginning of the film, Harry goes into a diner for morning coffee where he discovers a robbery in progress. Uh he kills all the robbers, but one in a shootout. Um the surviving robber grabs a fleeing waitress, holds his gun to her head, and threatens to shoot. Instead of backing off, Harry points his 44 magnum revolver into the man's face and dares him to shoot. Same with clenched teeth and rough grumble, go ahead, make my day. Now if the robber attempts to harm the hostage in any way, Harry would be happy to dispatch the robber. At the end of the film, Harry again says, come on, make my day, just before shooting Mick the rapist, who aims at Harry's lover, Jenny Spencer. Jennifer Spencer. Now you can see why make my day was such a popular phrase. Um it was uttered by the good guy who's not afraid of the villain He is determined to protect or at least avenge the innocence. He does not compromise his sense of justice. He does not back off, but he upholds justice at all costs. In a very imperfect and im and miniature way that reflects God who will have his day. And during the seven-year tribulation and at the end of the millennium, faithful Israel and Gentile will be protected and avenged. Persecutors will deeply regret messing with God's saints. Now Paul doesn't repeat these details since the Thessalonians seems to already know them. What he wants to emphasize is this that they knew definitely that they couldn't know the definite time. To reinforce this point, Paul evokes two images. First is that of the thief in the night. This figure of speech communicates suddenness or abruptness. That's why we see him saying sudden destruction comes upon them. Second, the pregnant woman in labor, which conveys inevitability or certainty of judgment. Hence we see at the end of verse 3, they shall not escape. The original language is like they will certainly not escape. So two images. The thief in the night being communicating suddenness, abruptness, and the pregnant woman communicating inevitability or certainty. Now I'm guessing that Paul borrowed these concepts from Jesus' teachings about end times in Matthew 24 to 25, the Olivet Discourse. And for example in uh Matthew 24, 42 to 44, you can turn there or I can just read it for you. Uh watch therefore, for you do not know what hour your Lord is coming. But know this that if the master of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into. Therefore you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. So this deep imagery Jesus already talked about. Jesus was less emphatic with the bird pain's imagery, but he does use the same word for labor pains in Matthew 24 verse. eight. So I encourage you to look at that first as well. So Matthew 24, 42 to 44, and also verse 8 But as you can see here, both are apt in describing God's swift judgment. Now remember that robbery and the pregnant women are illustrations of them, not us, what they're going to face. We're not gonna be surprised. We know what's coming. The unbelievers are low to sleep by their sin. I mentioned on Wednesday that leading thinkers in the world believe that the world is improving. Why would they even think that? Well, they look at the technological advances, postmodern relativism, global networks of for peace and security. That's what they think is advancing. If you think they're deceived now, I believe as you go on as we go on to 2 Thessalonians, we there's even a greater deception, even more severe in the end, that Paul's gonna talk about in the second letter. Now, I could stop here and talk about some applications, but Paul does just that in the next part. Leon Morris comments on the transition to the next portion from verses 4 onward. Paul is left from a consideration of the day of the Lord to the thought that the Thessalonians have nothing to fear from the coming of that day. This leads to the further thought that their lives should be in harmony with all that that day stands for. So let's reread verses 4 to 10. But you, brethren, are not in darkness, so that this day should overtake you as a thief You are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But let us who are of today be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as of helmet the hope of salvation. For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. Verses 4 and 5 focus on the Thessalonian believers' identity. Paul reminds them of who they are and who they are not. They're not in darkness, they're not of darkness, nor of the night. Rather, they are all sons of light and sons of the day. And we know that we can only obtain this status when God delivers us from the power of darkness and convey us into the kingdom of the Son of His love. But Paul doesn't end there. He builds on the indicative who you are for the imperative what they must do and not do. This is something that's very common throughout Paul's letters. He reminds them of who they are and then tells them this is what you must do. They must not sleep, but watch and be sober. Sleeping and drunkenness are linked to the nighttime activities, but these Christians, all of us Christians, are sons of the day, sons of the light. I'm going to return to the figure of sleeping later, but for the moment, let's discuss the figure of being sober. Now we're not talking about literal sobriety here. We're not talking about alcohol. But verse 8 explains what spiritual sobriety looks like Putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet the hope of salvation Sons of light and sons of day are armed and ready for battle like a soldier. And that's why we sang, Armor Christian soldier there. And we know from 2 Timothy 2, 3 to 4. Um you therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. soldier. Now I'm guessing Paul was around soldiers a lot because he was you know ch like handcuffed to them and you know he was arrested many times so But he understood what kind of discipline and rigor is needed to be a military person. A soldier on duty is not in his pajamas. He has his two armor pieces on. I know that Ephesians talks about many more armor pieces, but here we just talk about two. Thomas Constable observes that the breastplate covers one from the neck to waist, protecting the vital organs. So he thinks that the that faith in God protects a Christian inwardly, while love for others protects outwardly. So that's he thinks that. And then as for the helmet, what does the helmet do? It protects the head. The hope of salvation guards the head from attacks on thinking And you'd be like, Well, how do you even put on these things? I knew there was like I think there was a Christian who said he would get up and put on all the pieces, the armor pieces of God before he starts his day. I mean not literally, but like he would think about those things. But like how do we even apply that? This is not equipment that is passively worn, right? They're active wear, if you want to call it that. You may recall that back in chapter 1, the Thessalonians are actually known for their visible faith, hope, and love. So let's go back there and just real quickly look at verse 2 and 3. It says there, this is the introductory remarks of Paul. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing, your work of faith, labor of love. And patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of our God and Father. Work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope. So these are things you actually do. You actively must do these things. It's not just something you put on and forget about it. You have to be actively engaged in battle. You have to be actively practicing faith, hope, and love. Verse 9. Faith, love, and hope are only possible because of the gospel. Yeah. Soldiers of Christ fear nothing because God did not appoint them to wrath. Rather their destiny is the attainment of salvation through Jesus Christ, who died for them. Now, whether they're wake or sleep, they will live together with God's Son. So now let's talk about the word sleep there. It's vital for us to understand that the word for sleep in verse 10, chapter 5, verse 10, is not the same word as the sleep, the word for sleep in 415. Um in in the original language. So let's go back and read chapter four, verse fifteen. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. That word, that figure of sleep in chapter 4 is not the same as chapter 5. Sleep in chapter 4 is about the sleep of death. Sleep in chapter five is an expression of complacency, apathy, insensibility, or inertness. Now, so back to chapter 4. If Christ doesn't return in our lifetime, we will sleep in death and meet him and other church saints at the rapture. And that's the sleep of chapter 4. Meanwhile, in chapter 5, we see that unpreparedness can be a simple choice on the part of the saved. You know, as we see in First Corinthians, believers can at times be carnal and immature, not able to take in solid food. And here's another illustration here. Some Christians are dozing off during their duty. They should be awake, but they're not at times. Spiritual slumber must be avoided. Okay, this is a lapsing Christian, this is someone who is has sort of lost uh touch with his duties. This is something we should avoid. So we can avoid avoid uh falling asleep on the job by being an active church member, like I said about Beethoven Love. Where we can practice faith, hope, and love. That's why we do it here. That's what we see partly in sort of in conclusion in verse eleven. Therefore comfort each other and edify one another, just as you also are doing. So the Thessalonians not only know what to do, as we saw in verse 1, they do what they know as well. we see in verse 11. Nonetheless, Paul is okay with repeating. He tells them that as he must have done before, to comfort and edify one another. Remember, this is not a command given to individuals. It was not given to a single pastor or a small group leader. It was given to a congregation. It's up to us to fulfill verse 11. You in plural. And as I say over and over, you can't obey God and grow alone. If you want to obey God from the scriptures, you need to be part of a local body of Christ. It's not just one. So I want to promote one corporate act through which we can be vigilant. Prayer. Now, like I said at the beginning, we're still two months away from that change. But I'm looking forward to moving the prayer meeting to Sunday evenings because of passages like this one. Here's what I'm envisioning, okay? And I sort of said this last week. Your Sunday school teacher speaks in the morning. Other individuals stand up here to pray and read scripture. I preach a sermon and there's another one in the evening. And even the hymns and songs are carefully selected, at least thematically tied to the sermon passages. Now if you have paid attention to the singing, the scripture reading and the sermon, you should be saturated with God's word. By evening time you may have listened to other people talk for hours. And that's okay as long as it's focused on God's word, right? But then our final time together on Sunday will be a time when you can speak to encourage others. Like what what it says in verse eleven. Now normally for those who don't come out on Wednesdays, we split it into small groups and give each individual this wonderful opportunity to obey verse 11. As we pray, we cite scripture and edify one another because that's how we can build each other up. Not just with my own encouraging words or my opinions or my expertise. No, we point them to the word and that edifies and builds up a fellow Christian. When we pray, we try to feel each other's pain. Bring a suffering brother or sister to Christ to do what? To comfort each other. That's what it says in verse 11. Colossians 4. 2 says this. Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving. Prayer is an essential part of being vigilant, being ready for the Lord's coming, that we'll be found faithful I hope that we can grow into habits of grace. Not that prayer is habitual or something that's just we just do, but that it will be something that we do it as an act of vigilance. An inventor said once quote habit is a powerful means of advancement. And the habit of eternal vigilance and diligence rarely fails to bring a substantial reward. Now this isn't a Christian. He's just saying that if you have habits, there will be rewards. Now, if that's true of earthly success, how much more are habitual vigilance and diligence essential for heavenly rewards? We belong to the day. It's not time to sleep. We're not home yet. Put on that armor. Remember what Christ has done for you and look forward in hope to that day you will be with him. Until then we look around each other, right? Look around here, comfort and build up your fellow soldiers. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for all of us who are here, vigilant and ready. Lord, we got our armor on. No, we know our identity. We know what we should do. We have our Bibles open. We got our Um we have our hearts open to you. We're praying. But we also pray for those who may not be awake at the moment. No we pray for those who have uh faltered in church attendance. Um not because they're physically unable to come, but because maybe they have lost hope. They lost their faltering in faith. They have forgotten to love. Love the brethren, and we pray that you would move their hearts, that we will galvanize them to take up arms for the gospel to advance the kingdom to um to edify and build up and we pray that you will bring to mind people who um we can encourage in this way And Lord, we just thank you that we belong to the light and we belong to the day. And we pray that we would fulfill our duty as long as we're on earth. Pray that you'll give us the strength to do so this week. Or that you would op open up opportunities to share the gospel, to encourage a fellow Christian, to build build relationships where that will lead towards sharing the gospel. to exemplify hope and love in our lives to our to an unbelieving world, whether it's at workplace or um in schools or wherever in the neighborhood, wherever we may be. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Okay. So just announcements um in terms of things relevant to our meetings. in the evenings. Just remember that at the end of May we are looking to change uh the prayer meeting to this time and then have our uh uh have a service on uh Wednesday. So taking this to Wednesday, taking the Wednesday night prayer to here. When I do do that later, I'm thinking about maybe just having a more Bible study. So I mean can still teach the work maybe not from the pulpit but just be aware that that change is coming up end of May. So but there will still be a sermon on Sunday nights, but we'll probably spend more time praying. Alright. So your the handout should be out there. Hopefully there's enough.