I'm going to be there with uh Ira as well. For me it'll be slower, but um it's pretty long distance, you know, in antiquity. of the Jews. Like what is genitive of production? Especially from our church, is to fold our hands in prayer. Perseverance. I was just thinking this. arrived maybe around like noonish I think and then we're still unpacking, there's a lot of books. cancelled church on Sunday, so that was interesting. And also I taught at um a local seminary in Virginia um is first and second Thessalonians. throughout the Sunday evening. Time to gather together and sing hymns to you and just share with one another what's going on in our lives. uh the Thessalonian correspondences. to this local church that Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy founded and we pray that all that um you have told them, or you will speak meaning he had more um just he was uh he spoke Greek, uh he understood the culture better. Yeah. And they was they were stopped and then they went wanted to go to southward to province of Asia, but God said no to either of those uh directions. Roman Empire. Okay. Barnabas. Verse 6 there. So it's an interesting um connection. can see that in the first chapter of First Thessalonians, Paul praises God for uh their repentance from idolatry. from generous Philippians who sent envoys ninety-five miles away at least twice. Um Paul was able to just um communicate with the Philippians. marketplace and gathering a mob, set all the city in an uproar and attacked the house of Jason and sought to bring them out to the people. Thessalonica. was able to take advantage of his low profile to go back and forth, deliver letters, give updates on the Thessalonians' growth. uh the possibility that Paul's audience is mostly Gentile because he always says Grace first. Salutation. Thanksgiving. they didn't like I was mean or maybe they didn't even mean to but they slighted us. He's he berates them, he um this he's really harsh on them, but he's thankful to them as well. Love of our neighbor in mind. I think. And um just what else are is there um in terms of labor? Just thank you for thinking of us. Hope in Christ. of the church so that we would in a way just check up on each other. And then you see in the last phrase in verse 5, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. Thessalonians. The things that are lacking and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you. changed. Well, it's been um a pretty memorable week. Does that sound familiar? funerals and give a sermon, right? And she attended a church there and then uh she died and um she w had a funeral service there, but she wanted to be buried in Elkridge. And um it'll just be at the gravesite. there and uh maybe some of them will come to Christ. series. the Church of Thessalonians. uh he understood the Greek culture. And that's number seven there, uh, where they faced some intense persecution, but successfully formed a community. and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. Scriptures, explaining and demonstrating that the Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, This Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ. Here too. These things. ministry. C. growth. And um I subscribe to what's called the Southern Galation Theory for you Bible nerds and geeks. I believe that you can divide up Paul's missionary epistles in a very memorable way. Epistle, okay, Galatians. which are the Corinthian correspondences, right? trips. and peace uh from God. His own greeting, grace, cares. House and the Jews in his audience. power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake They remember their works. Um when you look at the original language a little bit, um this one grammar called this the genitive of production here German, right? things and generative usually has like some sort of possessive um idea but here what we can say this work produced by faith gossiping. And your testimonies, your growth, your struggles, that so that when I can pray for you, not it's not a it turns into an intercessory prayer full of thanks, not an impregatory prayer, right? on Jaina in Baltimore. Um I'm thankful for Christian nurses, especially since I'm married to one. And we appreciate Phyllis for faithfully serving the Lord in spite of physical difficulty. The argument thus far. Okay, it's a causal participle. Men we were among you for your sake. them as well. And it's a we should remember this isn't just for church leaders. financial support of his program. the leaders need to know about their members, whether each member is fulfilling the covenant. um just the roles as for example, me as a pastor that I preached the word of God that I as I took the uh charge this morning, that I was to be faithful to the ministry the Lord has uh given to me. of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not coercesome, not covetous Faith which is in Christ Jesus. over with the council and decided it might be a good evangelistic opportunity as many people who knew um Ida are not Christian and Uh so I'm talking with Lois, Chuck, and Robert Roberta and so this coming Tuesday I'll be doing a funeral. I've done weddings a couple of times, but uh never a funeral. that I will efficiently because I can't go long, right? Mission trip. Paul's work in Thessalonica. Of devout Greeks and not a few of the leading women joined Paul and Silas. A play on words here. um greeting, a compound greeting so that he can address all types of people in his congregation. The source of grace and peace is clear. I'm able to get to know you and and the first day's Sunday. Like um you know Pastor Shupi was saying this morning, a lot of their labor is just there's no visible fruit right away. Food and the potla food which is now in our stomachs, and all that labor of love, right, produced by love. leaders and know the responsibility that we have. Um and hope and thank God that there's always been uh deacons and elders here. Having received the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and openly confessed them by means of water baptism, I desire to unite with this portion of his visible body, the church. standards of doc discipline as set forth therein. on 1 Timothy three, verses 1 to 13. Here. you know um emailing and just getting to know you guys um and another thing is that how many of you guys know a Lois Anderson But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brethren to the rulers of the city, crying out, These who have turned the world upside down have come and practical matters. Um we s know that that's just how marvelous it is and how it saves us, makes us white as snow. labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father, knowing, beloved brethren, your election by God. If you labor, we'll give you that position. As they're trying to reach their neighbors with the gospel. This hope. I would say four-point checklist. Um and I'm going online to see what it's uh how you do it and so but just pray that as I prepare for this um Look at some of the names that we're going to study in depth. So now let's take this all together and let's take it and get some lessons out of here. Yeah. Somebody once said, I heard a speaker, preacher saying, you don't have, you have the Holy Spirit, not the happy spirit. His job is to make you holy. Like Paul, in the sense that, hey, you can look at my life, you can look at our lives, and see that we are not hypocrites Chapter 1, verse 2 to the end of chapter 3. Your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. Labor produced by love, endurance produced by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Um I thought I would make it more like a Bible study, so since it is a less formal service. Alright, so let's look at First Thessalonians 1 1 and we're gonna read the first part of that first and then just And reb and they wanted to revisit um the churches they founded, but the reason that they stood out was because Barnabas wanted to give John Mark a second chance because um he abandoned them during the first And on their way, there's a key location, Lystra, that's number two there, Paul recruited Timothy, and he's a gifted young believer whom Paul wrote um two letters. Think about how the people in the world motivates us to work. He is confident that they have this love relationship with God, that he is also certain that they are chosen by him. But was the gospel also powerful? I know that I'm not sure if this excites you as it excites me. For example, the membership covenant in section 3. And and as you go there, let's just pray one more time before I begin. These qualifications will be of great help as he explores uh new places of ministry in the West. Um Philippians will be of eventually of great help later, and I think Dr. Paul tells us what the energy source of those three things are: faith, love, and hope. The next major stuff was in Thessalonica, number eight, where Paul had three weeks of fruitful preaching ministry. So when they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. And how can he be so sure? And you see how in verse 4 and verse 5 the verb of knowing is in both verses. He desires a good work. One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. But Paul was like, No way, we can't have him come along and abandon us again. So aside from Paul's longing to see the Thessalonians, there's four reasons for Paul's first letter to the Thessalonians. In Greek, the original language, the sentence spans from verse 2 all the way to verse 5, but you see a break in the NKJV at verse 4. So in other words, what exactly is work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope? So many of you probably know who Paul is, but w let's talk a little bit about Sylvanus or better known as Silas and Timothy. But then the Thessalonian Jews are not done with Paul. If we just remember people when we're driving down the road or when you're having a bad day, you probably don't want to remember good things about them. Thessalonians worked, labored, and were patient, not because of those things, the things that do not last. Did a person receive the gospel in word? Okay, w that doesn't mean we're doing ministry twenty-four-seven. The Thessalonians know about them as well. So that's why you don't see me in a suit. Let's read the second part of verse 1. We give thanks to God always for you all. So Paul remembers three things in the sight of our God the Father, God and Father, work, labor, and patience of the Thessalonians. And what about the labors of love? Um, or um but because of their knowledge and experience, it not only benefits the general public, but their fellow church members as well. You know, when they talk about power a lot of times, you know some people a lot of time people talk about like some miracles and um but I think it's talking about a a a life that is transformed. We are living um to the best of our ability to please the Lord. And whether as deacons and leaders and elders, uh, we can help you um achieve this. Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Jason has harbored them, and these are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king, Jesus. Follow along with me. And the verse 4 is another participle, and that reveals the reason for things. We're gonna turn there and as you turn there I I made some um sheets there. I won't be going at a torrid pace. And Lord, convict us, Lord. So let's not just work, let's work energized by faith. The second verb of knowing in verse five has to do with Thessalonians, knowing Paul, Silas, and Timothy. So they departed from Syrian Antioch and that's marked one on the right side. And then they traveled to the uncharted territory of Mysia, number three there, in that region, and they wanted to go north to Bithynia, number four, and then s uh During his time there, the apostle did not burden the uh believers by relying on them financially. Maybe Timothy stayed low. Two, he had to defend the authenticity of his ministry among them. The standard Greek greeting was chirrain, which just happened to be from the same root as the word caris, which we translate as grace. There's no way the Thessalonians were perfect Christians, but Paul chose to focus on the things they were doing right, not wrong. Two to three weeks. I'll stop there and then quickly summarize what happened at Varea. So Borea at number nine in your map. But uh these are uh just what we call verbal nouns, but they help us understand uh the circumstances behind Paul's You might be a cynic with your eyes open, but when you close your eyes for prayer, I hope you're optimistic and thankful. No, our faith will be sight, and the source of our hope will will be with him in eternity. Paul is grateful for the Thessalonians and their effort in the context of prayer. But Paul took Silas, um as you can see by his full name, that's a Latin name and that suggests that he was a Hellenistic Jew. So this is how I will sort of translate this verse. Just if we let our thoughts carried get carried away. Okay. So let's go to the first verse there. But during this time, Timothy is able to move freely back and forth from Paul and to go to Thessalonica. Now, exegetically significant is how faith, love, and hope relate to those three things I just mentioned: work, labor, and patience. Those languages are case systems, so they have like nominative, accusative, dative, genitive, ablative, all those Now, when you pray for someone, what do you pray for? I think I made ten. So this is my first time at a evening service and I was told that it's less formal, so I went home and And Paul saw a vision of a Macedonian man, and so they crossed the Aegean Sea, and then gospel touched the European soil for the first time. Now let's also look at verse 3 from the Thessalonians' perspective. Perseverance of hope. And now we're about to enter the first part. I think the main point of this paragraph, introductory paragraph, is found in all the words in verse 2 before the first comma. So after their mission trip, what we know as the first mission trip in the book of Acts, Paul and Barnabas split up. What will you remember about individuals in our church? Well that's just uh because um Greek is a case system. Further, I will endeavor to order my life in a manner pleasing to Christ. Uh in the original language there are actually three participles that we should consider. Are we motivated by faith, love and hope? These are people who are working, whether it's just in social ways to like just be hospitable or just within their ministry. You know, we constantly remember Dale, they're having a tough time, and we pray for their entire family. He was a leader at Jerusalem, he was a prophet, he was a Roman citizen, and you learn that in the book of Acts. This is really a useful tool. This is a faithful saying. He could've just said grace, but he he wants to add peace, shalom to that too. So verses two and three, they provide the context of Paul's Thanksgiving. So she contacted me and asked if I could officiate a But they're in the same region. So those are the four reasons that you'll see sort of laid out as you go through the chapters that Paul are concerned for. Paul wrote this letter very soon after hearing Timothy's report in Corinth, uh so in the spring of I would say fifty AD. Even before we knew you, you know you're loving your pastor and the pastor's wife. Thirdly, can we detect the personal work of the Spirit in sanctification? So in Greek there are two participles that follow this main phrase, all the words before that, comma, making in the second half of verse 2, and remembering in verse 3. And then we go right on to verse five to find the reason. So we quickly get to the body of the letter after the salutation of verse 1. Now that's not to say you turn a blind eye to sin. This greeting is found in all of Paul's missionary and prison epistles, in all his letters except 1, 2 Timothy, and Titus. It re shows the reason why. Another helpful document, hey bylaws. It won't be a very long sermon, but I hope that I'll be able to share the gospel. May that hope energize their perseverance. We pray that you would speak to us as you spoke uh just two millenniums ago to this to this church. And we go on to the rest of verse 2 and see what is it about the Thessalonians that Paul remembers A bishop then must be blameless, the husband, a one wife, temperate, sober-minded. So please pray for that opportunity. Act seventeen. God the Father and Lord Jesus Christ. So if you turn the other side of the map, I just provided a outline for you, very broad outline. So great evangelistic uh opportunity. Now we know what happens at Athens, and then Paul's gonna eventually end up at Corinth, number eleven, and then Silas and Timothy is are going to catch Let's also go to first I'm sorry, Titus one five to nine. And then among the people that were saved there, there were Jews, God fearing Greeks, and prominent women that came to faith. And the standard Jewish greeting was of course shalom or peace. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. Uh so uh Lois Anderson's um aunt, Ida, you know um she lived in Ocean City but And in that area, Paul encouraged the growing churches that he founded in his first mission trip. See, this is why the church is important. And that's what the leader's job is uh supposed to be. I'll probably go very slow. And then during his second mission trip, Paul wrote two letters, 1st and 2 Thessalonians. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I agreed to the statement of faith of Faith Bible Church. By the way, I think there needs to be an update here, but I'll talk about that later. Okay. First and second Corinthians and Romans. Now, and is a distinctively Pauline thing for him to do. And I'm sorry, personal reflections. So this third participle in the sentence is different than the previous participle. Meaning did it was it effectual in the person's heart? That's okay. Um other things that have taken place other than Let's go to Acts 17 and you'll read a little bit about how tumultuous their beginnings were. They chase him down and they decided that the best way for Paul to escape was by sin. When is it that Paul, Silas, and Timothy give thanks to God for the Thessalonians? Meaning was it spoken and heard? Let's not just grit our teeth and persevere, but find the strength to persevere by hoping in our Lord Jesus Christ. So thank you for keeping off the parsonage. Maybe he wasn't as um public in his ministry, and maybe Paul and Silas were. 02, right? Efficiently and effectively and powerfully proclaim the gospel um to those What I mean, if we don't remember people in the context of prayer, think how what kind of danger that would pose. So that's all the background that we can fill in for 1 Thessalonians 1, 1, the first part of 1. So then this mutual knowledge is important, which is what we talked about this morning. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for money. But Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God, the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. There's things for members as well, okay? Okay, they get to number ten athens, but you see the route there, it wasn't by land, right? Now we have the a very long sentence to start the letter. Um and um and you know, there's uh Susanna and there's other people uh who are nurses here. Uh we got here last Saturday, uh right before the snowstorm, and uh we were able to uh Transform us through your word. And what are some examples we can find in F C? But also remember your elders and deacons. If a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of dissipation or insubordination, and the same thing. We're all sinners. Like what should I remember about them? If you persevere, we'll give you that extra time off. I feel like verse five provides a four-point checklist almost. And that's the first word that Paul has for the Thessalonians. And finding no synagogues in Amphipolis and Apollonia So, but and as for the Thessalonians themselves, they face some persecution of their own, you know, just like their uh Then Paul, as his custom was, went in to them, and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the I feel like I'm getting to know you already and you know I didn't get to see you last week, but through this quarterly prayer list tool Randy and Lisa for their witness at their workplace. It just means that as much as Paul and Silas and Timothy know about the Thessalonians, they know about um So this was such a sharp disagreement that they decided to go separate ways. We give thanks to God always for you all when we make mention of you in our prayers, when we remember without ceasing. Fourthly, is there much assurance from leaders and fellow Christians? Uh you know, as we see in other letters. Yeah, I'm convinced you're saved. By laws are not things you just read once and say bye to it, right? Just taking time to reflect and apply it to our lives. I'll read it for you. Beau went through a series on Philippians, am I correct? And we sang all the benefits of God's grace, the hymns. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church? So now let's let's get back to Paul, um reviewing You can you can't just have a relationship by yourself and self-assure yourself that oh I'm safe. Forgive my lack of faith. But we should remember people in context of prayer. There's all kinds of saints in here that we can remember in the work of faith, labor of love. Um let's see. But the Jews who were not persuaded, becoming envious, took some of the evil men from the mark. Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Verea. And then we turn to Article five, and members should keep us accountable too. It'll take place at eleven at Meadowridge. If a man desires the position of a bishop, And it's a challenge for council deacons and other leaders of this church to be During his first mission trip, Paul wrote one letter called missionary. Paul is thankful. So next week we're gonna talk about some deacons, right? Let's not just labor, but labor with love of God and So it's a good way to memorize uh what Paul wrote during his three mission So the body of First Thessalonians you can divide into two major chunks: personal reflections. Anyone know Latin? We may recall the time that someone may have ignored us or said something that Now we do know in that in this in the context of eternity, okay, the greatest of these three is love based on First Corinthians. Um and then as you know, one of the first calls I had to make was to And so I was hoping to go through first and second Thessalonians. And then the second part, instructions from chapter 4, verse 1 to chapter 5, verse 22, and the conclusion from I'll just read it out loud for you and see, you know, if this reflects your life and as um Um so I'm reading like books But God funneled Paul and his team toward Troas. So it wasn't just the Jews, it was um a lot of Greeks there too. Another faithful ministry there from Let's look at these verses from Paul's perspective as an intercessor. And um one of the books that I have just recently gone through in Greek And that's pretty amazing if you think about it. Not to be confused with Piscidian Antioch. You can look what that look up what that means. I'm glad that Paul didn't just say, I remember your work, labor, and patience. First verb at the very beginning of verse 4 relates to Paul, Silas, and Timothy knowing that So that's a one check box. I realized there is no salvation in my church membership. Maybe you guys can go there with me. And it within a three week span or so. But it seems like once or twice, like you know, uh just But no matter what the demographics might have been Um And it's our responsibility for us to know them and them to know you guys. Please pray. And there's two corrections. It reads, Knowing, beloved, brethren, your election by God. And will you pray for them? Um Titus, which is okay. That sort of means that as leaders um we have to be open to scrutiny. Witterington also suggests that the The fruit of the Spirit, hatred of sin, the Spirit leading us to read the Spirit-inspired word of God. Yeah, I'm convinced you're growing. But um five to nine. Um maybe I should have made more, but maybe some of you guys can share, maybe the couples can share. Um First of all, we should remember people in context of prayer. Number two. And Silas was just the man that he needed. You just plant the seed and hope and pray to God. Hope in Jesus Christ. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside Now when they had passed through Amphibulis Paul could find reasons to be thankful in places like Corinth, but you know what happens in the rest of the letter to the Corinthians. Well, you know Latin or Greek or church And um so I uh as I start this uh Sunday evening Maybe like what is participle? And you know, just looking through this as I was preparing this, I thank God for Doris, Stephen and Marilyn. And as you lift them up, ask them, ask God to give them Uh I never gave a funeral sermon before. He worked day and night and received support from So this is the membership covenant We ask that Lord that as we open up your word to It's in the context of prayer. And I'm excited to get to know all of you guys and But we need all three on this side of eternity, okay, before we uh go to heaven. And all the labors of love that was put into the potla So you'll see a mention of Thessalonica in there. But Paul is also sort of playing Here's what one commentator, Ben Wetherington, says So now he makes this And then as this is what we need to know about um This week I hope you can remember um meditate Ninety five miles away with my car, that's like an hour and a half driving. If you work hard, we'll give you that race. And they troubled the crowd and the rulers of the city when they heard Paul combines two standard greetings in order to properly greet Gentiles. And And what I find interesting here is how confident Paul is about the Thessalonians. The Spirit's job isn't to make you happy. Uh third, uh correction on eschatology, fourth, correction on other moral And we should remember the good things. Barnabas took John Mark and go went to Cyprus, which is on your map. Bill Bianco at Awana, Phil and Beth in Canada. Let's also thank God for the beautiful examples of perseverance of So I hope you meditate on that. It's when they mention them in prayer. Will you give thanks for them? So I'm just gonna read verse 2 to 5. So leaders know your members. The main content of the letter begins in verse 2. Paul is thankful when he remembers them in prayer, making remembrance of them. And during his third mission trip, he wrote three missionary epistles. As we sang about God's grace. So that seems to suggest that during his ministry time in Thessalonica One, joy in hearing of their Remember without ceasing your work of faith. And some of them were persuaded and a great multitude But with that theory in set in mind, um It's been So that's a very short amount of time the Philippians were eager to support. For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in I'm convinced I'll see you in heaven. So I talked about So Well, just um I don't never been there. Um for this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the I'll explain it in a second. You gotta read it I promise to be faithful in church attendance and prayer and Paul is concerned. How do we know someone is beloved by God and chosen by God? So we just went over the So it seems very very likely that Timothy was a very important thing. Get to know us whether we are fulfilling Imagine if Paul took the gospel towards the black sea, We give thanks to God always for you all. Laura, we thank you for this evening. Had to go in a faster route to get away. And you can When they arrived, they went into the synagogue. But you do that work by faith. I think the first thing we should do when we remember people is I believe in the fundamental doctrine of the Word of God and the starting It's like again, I'm new to the area but um I He kind of takes that and he makes it into These are That's when God put us in the context Work, labor, and personal And Members know your members. Um Chuck and the Canada. That's number one. Thank you for this talk. But Well