So we're continuing with the first half of the First Thessalonians, and it's called I would just entitle that entire section, Personal Reflections. So If you allow me to work backwards, last time we saw how Paul defended his ministry in verses 1 through 12 in chapter 2. The way he lived and preached among the saints was blameless and genuine. Then if we go back to chapter one, we see how Thessalonians were also genuine in their reception of the gospel. when I returned to that theme today. And for such wonderful beginnings, Paul is grateful for their maturity, their growth, example, and witness. So in chapter 2, verses 13 to 16, Paul returns to the theme of Thanksgiving. that we saw in the first few verses of the book. Then in verses 17 to 20, he and his companion expressed their desire for them. If I were to uh succinctly summarize today's passage, I would say that we should be, in application, grateful for one another, and we should long for one another. Grateful and belonging for one another. So let's go to First Thessalonians chapter two. Verse thirteen and we'll read till verse twenty. For this reason, we also thank God without ceasing, because when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us, you welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth. The word of God, which also effectively works in you who believe. For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God, which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, just as they did from the Judeans, who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and persecuted us. And they do not please God and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be safe, so as always to fill up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. But we, brethren, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavor more eagerly to see your face with great desire. Therefore, we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and again. But Satan hindered us. For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you, in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming? For you are our glory and joy. Okay, so let's uh start with that first paragraph and let's look at the first verse. In verse 13, I'm going to say that all the words leading up to the comma there, after the word seizing, form the theme of the first care paragraph. For this reason we also thank God without seizing. Like I said, this should sound a bit familiar. And you go back to chapter 1, verse 2 to 4. To split back real quick. We give thanks to God always for you all Making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father, knowing, beloved brethren, your election by God. So now back to chapter 2 verse 13. All the words that follow the comma, the rest of the verse in verse 13, provides the first reason for Paul's thanksgiving. The Thessalonians welcome Paul's word as God's word. They receive God's word as it is, as it is truly Let's read again from verse uh uh in from because onward. Back in chapter two, verse thirteen Because when you receive the word of God which you heard from us, you welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth. The word of God which also effectively works in you who believe Now, is this a source of thanksgiving for most people? I would say that it should be. What more can a Bible teacher want? Do we really want our recognition? Do we want our names on walls or statues in front of churches? We should desire nothing more than this. That we speak God's word and others hear God's word. It's okay that I'm forgotten. It's okay that They if ten years from now they don't remember who's preached this or who preached that. Now that this doesn't mean that um when we when people accept our words as God's word, that we don't use illustrations or we don't you know share our testimonies. God has appointed not readers of scriptures, but preachers of scriptures. So God intended for us to have a little personality in our preaching and our teaching of the word. And I'm really glad that He would use weak and valuable vessels like me to carry the powerful. An infallible message. Now I'm certain that uh as long as he pleases the Lord, Paul would be perfectly okay with being forgotten. That they only remember God's word, not his. As long as God's word remains in the Thessalonians' hearts. I was just thinking about just think about all the people that have impacted you because they spoke God's word to you. And in church history as well, there are many believers who are satisfied being off the stage, away from the limelight, to help others learn the scriptures and the gospel. Rad about this 18th-century theologian Nicholas Zinzendorf, what he said to Moravian missionaries. The missionary must seek nothing for himself, no seat of honour, no report of fame. Like the cab horses in London, he must wear blinkers and they're like eye patches. And be blind to every danger and to every snare and conceit. And this is what a lot of people remember the most, this quote right here. He must be content to suffer, to die, and be forgotten. Would you be content with that? Zinzendor greatly influenced the Wesley brothers, John and Charles, as well as William Carey. We seem to know more about those he influenced more than the man himself. And I think he's okay with that. Would you be thankful if the world, your students, children, disciples forgot you, but they hid God's word in their hearts? Personally, may my mouth speak the word that comes from God's mouth. And why would we preachers and teachers Sunday school, pastors, whatever you do to minister God's word. Why would we want God's word to remain in them? Remain in you? We see that at ver end of verse 13. Look at it again. Also, which also effectively works in you who believe. I don't make a big deal about the original language usually, but I think you'll appreciate the etymology there. The verb behind effectively work is just one word in the original, energy. The Word of God is a source of divine energy. It works in you initially to revive the dead soul, but that's why we preach it. That's the only power we have. To dead souls. We just preach God's word and we know it has power to do so, to revide them. That's the reason Dr. Beal charged me last one. Preach the word. Man, just it's just been one month. Okay. Anyway, um no church program, no activity, no building, no personality can transform lives in a lasting way. We know all the all these verses that testify to the power of God's word. The message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. This is a bit of a paraphrase, but by the word of the Lord heavens were born, and by the same word of God we were reborn. And from then on, like newborn babes who desire milk, we long for the word. By hiding it in our hearts, we do not sin against the Lord. And if we stumble, and we certainly will, we know that the scripture is profitable profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. The Word of God is both a sword for battle and a surgeon's night for heart inspection. So the question to ask Would Paul be thankful for you? Is the Word of God working in you? What's the use of memorizing verses and chunks of Bible if we don't actually obey? The word of God is being shown effective in our lives. Remember, Jesus' arch enemies were Pharisees who knew their Bibles and agreed with Jesus in many points of doctrine. But Jesus had the harshest criticisms reserved for them. The Bible needed to make that trip from the head to the heart. Ask yourselves this week, how can God's word not only dwell in me, but also effectively work in me? And if so, I'll be thankful. All your Bible teachers will be thankful. Other Christians will be thankful. Paul has another reason to be thankful for the Thessalonians who received God's word. They imitate their Judean brothers in suffering. Let's reread verses 14 to 16. For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. For you also suffer the same things from your own countrymen, just as they did from the Judeans, who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets and have persecuted us. And they do not please God and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, so as always to fill up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. There's a lot going on there, but the basic point is that Paul is thankful that these Thessalonians are suffering well. That even in spite of their own persecution, they're receiving the word, they're imitating their older brothers and sisters in Christ. And there are many overlapping parallels between the end of Gospels, where we see Jesus suffer, the beginning of Acts, where we see the early church suffer, and Acts 17, where the Thessalonian Church suffers. Paul and uh Peter and Paul preach Jesus, uh the the gospel to the Jews in Jerusalem and Thessalonica, respectively. Praise God in both cities conversions took place, and though the difference is that Paul saw more Gentile conversions than Jewish ones. And sadly, in both cities, in Jerusalem and Thessalonica, they persecuted Jesus and his faithful saints. Motivated by envy, they partnered with Gentiles to attack the innocent, accusing godly men of treason. And because the Thessalonians refuse to back down in their holy living and their faithful witness, they display the same determination. You can call it godly grit, found in the earliest Christians. And whether it was in Jerusalem or Thessalonica, the unbelieving Jews were not content to simply ridicule and give social pressure. They wanted to stop the evangelizing, halt the preaching, and silence the teaching. And their idea of beauty the truth was to kill the truth-tellers. Starting with Jesus, just as they did with their own prophets. Later, as you know, they stoned Stephen, killed James, the brother of John. And they would have done the same to Peter, except God rescued them. And by trying to shut up the Christians, they displease God and in fact are contrary to all men. You may be like, wait, how is how are these Jews, these first persecutors of the church, contrary to all men? And this is a principle for all of us to understand. When authorities abuse their power to forbid Christians to, as you see there, speak to the Gentiles so that they may be saved. They're enemies not only of saints but of all humanity. God will remember their sins which is piling up every moment and has judged them in wrath already. They are to re they must repent before it's too late. And there are many governmental powers today trying to do the same thing. They're trying to stop the chain of actions that leads to salvation, which Paul talks about in Romans 10, 14 to 15. Why don't we turn there real quick? Some of you guys have already memorized this or are very familiar with it. Romans ten, fourteen to fifteen. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not belief? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. See what are the governments doing when they try to persecute witnesses to the gospel? They're in a sense maiming and crippling the beautiful feet that would bring the gospel of peace. Governments that must promote peace actually oppose it Because they hinder the preaching that leads to the hearing, the hearing which leads to the believing, the believing which leads to the calling. And God is going to hold them accountable for that. And that's why when you pray for missionaries this week, pray for the governments under which they live. I know it's a little bit I I try to like watch BBC news or listen to podcasts or read some newspapers. It's hard for me to understand foreign governments, let alone this one. So I I don't know if you guys share my struggle, but Yeah, we need to pray for them. Obviously, for our missionaries to have a faithful witness to be bold. But we want religious liberty to be there so that they can freely and um easily proclaim the gospel. That's why Paul thought it was so important that we pray for authorities in First Timothy two. And sometimes I read this during the petitional uh prayer petition in the morning, just as a reminder, and hope that we make it a practice as well. So 1 Timothy. Two, one through four First Timothy two, one through four. Therefore I exhort first of all that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour. who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Paul knew that governmental peace would allow for easier proclamation of the gospel. That's why we should pray for that as well. So we pray for them uh that uh these governments would allow us to preach the gospel freely, but we also we can also pray for specific individuals. To pay for their salvation. You know, I'm sure that Paul feels a huge amount of relief there and thankfulness. That all these verses that we just read in 2nd 1 Thessalonians 2 doesn't apply to him anymore. Remember, he used to be an authority who persecuted the Church of God. We all know the story. He was there when Stephen was martyred, and he breeded. threats and murders against Jesus' disciples, and he would have done more, causing havoc in Damascus until God stopped him in his tracks. It's as if God heard God heard a prayer of Stephen. Lord do not hold this sin against him in his dying breath. Even if our situation isn't that dire, we should continue to pray. Maybe we can pray for in like literally individual authorities by name. So like Stephen, if we suffer well and continue to receive God's word, true believers will be thankful for us. So again, two reasons Paul is thankful for the Thessalonians. One, they receive Paul's word as God's word. They suffer like their older siblings in Christ. And even from the perspective of the Thessalonians, they're happy about this. I'm not sure if they were giddy and about suffering, but we do know in chapter 1, going back to chapter 1 again in 1 Thessalonians, verse 6 and 7. And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction. With joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaia who believe. How did they do it? They received it with the joy of the Holy Spirit. And when they do that, uh Paul was uh thankful along with Silas and Timothy. So now let's move on to the next paragraph. So the previous four verses are about Paul's thankfulness for the Thessalonians. These four verses that close out this chapter Okay. His desire finds expression in two ways. His longing for fellowship with them and his affection of words for them. How he cherishes them. Let's just read verse 17. But we, brethren, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavor more eagerly to see your face with great desire. So if we transition from the previous paragraph, I'm sure that like a nursing mother and a proud father, Paul's heart ached just hearing or just thinking about the suffering his spiritual children were going through. The same with Silas and Timothy. That's why being separate from them, especially when they're going through struggles and pain, was like torture to Paul. The word behind the phrase having been taken away in verse 17 is pointing. It's something like orpened or bereaved, and some translations have that. That's a strong desire that Paul had for that church. Like being separate from it, he felt like a bereaved parent. Even if he was away for a little amount of time, he couldn't stand it. Their hearts went out to them even though they're um they couldn't see their face. And look how cumbersome Paul's words are as he tries to express his longing for them. Have you ever heard a preacher say, he endeavored more eagerly to see your face with great desire? That's a lot of words expressing emotion there. See Paul didn't want to do FaceTime or chat on Facebook. He wanted to meet face to face. If that sounds a little bit too mushy for you, sorry, this is what growing in maturity is all about. Express your longing for your church members. You're not growing soft, you're growing in Christ. And what follows from this desire to see them is the desire to be with them, as you see in verse 18. Therefore, we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and again, but Satan hindered us. Paul's repeated insistence on going to Thessalonica is stressed here. And it seems like there might have been false notions out there, maybe rumors or gossip, that the apostle doesn't care about them. And the apostle perceptibly and wisely quells such suspicions, kind of cut it at the root. Snup it out. And I think that's the temptation that I think any congregation member might feel. Does my pastor really care about me? Does that elder really know what I'm going through? Does that deacon really serve me? And as p at least from our point of view, we need to express that. We do care. And that's what Satan wants. That space to create these doubts. And I mean literal space to keep believers away from each other. Paul is perceptive of the spiritual forces that stood between him and his beloved friends. Satan loves it when believers are separated from each other, circumstantially or by choice, sadly. Because edification and maturing would take place in such gatherings. Also, he would love to deprive a church of of a minister that who preaches God's word. But Paul not only felt called to minister God's word, he feels the call, he wanted to be there and there for the Thessalonians. He didn't feel like doing that just once per day. He felt like it many times over many days. Only a supernatural power would stop him from coming. to him. That's why he sends Timothy to relay this letter and to make sure that they're doing well. Why would Satan delight in separation? Like I said, maturation, growth cannot take place outside a church context. It's true that church membership itself does not save us. We must make individual decisions to follow Christ, that's true. But church membership and attendance is the primary way in which we grow. Without a commitment to a local body of believers, you won't be able to mature. You can't properly obey God without church context. Without relationships with fellow believers, your relationship with God would suffer. For example, if you wanted to obey God, how can you obey God All these commandments that have the phrase one another. You don't have to follow along with me, but just in Romans 12 through 16 alone. I'm gonna read you a bunch of commandments that we have to obey. And you can't do it w outside of the church. We have Be kindly, affectionate to one another, twelve ten. Giving preference to one another, twelve ten again. Be of the same mind toward one another. 1216. Love one another. 138 Let us not judge one another. 1413. Be like minded toward one another, fifteen five. Receive one another fifteen seven. Admonish one another, fifteen fourteen, Greek one another, sixteen sixteen. We got a lot of one another's to do And that's why we need to gather together. And the best way to do this is to gather together and cherish one another. So let's read the question and the answer Paul himself provides in 19 and 20. For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? For you are our glory and joy. Again, really getting mushy here. I don't know if these are your favorite verses in the Bible. Paul again sounds like a parent. He wasn't looking to get ahead in life by using the Thessalonians as stepping stones. He didn't find hope and joy in his own resume. He didn't want the crown of achievements. I I mean I'm not a parent yet, but when I see you know E-Ray's parents or our my my mom, it's sort of like they're just happy to see us grow Right? To see us do well in life. And I'm sure that you feel that way um as a as a parent or as a uh child. The man who used to destroy the church wants nothing now but the glory in her. And the best way that he would serve the head of the church is to cherish the body of Christ. And that's what being a uh Christ-like is all about. Um Christ loves the church and cherishes her like a loving husband to his wife. And we've got to imitate Christ and do the same. And if I may borrow from the language of 2 Corinthians 11, Paul wants to be like this man who walks the church down the aisle. He wants to walk the Thessalonians down the aisle, present the church as a chaste virgin to Christ. As a spiritual father, what more would you want? So in conclusion here, uh be thankful for one another. Be thankful when you have a church member or church members who receive God's word. and our suffering for Christ. We have a lot to be thankful for. And also long for one another. I don't know exactly how that application will be this week. Maybe it'll be an email or phone call of a fellow brother or sister that we haven't seen in a while. Maybe it's comforting Audrey. Maybe it's comforting someone else who's going through struggle at this time. Long for one another Well, we obviously have to gather together, which we're doing tonight, but we should also cherish each other as well. Let's pray. Lord, we have so many things to be thankful for. We thank you for just the common things in life, the common grace that we have. The roof over our heads, the clothes on our back, the food on our plates. We have so much to be thankful for. And we really want to also be thankful for one another tonight, for this body of Christ, this local body of Christ. Some of us have known each other for a few months, some of us for um Decades. And we look thankful, we're thankful for this friendship that we have and this fellowship we have And Lord, we've seen each other receive your word and grow. And may we celebrate that. May we be thankful for that. And we've seen each other suffer for you. May we be thankful for that as well. We have brothers and sisters in Christ who are all over the world suffering for you. May we be thankful for them. May we take time to encourage them through email and and just or call or phone call Lord, may we long to be with one another, to gather together in regular worship. May we be first of all excited to come to the church to worship you. And secondly, to be with each other and to pray for one another and to share our burdens with each other. May we cherish one another. Lord, this type of language Paul uses is really challenging in a different way because I'm not sure I could say the same thing. about fellow believers, but we pray that we would have that kind of perspective. That we would cheer for one another and And say that I can't wait to see all that God has planned for you, all that God is making you to be at the moment. Your son's second coming. Lord, we thank you for this word. Lord, may you challenge us to meditate on it this week and apply it. And we pray that this week we will have victory in many ways as we obey you. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.