I made fifteen copies, so if you could share if you're a couple If you don't want to share then we can talk afterwards about why you don't want to share with your wife or husband. You know, we're talking a lot about persecution in the early church and the church. Persecution from Jews, the Thessalonian Jews and all of these things. And at times it may sound very Like foreign to us, like what does that even mean? What does that even feel like? And um I was like, how do I make this relatable? Um and before I thought about making it relatable to us, I just realized As I was going through um Dale Mur the late Dale Murray's um favorite tract, I realized persecution Um, it's still very much a modern thing. So I thought it's gonna be about this Char Charlie Colson, but he's actually just part of the story The main character is Dr. Rosebelly, and he's a Jewish uh Jewish man who became a Christian. Yeah. So uh he was a m uh physician during the during the Civil War, so he did encounter Charlie Colson, but that's just part of the story. That was the beginning of him hearing the gospel And then he eventually uh spoiler, he eventually becomes a Christian, a Jew who became a Christian, and of course that meant a lot of persecution would follow him. It started I mean he was married to a Jew um and then she started shunning her and uh shunning him and his in-laws and everything. So I just wanna read to you some excerpts here. And this is the moment of his conversion. And he's so excited. So he has his wife and he has his um his daughter and his and his son and this is after he em emerges from his studies. This is first uh another I arose from my knees and in my newfound happiness thought that my dear wife would at once share my joy when I told her of the great change which had which had come over me. With that thought uppermost in my mind, I rushed out of my study into the bedroom for my wife had retired to rest. Although the gas had not been turned off, I threw my arms around her neck, began to kiss her eagerly, saying, Wife, I have found the Messiah. She looked annoyed and pushing me from her, coldly asked, Found who? Jesus Christ, my Messiah and Savior, was my reply She spoke not another word, but in less than fifteen minutes was dressed and had left the house, although it was then two in the morning and bitterly cold, and went across the street to the house of her parents, who lived immediately opposite. I did not follow her, but dropped on my knees, imploring my newly found Savior that my wife might also have her eyes opened, as I had, and afterwards went to sleep. On the following morning, my poor wife was told by her parents that if she ever called me husband again, she would be disinherited, excommunicated from the synagogue, and accursed. At the same time, my two children were sent for by their grandparents and told that they must never call me father again. That I, in worshiping Jesus, the imposter, was fully as bad as he was. Yeah. And then the use of this man's conversion, Doctor Rose Valley's um conversion, went to his mother, right? And this is in page twenty five. And this is a letter from her To the main character. Max, you are no longer my son. We are buried you in effigy. We mourn you as one dead. And now may the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob strike you blind, deaf, and dumb, and damn your soul forever. You have left your father's religion and the synagogue for that Jesus, the imposter, and now take your mother's curse. So this isn't first century, this is you know about a hundred years ago, right? This is what Christians all over the world, what they have to face. From the synagogue, from the mosque, right? And you know I'm just I just thought about my conversion that You know, in in Tegu in Korea, I could just walk to my church and hear the gospel. And a lot of us also have Bible Bible preaching uh gospel preaching churches in the area, so W praise God that our conversion at least it was found in easier circumstances. But you know, this is a reality that persecution is still taking place 2,000 years ago and still today. So with that in mind, let's go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. I hope that sets the context for us. And we're gonna read the entire chapter before we analyze the parts. Second Thessalonians chapter one. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is fitting. Because your faith grows exceedingly, and the love of every one of you all abounds toward each other, so that we ourselves boast of you among the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endure. Which is manifest evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you also suffer. Since it is a righteous thing with God to report repay with tribulation those who trouble you, and to give you who are troubled, rest with thus, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power When he comes in that day to be glorified in his saints and to be admired among all those who believe, because our testimony among you was believed. Therefore, we also pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. And the work of faith with power, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. So just uh first thing to note is that verses one and two are exactly like the first verse in the first letter. 1 Thessalonians 1 1, Paul Sylvanus, which we know him as Silas, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Since the two letters are most at most only a few months apart, not much has changed between First and Second Thessalonians. Paul is still in Corinth with Timothy and Silas, and those were his two main companions during his second mission. trip. So I gave a extensive introduction to the second letter in the last sermon, so feel free to go and listen to it. So verses three and four are the customary opening remarks of thanks. So let's read verse three and four again. We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is fitting, because your faith grows exceedingly, and the love of every one of you all abounds toward each other. So that we ourselves, both of you, among the churches of God, for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endure. Just like the way he began the first letter, Paul expresses his constant thanksgiving for the Thessalonians. Now, there's a bit of a um language of obligation. In the second letter he asks that he and his friends are bound to thank God and it is fitting to do so. And you see at the middle of verse 3 after the phrase as it is fitting, the word because And Paul explains that there are two reasons for his obligatory gratitude, which I pointed out there for you. Their faith is growing exceedingly, and the love of every one of them all abound toward each other. So just like the first letter, we see that the Thessalonians are continually doing well in both their relationship with God and their relationship with one another. So I was looking at these two reasons and I was meditating on it and the phrase your faith in verse three it caught my eye. It's one of those duh moments, but it may not be immediately evident to English speakers that your is plural and faith is singular. Paul is thankful for the faith singular of the Thessalonians plural. Now, maybe not be like nothing groundbreaking for you. Maybe this is like well it's obvious, isn't it, Pastor Cho, but let's apply this to us, right? I know there must have been times when we're just concerned about our own faith or my faith, singular. But do we think about how we are contributing to the faith singular of the congregation plural? This is why I think so much so it is so important to be a member and belong to a church. You know, if we come to the church with the mindset of as long as I am growing, as long as I am getting fed, as long as I am getting edified, I, I, I, my faith, singular, singular. We're missing out on the joy and fulfillment God intended for his saints. The type of gratitude that Paul had. We should strive to strengthen the weakest link among us. Make sure no one gets left behind. And care for the faith of everyone, so that faith of all would grow together. And now the second reason for Paul's thanks, it's the way in which the Thessalonians loved each other. And Paul is explicit here about the relational aspect, the phrases, every one of you all, toward each other, which shows you that this love is comprehensive and intentional. Right. I just want to I just I love my people but I don't really do anything. No. Like toward each other and everyone is participating, every one of you all Now, we're a small church, but as your pastor, I just want to say like that what many of you did for the Murrays this week and the months before that is a wonderful application of this. And everyone contributed in different ways. We prayed. There was financial support, food prep, visitations, funeral setup, cleanup. Participation, music, hospitality, decorations, rides, scripture readings, emails, phone calls, texts, hugs, whatever it is, right? It is evident to me that the love of every one of you all abounds toward each other. And I think that's in itself an important testimony. When Paul saw the faith and the love of the Thessalonians, what resulted was verse 4. Like a proud father, Paul would boast to other churches about them. Mm. Now this is not intended to stir rivalries and jealousy, but if a congregation is modeling love and faith, why wouldn't Paul hold them up as an example to follow? I hope that our church is like that. And what is remarkable is that such abundant growth occurred in the direst of circumstances. We see in verse four that Paul is proud of the patience and faith in all their persecutions and tribulations they endure. It's kinda like what Dr. Ross Rosfelly went through from the Thessalonian Jews. Just as we see in John 15, faithfulness to God and love for one another does not have to be compromised by the hatred of the world. Verse 5 builds on verse 4 and elaborates on the persecution which the Thessalonian saints were building. The pronoun which in verse 5 links us back to verse 4 to the phrase persecutions and tribulations that you endure. And Paul wants to elaborate on this because his saints are suffering. And when saints suffer, it is a common mis temptation to think that God is not pleased with us. We may be dismayed thinking God is not with us. Why am I going through all this? Why isn't God listening to our entreaties? And that's why passages like this one are so important to our persecuted brothers and sisters all over the world. Let's just read verse 5. Which is manifest evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God. The very fact that we suffer and we endure during that suffering is evidence that we are worthy of God's kingdom. Persecuted believers need not fear disfavor with God. Quite the opposite, God has judged them worthy of his kingdom. See, citizens of the world do not face persecutions from the world. I wouldn't face racism and discrimination if I go to Korea. If I wore my Oreos baseball cap to Camden Yards, I shouldn't be made fun of. But if I'm in enemy territory Right, as a stranger, as an ambassador, as foreigners in this world, and we would face intense persecution and it would mark us out, separate from the rest. But even during those times, just like the apostles of the early church, we too can rejoice that we are counted worthy to suffer shame for his name during our tribulations. Now, this assurance that we belong to his kingdom would be empty without the fulfilled condition of God's vengeance. Now, Paul is presenting this idea in a long conditional sentence. And you know, conditional sentences are like if, then, right? You got the if you want the technical terms, it's like you got the if which is the prodesis and then then which is the apod apodosis. Okay But here's what I mean. What I mean is that verse 5 should not be seen in isolation, but in connection with verses 6 to 10. The latter verses are the since or if part of the conditional statement, while verse 5 is the then part of it. Often when we present conditional statements, um no, moving from present to the future. So for example, since the king is ruling now, we will be secure in the future. So that's like an example of a conditional statement. we move from the present to the future. But the flow here is in the other direction, both structurally and chronologically. Since the Lord Jesus will ruin the future, we are secure in the present So verses six to ten is the future which determines our present status in verse five. So then let's reread verse 5 and look at verses 6 to 10, where we see Paul painting a glorious picture of the judgment day to come. So again, the suffering and tribulation which you endure, which is manifest evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God. for which you also suffer, since it is a righteous thing with God to repay with tribulation those who trouble you, and to give you who are troubled, rest with us. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. When he comes in that day, to be glorified in his saints and to be admired among all those who believe, because our testimony among you was believed So this picture shows us that while the Thessalonians endure the purifying fire that removes the dross and proves their worth as saints. Their enemies will face the unquenchable flames of destruction in hell. Tribulation for those who trouble Christians. Things will be flipped. The script will be flipped. Vengeance on those who do not know God and obey the gospel. When Jesus appears with the angels, dread and terror will be on the persecutors. While glory and admiration will be the response of the saints who believe in the apostolic testimony, which is the gospel we also believe. So how do we apply this to our lives? Well, for one thing, we should note that vengeance is not ours to take. We're not given permission in these verses to retaliate and fight in holy wars, not now, not later. Now that's not to say we're we are pacifists. I have no problems with Christians taking up arms to protect the innocent, defend our country, and fight for justice. But there is a type of suffering which the worldly government condones and even promotes toward Christians. We face that boldly, but let God be the avenger Romans 12 19 Behold, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Lord. And these verses show that He will indeed repay. Another lesson is that studying our future edifies us in the present. It shapes the purpose of our suffering. When we go through suffering, it's hard for us to look beyond suffering. That moment. We know how the story is going to end, so there's no need to panic. And that is one of the most important functions of studying the end times. It it can be fun to try and predict how the prophecies will apply play out in history, try to match events with Bible prophecies. You know, I grew up reading Tim LaHaye and J Jerry Jenkins' Le the Left Behind series. But if looking into the future does not transform you in your present, your theology is probably dysfunctional. So let's go on to the last two verses of this chapter. Verses eleven and twelve. We'll read it again Therefore, we always we also pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. And the work of faith with power, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now there are three purposes behind Paul's prayer for the Thessalonians. It's obviously prompted by the fact that the Thessalonians are in need of prayer because they're under persecution. Now the three purposes they can only be accomplished by God alone. And the first one, living up to God's calling, his high calling. The second one, living with goodness and power from God. And three, living for Christ's glory These three prayer objectives demonstrate again, and this is sort of connecting with the point I made earlier in our studies. The importance of praying God's will and while doing God's will. We saw in verse five that faithful endurance under tribulation is proof that we are worthy of God's kingdom. Right, so that's something we do. We endure. Okay, we hold on, we persevere. Here in verse eleven, Paul prays that God would count them worthy of his calling. So we endure to see and prove that we belong to uh we are um called by God, and but we also pray that we will be worthy of God's calling So worthiness is both the result of God working in us as we endure patiently and God working for us as we pray faithfully. Verse 3 said when we saw earlier that Thessalonians' faith is growing exceedingly through their steadfastness. Great news. But that does not prevent Paul from praying that God will fulfill the work of faith powerfully. Yeah, they're doing great in their faith. But Paul is saying, I still want to pray for you, right? That God will fulfill the work of faith. So and then also we know in verse 10 that in the future, you know, Christ comes in that day to be glorified in his saints. And to be admired among all those who believe, because our testimony among you was believed. So, you know, they they are looking forward to that glory that is to come. But Paul is praying right now that Christ's name be glorified in them. So doing God's will and praying God's will. That's why Paul is praying right here. So now let's go back and look at these three reasons. Three purposes I mean First, God's high calling is a point of reference we should always keep in mind as we pray. It points us backwards. Now, when God called us to salvation, he called us to be saints, holy ones, strong in grace, faithful, many attributes and titles we don't really deserve. No. And many times and for me, so often we sense um how much we fall short of his calling. You know, within when I got married, within one moment I went from a bachelor to a husband, right? Did I know what I was doing? No Do I know what I'm still doing right now? No. Okay. One moment we are one person. And then next thing you know, you're called to be a husband, wife, father, mother, pastor, teacher, elder, deacon. And even in earthly roles, we grow into these roles by grace. And when it comes to God's high calling, we also grow into it by grace. And that's why Paul is asking. Paul is praying for them. And then next, we do this with the goodness and power from God. That's the second point. Good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith have to do with desires, choices, and acts that agree with God's will and not ours. No, it doesn't say good pleasure of our goodness and the work of sight, work that is gratifying in the present. So when we pray, we need to make sure that we are seeking to fulfill desires for things God deems good. We should pray that power should accompany our acts of faith in Him. No, I see why we need this prayer. So often, desiring what is good in God's sight and working in faith are underappreciated in this world Sometimes you don't really see any financial payoff for acting in faith or doing things that is good in God's sight. We simply trust that God will reward our efforts. So we need the Lord to fulfill these good desires and give meaning to our faithful work because we can easily be discouraged. That's why Paul prays for that. The third purpose of Paul's prayer has to do with Christ's glory. And Paul singles out this purpose from the previous two. You know, in verse 12, probably because all prayer should be in a sense be doxological or glorifying Christ's name. And if we don't have this end goal in our prayers, we will begin to think that our prayer lives is all about our needs, our desires. Christ's glory is where we begin and where we end in our prayers. But then, see how when Christ is glorified in us, we are then glorified in Him. But we're not glorified in the same way Christ is glorified. Okay. So Christ is glorified because of who he is and what he has done. We are glorified, as you see in the last words of verse 12, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Not because of what we have done. So, how often do our prayers in our content, in our purpose, reflect God's high calling for us? His goodness and the glory of God's Son. I hope that in our prayer meetings, in our individual prayer lives, it was look more like Paul's prayer. As you guys know, we have prayer meetings on Wednesdays now and at the end of May, it's like this is like public service announcement that we will start holding them on Sunday nights. And we also have the quarterly prayer list tool out there. But when we pray for things, I hope that we can be very specific, have purpose in our prayer. And when I say specific, I I'm not talking about, you know, what is the diagnosis even though that is important and you know I might and I it's not talking about like what company is she interviewing for or things like that. I want to know how a specific prayer request relates to your calling from God. God's goodness, how is it good for God's kingdom? How is it good for your faith in him and the glory of Christ? And that sets our purposes aligned with God's purposes. And it also makes us pray things that only God can answer. Is what's good for your career and comfort really what's good for God's kingdom? What do we want an individual to do after he or she recovers from a disease? If Christian, we want them to live a life worthy of his or her calling. And if not a Christian, repent and believe in the gospel. No, that's why when I hear prayer requests for a stranger, I usually ask, is he or she saved? That's a good question to ask. Then we are gonna start to pray more like Paul. So what happens when the gospel permeates our thanksgiving, our suffering, our praying, which is the big topics of uh all the big topics of this chapter. We become grateful not only for external circumstances But also for growing faith and love that occurs even during persecution. What happens to our suffering? We suffer persecutions Knowing that our physical marks reveal our sincere trust in Christ, that we are on the right side of history, as God will intervene in the future and make all things right. What happens to our prayer life? We pray seeking not just our needs and our wants, but we pray remembering God's calling for us, His desire. Lord, we thank you for this letter and how you used Paul to minister to churches and is still used to minister to churches. Churches. We pray for the persecuted churches all over the world that they would read these words and be encouraged and that we would pray for them and that we would celebrate as their faith and love are growing even in the midst of um Just terrible persecution. Um and we pray that when we suffer, when we go through um when we are ostracized or when we are made fun of for our faith That we would know that you will come in vengeance to protect and to save and rescue those who trust in you. Lord, that we want to pray. We want to pray with your calling in mind. Just your good um intentions in mind. Lord, your uh our faith in you in mind. Lord, that's That we would pray that your glory will be revealed, that your son will be glorified in our lives and in the in times to come. We ask that Lord that that you would be with us in our suffering, in As we uh in our thanksgiving, in our prayer life.