So as we continue past the halfway point of 2 Thessalonians, I want to remind you of the three purposes behind the letter, and they're all listed for you. 1. Address the false teachings in the forged letter. 2. Encourage the believers to persevere. 3. Discipline those who were deceived about the day of the Lord. That third purpose will be most relevant next time we meet, when we finish 2 Thessalonians. Chapter 2 verses 1 through 12, which we went over last week, mostly dealt with this first purpose. Well we talked about the false letter that was s uh sent to the second uh sent to the Thessalonians. And today we're going to focus on the second purpose to encourage the believers to persevere. Beneath the three purposes This is the outline of the letter contents we have covered thus far. We started with the salutation. Paul is thankful for the growth. and endurance of Thessalonians. Paul prays for the worthiness and usefulness of Thessalonians. Paul warns Thessalonians of errors regarding end times. Paul is thankful for the Thessalonians' salvation and steadfastness. Paul prays for the comfort and strength of the Thessalonians Paul asks Thessalonians to pray for God's word and servants. Paul is confident in the preservation, obedience, and direction of the Thessalonians. So we're covering In Roman numerals 5, 6, 7, and 8. Four small sections. But let's read the passage before we discuss the details. Second Thessalonians chapter two, verse thirteen, to chapter three, verse five. But we are bound to give thanks to God always for you, brethren, beloved by the Lord, because God from the beginning chose you for salvation through sanctification By the Spirit and belief in the truth, to which he called you by our gospel for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, brethren, stand fast and hold the traditions which you were taught, whether by word or our epistle. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and our God and Father who has loved us and given us everlasting consolation and good hope by grace, comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work. Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may run swiftly and be glorified, just as it is with you, and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for not all have faith. But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one, and we have confidence in the Lord concerning you, both that you do and will do the things we command you. Now may the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the patience of Christ. Okay, so peeking back at the outline, right, you see how five and six um hark back to two and three. And a lot of what we see today is I can just summarize it in two uh in this sentence, be thankful and prayerful for the saints. And I might add, be confident in the growth of the saints, but a lot of what we focus on today will be be thankful and prayerful. When you think of each other this week, when you think of other Christians you know from different churches or your family members or or neighbors who you know as Christians, be thankful for them and be prayerful for them. Simple application, but you'll s I'll unpack that. Even lines seven and eight have to do with prayer. Alright, so the first topic for today is Thanksgiving, which was the opening topic of this letter. So Roman number 5, Paul is thankful for the Thessalonians' salvation and steadfastness. Let's reread verse 13 until the second comma there in NKJV. But we are bound to give thanks to God always for you, brethren beloved by the Lord. So note how verse 13 here begins like verse 3 of chapter 1. We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren. It's always a wonderful exercise to revisit the reasons for Thanksgiving as it relates to our brothers and sisters in Christ. Now he's gonna get to two reasons there, but let's talk about for a little bit brethren beloved by the Lord. Now Paul has used this designation before, back in 1 Thessalonians 1. 4, but I think in light of the context of what we've seen so far in 2 Thessalonians There's a new significance of calling them beloved, um, you know, beloved by the Lord. From chapter 1 of 2 Thessalonians until this portion of chapter 2, we have talked a lot about persecution Trouble, tribulation, warfare, deception, satanic activity, both in the present and the in times to come. Reading all of this, would you blame the Thessalonians if they were got a little bit discouraged, right? And what would then encourage them to face opposition And enemies of the gospel with courage is a reminder that they are beloved of the Lord. Okay, now the reasons Paul, Silas, and Timothy are obligated to thank God for the Thessalonians are two. Verse 13, God chose them, and verse 14, God called them. Note how Paul primarily thanks God for what God has done, not what the Thessalonians have done. First, God chose them for salvation. We reread the second half of verse 13. Because God from the beginning chose you for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. Now, salvation was not accomplished at man's initiative. God loved the Thessalonians first and chose them from the beginning for eternal life By the way, if you are using the ESV or NIV translations, you will see first fruits instead of from beginning. But I think the KJB, NKJB, and the Holman Christian Standard Bible has it right by saying from beginning. No, and it doesn't make sense to say firstfruits anyway, because the Thessalonians are not the firstfruits of salvation among the Gentiles, Europeans, or even the Macedonian, that region Actually, the Philippians were the firstfruits of Gentiles in Europe and Macedonia. So for these reasons, it's better to see that as God chose them from beginning, not God chose them as firstfruits But since most of us, I think all of us use KJV and NKJD anyway, that probably wouldn't be an issue. But you'll see that discrepancy if you look at the ESD or NIV Okay. So not only the source, but the means of our salvation is divine. Obviously God chose us, but the way He chose us and saved us. is through the Holy Spirit. And I talked about a little bit about this in 1 Thessalonians, but we we talk about two types of sanctification, positional and progressive sanctification. Now just the word sanctification, I know it seems like a big word, a lot of you know theological T-I-O-N words, right? Um, but it simply means to make one holy or set apart. Now, like I said, there are two kinds of sanctification involved for the saints. There's the initial sanctification when the Holy Spirit positions us in Christ. For salvation, that's the positional sanctification. Secondly, the continual work of the Spirit to transform us into Christ's image, that's the progressive sanctification The stress here is on the past act of the Spirit to initially set us apart for salvation. So I'm talking about the the stress here is the positional sanctification. The other means of salvation is belief in the truth of the gospel. Now this doesn't mean that salvation is fifty percent dependent on God and fifty percent dependent on us because that would be disastrous, right? I believe based on Philippians 1. 29 that faith itself is a gift from God. Yet paradoxically, faith is a demand that God makes of us. Right. Now I'm not gonna try to shift through that. It it's just the way it is. I I'm a Protestant. I believe we are saved by grace apart from works, yet We are demanded to believe, right? We are saved through faithfulness. So I'm not gonna un you know unpack that but But we should be thankful that God has chosen believers for salvation, right, with the work of the Spirit and our faith. God loved us, God chose us, God the Son died for us, God the Spirit sanctified us, God allowed us to believe in Him. And we believe these truths and we ought to give thanks. The other reason Paul gives thanks for the Thessalonians is that God called them. Let's reread. Verse 14, to which he called you by our gospel for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. To which is not referring back to one word in verse thirteen, but the i entire idea of that verse. Verse thirteen. God's salvation, his choice in advance and the means of salvation. Now, how is salvation, planned from eternity, past, effected in the present? Well, God calls us. to the gospel. But what does God's call sound like? Well, it sounds like humans sharing the gospel. What do I mean by this? You see there in verse 14, the way God called the Thessalonians was through the apostolic preaching of the good news. Now, I know that this seems like so simple that it seems amazing in itself. Like what does it mean for God to speak through you? Okay, what does it mean that God makes God calls sinners to repentance? Well, it's not through some clever rhetoric or tone of voice Right, as evidence that God is using our speech. It's not some mystical, invisible power, right? Unless you mean by that the Holy Spirit, right? God calls sinners to salvation through our sharing of the gospel. Now, that's how God called the Thessalonians through Paul, Silas, and Timothy's sharing of the gospel. It certainly takes place up here on the pulpit, but that should not be the only place. I'm pretty sure that when You know, when Paul shared the gospel with the Thessalonians, they didn't have these church buildings, right? He shared the gospel to the people, right? And of course he had a you know an audience at the synagogue, but he also shared with them personally. If we want to hear God calling sinners, work on sharing the gospel with clarity. with your unbelieving family, friends and neighbors. That's what we pray for regularly. Well here's a homework for you. Have you ever wrote out a gospel presentation? I think it's important for us to have a thirty second version and like a five minute version. If you want like a f fifty minute version, that's fine too. Um but at least have a thirty second version of the gospel presentation. Right? And five minute version of it in case if you have some time. Right. That way you can share your thirty second version in a line at a restaurant or something Or like five minute version uh like with the friend over lunch or coffee. Use your personal testimony for that. You know, I think that hypothetically, each of us should be able to write and publish an individual gospel tract. Because it'll all be different, right? Because we'll all have a different testimony. But the content of salvation will be the same because Jesus Christ saved us all. But we should be able to publish fifty-eight gospel tracts and publish them out there. You know, it's amazing, and this is an awesome privilege, that God calls sinners to the gospel through our sharing of the gospel. I know this is like something you may have known already, but I'm just Going on and on because it's amazing. Our voice can be conduits for his voice calling the sinners. That's a wonderful privilege And when we preach or share the gospel, we should not forget the goal of salvation and the final place God calls us to, the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ, as it says there. And that's what we need to see in the long run. The Christians' temporal life in the present is death, persecution, and suffering. But his or her eternal life in the future is life, honor, and glory. Those who are persecuted for Christ's sake are glorified with Christ in the end. And that is what the Thessalonians have to look forward to, and for that Paul is grateful. Now, just as Paul and his companions respond to the salvation of the Thessalonians with thanksgiving, the Thessalonians themselves are bound to respond as well. So we read in verse 15. Therefore, brethren, stand fast and hold the traditions which you were taught, whether by word or are epistles. So it's a nice wrap up to the mess that Paul was dealing with, in contrast to the spirit, the word and the letter of the false le false teachers that was sent to them The Thessalonians must not move away from apostolic tradition, and they must hold on to them tightly. You could say that the believers must have both their feet planted in the truth and their hands grasping that same truth. Stand fast and hold, right? That means, what does that mean for us? Well, we have even a fuller testimony of the apostolic You know, Tet uh tradition, right? We have the New Testament. We me we need to study it. That means being taught what the Thessalonians were taught, teaching what the apostles were teaching. You And the apostolic tradition starts with Matthew and ends with Revelation, with John. But there are a lot of apostolic works in between. Now we like the Thessalonians must learn these apostolic traditions so that we can stand fast and hold on to them. Now, such a task is not dependent on our own strength. That leads to the final two verses of this chapter. Just as Paul did in the first chapter, he ends this one with the topic of prayer. Okay, so first Paul gives thanks. Now Paul is talking about prayer. So Roman numero 6 there, Paul prays for the comfort and the strength of the Thessalonians. So let's reread verses 16 and 17. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and our God and Father who has loved us and given us everlasting consolation and good hope by grace Comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work. Paul requests God the Father and God the Son to do two things. Comfort their hearts and strengthen them in every good word and work. God the Son is invoked first and we know Him as our Lord Jesus Christ. God the Father is loving and gives eternal comfort and good hope by his grace. Now contrast that with the world what the world offers at best, temporary comforts and mediocre hope. What our triune God offers is so much better. And see how uh God's work in our lives first affects us internal internally as our hearts are encouraged. Then flowing from that we are established in our outward acts in every good word and work. Heart and then word and work Now this is also important that we need to be praying for Christians. I pray for the Laotian Christians this morning. But we'll probably we'll probably need some um No. Just prayer as well. No, there's gotta be opposition to Christianity, it's going to grow stronger. Uh we need prayer. Um and as much as we're praying for those countries out there, they're probably praying for us that we will stand firm, right? That we will be comforted, that we will be established. You know, we're going to be branded intolerant by the Universalists, the ecumenists, right, liberal feminists, right? Those of the LGBTQ movement, just to name a few. That's why we need prayer. And the Spirit residing in us so that we won't shrink back. Now, in chapter 3, Paul asks the Thessalonians to pray for he and his companions as well. So we have Roman numero 7. Paul asks Thessalonians to pray for God's word. and servants. Let's reread verses 1 and 2. Finally, brethren, pray for us. That the word of the Lord may run swiftly and be glorified, just as it is with you, and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for not all have faith. The word finally signals the final section of the letter, not the final sentence or paragraph. Paul brings up two matters for prayer, the advancement of God's word and the deliverance of God's servants. The Thessalonians know personally what happens when the word of the Lord runs swiftly and is glorified. It's an interesting expression using a race imagery. Right? With the word as the runner. I'm trying to picture it here in my mind. But the image is helpful in determining what we should be asking for in prayer. We want to pray against any obstacles and stumbling blocks that may lay before God's word. That's why we pray for governmental authorities, right? Religious liberty and establishment of evangelical churches all over the world. Now we should Pay attention to what's going on in politics, local, you know, state level, national level, because we want to preserve that religious liberty so that the Word of God may run swiftly. We don't want these stumbling blocks. We don't want these restrictions. So we need to pray for politicians. Yes, we would pray for their salvation, that's good, but we want to really pray and focus on, you know, what's happening in the legal realm, what's happening in the political realm. Now we should be assured that even if every pastor is locked up in chains, you know, we remember the words of 2 Timothy 2 9, the word of God is not chained. The gospel will spread no matter the circumstances, but we also know that God has ordained us humans to deliver the gospel to others. That's why Paul is saying, pray for both of these things. The Word of God advancing, and pray for those who spread the Word of God. Romans 10, 14 to 15. This one pastor Carl Westerland calls the gospel chain. You know why is it called the gospel chain? Okay, um because gospel requires someone to preach it. Verse 14, how then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? And that's that's why we pray for missionaries and pastors everywhere, that they will not fall prey to unreasonable and wicked men who do not have faith. The attention shifts back to the Thessalonians in verses 3 to 5. Here's the last point for today in Roman numero 8. Paul is confident in the preservation, obedience, and the direction of the Thessalonians. Let's reread the verses. But the Lord is faithful who will establish you and guard you from the evil one. And we have confidence in the Lord concerning you. Both that you do and will do the things we command you. Now may the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the patience of Christ. Now Paul, Silas, and Timothy expressed trust in God, and each verse here, verse three, four and five, highlights a different aspect of God's work in the believers in Thessalonica. Verse 3 is about per preservation. In contrast to those are faithless, God is faithful and he will answer the prayer for establishing the saints. You recall back in chapter two, verse seventeen, that was what was uttered. And he will also guard them from Satan. Preservation. Verse four is about obedience. The apostles' confidence concerning them is in the Lord, who works through the Spirit to cause in them the desire and the inclination to do what God demands. Right. Now how can you say to someone, I have confidence that you're going to do and will do, you know, what the Bible tells you to do, right? Is it because The Thessalonians were such good people, they were such good Christians. No, it's because God is working through them. Paul is confident of that. Silas and Timothy are also confident. That they see in the Thessalonians the working of the Spirit, that's why they're confident that they will do and they are doing what they are demanding. We can be confident a true believer will be truly obedient because of God working in them. Verse 5 is a prayer for direction. Living up life of obedience can be trying and disheartening in this world. That is why Paul prays that the Thessalonians' hearts would be directed into God's love and Christ's patience. So remember what I said about beloved of the Lord. Right. They needed that reminder. And also they needed a reminder that their hearts need to be focused on Christ's patience. I mean, I don't know about you, but we run out of patience, right? Almost on a daily basis, hourly, minute by minute. Right now? I don't know. But When our hearts are focused on the patience that Christ had with sinners, our hearts find a holy direction. So preservation, obedience, and direction, if we are truly saved, we have these great signs of salvation in our lives. Seeing these, others will be confident about our spiritual state. Now have you ever looked at somebody like, yeah, I know that person is saved. Because I see how God is preserving that person, I see how God is using that person and He is obeying or she is obeying, and I see how his or her heart It's focused on God's love and Christ's patience. And hopefully others will see that in you How has the Lord established and guarded you thus far? How has God given you desire and power to obey Him? How has the Lord guided your heart to meditate on God's love and Christ's patience? When I did the EE, I remember that this was the big major outline, right? Uh when you write your personal testimony, your life before Christ. You know, and then your life after Christ. I was supposed and they sh and at the presentation you share at the beginning to almost as a like a fish hook, right, to get them interested. Right? You could use you could talk about these things. How has God preserved you? You know, from a life of futility. How has God made you more obedient? How has God given you direction? Okay, so looking at the four parts of um four you know parts of the outline today. We reflect on our thanksgiving prayers and our confidence about others. Now, this is the kind of relationship Paul had with Thessalonians. Um you know, and we can apply this to our situation in a few different ways. Maybe we can think of four individuals based on these four points. Is there someone That we can be thankful for. Because you know that person is saved and you know that person is steadfast. I encourage you to think about individuals that you know are saved and stepfast in God's word. And then is there someone who needs prayer that they need strength, right? Comfort in their hearts, right? And they need uh to be established, right? And then is there a specific servant of God? Right? Just as Paul asked the Thessalonians to pray for them, right? Maybe someone among the missionaries we support. A local mis a local minister. Who are who are proclaiming God's word. They may be in physical danger. So that they may be delivered from persecution. Like let's not keep this in the abstract. Let's think of specific names Someone to be thankful for, someone to pray for, and someone a God's servant who needs deliverance, who God will use to spread God's word. And is there someone that you are so encouraged by looking at them like, yeah, I am confident. I see God's work in their lives, preservation, you know, obedience Right. Direction, how their hearts are so focused on God's love and Christ's patience. Let's think about specific individuals. And if we're going to imitate Paul and we have even s a better advantage. We don't have to write letters on papyri, right? We can write emails and we can write postcards or And we can send them. Maybe we won't send it to a congregation of Thessalonians, but we can send it to individuals. And I bet you know we got our directories and addresses and email addresses. Okay? We can do that. So back to my big point. We should be thankful and prayerful. Think of all the reasons Uh to be prayerful and thankful. Think about the way that God has saved individuals and God is working through that individual. And then encourage them. Paul didn't keep that in his heart, he expressed it. Now these verses that we went over today may not be like may not be as Maybe theologically interesting or doctrinally interesting, but nonetheless, that's what you know Christianity is about, being thankful and prayerful. But let's pray. Lord, we thank you for so many things. We thank you for saving each one of us that we are saved by grace. And Lord um you have just arranged everything so that we would believe in you. Believe in the gospel And Lord, we thank you that we can look around just in our lives, in our churches, in our um maybe even in our neighborhood, and we can be thankful for people who are saved and how they are steadfast. Um in the word, Lord. And we also want to pray for those who need comfort, those who need strength And Lord, we also want to be thankful and pray for how your word is advancing and there are servants who are out there risking their lives. um in danger of unreasonable and wicked men who do not have faith. And look we see also people around us that we are so full of I guess um um uh pride in a good way um that we're so confident in you working in them how you have preserved them and caused them to obey you and And directed their heart toward your love, the patience of Christ. Lord, um, we just see how Paul is such a good pastor over here, how he expresses encouragement and how he expresses his feelings toward Thessalonians and how he lifts up prayers for them, how he's thankful for them, how he expresses confidence in them. And Lord, may we be like that. We don't have to be an apostle in the first century. We don't have to be a pastor in the pulpit. We can do this. And we pray that you would challenge us. And Lord, we pray that you would use us, that you would use our voice. Through our sharing of the gospel, would you call sinners to repentance? Would you call sinners to the gospel? Lord, we pray that you will give us opportunities, Lord, with our family and friends and neighbors this week. Lord we thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.