Okay. So uh it's been a while since we have looked at 2 Thessalonians as we had our quarterly meeting last week and no evening service the week before that on Easter Sunday. Now If you forgot about the circumstances surrounding this letter, today's passage in chapter 2 will actually be a good way for us to ease back into it. For example, verse 2 shows that the insidious plot to send a fake letter with false doctrines necessitated the second correspondence from Paul, Silas, and Timothy. And that was not too long after 1 Thessalonians. So you see what kind of spiritual battle and what kind of struggles Paul had to face. Just the fact that his name was forged and uh people were trying to masquerade us him and that just must have been a terrible, terrible time for Paul. That's why he wrote Second Thessalonians to clear up all the falsities. So let's read Second Thessalonians. And if you don't have the Bible, I have Just sort of written it out for you on the handout, even though it's all like divided up. Okay, so 2 Thessalonians, and we're just gonna go through the 12 verses, the first 12 verses of that chapter. Now, brethren, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him, we ask you not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled, either by spirit or by word or by letter, as if from us, as though the day of Christ had come. Let no one deceive you by any means, for that day will not come unless the falling away comes first, and the man of sin is revealed the son of perdition, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshipped, so that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? And now you know what is restraining that he may be revealed in his own time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will consume with the breath of his mouth, and destroy with the brightness of his coming. The coming of the lawless one is according to the working of Satan with all power, signs, and lying wonders, and with all unrighteous deception among those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth. that they might be saved. And for this reason God will send them strong delusion that they should believe the lie, that they all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in. Um ri unrighteo. Okay. So there are a lot of details here. And in order to avoid drowning in them, keep in mind the two exhortations in verses 1 to 3. From the first comma in verse 1 to the middle of verse 2, we see the first exhortation. We ask you not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled. The second exhortation is in verse 3. Let no one deceive you by any means. So you could say that Paul's goal in this paragraph is stability. Right? Not be shaken, right? Don't be troubled. And clarity. Let no one deceive you. So all of the predictions and events and spiritual warfare described in these verses. Support these two aims of Paul. So, you know, even we got all the charts going with the end time timeline going on, but just keep in mind these two things. So uh let's reread from verse 1 to the middle of three, up until the semicolon in the middle of verse 3. Now, brethren, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to him, we ask you not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled either by Spirit Or by word or by letter as if from us, as though the day of Christ had come. Let no one deceive you by any means. So we see in verse 1 that Paul is signaling a new topic. In the previous chapter, if you want a quick summary of 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, you could say that Paul is thankful and prayerful. Thankful and prayerful for the Thessalonians. Now he gets down to the nitty-gritty of the problematic issues confronting the congregation. You know, and just to sort of review, I mentioned uh in our study of the previous chapter that studying the end times is important, right? And I said that since our future is certain, we are secure in the present. So the way the world works is that if my present is secure, I can look forward to the future with hope. But we as Christians know what's gonna happen in the future. We are certain that God will fulfill the promises. In the future, that's why we live courageously in the present. So now what would happen if someone messes with our ideas of the future? Our present confidence will be destabilized, will be troubled, will be shaken, we'll be uh deceived. Paul's concern then is that they would not be soon shaken in mind or troubled. And what caused such trouble is described in the second half of verse 2. And I say I think the Paul is talking about the media and the content of the false teaching. First the media Right? Or the mediums, spirit, word, or letter, false spirit, false words, and a fake letter as if from us. As I said in the introduction to this letter, the Thessalonian Jews have likely concocted, right, some a false letter, infiltrated the congregation. Right? Basically figuring out uh uh Paul's method of discipleship, which is using correspondences, and now they're causing all kinds of trouble. Pretty disturbing thing if you think about it. And the content of the false teaching is basically summarized as follows: The day of Christ has come already. Now if w if we're saying if I told you guys we're living in judgment day right now, how would you feel? You might be like, well, what happened to the rapture? You know, why are we facing judgment along with the rest of the world? The Thessalonians were led to believe that they were suffering God's wrath alongside unbelievers without distinction. But you may want to look at these verses later. What about First Thessalonians 110, where it says, where Paul says that Jesus delivers us from the wrath to come? Or 1 Thessalonians 5 9 where we read, God did not appoint us to wrath. We couldn't be in the day of wrath. Because Paul said that that's the promises of God. So from middle of verse three, Paul basically starts a review session. Now a lot of it may be new to you or us, but these are things that the Thessalonians knew already. We're sort of listening in on a conversation. And there are clear signs that will precede the day of the Lord, the final day, the day of judgment. Three in particular are discussed, all starting with R, at least that's how I put it. Rebellion, revelation of the lawless one or lawless man, the man of sin, the son of perdition. We've got all kinds of titles, and the removal of the restraint. They're not discussed in chronological order, but I have arranged it for you at the bottom with the you know um because I use shapes in my Microsoft Word to create these timelines. Coming. That's about the extent of my artistic graphical design skills. Um but anyway, you get the idea, right? Um First, let's talk about the rebellion in verse 3 between the semicolon and the comma, for that day will not come unless the falling away comes first. Now what is the nature of this rebellion, this falling away? Falling away is one word in the original language, and it should sound familiar to us, even if you don't know Greek. It's apostasia. It sounds like what? Apostasy. Now why is this word significant? I don't know if you guys do this, but sometimes when conservative Christians talk about the end of the world, they read newspapers and watch TV and think Wow, the world is getting so ugly, so Jesus must be returning soon. So we count down to the end of the world by guessing how decadent our society has become. I actually do not suggest this. Um I think a better option is uh there's uh when we think of apostasy, it's better for us to consider heresy or departure from truth. What we see in maybe liberal churches or mainline denominations. Now, I do think this happens later, but maybe the stages will be set for that to happen later. Okay. When we think of apostasy, and we're not thinking about the world. They didn't even know the truth or they don't even care about the truth. I'm talking about people who knew the truth and fell away. Right? That's what apostasia is, or apostasy. So what I mean is that one of the signs that precede the day of Christ, which because I'm a pre-trip rapturist, I don't think we're gonna be here to see it, but Okay. For for those who are left behind, just letting you know, right, one of the signs that precede the day of Christ will be that many in churches that profess Christ will fall away. I'm not saying, of course, that a genuinely saved person will lose salvation. That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying that there will be many more false confessions that will become evidently false over time. Right, so if I I know we record our evening services, so if someone comes to our website after they're left behind and they read, uh they can follow these um signs. Right? Yeah. Um So and now another clarification about apostasy. I'm sure when we think of apostasy, we probably think of terrible Christological heresies or liberal theology. But there's more to it. More to it. You don't have to hold a position of leadership or teaching to commit apostasy. It could be a denial of faith, not only in confession, but also in practice. Someone once said, the greatest single cause of atheism in the world today is Christians who acknowledge Jesus with their lips, walk out the door, and deny him by their lifestyle. That is what an unbelieving world simply finds unbelievable. So We can commit apostasy, right, in our confession or turning away from our confession and even saying a confession but having no fruits to show for. So we can imagine that there will be a major apostasy, a great defection from the Christendom in the future, but there is an application for us here in the present. There's already apostasies taking place today. We may know individuals who are apostates. Right. Maybe those who formerly professed faith at Awana, Sunday school, youth group, Bible colleges, faith, family devotional, Bible study. The question is, where are they now? Maybe they learned liberal theology or anti-Christian philosophies at schools. Maybe the lure of licentious living was too strong for their resolve. Maybe they're just deluding themselves into thinking they're saved without any fruits to show for their faith. Now we can still pray for them. This isn't the final apostasy, so I pray that we'll just lift up these names. Uh the names that you know in your heart, that you keep them in your prayer. That they will return to the Lord. So another sign that will precede the day of the Lord is the revelation of the lawless man. Okay. All right So when I read the Left Behind series, I knew him as Nicholas Carpatia, right? Um but anyway, um we don't know what his name's gonna be. Um So let's read the rest of verse 3, verse 4 and 5. And the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition. who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God Do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? Now it's possible that this man is already born and living among us in the present. Good luck looking for him in this. But I'm not trying to promote that. But besides the revelation stresses a decisive act, a widespread recognition of who he is. And he's going to make a quite a show, as you see there. And the descriptions there at the end of verse 3 reveal his character and destiny. He is lawless, therefore he is headed for perdition, headed toward eternal damnation. Now we are all in our we were all in our sinful past, were formally disobedient and damned too, but lawlessness and perdition aptly describes the whole of this man's life. At his revealing, this man will prove his character in a dramatic fashion. He's not going to tolerate freedom of religion. Obviously this guy has some sort of political power. He will declare himself to be above all Gods, so he's also going to have religious power, and no faith is safe during his reign, especially Christianity. Now, the mention of the temple of God and worship leads us to different places in the Bible. So I'm going to go to first Matthew 24. Matthew twenty four, fifteen Through sixteen. And these are going these passages I'm about to cite are going to help us. Understand this man of lawlessness more. Okay, so Matthew twenty four, fifteen to sixteen. So It says there, therefore, therefore when you see the abomination of desolation Spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing in the holy place, whoever reads, let him understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. So Jesus is referring to Daniel 9. 27. So let's go there next because he's teaching and giving an interpretation of what's going to happen. At the temple. Daniel nine twenty seven. This is the last verse of that chapter. Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week. But in the middle of the week he shall bring an end to sacrifice an offering. And on the wing of abominations shall be one who makes desolate, even until the consummation which is determined is poured out on the desolate. Now what is this all saying? Based on Second Thessalonians, Daniel, and Matthew, we know that this lawless man will confirm a covenant with many for a week. Stand in the holy place of the temple, stop sacrifices and offerings in the middle of the week. Now, week in this context is not talking about seven days. Right. But seven years. Divide by two and we have three and a half years or forty two months. And that middle point is significant because that's when the um The desolation will happen at the temple, which I assume will be, you know, just um revived at the end times. And in operation, I should say. Now the book of Revelation confirms this lent of blasphemy in chapter 13. They talk about this beast from the sea, which we know to be the Antichrist. So let's go there. The final book of the Bible, Revelation thirteen, verses five to eight. And he was given a mouth, speaking great things and blasphemy. And he was given authority to continue for 42 months. Then he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God to blaspheme his name his tabernacle, and those who dwell in heaven. It was granted to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them, and authority was given him over every tribe, tongue, and nation All who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose names have not been written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. So, since no such abomination took place in the first century, Paul is saying, don't believe the lie that they are in the day of the Lord. Uh these details were taught by Paul himself while he was with them, as we see in verse five. And uh and the apostle will talk more about the lawless man a few verses later. But before that, he discusses the third event that must take place before the judgment day. And again, this is not in chronological order in terms of the order of discussion, and that's the removal of the restraint. Let's read from verses six and seven. And now you know what is restraining, that he may be restrained uh revealed in his own time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way. So a couple things. The man of lawlessness is yet future, but the mystery of lawlessness is in operation in the present. Right. And it's a mystery and it'll sort of stay that way. It should not surprise us that Satan is actively working against God's laws in the present. It's evident where uh uh everywhere we go. But the question is why doesn't the devil just unleash his beast to wreak havoc on earth? And there is someone or something keeping Satan's chosen man at bay. Now here are some views about the restrainer. Some believe the restrainer is Roman Empire. I don't even know where how they got that idea, but but obviously that empire is long gone. So where is this Antichrist and the rest of the end-time events? Others think that Satan himself is the restrainer, but that seems weird. Why would he hold back sin? Another view is that human governments are keeping this man hidden, but governments are gonna continue right up the right up until the end, until Jesus' return. So I think the best view is that the Holy Spirit is the one restraining the son of perdition. Now there's much to support this view. Theologically speaking, restraining such a powerful evil being would require a greater spiritual power, namely the Holy Spirit of God, and He fits the bill. There's also grammatical support. Now we're gonna get a little technical here. As you guys know, or hopefully, certain languages in the world have grammatical genders. English has none. Some languages have two genders, masculine and feminine, such as French and Hebrew. And there are languages with three genders, masculine, feminine, and neuter. And there's even like languages with even more genders, but I'm not gonna go into those. But like German, Latin, and Greek. They have these three genders. A lot of fun to learn them. But it's interesting to note that the restrainer is neuter in verse six. referred to as what is restraining and masculine in verse 7, he who now restrains. Now, why is this important? We know that the primary description of the Holy Spirit is pneuma, right? Like I don't know if you ever took a class in Bible college or seminary called pneumatology. That's that's like the s study of the Holy Spirit. And pneuma or spirit is neuter in gender in Greek. Okay. But there are times when the Holy Spirit can take on titles that are masculine, such as the paraclete, which means Comforter, and that's masculine. So you'll see it like go back and forth between neuter and uh masculine when it comes to re referring and titles uh of the Holy Spirit. So that's gives support, right, that the restrainer is the Holy Spirit. Now you see that the New King James Version has capitalized he in verse 7. So the translators also believe the restrainer is divine. This view also corresponds well with pre-tribulational rapture. The indwelling spirit within the body of Christ, the universal church, has a restraining ministry in the present. But the church will not be here when the final you know before the uh final apostasy occurs and the son of per uh perdition is revealed. In fact the church age will come to an end, and that means the restraint of the lawless one will also come to an end. So now verses 8 to 12 provide further details about the lawless one. So let's read that And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will consume with the breadth of his mouth and destroy with the brightness of his coming. The coming of the lawless one is according to the working of Satan with all power, signs, and lying wonders. And with all unrighteous deception among those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved. And for this reason, God will send them strong delusion that they should believe the lie, that they all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteousness. So verse 8 is a quick summary of the lawless one's career from the rapture until the second coming of Christ. But no matter how much power this evil one possesses, he has no match for Jesus, who will slay him with the word and his own But before that confrontation we are told that he will deceive many with powers uh um you know miri miracles, signs and wonders granted by Satan himself. This is why it it's so important to you know not put all the weight of our faith in miracles. Right? And at least miracles alone. Devil has some sort of limited authority to perform miracles. Verses 9 to 12 show the complex relationship between Satan's lies, the people's unbelief, and God's sovereignty. Satan's role as the father of lies is clear here. He is responsible for the false powers, signs, and lying wonders, as well as the unrighteous deception among those who perish. But at the same time, the deceived are not innocent. They are perishing because they did not receive the love of truth. That they might be saved. And they did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Yet God remains sovereign in these dark times. In fact, we see in verse 11 that God Himself sends the unsaved a strong delusion that they should believe The lie. Now, this doesn't compromise God's goodness. God desires all to be saved, but when certain sinners rebel against him, he allows them to meet their demise and experience the consequences of their choices. We already see that in Romans 1, and we'll see that in the very last times. They are sent this delusion because they chose to welcome lies and not truth. So then such terrible apostasy, evil lawless man, and unrestrained deception are going to precede Jesus' second coming in the seven-year tribulation. So like why is this relevant to us? You know, I'm we're gonna be raptured anyways, right? Well just as we very often look to the past For applications in the present, we can also look to the future for applications in the present. First and foremost, we should not be deceived or shaken concerning end times. So relax, right? When it talks about I don't know, global warning or um when you hear about um you know watch movies or read books about the end of the world, okay. When you see that the Mayan calendar runs out or I don't know. All these things out there, right? Don't worry. Okay. What God says will happen will happen. Yeah. Okay, so we of all people should be courageous about what's going to happen. Study the scriptures and be assured that before and when Jesus comes. There are clear signs that precede and accompany the event. Secondly, when we witness apostasy, lawlessness, and deception taking place on a smaller scale. before the seven year tribulation in our time, we need to persevere and trust that God is in control. So it's easy to despair, like I said, just watch the news or read the newspapers and you're just like, oh, so bad. But know that God is in control. He will send his son to end evil Right. And you may think you may think this is fast. Like read on, right? See what happens in the seven year tribulation. Even in those times, God will you know Be victorious, so we are also victorious in our time. So hope that um gives you something to think about and chew on throughout the week. Um if you want resources, just if you never read the Left Behind series, go ahead and read it. There's obviously things I sort of disagree on, but um for the most part it gives a pre-trip. Um a dispensational um idea there. So yeah, so um I read I think I read Left Behind the first book in like two days or something like that. It was Just it was a good read, okay? But later books, not so much, but anyway. Um good books. But um study the end times. Be affected in the present, be encouraged in the present. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for these teachings and Lord we are assured um about the future. And Lord, um you could have just left us without any vision of the future, any prophecies in the Bible, and just said, just trust me, and that would have been sufficient. But Lord, you knew our weakness. You knew that we needed assurance and we you knew that we need our faith to grow. And be founded in your truth. And Lord, we thank you that we are here as lovers of truth, as lovers of the gospel and lovers of you. And Lord, um, we look forward to that day. Lord um we know that many terrible things must happen before um your second uh your son's second coming. So we pray that um just for People in our lives who are unsaved, Lord. We pray that they will not have to face these terrible times to come. But we pray for those in our In our families, those in uh in our neighborhoods, those that are um work, that they would hear the truth, they will become lovers of truth, that they will not be deluded. That they would hear the gospel and believe. Lord, would you open up their eyes to the truth? And Lord, may you use us this week. There's a family member, a friend, a neighbor, a coworker that you would open up opportunities. Maybe not talk about all of these details, but at least share with them the gospel. And Lord, so that uh they would hear the truth. Lord, we thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.