Now, there are those who live life thinking too little about the future, then there are those who live life thinking too much about the future Um in both instances I think the potential of life is not fully realized. Now the folly of thinking too much about the future is more common than I initially thought. Some of us are so discouraged by the present that we are basically punching the time card Throwing in the towel in the middle of the fight and retiring early. We're ready to die now and go to heaven. That could characterize our attitude toward work, but it could also indicate our attitude about our Christian mission on earth. You might hear the following statements from such people. What's the point? I'm too old for this. I can't do anything for God at this stage of life. Jesus is coming back soon anyways. Now it would not be crazy for us to think that something is wrong, spiritually wrong, with someone who says such things We could go further and say that there is some doctrinal error at the root of such apathy or lack of fruit. And such was the case in the Thessalonian church. So last time we ended with Paul expressing his confidence in Thessalonians' perseverance, obedience, and direction. But there were those who were not doing so well to these individuals we turn today So recall that there are three main purposes behind Second Thessalonians, which is in the handout They are one address the false teachings in the forged letter. We saw that in chapter two. Two, encourage the brethren to persevere. You see it throughout, especially in chapter one, but you see it throughout the letter 3. Discipline those who were deceived about the day of the Lord. That last purpose is the focus of today's passage. Now what's going on? Some in the congregation at Thessalonica were deceived into thinking that they were in the day of the Lord. Like this is the end of the world. Okay. Remember that was uh perpetrated through the um the false teaching and the letter. Okay. So what do they do? It's the end of the world. Stop working, okay? Stop living for God. This is it. Now, this cause and effect relationship between the false teaching and this um giving up on life is not explicitly cited, but it is a safe assumption. This problem had to be addressed. If we think the future rightly, we will live in the present rightly. If we get the end-time teachings wrong, we will get the present-time living wrong. So let's look at the entire passage first. Um we're finishing up Second Thessalonians today, to chapter three, verse six through eighteen. So Second Thessalonians. Chapter 3, verse 6 to 18. If you know the Bible it's on the all the text is on the handout But we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw from every brother who walks disorderly and not according to the tradition which he received from us. For you yourself know how you ought to follow us, for we were not disorderly among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread free of charge. but worked with labor and toil night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, not because we do not have authority, but to make ourselves an example of how you should follow us. For even when we were with you, we commanded you this if anyone will not work, neither shall he eat. For we hear that there are some who walk among you in a disorderly manner. Not working at all, but are busy bodies. Now those who are such, we command and exhort through our Lord Jesus Christ that they work in quietness and eat their own bread. But as for you, brethren, do not grow wary in doing good. And if anyone does not obey our word in this epistle, load that person and do not keep company with him, that he may be ashamed. Yet do not count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace always in every way. The Lord be with you all. The salutation of Paul with my own hand, which is a sign in every epistle, so I write. The grace of our of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. So we have another major unit of this letter from verses 6 to 15 before the conclusion in verses 16 to 18. What binds verses six to fifteen together is the three mentions of the word disorderly. One in verse six, another in verse seven, the third one in verse eleven. Just to be more detailed, verses 6 and 11 have the word in adverbial form, while verse 7 has it in the verbal form. But we also saw this word in the adjectival form back in 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. Let's quickly turn back there First Thessalonians five fourteen Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the fainthearted, uphold the weak, be patient withal. So that word unruly It's the same one for this orderly here, in adjectival form, back in 1 Thessalonians 5. And now for comparison, let's reread 2 Thessalonians 3. 6. But we commend you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw from every brother who walks disorderly. unruly, right? And not according to the tradition which he received from us. So verse 6 is the main idea of this paragraph, which ends at verse 15, and we here we have the early, one of the earliest indications of church discipline in first century. Now what is this progression from 1 Thessalonians to 2 Thessalonians? The unruly or the disorderly individuals were warned a few months ago But now Paul is urging the members in good standing to withdraw from such ones in verse 6. We see in verse 14 that they are to mark those ones under discipline and separate from them. Now, why such a severe treatment? Because as we see in verse 6, they are walking disorderly. A commentator named D. Edmund Hivert observes the following: quote, The present tense of the verb walks denotes that it is a deliberate course of action. Their disorderly conduct is not an occasional lapse, but a persistent practice input. We find the pre- uh present tense of walking in verse 6 and 11. Now, of course, we all occasionally fall out of line, become disorderly, and we need reproof. But these individuals have been warned repeatedly, and they have not changed their course. As the following verses reveal They have quit their jobs and lived off of the res resources of the congregation. It was such a serious matter that Paul invokes the name of Lord Jesus Christ in his charge. It was so grave a problem that the Thessalonians had to exclude the Erin brothers, at least from some of their meetings and ministries of the church. I'm going to assume that Paul and the Thessalonians were aware of the teachings of Jesus in Matthew 18. I encourage you to read that or listen to the sermon on that, which I did like my first month here. There Jesus told the church to treat the unrepentant sinner like an outsider, that is to exclude them from the table fellowship of the church where the Lord's supper was observed. So I think by some divine providence, the passage from 2 Thessalonians 3, 6 to 15 fits well with the sermon from this morning as well, because um Jesus gave divine significance to work and rest. Whereas sinners and false teachers, the disorderly, degrade and distort work and rest. Now Paul and Silas and Timothy were good disciples of Jesus who worked hard for the kingdom. They set themselves as good role models to follow, which supports the main idea of verse 6. Let's read again verses 7 to 9 to see how they lived among the Thessalonians as men worthy of imitation. For you yourself know how you ought to follow us, for we were not disorderly among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread. free of charge, but worked with labor and toil night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, not because we do not have authority But to make ourselves an example of how you should follow us. Now, verse 7 is revealing as it relates to the traditions discussed in verse 6. So when we think of apostolic tradition, that sounds like a very heady word, something you might hear in like theology class, we may at first think that it is a body of doctrine Teachings, creeds, or writings, it is certainly that, right? But not limited to that. In addition to providing divine revelation, apostles also provided human illustrations. I'm not saying they were perfect, but they did their best to exemplify Christ. To make a disciple, you have to be imitable. Verse 8 shows what an orderly life looks like. They took nothing for free, worked before and after sunset. So that the church would not be burdened in providing for three extra mouths. As verse 9 reveals, Paul had the right to receive provisions from ministry. And you can read about that in First Corinthians nine, first Timothy five, eighteen. But he voluntarily surrendered that privilege in order to become an example to imitate. That I say is the essence of Jesus' incarnation and ministry. If we imitate Christ who is worthy, we will be worth imitating. Now, this is a good application for us. We can see it in Paul, we obviously see it in Jesus. What are some rights you have given up voluntarily and strategically? To be an example for others. Of course, every time we choose to give up some of our income for the sake of the gospel, we are giving up our rights to our pleasures and And for the sake of fellow Christians. But there's also there's more. Um at my former church in Capitol Hill, uh DC, certain key members prayerfully chose to live nearby, though there were cheaper options out in the suburbs. They felt that living close to the church was best for disciple-making ministry. So they got they gave up their dreams of um bigger houses for themselves and their children Right. So they would purposely stay in D C. Now, I didn't think about that because how I used to like commute from Virginia to go into D C to go to this church. But I have to agree that being about fifty yards from church is really great for ministry, right? And living at the parsonage. So anyway, so that's like a example of a right that you give up, right? Right to living your the way you want for the sake of being an example for the sake of discipleship. And such decisions reflect willingness to go forego certain comforts and privileges, the right to spend money as we see fit. We can also give up the right to spend time as we seek faith. We belong to a small group that met on Fridays, led by a couple with four children. that could have chosen to spend that evening on dates or some downtime after a week of working and parenting But they opened up their homes, their privacy, and their hearts to help younger married couples. It was like a uh marriage uh small group So they were strategic in giving up their rights and authority to be an example to others. And um I have to say, you can ask Era too, like we really benefited from that small group because we were just married and And um I really uh I miss them a lot. So I think that's sort of like an example of hey, I'm going to give up my time, my energy, I'm going to give up my these rights that I have so I can make disciples. I could be an example. So don't focus exclusively on gaining and keeping authority and rights. Think about how you can use them for the kingdom. for discipleship to be an example. So by living this way, Paul, Silas, and Timothy were walking the talk They lived out the axiom or principle they taught the Thessalonians earlier, cited in verse 10. The axiom is there. For even when we were with you, we commanded you this, if anyone will not work, neither shall he eat. You could say that's a teenage kids or w whatever, just just make them do chores, but it's a good principle for anyone at any age. Now there are obviously exceptions to this. For one, 1 Timothy 6 talks about those who are really widows in the church, who has no surviving family to lean on. They are unable to work at an old age with no relative to support them. Such women should be fed and provided for by the church. If they do have family members, Nepal says they should learn to s uh provide for their kin. The early church certainly did provide for, you know, will be widows, widows indeed, and it seems like they also provided for orphans, based on James. Well, we can safely assume that the disorderly in Thessalonica do not fall under these special exceptions. The report in verse 11 makes that clear. For we hear that there are some who walk among you in a disorderly manner, not working at all, but are busybodies. When we don't work at our own homes or businesses, we start to work at other people's homes and get into their businesses. If we're not busy, we will become busybodies. Working is a good thing, as I said this morning, and we were given the mandate to be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth and subdue it. You know work within the family, you know, be fruitful and multiply. Work outside of the family. Fill the earth. We got plenty of work to do You know, I tend to think and I'm just saying this completely without any experience obviously, I tend to think that post retirement, an empty nest period, got has to be the toughest periods of life when it comes to Transitioning and applying this passage. And you guys can correct me if that's that's not the case, but there is a sudden overwhelming change from patterns established for decades. Right? To a new boy that could precipitate into this order. Now, I'm sure that you guys have a lot of wisdom here to not let that happen, but I would love to see some kind of maybe discipleship program. uh Sunday school topic or Bible study at our church that prepares you know young professionals for life after children grow up and retirement and Yeah, I know that like Mark Lauren and I uh we're probably far away from that, but I'm sure you guys have a lot of wisdom to share with us. Like how do you live, you know, post retirement or you know post emptiness, like in a productive way that glorifies God, right? Without falling into disorderliness. And there's a lot of wisdom to be shared here. In Apostolic Wisdom, Paul corrects the idol in verse 12. Now those who are such we command and exhort through our Lord Jesus Christ. That they work in quietness and eat their own bread. Paul uses the same word for command we saw in verse 6 and again invokes the name of Lord Jesus Christ. Here, the exhortation is not directed to the healthy church members as in verse 6, but to the unruly ones. They must stop the chatter and start working to make a living so that they do not burden the church. Don't loaf around in bed and You know, earn your own loaf of bread, you know. So that's what that's what they gotta do. Then in verse thirteen, Paul turns to the healthy church members to reinforce and encourage them. to keep doing what they were doing. We read there. But as for you, brethren, do not grow weary in doing good So when we think of doing good, we should not think about the the extraordinary opportunities, the one-time sacrifices, the dramatic displays of piety Doing good will often look very ordinary. I like what Charles Spurgeon says about this verse Quote, but well-doing consists in taking down the shutters and selling your goods, tucking up your shirt sleeves and doing a good day's work Sweeping the carpets and dusting the chairs, if you happen to be a domestic servant, well-doing is attending to the duties that arise out of our relationships in life. Attending carefully to them, and seeing that in nothing we are eye servers and men pleasers, but in everything are seeking to serve God. So in verses 14 to 15 we have essentially a repetition of the main point in verse 6. So let's reread that. And if anyone does not obey our word in this epistle, note that person and do not keep company with him, that he may be ashamed. Yet do not count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. These two verses amplify verse six by explaining one what it means to withdraw from the disorder. What does it mean to withdraw specifically? And two, what it means to still treat him like a brother. So I think verse fourteen clarifies the wit process of withdrawing By identifying the disorderly first. That could be that could mean marking individuals as members in bad standing. Um again in my former church, the elders would recommend disorderly members or people under discipline be placed in what they called care list. It's a very um Nice way of saying it, but during members meeting, um an elder would come up on the stage, summarize his interactions with a uh unrepentant individual, answer questions from the congregation And guide the members in their behavior toward the person. That behavior would involve some kind of application of this command. Do not keep company with him, that he may be ashamed. Now does that mean you like never grab coffee with this person or I don't know, just talk with them um in the metro when you see him. But I believe a good way to apply this right, this withdrawing, is to always uh bring the specific issue to mind and place at the forefront during interactions So when you meet with that person like that, you you gotta talk about it. You can't just be like sweep it under the rug. Just every conversation must have that at the forefront So that way we communicate constantly that there is a rupture in relationship with the rest of the church that will not go ignored. And then verse 15 balances out verse 14 by limiting the stigma. They are still considered brothers. By admonishing the individual as a brother, the goal is clearly restoration, we are aiming at family reconciliation, not conquest of adversaries Even if it goes as far as removal of church membership, I would recommend that maybe in our case such individual names be included in paralysis. We should keep in mind that the goal of church discipline is not division, but unity and peace. Even with the proper application of these principles, we need to depend on God for prayer. That's why we have prayer for peace in verse 16 as we go into the conclusion. Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace always in every way. The Lord be with you all. So ultimately, we look to the Lord of peace who gives peace always and in all ways. We can also ask that the Lord be with us all. And this prayer takes on a new significance if we look at the issue of church discipline in the context. You might recall again in Matthew 18, 20, that Jesus promised to confirm the disciples' decisions to remove membership by standing with them It says there, Matthew 18, 20, for where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. So it is comforting to know that Jesus is always with us, right? But it is crucial to know that Jesus is with us, especially in these tough relationship struggles. So we have evidence from verse 17 that Paul at times dictated his letters to an amanuensis, basically like a secretary, who wrote them down for him. But to limit chances for forgeries, Paul signs a greeting with his own hand signature, clearly distinguishable from the secretaries. So let's read verse 17 The salutation of Paul with my own hand, which is a sign in every epistle. So I write I'm guessing he wrote like big or um because um in another letter he says what see what big letters I write with my hand. Verse 18 is the final verse, and it's just like the final verse of 1 Thessalonians, except for the addition of one word. Uh let's just read it first. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. The only difference is the word all. Again, this is This is one last emphasis on the unity of the church that can only come from the grace of Jesus Christ. So we have this we have finished this letter. Um so And we went through first and second Thessalonians. Um, for the most part, Paul was very thankful for the church, but like any church, there were people with issues and people with problems whom Paul labeled as disorderly. Um but I think that we can learn a lot of things here, um, particularly the importance of studying the scriptures when it comes to end times. To know the whole counsel of God, Genesis to Revelation, so that we uh live in the present in an orderly way, in a way that pleases the Lord. Let's pray. Lord uh we thank you for your word. Lord how it speaks to us and Lord um how you have given us a task to do on earth. And Lord um at times we can be deceived, at times we may give up on living for you. No, it could be habitual as well. It could turn into It could start on a few days, it could turn into a week, it could turn into months, it could turn into years of ineffective service. So where we have just stopped living for you And where we just lean on others to carry us through. And we don't pick ourselves up and uh live for your glory. Lord, whatever issues that may be in our personal lives, help us to fall in line with what you have called us to do. That we are your soldiers. Lord, we are um to live for you. Because the day of the Lord has not arrived yet. There are people who are lost. There's tasks to be done. There's kingdom work to be done. Lord, whether we are young or old, help us to live our lives for you. And even when we are discouraged, um even when w it seems really tough when Our ministry, when our just perseverance wanes. Lord, we pray that you will give us that glorious vision of your Son, who will return for us. And reward us for our love, for our hope, for our patience, for the joy that we have in you. And Lord, we pray that you'll give us strength this week. Help us to live for your kingdom, and we pray in your son Jesus Christ's name. Amen