This morning, we've already read Psalm 46. It's a wonderful psalm, and it is written by someone. who knows what it's like to be overwhelmed. In this psalm, there is the language of an overwhelmed heart. At least in his circumstances, he looks at what is happening and he describes them as what is happening as verse one, trouble Verse 2, the removal of the earth, the movement of the earth, an earthquake where mountains are thrust down into the sea. where waters are boiling and roaring because they are so troubled, where the very mountains shake. I don't know if you've ever been overwhelmed, uh actually physically overwhelmed because you were in an earthquake. I remember once As a child being thrown away, thrown around by the waves. I don't know if any of you have tasted sand at a beach under the waves, but it's rather delicious. No, not really. As a child, I was out in the water and a wave came along. It was bigger than me and it just tossed me and I spun head over heels. And when my face hit that sand, I just took a nice big gulp of sand and tried to surface. And here I was, ugh, like this. I was completely thrown off my feet by my circumstances. I mean, literally. But my dad, being who he is, or whoever's there, they they can usually come and rescue us from those circumstances. Why is that that a five-year-old is tossed by the waves? But a parent is not. Because the parent is bigger than the five-year-old. And folks, so it is that God is so much bigger than any mountains that shake. Any waters that are roaring. Do you think God is bothered by an earthquake? or a tsunami or a volcano, do you think he wrings his hands and wonders what to do? Oh my, oh my, there's something else. Oh my, Gabriel, those those plate tectonics in California, there lots of people are might are in danger. Or there's a no, we know that he is not like that But we are, aren't we? We are the five-year-old, tossed by the waves. And so we potentially could be afraid. So let me get you to do this. I want to suggest that you take some notes this morning, just by writing down some passages to remember. Write this down, Psalm 46. And then make a comma and write Psalm 32. Because this is where we're going to start this morning. And how should a Christian respond to overwhelming circumstances? We are overwhelmed because of what the court decided and what that might mean for our country and for our religious freedom. There are four reasons why the Supreme Court of the United States decided to legalize at a national level as a right, an inherent constitutional right, same-gender marriage. I quote. A first premise of the court's relevant precedence is that the right to personal choice regarding marriage is inherent in the concept of individual autonomy. This abiding connection between marriage and liberty, and then they go on to quote another case that they say is a precedent to this idea of personal choice and autonomy. The Supreme Court says that we should have same gender marriage because in America you should have a right to choose as an individual whatever you wish to do. We are a country that is free. And freedom means that if you are of the same gender, you should be able to marry. It is irrelevant. Reason number one, the first premise: personal choice or autonomy. Secondly, the Supreme Court wants us to know that marriage, by virtue of its unique characteristics is worthy of constitutional protection. And so they say a second principle in this court's uh jurisprudence prudence is that the right to marry is fundamental because it supports a two-person union unlike any other in its importance to the committed individuals. They quote a man named Griswold, who described marriage this way: Marriage is a coming together for better or for worse, hopefully enduring, and intimate to the degree of being sacred. It is an association that promotes a way of life, not causes, a harmony in living, not political faiths, a bilateral loyalty, not commercial or social projects Yet it is an association for as noble a purpose as any involved in our prior decisions. What are they saying? They're saying that marriage is Sacred, and marriage is enduring, and marriage is this special thing that is unlike any other, and so it deserves protection under the Constitution. The third reason they give for what they did. A third basis, as I'm quoting, for protecting the right to marry is that it safeguards children and families and thus draws meaning from related rights of children. child rearing, procreation, and education. What are they saying? They're saying that same-gender marriage should be protected for the sake of the children. Because children who are raised in same-gender families suffer, quote, the stigma of knowing their families are somehow lesser. They also suffer the significant material costs of being raised by unmarried parents. Relegated through no fault of their own to a more difficult and uncertain family life. The marriage laws at issue here thus harm and humiliate the children of same-sex couples. The fourth and final reason that they want to do this, that they made this decision, is because marriage is the foundation of the American society. Can you believe this, folks? These are the reasons. Sounds pretty good. But when you apply it to same-gender marriage, it's totally confusing. Fourth, and I quote, fourth and finally this court's case Cases and the nation's traditions make clear that marriage is a keystone of our social order. Then they quote a man who, in writing about America two centuries ago, said this There is certainly no country in the world where the tie of marriage is so much respected as in America. When the American retires from the turmoil of public life to the bosom of his family, he finds in it the image of order and peace. He afterwards carries that image with him into public affairs. Think of this. The Supreme Court of the United States. Marriage, same-gender marriage, should be a right to every American. We should have the freedom to choose to be so. Autonomy. Same-gender marriage is a right and it should be because marriage is unique. It's a special institution and thus has a right to have constitutional protection. Same-gender marriage is a right because without it, children in same-gender households suffer in various ways. Thus it protects children. Same-gender marriage. We should have it because marriage itself is a foundation to our society. That's what the Supreme Court said That's their document. If you read what I gave you in your bulletin, you'll see the same thing summarized for yourself. We've arrived at a place in our nation when the waves are definitely tossing us. Did any of us ever think in our lifetime that this would occur? Anybody? I didn't. I'm 44. I'm starting to lose track of how old I'm getting. I never thought this would happen In Sunday school, Tim alluded to Romans 1, and it's not, and we'll be in Psalm 46 here in a moment. Just think of this for a second. In Romans 1, the judgment of God is not primarily financial. economic, even a physical, like health judgment on a nation. Three times in Romans 1 Paul writes about God giving people up, giving them over to what they want to do. And the result being Chaos in social order and relationships. Folks, the fact is in Romans 1, the judgment of God is not that he will slam us, although he certainly could, economically or in a war, but that he just sets us adrift. Folks, think of this. The worst thing that could happen to a nation or an individual is for God to just let you go. To release you to your own devices. You want a murder? Go ahead. You want to marry The same gender, go ahead. You want to commit adultery? Go ahead. I won't stop you. I won't convict you. I won't keep my restraining influence on your conscience anymore. You'll be given over to ignorance and empty thinking. That is God's judgment on America. Folks, make no mistake, America is already judged. Don't look down the road for an economic problem and think that that's the judgment, although certainly it could be a corollary. We are currently under the judgment of God. This is true. So what encouragement then can we get from passages like Psalm 46? Well, look at it. Look at Psalm 46. First. The psalmist is utterly convinced in the personal, present availability of God in a time of trouble. You remember on the hillside when Elijah was fighting with the prophets of Baal, and they had a sacrifice, and they were calling on Baal. And Elijah mocked them, and he said, Where is your God? He must be off somewhere on a trip. He must be busy doing something else, is essentially what Elijah was saying. Folks, our God is never, ever like that. Look at your Bibles. It says right there in verse 1. Our God, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble, in the very midst of it, when you're up to your knees in it He's there, he's available, and the psalmist writes of him as a refuge, that is, a place where we flee to protection. And the strength, and that is the one who can strengthen our arms and enable us in the midst of trouble. The context of Psalm 46, if you remember from when we just read it. is war. You look again and you see in verse 6, the heathens raging and the kingdoms are moved. You look at verse 9, and God is working in the midst of wars to cause them to cease. You look at verse 4, and there's this immovable city of God in the midst of the verse. Of war and turmoil. And God is there with them. Have you ever thought about our social our society and the culture and what we're going through? And had the Spirit of God assure you personally through just pouring peace into your heart? And it can't be explained? The peace that passes understanding. You look at your you look out at your circumstances and it's a mess. And there's nothing in your life that should engender peace, that should make you feel any better. And yet the Spirit of God is in you and He is reminding you of the Scriptures. And you think to yourself, okay, it's a mess out there, but God is bigger than this. My God. My God is a refuge and strength. So, whenever we're in these situations, we should immediately remind ourselves that God is so much bigger. And the description here in the first few verses is the extreme. Okay, it's not, I got a flat tire, and God is a refuge in strength. Like, whoop de doo. I mean I can change my own tire. I mean why do I need God to change the tire? Well, um, I didn't uh I need to go shopping and I can only buy rice this week instead of steak Well, yes, God will help you. Look at it again. Look at your Bible. There are map that though the earth be removed And the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, and though the mountains shake. With the swelling thereof. This is an extreme example. This is put this way on purpose as a poetic device to describe the worst circumstances you could be in. Think of the worst case scenario and God is there and God is a present help. That's the point. And so he is with us. Turn to Psalm 32 now. Turn back a few pages to Psalm 32. Psalm 37. I said 32, I mean 37. We've gone through this before. In Psalm 46, there are overwhelming circumstances in a context of war there. In Psalm 37, there is the context of a prosperous evildoer, someone who is a worker of iniquity, and he is growing like a wonderful tree. Branches that are strong, leaves that are a vibrant green color, and then there are the godly, and they seem to not be so doing so well. They're not as prosperous, and they're looking at the prosperity of evil people, and they're fearful, and they're beginning to become very anxious. And so David writes in Psalm 37, verse 1, fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. And look at verse 3. Trust in the Lord. Verse 4, delight also thyself in the Lord. Verse 7, rest. In the Lord. When you watch the news, turn to the Lord in prayer. When you're wondering what's going to happen to the nation, turn to God And talk to him about it. When you find yourself anxious about the future, turn to the God who is available and trust and commit, delight, and rest in him. This is your privilege. This is your responsibility and mine. Folks, all throughout the Psalms, this is the pattern that the psalmist uses Whenever his heart is overwhelmed within him, he says, take me to the rock that is higher than I. That's what he says. And the psalmist is a realist and very transparent with his personal struggles and his emotional state. Help, Lord, I'm struggling, I'm overwhelmed. And he goes right to God every time. Now listen, if you're someone here today and you don't have Christ as your personal Savior, Let me be very honest with you. You don't have anything. Are you going to turn to your bank account in times of trouble? What happens if it grows wings and flies away? Are you going to turn to your favorite relationship in times of trouble? What happens if you find out that the best of men is only a man at best? And you know the woman you thought you loved, she failed. If you're gonna are you going to turn where where else can you turn? Hobbies get old after a while. A dream job loses its luster after about what six months. A brand new car? Where will you turn but to the Lord? He's all we have. And if you're not a Christian here this morning, let me encourage you that That Christ is a rock. In Psalm 46, he is the one who is in the midst of Jerusalem, and he is the one who holds me up personally and the Christians that are sitting around you. He is the one that has been with them. Through sickness and in health and through political turmoil, Jesus can help you. Folks, Jesus loves you even if you're a terrible sinner. Don't raise your hand if you're a terrible sinner, but you know what? Jesus loves terrible sinners. He doesn't like your sin. But he loved you so much that he died on the cross and took your place and your punishment and rose from the dead. He loves sinners and he's willing to give unstable, inexperienced people stability and wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Are you a Christian? Do you have that stability? So we see in Psalm 46 and Psalm 32 the psalmist turning to God, refuge, strength, trust. Where do we go from here? Now here's where it gets a little bit more complicated, not really, but a little bit harder. Let me ask you to turn to Romans 12 and you should write this down. Romans 12, 14 to 21 Alright, so you're trusting the Lord, you're praying, you're trying to calm your anxious heart, but you and I are still tempted. We still are tempted to do certain things, to take matters into our own hands when it comes to a culture that is now fighting against what we believe. It really has, folks, let's be honest, it's been fighting against what we believe for many decades now, right? Our culture has been a mess for a while, and really the church is always in the midst of the world that is a mess. But there is a temptation to be completely overwhelmed by it In Romans 12, 14 to 21, we have a warning not to be overwhelmed by evil or overcome by it. But rather to overcome evil with good. Look at Romans 12, verse 14. Bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice, weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. Recompense to no man evil for evil, provide things honest, or the word means honorable, in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. But rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him, if he thirst, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt reapho heap coals of fire on his head Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. Now, let's just make this real simple. He's writing to real people. And when we get pushed, what do we want to do? We want to push back. I went to a public high school. I saw this a lot. Guys did it a lot. You're in the hallway, one guy approaches another guy and just pushes him as hard as he can because he's mad at him. The other guy gets up and goes, Oh, I love you so much. Let me give you a hug. Is that what happens? No. He immediately jumps up. He wants to just push back. And that's the fallen nature in us. There is the temptation. Look at this again at verse 14. I'm not changing God's word here, but let me put in. The substitute of what we could be tempted to do, instead of blessing, curse those which persecute you. Curse. Could we do that? Well, we someone in Sunday school this morning mentioned reading on the web lots of comments on web pages by supposed Christians Who are just railing on gay people and in a very unloving and hateful way, just letting them have it. Is that a blessing? Does that go with what this verse says? And then in verse 19, you have dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. So what's the temptation? Vengeance. You hurt me, I will hurt you. Folks, what were Paul and Barnabas doing in jail? That night when God shook the whole jail and the jailer was saved. Were they cursing their tormentors? And were they thinking of ways to get their vengeance? I mean, Paul is talking to Barnabas and saying, hey, Barnabas, I've got a great idea. I've got a stash of weapons. over here in a behind a synagogue, right behind this trash area. Put them there in the ground. When we get out of here, no. They're sinning. And God uses that. If you take verse 21 this way, what is being overcome by evil? Being overcome by evil is when a Christian is. allows himself to respond in hateful anger, seeking vengeance with his words and his actions. You and I could be tempted because we're not people who really would use weapons. We would typically use the weapon of words Let me warn you, you shouldn't do that. That's not going to help our cause by any means. If you look at Titus 3, you see the same thing. Look at Titus 3. When we are overwhelmed, Titus 3, verse 1. Look at this, Titus 3, verse 1. Write it down. Remember it. You're going to need it. Titus 3 verse 1. I am putting you in mind right now. I am reminding you to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, to speak evil of no man. To be no brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness, and the word means gentleness unto all men. For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving diverse lusts and pleasures. Living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. Here's what can happen to you and me. We're a Christian for so long, we forget that the reason we don't curse and the reason we have some common sense is because we learned it. We weren't born with it. There's not a person here who without this book would not be as dumb as a rock when it comes to the things of God. Is that not true? And yet, I find it rising up in me. I saw this week a picture of homosexual activists in the White House in front of Ronald Reagan's picture and George W. Bush's picture, and they're giving them a finger. in the White House, the portraits of those presidents. How does that make you feel? Like three of them. Well, a friend of mine on Facebook commented on it. I can't tell you what he said. Not anyone in this church, a lost friend from years ago. He was angry. If we didn't have this book, we would be potentially right there in the White House acting unseemly to whatever presidential portraits are on the walls. That would be you and me. Folks, do you really believe that? I mean, come on. Do you think that you that you did not anything you know about God, do you think it was not given to you in this book? Do you honestly think you discovered it or you you you invented it? But by the grace of God, so go I. Is that not true? And the description here in Titus, I lost my place. Here it is. This description here of what we were, is it not appropriate to what we see in today's society? Look at verse 3. There's foolishness. And that's the foolishness of, that's like Lack of common sense, foolishness in the book of Proverbs comes out in our words, our actions, the way we handle our finances and relationships and all that. Disobedient. That's disobedient to any authority, any rightful authority, whether it's parents, government, employer, deceived. Do I have to comment on that? Serving various lusts and pleasures. This is an individual whose pleasure is king in their life. If it feels good, that's their goal. How can it be so wrong when it feels so right? And Paul is writing to Titus, and the Cretans, the Cretans, were very much like Cretins. They were out of control, and he is reminding Titus that these people, this is the way you were before you were Christian. So why? Why would we ever resort to name calling and profanity or hate speech when we even those people in the White House doing that. That's wrong. It's disrespectful. But why would we place ourselves up in this sort of self-assured, self-righteous position? No, we are just beggars helping other beggars find bread. And the bread is the one that came down from heaven. And that's the point. Look at Titus 3 again. It's the kindness, verse 4. And the love of God, our Savior, toward man. It appeared. Not by works of righteousness that we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us by washing. Of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. In other words, He saved, He washed, He regenerated, not according to our works. This is what we were, hateful and deceived and serving our lusts. There was nothing of value in us. He saved us, and he goes on to talk of our justification. Verse 7. That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs. So, folks, we have to be careful not to be overcome by evil so that our words are not consistent with who we are in Christ. We have to make sure that we love our enemies and bless those who curse us. Here's something. I'm being real real transparent here. Do you know someone who is gay? Think of your mind. Do you know anybody like that? Do you avoid them? How are you gonna handle that relationship? Are you gonna let this sort of quiet animosity build up in your heart? You know, people can tell when you don't like them. I'm not saying you like sin. Are you gonna do you know any adulterers? Do you know anybody who's a crack addict? Do you know anybody who's struggling with any other sins? Certainly you do. How do you behave toward them You should find people who are sinners and love them. That doesn't mean you approve everything they're doing No. But you can affirm your love to them. What would that mean for you with your words? What would you say? Well, and then there is this, and Tim looked at this passage this morning, and I just want to point it out, and there's lots of wisdom in 1 Peter. Write down these two references, 1 Peter 2, 12 and 13. And 1 Peter 3, 16. Write those down for further study. And what we have here, of course, Peter, 1 Peter, is written to Christians who are suffering. Turn there quickly to 1 Peter. But I want to pull the same phrase out of both these passages because this is exactly what's happening to us. Folks, this past week in Oregon, the couple that has been fined over $100,000 for not making a wedding cake Has been served a gag order that they can no longer, the court has told them you are not allowed to speak about your faith in reference to this court case publicly. That does not sound good to me. So how do you put to silence the ignorance of foolish men? Look at 1 Peter 2, verse 12. It says, having your conversation, and the word there means conduct, honest, or honorable, honorable conduct among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak evil against you as evildoers. You people are homophobes, you're bigots, you're haters, and hateful. Do you know that? That's what they say about us. How do you quiet that down? Look at it again, verse 12. Having honorable conduct where? Among the Gentiles. Men and women, this means in your workplace Your neighborhood? Your lost family members? Do your lost friends and acquaintances know that you're an honest man? That when you do wrong, you fess up and you ask for forgiveness, not a perfect man, an honest man or woman Do they, generally speaking, know that you're trustworthy and that that you you're have you're a person of integrity? That's what this is talking about about in part. The verse before speaks of fleshly lusts, and that's a big part of it too. We need to make sure we keep our flesh under control, these things that war against our souls. But that phrase there, speaking evil of us as evildoers, it's repeated. If you look at 1 Peter 3, verse 16, it's the same thing. Look at 1 Peter 3, 16. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse you, your good conduct, your good conversation. Christ, twice at least in 1 Peter. They're speaking evil of us. So where does this leave us? How do we respond to the Supreme Court? Number one, trust God. Psalm 46 and Psalm 32. He's a refuge and strength. Trust him. He's a present help in times of trouble, even this kind of trouble. How else do we respond, number two, to the Supreme Court ruling? By not allowing our good to be overcome by the evil of our society. By making sure that we say what Christ would want us to say, that we type what Christ would want us to type, that we don't attempt to take vengeance in word or deed. How else do we respond? Number three. We attempt to be people of integrity before a watching world. The Gentiles that we are who we are among, whom we are among, they watch us and they know that as best we can, we're not perfect. We make mistakes. Sometimes we have to ask forgiveness, and we do. But we're people of integrity that can be dependent on. And that then leads me to this final point. Where is this all headed? Well, for this morning, many other things could be said, but let me lead you to Philippians. Go to Philippians. Philippians chapter 2. And we'll wrap this up. I advise you really strongly to look at these passages at home and try to make them a part of your literal your life. Not just a sermon, but your life. Philippians 2. Right now we are living in verse 8. Jesus was found in fashion as a man, and he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of a cross. Jesus said, except ye take up your cross, you cannot be my disciples. We have enjoyed a chicken in every pot in this country. We've enjoyed lots of social services, prosperity, more than we could ever hope for in America. But as Christians, we know that there is a cross to bear. But that's not the end of it, is it? Verse 8. He became obedient to the death of the cross. Wherefore, God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Wherefore, my beloved brethren brethren, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Now, this is not a work that merits salvation. This is like a math equation. You're working it out to its conclusion. You're living a Christian life and you're really giving it your all and you're you're being what you should be. You're finishing it all the way to the end. The wherefore goes back to the Lordship. Think of this, folks. Think of this. The eternal lordship of Jesus Christ. Every knee, every tongue. Everyone, anywhere, Jesus is Lord. Every dead president, every living president I mean, who's no longer in office. Every communist dictator. Everyone. Every atheist. They're all going to bow the knee. Every one of them. Do you believe that this morning? Do you believe that enough that it can motivate you to do what's right in the presence of? Let's pray. Let's bow our heads and pray together.