One of the privileges I had in my life was growing up in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, in the heart of the Pennsylvania Dutch and Amish country. A second privilege I had was being able to work for my father and my uncle in a fa family landscaping business who would from time to time hire Mennonites in Amish. Now, we got into some very interesting conversations when it came to things about the Bible, various verses. various theological points and texts. And I can recall one day we got into the topic of eternal life. Eternal life. And he said to me, What it is. Okay, I thought Many times we had discussions. I'm ready for it. Let's hear what you have to say because I knew that on some points of eternal life we weren't in agreement. But no answer ever came. Because you see, it wasn't a statement of explanation, it was eternal life. What it is. Question What is eternal life? This morning the choir sang about it before earth before the earth and time began in works and words and time it culminated in this great medley we just sang. But what is eternal life? Let me ask you a question. Let's start with the second word. Let's just start with life. What is life? What is your definition of life? Can you define life? Well We know it when we see it. A bird flies through the air. A bug crawls up my leg. A baby cries. Blossoms burst forth. That tree's alive. That one's dead. But what is life? Many have attempted to define it. One person said it something like this, it's the quality that distinguishes a vital and functional being from a dead body or inanimate matter Well, there was an attempt at something that is absolutely undefinable. Can we really define what eternal life is? We can take hits at it. We're going to try to do that a little bit right now. As far as it goes, that was a attempt, at least in bi biological terms. But is that all there is? Are we just nothing more than clay and dirt and some fluids and chemicals? Do we eat, drink, and make merry for tomorrow we die? Is that it? Bible doesn't say so. In fact, we even stop and consider our own selves. We think, don't we? We reason. We calculate, we come up with plans, we have emotions, we have a conscience I did something wrong. Oh, I did something right. That felt pretty good. Are we to think that we are not more than just Matter? The Bible says not. Listen to some of these verses. For Christians to be absent from the body. Is to be present with the Lord. Hebrews 9 says, It is appointed unto man once to die. And after this, the judgment. Why judgment if all we're going to do is Return to the earth. First Thessalonians, Second Thessalonians 1 says, When the Lord returns with all his holy angels, he'll take vengeance on those. in a flaming fire, who know not God, and obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. So the Bible says that there's more to us than meets the eye. There's more to you than meets the eye. It's true. First Thessalonians Paul said this, and this I pray, the very God of peace, that he may sanctify you wholly, your body, your soul, and your spirit Matthew 10, 28, fear not them who can kill the body and not the soul, but fear him who is able to kill both body and soul in hell. So we continue on after this physical life, because we're not only material, we're immaterial as well. Well, there's an invisible part of us, the Bible says. But still I ask the question: what is life? Well, I have found it has been helpful to me in my Christian life when coming to try to define biblical terms and various uh theological concepts, that it's often helpful to look at the opposite. Grammarians call this an antonym. Fancy little word. However, I want to play a game with you, okay? And it goes something like this. I'll say a word. And then I'll say, and you would probably say, and you say out, I know it's just church, you can speak. Alright, you say out what you think is the opposite. For instance, if I were to say to you, up, you would probably say to me Down. If I were to say to you in, you would probably say to me, out. If I said to you low, you would low, you would probably say to me, Hi. If I said to you hi, you would probably say to me goodbye If I said to you good, you would probably say to me, if I said to you life, you would probably say to me, Death. The opposite of life is death. If we look at death, we might have a little glimpse into what eternal life is. But what kind of death is there? The Bible speaks of three kinds. The Bible speaks of physical death, to be absent from this body. is to be present with the Lord. Physical death. The Bible mentions a second kind of death. Spiritual death. That invisible part of us is dead in Ephesians 2. We were talking about This yesterday. And you who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which time passed, you walked. Yeah. Walking dead men. In first Timothy five, speaking to widows who were now Living a pleasure, a life of pleasure that was riotous. It says this: that she who lives in pleasure is dead while she liveth. How can this be? Because we're material and we're immaterial. We have a body, a soul, and a spirit. Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20 says this that God will take death and hell and cast them into the lake of fire. Which is the second death. I die physically, I die spiritually, and I die eternally. Strike three. You're out. That's what the Bible says about death. But where does it come from? The Bible says the wages of sin is death. For we have all sinned, come short of the glory of God. But still I ask, what is death? Well, what do these verses have in common? Listen closely. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. Matthew 25. Jesus, on his throne of glory, separates mankind, the sheep. being the just. The the goats being the unjust. And he says to the unjust goats, Depart from me. And these shall go away into eternal destruction. Second Thessalonians 1, we say Before in a flaming fire, taking vengeance on them who know not God and obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord. Isaiah fifty nine, two. But your sins, the wages of Sin is death. Where there is sin, there is death. You cannot separate them. Your sin has separated you from you and your God. What did they have in common? Separation. Death is separation So when you have sin, you have death. And when there is death, you have separation. Let's play our game again. Are you ready? Round two. If I were to say to you, morally speaking, right, you would say to me morally Wrong. Okay? If I were to say to you light, you would probably say to me dark If I were to say to you, separate it, you would probably say to me, joined together. Very synonymous terms there. Joined. If death is separation, life is Joining. But join to what? First Corinthians chapter six, verse seventeen, we read these words He that is joined to the Lord is one spirit. When a person realizes that they're a sinner And they repent of that sin and call on the name of the Lord, who came and died in their stead for their sin and took their place and their penalty, and asked them to come into their life And trust him, trust him as their savior. You know what trust is? Every one of you is trusting. I can guarantee it. You know how I know? You're sitting down. I didn't see any of you come in here and go, this is gonna hold me out I'm not sitting on that thing. You came in and you went sat right on down. Why? You trusted it If you put all your weight, your life too, possibly, on it. What if the thing collapses and falls But you trusted it. Faith is belief and trust combined. When a person does that, when they trust in the Lord, when they say, I can't work my way to heaven. I have to trust someone else to save me, to reach out and grab me and rescue me. The Holy Spirit of God comes into the life of that person And joins, unites with the spirit of that person, thus making the The new man. The new creation. Therefore, 2 Corinthians says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creation, a new creature. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth In me. And the life I now live in this flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Colossians chapter 3, if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of the Father. Set your affections on things above and not on things on earth, for you are dead and your life is hid with God in Christ. When Christ, who is our life, Shall appear, then you shall also appear with him in glory. Romans 6 says, For the wages of sin is death, But the gift of God is eternal life. Most times when we think about this, we think of it as if it were a thing, a gift, like we get at Christmas I may like what I get, or maybe I don't like what I get. I may choose to just let it sit there and look at it, stare at it for a while Or I may open it up right away. But eternal life, or at least life, is more than that. It is the uniting of you. with Jesus Christ. It is a person. It is personal, dynamic, vital It's the very person of God joining you to himself, producing an inseparable union as a new creature. And a new nature. And it's that new nature which 1 John 3 says, cannot sin. Well, I didn't say you can't sin as a Christian. I said your new nature, which is you and Christ joined together, is never the source of sin in your life. If you sin as a Christian, you sin because you revert back and choose to It's not because you are enslaved any longer to your old sin nature, because Christ broke that power and it's gone, but you choose to go back on your own. But don't be deceived, he says in 1 John. That nature, that seed which has been planted in you, cannot sin. He that is born of God cannot sin. Why? Because his seed remaineth in him. And this leads to us to the second word, eternal. What do we mean by eternal? If you ask the average person on the street, what is eternal, they would probably say something like, wound forever. But isn't eternal more than forever? Won't you live forever if you're a Christian? But didn't you have a beginning? Eternal life, when it's combined with another word like life, means much more than just forever. Because everyone is going to live somewhere. Eventually. The question is, where? And in what state? What quality? And these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. So eternal life is a quality of life, a special kind of life In John seventeen, Jesus said, and this is life eternal. That they might know the, the only true God. Let me ask you a question. How many of you in this room right now know Donald Trump? Okay. Well we had one taker. I'm glad you said you didn't. You know why? You know about Donald Trump. You know of Donald Trump, but you don't know Donald Trump I assume you're a good worker, but I can't say you're a good worker. I don't know that for sure. Oh, you know Jim so-and-so. Yeah, I know him. He's a real nice guy. How do you know that? Well, because we rub shoulders together. We walk. We talk. We commune with one another. I can't really say I know you unless we Are united and joined and working and involved with one another. This unity we have with Christ. Is a person, Jesus Himself, and this person has a life. We call it the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, holiness It's a special kind of life. A special quality of life. First John says He who does not love remains in death. Speaking to Christians. And we know that we've passed out of death and into life because we love the brethren. So the eternal life, more than just forever. It's a quality of life It's a person. And it shows itself in a way of living The clock of life is wound but once. No man has the power To tell just when the hands will stop, at late or early hour. To lose one's wealth is sad indeed. To lose one's health is more. To lose one's soul is such a loss that no man can restore. As of 1970s, 1,750 people died in the time it took me to read that poem. It could have been you. One day it will be. Are you ready Have you ever called upon the name of the Lord? John 3:16, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. I said one of my privileges was to work with the Amish. I worked with one. Here's an Amish name for you: Gideon Stolzfus. Amos Bailer. I was always outnumbered. We spoke about eternal life one day and how it's forever. And that you cannot lose it because you're in the hands of God and you're secure. And we would talk about this many times. He was a quiet yo young man Man, not very tall. He never joined the almost church, so he was never shunned, so he drove a vehicle. A pickup truck, he called later, his big bundle of pride on four wheels. Gideon Stalsfus got saved one day. And you know what he said to me years later? All those years you talked about eternal life and that you could never lose it. I thought you were crazy. You were crazy. But he said now he said It's right there. It's so simple to see. How did I miss it? Don't miss it. Don't miss it. What about you, Christian? How you making out with that eternal life? Is it working for you? Well, probably not if you view it as a thing. But it's probably working for you If you view it as a person, eternal life. What it is