Well it is a privilege to be here with you on this Lord's Day. I'm grateful for the opportunity that uh I call him Professor Cho. Pastor Cho has Just giving me to serve him, serve you guys. It's just always a privilege to be able to just feed the Lord's sheep. And so I'm grateful to be here this morning. And If you don't already know my wife and daughters back there, they will be more than welcome to say hello to you as well. So thank you for just having us and looking forward to just be a blessing to you guys If you have your Bibles, go ahead and open them up to Philippians chapter 1. Philippians chapter 1. That'll be our text for this morning. Philippians chapter 1. And so we're going to be studying or focusing on the first 11 verses of Philippians chapter 1. And I'm going to read the text, and then we'll go ahead and get into the Lord's message here. Philippians chapter 1, verses 1 through 11. And this is the reading of God's word. Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi with the bishops and deacons. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine making request for you all with joy For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of the with me of grace. For God is my witness, how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may approve the things that are excellent That you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise. Well, if you haven't already heard, of course, Professor Cho elaborate on the death of J. I. Packer, of course, it's big news in the evangelical world, a prominent theologian. um to the evangelical church has obviously been promoted to heaven since Friday. He died at the age of ninety-three and All will be remembered, or he will be remembered by many, as Professor Cho noted, because of the great work he's done for evangelicalism. I remember being introduced to Packer when I read one of his books titled Knowing God, and I'm sure you have as well. And Not just that book, but also the book that Professor Cho mentioned, the Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God, which proved helpful to my understanding of sharing the gospel. and God's sovereignty in salvation. And just gleaning on some of the last interviews, I'm sure maybe you have as well. Just before he entered glory, there was a question that was asked by him, of course a couple questions, but this one that stood out, and I believe Professor Cho was probably reading my notes on this one, but he said He said, he was asked what his final words to the church might be. And Pack replied, I think I can boil it down to four words. Glorify Christ in every way. And um in another interview, Packer was asked how he would like to be remembered. And this is what he stated, when you ask how I would like to be best remembered. You put me on the skids because my life and ministry honestly have been focused on the Lord and on his people, and on folk who one hopes will one day become his people. And I've never under ordinary circumstances spent time reflecting on myself at all. Not in that way. I think and I hope that I'm not kidding myself about that. I think I want to be remembered simply as a voice, a voice for the Bible, a voice for God, a voice for the gospel, a voice for the faithful church, a voice for the Christian outreach. and a voice for spiritual maturity within the congregation. And as I read those words, I thought, you know, how fitting that is, that that would be what how he would be want to be remembered. That would be his legacy. And it's something I think that, you know, could reverberate into our own lives, something that we can live as Christ's people. You see, it's men like him who reverberate what a Christ-exalting Christian looks like. It is men like Packer and others whom you should want to imitate for this very reason. I title this sermon, A Christ Exalting Christian. Because I think in these 11 verses, this is what Paul really wants to. He wants to show us what a Christ-exalting Christian looks like. You notice he said, I mean, as men like him, we we see not just J. R. Packer, but there's other men that are like J. R. Packer, men that we can imitate, men who are godly, men who love the word, men who love Christ, men who love the church. I'm sure there are many women as well. But Paul told us in Philippians 3. 17, he says, brethren, join in following my example and note those whoso walk As you have us for a pattern. So it's biblical. We're to look at these godly men and we're to imitate them as we grow in our faith Why? Because these men are gifts to the church. You remember in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 and 16, Paul stated that these men, these apostles, these prophets, and of course they were in the early parts of uh the church laying down the foundation, they're with us no more. But we have evangelists and pastor teachers that are there as gifts to the church to shepherd the body of Christ. They're there for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, really to equip you to do the work of ministry that God has. for you. And do this till the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men and the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. but speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who is the head Christ. That is the goal of God for the church. Is that we grow up as one unified body, proclaiming Christ, not just proclaiming him, but looking like Christ, modeling Christ to our society and to our culture. Here you have really God's goal for the church in that passage, that every member becomes a resembling image of his son using their gift that God has given them for his glory. I believe this was Packer's desire. You hear it in his words. Packer's words echoed a sentiment that should be true for all Christians. namely, that our lives should be spent as Christ-exalting Christians. It was true for the Apostle Paul, and it should be true for us. This is what we'll see in the first chapter of this letter to the Philippians. So no matter where you are in your Christian walk, No matter your age, no matter the trial or tribulation, no matter your occupation, no matter your background, if you are a blood-bought, redeemed Christian, This is applicable to you. You can be a Christ-exalting Christian. One writer stated this, and really this should be our aim, really, as a Christian, to be a Christ-exalting Christian. One writer said this: that if you aim at nothing, you'll hit it every time. That shouldn't be true for us Christians. We do have a goal We do have an aim, a target, and that is to look more like our Lord and Savior. Amen. In Philippians 1:1 through 11, Paul unveils five characteristics of a Christ-exalting Christian that you should all aim to imitate. Five characteristics, and these characteristics will serve as our outline and give us a picture or a profile of what a Christ-exalting Christian looks like. Because remember, this is Paul really revealing his heart to this Philippian church. And of course he's almost excited and just grateful to God for them, as we'll see in a little bit. Let me leave first at the context for you. Remember Paul and his missionary team? They would travel throughout the entire Roman Empire, preaching Christ, planting churches. They would have planted this church during Paul's second missionary journey. They would have, with a laser focused on Christ's will, which is to build churches or which was to build churches. They were sensitive to the prompting of the Holy Spirit to move to new territory in order to preach Christ. It was in Acts chapter 16, verses 9 to 10, where remember Paul had this vision of a Macedonian man, and he interpreted it as the Lord saying, Come, we need help. And Macedonia really is is is the place of Europe today. It's a European country, and it's the first time that the tr the gospel would go forth to that area, break new grounds. This took place around A. D. 50. While they were there, you remember they didn't find really any men there, but they found ladies at this river worshiping God. Because it took, I think, ten to twelve men early to make a synagogue in order for them to worship. But there was these ladies there. And so what did God do? Or what did they do rather? They preached Christ to them. And the Lord saved them. The Lord opened up the heart of Lydia, her household. They were all saved and baptized. She opened her home for the church to meet and worship there. And after that, you remember the Lord saved a demon-possessed girl. She was possessed with a demon, worked for some fortune tellers, but the Lord delivered her from that and saved her. And she was most likely a part of this church. And if you can remember too, the Philippian jailer, after uh Paul and Silas were arrested, flogged, put in stocks, in jail. A great earthquake took place and delivered those two. But not just those two from their stocks and bonds, physical and literal stocks and bonds. But also from delivered a Philippian the Philippian jailer from spiritual enslavement in stocks and bonds His family also was saved, and that really made up the Philippian church, a unique little church that would thrive and grow. Paul would eventually leave Philippi, but it wasn't in vain because a church was born and God would continually nurture it and grow it. Of course, leadership would be put in place. He would make two more quick visits around A. D. 55 to 56 according to 2 Corinthians 8 verses 1 to 5 and Acts chapter 20 verses 1 to 6. Luke states that they left to go to Macedonia, then they traveled back just before he would end up being arrested and imprisoned And of course, go on that long trajectory before he made his way to Rome to stand before the emperor. But Paul didn't forget the Philippian church. And they didn't forget him either. They supported him twice during his missionary journey, and even in prison they were still supporting him. They had a love and affection for Paul. And of course, this wasn't just a monetary support. They even sent their own member, Epaphroditus, to Paul to serve and minister to him. And so during his first Roman imprisonment in A. D. 61, he writes a letter to them and he sends it by the hands of Epaphroditus, who, by the way, almost died in the process, either by taking this letter to them or while he was with Paul. But he mentions that in Philippians chapter 2, verses 25 to 27. This letter really is a thank you letter to the Philippians. He's really just saying thank you to them. And you know that's you can see that in Philippians chapter 4 verses 10 to 18. And also it's to update them on his circumstances there at Rome. That was found in chapter 1, verses 12 to 26. And although this letter is filled with a joyful tone, his, I'm sorry, with a joyful tone, its major theme is living a Christ. exalting life that is filled with his spirit to produce a joyful, unified, and patient people through suffering while waiting for the imminent return of Christ. That's what you see throughout this entire letter. In other words, Christ is at the center of everything for these believers and everything for Paul, as well as it should be. For us. They could almost, or we could almost exclaim with Nicholas von Zinzendorf, the father of modern missions, who says, I have but one enthusiasm. It is he, only he. And that should be what makes us, right? That should be our makeup. That should be really what is in our DNA as Christians, Christ and Him only. that should be reflected and reverberate throughout all aspects of our life. So with the context set, let's look at this first characteristic here. A Christ-exalting Christian is a servant. Let me read to you again verse 1. Notice what Paul says. Paul and Timothy bond servants of Jesus Christ. And notice again. Paul and Timothy. Timothy is not the writer of this letter, of course. He's just known by the Philippians. He's a co-laborer with Paul and Paul is going to eventually send Timothy down there. That's why he mentions his name up front. Paul is the writer. Of course, we know that because of the the the grammar here he goes into a first person uh uh singular kind of language which indicates that he's the the writer here of this language. But this would have been, of course, the typical way to write letters in ancient times. You have the writer, you have the recipient, you have a thanksgiving, and you have a prayer. So Paul is following the typical method of writing letters here. And this letter would have been read out loud to the church, and just imagine the joy that it would have brought to the Philippian church hearing words from Paul, hearing how he's doing and the message that he wants to give to them. This would have brought great joy to them And notice too, right away, Paul wants to identify him and Timothy in a specific way. Slaves or servants here it's translated. And it's a neat kind of word to use as our identity as Christians. You know, instead of calling himself as an apostle of Christ like he does in most of his letters, like uh Romans um one or Titus one, he calls himself servants or slaves of Christ. He was not the only one. James did this in James chapter 1, verse 1. He was a bondservant. Peter did this in 2 Peter 1, verse 1. Jude does this as well. James and Jude were not apostles. But they're identifying themselves as servants of Christ. It's a unique identity because it shows that our Lord is our master as well. And we do his bidding, we do his will, not our own. And I think it's a wonderful way to think of ourselves as servants. not just to the Lord, but to each other. As members of the local body of church, the way we best show love and affection to each other is the way we serve one another. We meet each other's needs, wherever that may be, whatever that might look like. And this is what Paul is doing here. He's coming as a humble, lowly servant of Christ. And he's saying, look, you think you're serving me, but I'm serving you as well. It's mutual. They identify themselves as that. In other words, Paul was saying that they submit to Christ and no one else. Christ is their master. That they belong to him. They do his bidding. And scripture reveals how we the church, right, have been bought with the price You see this in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 23, that we have been bought with a price. Additionally, in 1 Corinthians 7, verses 22 to 23, Paul states, You were bought with a price, do not become slaves of men. We're slaves of Christ. We're servants of Christ. And I know in our culture today that's a pretty difficult term to use. But it's really not a term of negativity here that the Bible uses, it's a term of endearment. It's because we serve one of the greatest masters ever, and that's the Lord Himself. These men loved their masters and they learned from him what it means to live in humble obedience to God, to do his will. You want to know why? Because Christ himself was a servant. was a slave. And this is the language that Paul uses in chapter 2, verse 7 of Philippians. That Christ took on the form of a bond servant. To be obedient to do the will of the Father. And what was that will? To suffer and die on the cross. Death, even the death on the cross. He did that for us, sinners. And we model that. We show what a Christ-exalting life looks like when we take on the mentality of a servant. A servant of Christ. I remember reading about John Broadis. He was one of the founders and professors and later the president of Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. In those days it was customary for guests to place their shoes outside the bedroom door at night to be picked up and polished by a servant. For several nights a guest in Bradus's home followed this custom, never failed to find his shoes freshly polished each morning Finally, one night, when he heard someone coming for the shoes outside the door, the guest decided to thank the servant for his services. And when he opened the door, He sees that he's seen a man stooping over to pick up the shoes, and the guests discovered, in quite astonishment, that the servant was none other than Dr. Bradus himself. He was modeling to these men what servitude looks like. Jesus did this in John chapter 13 where he washed the servants. feet and he said, do this to one another. Of course we don't do that literally, but we understand the concept there. It's to show, love, and serve one another. You see, taking on this mindset to serve one another is really the virtue that pleases God. It strikes against what our culture teaches. It really rubs against what the world teaches in terms of how you ought to be. Really exalt yourself, serve yourself, really be into yourself. But this is not the virtue of a Christ-exalted Christian. It only happens when you're so preoccupied with your own interest that you drown out this characteristic. that exalts Christ. And if you're a father here, what's the best way to show your family what a servant of Christ looks like? If you're a mother, what a great way to show your kids what a servant looks like. In every way, whether you're a worker outside or at home, what a best way to show. a servant-like mentality to one another, even here in the local church. God has given us that opportunity to do that one another. And that's something that you should do. We should all do as believers. And whenever everyone is fixed on Christ and His will, just imagine the unity that is protected that the Spirit has provided us that we are to protect. Imagine that unity that comes out of that. You can't be a servant to anybody else, not even to your own selves. You're only a servant to Christ and Him only. You can be a servant to something else, like the allurements of this world, that our sin-corrupted flesh desires, only to enslave us again. That's not what you want to be. Because Paul said in Romans 6. 6 that what we died to that. We're no longer slaves to sin. We're slaves to Christ. We're servants of Him. Therefore, only living holy lives can we fight sin as servants. Which brings us to our second characteristic that a Christ-exalting Christian is a saint. Notice what it says there. To all the saints. In Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi with the bishops and overseers. Notice they're saints. The word saint means holy ones, right? It means those who have been separated. Those who have been called out, Paul was ascribing to the Philippians that they were saints. And although their physical and geographical address was Philippi, That leading city, their spiritual address was noticed in Christ. That speaks of our union with him, our relationship with him. All that is of us, our identity, is in Christ Jesus. In Paul's letters, this phrase is mentioned 29 times. You see, it takes place all throughout Paul's letters. This is the way he communicates our identity as being in Christ. You see, the moment you became a believer, you were automatically considered a saint. Your inheritance was forever secure in Christ. And your joy, that joy that God gives you, is always there, never to be removed. It is solidified and safe and secure in Christ just like your salvation is. And the Saint here is not the same process as what the Roman Catholic Church would teach. They practice a sainthood, but it's way different than what the Bible teaches, of course. It's really anti-Bible. According to LA Times, a Carlo acutis. He's 15 years old. He was an Italian uh he's an Italian teenager. He decided to spread the Catholic teaching throughout all uh throughout the internet, uh put it all online, and because of that, well, and then he ended up dying of leukemia. But because of that, the Roman Catholic Church has decided to make him a saint. He is the perfect candidate to become the saint or protector of web surfers. That is strange. But that's what they teach. But here the Bible teaches that we automatically are saints the moment the Lord Jesus Christ saves us. We don't become saints later on because of something we've done or we've died of some reason and therefore have been promoted to saint. You are a saint. You are a holy one of Christ Jesus. When the Lord saved you, you were instantly and positionally placed in him and you became a saint before God. You were set apart. f uh by God, to do his will, to do his work for his glory. Now you may be saying I don't live like the saints sometimes You know, you don't know the struggles that I go through, the battles with sin that I face. That still doesn't change your identity. You are still holy because you are in Christ. And by the way, you're not holy because of your attempts to live holy, like it's some works-based religion. You're holy because you are in Christ, because he's holy. That's why you're holy. But we are to live holy In light of that, we are to live holy because of our identity. It only makes sense that we should live holy. Peter said in 1 Peter 1, verses 15 and 16, but as he who called you is holy, You also be holy in all your conduct. Why? Because it is written, be holy, for I am holy. Because God is holy, and we're in Christ, and Christ is holy. That doesn't mean we don't stop striving to be holy. A holy people. We want to be a holy people. And Paul was reminding them again of their identity that you're not just servants, but you're also saints. He was helping them remind themselves of their identity. And to disciple the church with an example of what holy living looked like, he included the leadership. That's why I think the leadership is included here with the bishops and deacons because They're the models of what servitude and holiness or what a saint looks like. They're modeling that before the members or the sheep that they are shepherding. And this brings it up to really the church leadership here. Notice Paul doesn't just write to the members of the church, but also to the leaders. He writes to the bishops here, which is synonymous with elder and overseer. It's really the same position or office. And speaks of their different functions, but it's still the same term, elder. He operates in those uh different functions and capacities. But they had the job of shepherding the church. Protecting the flock, feeding the flock the word of God, keeping at bay those wolves, not just from the outside, but even from the inside, the desire to disrupt and dismantle and break up and separate the sheep. And the members were to imitate their holy servant-like lives. These men that God has gifted this church with as leaders. They're presenting to you what a servant-like attitude is, what holiness or holy living looks like. It's a blessing to us to have leaders in this way. And in turn, what it does is it protects the unity of the church. When you follow their lead, you follow their example. You're protecting the unity that is there in the church that the Holy Spirit has given to the church Also, they had deacons, not just elders, but they had deacons. Uh these we could we could assume too they had some deaconesses there as well. But these were the ones who took care of the physical needs. The elders took care of the spiritual needs. Deacons and deaconesses took care of the physical needs. And this too, remember, they were also to model what it's like to serve. and live holy lives. 1 Timothy 3. 13, Paul says, for those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing. Not just before God, but before the people. They see them and they want to imitate them. They want to learn from them. That's what we ought to be displaying as the leaders. These leaders were to promote an atmosphere of holiness and servitude by setting the example to the church of what their identity is in Christ. And they all, like we are today, are dependent upon God and His grace, right? We need His grace to live out what God requires us to. to live, to be who we are in our identity, which brings us to our third characteristic. A Christ-exalting Christian is not just a servant, is not just a saint, but they're also dependent Look what verse 2 says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice Paul's blessing to the church here to Philippi. It is grace and peace. These are divine gifts to the church. To each believer, these gifts are dispensed by God. Grace is our foundation, is it not? According to Romans 5, it's our va our foundation for which all salvation, all our blessings of salvation. flow from. It is our power to fight against sin and to live obedient, holy lives before God. It's our power to persevere. Through whatever kind of trial or affliction we may be going through? It is the favor that God showed us when we were dead in our trespasses and sin. When we were rebels before God and enslaved to our sinful desires and to Satan As Paul states in Ephesians 2. 8, it is by grace that you have been saved. And it is in Titus 2. 12, it is grace that teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly lusts. and to live soberly and righteously in this present age? Grace is extremely important to the life Life of the Christian. And peace is the result of the reconciliation we have with God the Father. It's not something that you can manufacture on your own. It is a product of God Himself. It's the reconciliation we now have with God because of the death of Jesus Christ. It is this peace that guards our hearts and minds from the guilt of sin and anxiousness and troubled times, according to Philippians chapter 4, verse 7. It is peace that is to rule our hearts according to Colossians chapter 3, 15. This is divine, supernatural peace. That keeps the Christian. And think about this. Paul is in prison. And it is this kind of peace that is keeping him throughout this entire order. It is to dominate in the local church. As believers, we are commanded to be at peace with all men. According to Romans 12, 18 and 12, and Hebrews chapter 12, 14, it's peace that we're to also keep because it's part of our sanctification. God infinitely dispenses these gifts to us. They're unlimited to us. They are our arsenal of weapons to live here in this world as pilgrims. Notice again the source of these gifts. It's God Himself. God is the source of these gifts. You can't manufacture these gifts at all. The world tries to manufacture these gifts, but they utterly fail. So they see you as a Christian going through and they're wondering how in the world are you making it? And I hope you point to the Lord and you say, if if it wasn't because of him sustaining me, I couldn't do it. I wouldn't be able to make it. And you can know this God as well, right? It's a gospel opportunity for us. But God's gifts can never fail. Both Father and Son notice are responsible for granting these gifts to us. And just because the Spirit is not mentioned here doesn't mean he's excluded. Remember, he's the one who applies and empowers us with these. gifts to our lives. And if you're here today without Christ, you can know this grace and peace. You can know this. You can know God because God is the one who created you. He is the holy God, the creator. He's the sovereign ruler. He's the one that has all authority. And you know, because as sinners we rebel against him. We want to live autonomous lives and shake our fists against God. And we utterly sin against God, and sin is what separates us, and because God is holy, sin can't dwell in his presence. And God knows that our major problem, our major uh uh uh separation is because of our sin, really the sin of unbelief. And so if you're here today, you know that's true of you, you're way down with the guilt of your sin, then I would encourage you. To trust in the Son of God. Because God has provided Christ for sinners to suffer and die on the cross. He paid their penalty. And although he died three days later, he was raised to life, which vindicates him as the Son of God and justifies you as a believer before God. And all you have to do is repent and put your trust in Christ. Turn to him, run to him. I plead to you, run to him. Do not wait another day. Today is the day of salvation. Well, as we move out of the citation, we enter now the beginning of the body of Paul's letter, whereby we see two more characteristics that are of more practical significance. The first three dealt with our identity. These are now what must dominate our mind, or those were the ones that are supposed to dominate our mind, so we can live a Christ-exalting life. These now are what flow out of that or the fruit of this kind of life. Let us look at our fourth characteristic. A Christ's exalting Christian is, notice verse 3, thankful. They're thankful. And by the way, that's the main verb of this entire section here. It's the word Eucharist oh. which means to give thanks. It's the main verb that holds verses 3 and 8 together. It is really most interesting that Paul thanks God Notice he thanks God for what the Philippians had done for him. Instead of thanking the Philippians, he thanks God Imagine that. Imagine if I walked up to my wife and I gave her some of the flowers that she loves, which are roses. And uh, you know, stuck them out and said, here you go, my bride. And she says, I'm gonna thank your parents. For teaching you to be so thoughtful. You know, that would be really awkward, wouldn't it? And that's exactly what Paul's doing here. He's thanking God, not the Philippians. He's thanking God here. Why? Because God is working in their life. Notice that. He's thinking God for the way he's working in their lives. You know what I mean? Just it's it's really awkward that he would thank God instead of the Philippians. But there's a reason to that. There's a reason to that, because again God is working in their lives, revealing that they were indeed a true church. His thankfulness is a a true characteristic of a Christ-exalting life. In this in the letter to the Philippi uh Thessalonians, remember he wrote In verse, chapter 5, verse 18, he says, in everything, give thanks. Why? For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. And so there he's modeling to the Philippian church what a what a thankful Christian looks like. And really the object of the thanks is none other than God Himself. As a believer, we should be the most thankful people on earth, right? Think about it. Just think about it. I mean, we don't have to wait for a designated day during a year to be thankful. I'll give you a couple reasons why. Number one, God saved you. God saved you. He set you apart. Number two, he puts you in a church body of other people who were saved. This is an eternal family, by the way. It's not just here for this time only. It transcends. That's something to be thankful for. But also too because he uses us as his messengers to proclaim the excellencies of what he's done in Christ. That also is something to be thankful for. thankful for. Angels can't do it. Animals can't do it. Only the church can do it here in this age. So we ought to be thankful every day, like a bubbling fountain of water. We should be bubbling of thanksgiving to God all the time. All the time. Because of who he is, what he's done. There's a story of Matthew Henry, the famous scholar. Probably have his commentary. He was once accosted by thieves and robbed of his purse. He wrote these words in his diary. He says, let me be thankful first. Notice what he's doing here. He's just being thankful because he was robbed. He says, let me be thankful first because I was never robbed before. Second, because although they took my purse, they did not take my life. Third, because although they took my all, it was not much. And fourth, because it was I who was robbed, and not I who robbed. Here you got Matthew Henry thanking God for a lot of things. I mean he's thinking of so many things because of what happened to him. He's so thankful. And I think that should be, you know, true of us. We ought to be thankful of everything, not just the good, but even the bad that comes our way. We should be even thankful for that. And notice this thankfulness in verse 4 here. It's when he's thanking God in every prayer of mine, notice making requests for you all with joy. It was always with joy. Always with joy. Notice that when Paul remembers them, he makes request for them with joy. The participial phrase making request is dependent on I thank God. It's an adverbial, temporal, or circumstantial participle. In other words, you can say, when I am praying, you can translate this, when I'm praying for you with joy, I thank God. So when Paul thanks God for them, he's always praying for them with joy. It's just this joy because of what God is doing. And I mean it teaches us a lot about joy here, doesn't it? I mean we we take joy almost loosely, or sometimes we use it loosely. But joy is a gift from God It's something that, you know, it's its object, because of its object, it never changes. It's not like happiness. Happiness is, you know, it comes and goes, it's temporary. But joy never changes. Why? Because God never changes. Because of who God is, that joy always stays the same. And Paul knows this. It is joyful because of God working in their lives. We see God working in your lives. As pastors, we're joyful because of that. Because we know that God is doing that. One writer said, joy is not dependent on what happens to us, but upon our knowledge of our personal relationship to Jesus Christ. It is always fixed on God. This is what Paul is showing us. I'm making this with joy because of what God is doing for you. The way he's working in you. But he was also thankful because of their fellowship. Look at verse 5. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Charles Spurgeon commenting on this passage stated this the apostle longed to spread the gospel, so did they, the Philippians. He was earnest to carry it to the regions beyond, so were they. If he preached, they would be there to encourage him. If he held special meetings, they were ready to help If money was required, every man was ready according to his means without pressing. Each one felt as earnest about the work as did his minister. They were enthusiastic for the furtherance of the gospel. They were heartily with him where he most valued their sympathy. Think about that. These Philippians just wanted to serve Paul in every aspect of the furtherance of the gospel. And I just think of us as believers sometimes, just thinking your life. What hinders you From living this way, being uh uh you know, partaking or fellowshipping in the in the in the ways of gospel ministry. Think about that. What hinders you? What is prohibiting you right now at this moment? You know, sometimes you don't want to come to church. You know, I don't feel, you know, I'm sore. I had a bad day or something like that. Those are just ways that can again inhibit you from or prohibit you from Partaking in gospel fellowship. But notice they were they wanted to be there. Every move, everything when it came to the gospel, that's what they wanted to do. This is really, you know, the word coronia, the word fellowship, where we get, you know, the same idea or same likeness. Um just it spoke of fellowship. And they just wanted to be a part of that. Notice in the gospel from the first day until now, the moment the Lord saved them, they were all about God's business of gospel proclamation. Nobody had to prod them along. Nobody had to do none of that. They were driven to see the fame of Christ proclaimed. I just think about that. Think of Faith Bible Church. If we were to if you were to do something like that Get the fame of Christ out of there, out to the communities, into the neighborhood, into your workplaces, into your neighborhoods. Think about that. You're all on one accord, unified. All to get the gospel of Jesus Christ out. To make disciples, which is our primary ministry, is it not? Notice too, he's thankful because in verse 6, it was because of God's work in them. It was God's work of Nim. If this passage were a dart board, if it was a dart board, then verse 6 would be the bull's eye. This is really what holds it all together. Notice what he says, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it. Paul was so thankful that salvation was in the Lord's hands. that what God started, he would indeed accomplish. I love that. That is so assuring. As a pastor, as as Whoever you may be, if God started something, He's the one that's going to carry. If He started in your life, He's going to complete it. He's going to accomplish it. There's nothing you can do that could stop Him from that. Your salvation is eternally secure. The shepherd loses none of his sheep. Paul was grateful for this. Notice the word he uses. It's the word really in verse 6 being confident. The word confident there in the Greek is the word patha, which means to be convinced. Sure, certain. There was no doubt in Paul's mind at all. God was indeed good accomplishments This too is a participle. It's also dependent on the main verb. I think. It's adverbial as well. It speaks of really the cause of Paul's thanksgiving. This is really it. This is what he's he's driving at. He thinks God because of Or you can say you can translate it, he thinks God because of or since God is working in them. The tense indicates a past action with continuing results. What God started, notice he will complete. The phrase will complete is a predictive future, which means it will almost certainly happen. There is no doubt about it. No doubt about it. And notice when it will complete. I don't know about you, but this is true of me. Notice. It's the day of Christ Jesus. It's the day of Christ Jesus. Don't you long for that day? Isn't that your hope as a believer here this morning, this afternoon? That you want to see Christ because when you see him, whether you're promoted to heaven like J. I. Packer or the rapture takes place, You see Christ face to face. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. What a day that's going to be. What a day that's going to be. And this is what he he was thankful of that God was surely going to complete this work in them. Some commentators think this work has to do with the giving uh of the gift, but I don't think so. I think it has everything to do with really uh the work of salvation in the believers' lives. It's really the doctrine of perseverance. That we can be assured that we're gonna make it through. God is gonna carry us through it. We also have a responsibility in that But in this verse here, Paul is really really revealing God's work. Notice too, verse 7, it was because they were partakers partakers of grace. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, he says, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense of confirmation of the gospel, you are all partakers of grace, partakers with me of grace. The phrase partakers of grace is a genitive association. It's the word sunkoinonas, which means participants of or partners of the gospel, grace of ministry. They were locked arms with Paul every step of the way. And that's why I think the support comes because wherever Paul wanted to be, they wanted to support him because they knew he was all about gospel ministry. That's one reason. Another one here is, notice verse 8, because of his affection for them. Paul loved them like Christ did. Notice what he says here, for God is my witness. I mean, think about that. When you have to call God as your witness, that's really strong language, isn't it? He's really saying, I mean, almost this is being I mean you would not believe. How greatly I long for you all with the affection of Christ. I think this is a fascinating way to describe it. Paul loved them really like Christ did. He used the word splenktnon, which spoke of the inward parts, really the bowels, the deep, really the place of the affections, everything about the person. Christ loved them that much. Henderson stated this. In fact, he yearns for them all with a deeply felt affection or in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus. meaning Paul's love is patterned after and energized by Christ's indwelling love. Notice what he's showing here to them. I mean, you know, to us I think that could be hard sometimes, right? It's hard to to love somebody else. That's one of the things, you know, members struggle with. But we are to love one another. Jesus says, the world would know you're my disciples how? By the love that you show towards one another. And that's what should be one of the great characteristics that we display. A strong affection for one another. Of course that's difficult now in some ways with the whole COVID thing. But there's other ways we can show that. Well if that wasn't enough, Paul not only thanked God for the Philippians, but he also prayed for them, which brings us to our final characteristic. A Christ-exalting Christian is prayerful. A Christ-exalting Christian is prayerful. Notice how he prayed for them. He says, In this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more exalt. You know, Paul was specific about his prayers, and I would encourage you, take this prayer and pray it yourself. Pray it for each other. It's a good little template. To pray for each other. But he prayed specifically that their love would abound. In other words, he prayed that it would continually grow, just keep growing, unceasingly, never stopping. Don't let nothing interfere or cause it to stop growing. You want it to keep growing, but This too again is a work of God. Remember what Paul told the Thessalonians? He wrote in 1 Thessalonians 4, 9 through 10. He says, But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God. to love one another. God teaches us how to love. How does he do that? Go back to the cross. Go back to the cross. That same kind of love God showed to you through Christ's death on the cross. That sacrificial agape love is the same love we ought to be showing to one another. However, Paul couched this notice with a prepositional phrase, this love ought to be in knowledge and all discernment. Homer Kent's comments, I believe, are helpful here. Love must be intelligent and morally discerning, however, if we were to be truly agape. What is encouraged here is not a heedless sentiment, but love based on knowledge. the intellectual perception that is recognized principles from the Word of God as illuminated by the Holy Spirit. Spiritual knowledge gained from an understanding of divine revelation enables the believer to love what God commands. And in that way he reveals. In other words, you love the way God loves, and you love what he loves. You just don't love everything. I mean there are some things that you know you can get caught up in and you know because you love it or whatever, but you love what God loves and you love the way God loves unconditionally. And it's always morally and pure and right and righteous. And this request is piggybacked onto his second request. Notice in verse 10 and 11. He prayed for their sanctification. Notice the purpose here in verse 10. That you may approve, in other words, the ability to know what is excellent according to God's standard. Anything we approve, we should always run it through the grid of God's standard. What is it that is excellent to him? He defines what is excellent. We don't. And we live by that excellence, whether it's church, home, work, whatever it may be. Even our thinking needs to be excellent. Remember what he wrote in chapter 4, verse 8 of Philippians. Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, are noble, are just are pure. Are lovely, are good of report. If there is any virtue of anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. And really, to me, all these are arrows pointing to one person. Christ Himself. And additionally, you're to live a life that can be tested and found with integrity. That is what the word sincere means here. He says here that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. The word sincere means integrity. It means that you're genuine. It means that you're the real deal. You are truly genuine. You walk the walk and you talk the talk. You desire to bring no reproach to the name of Christ or to his church. Notice he states, how long do we do this? Again, till the day of Christ. That is when Christ again raptures us to be with him. Or we stand before his where I mean where we s that time we're going to stand before his beamless heat to be recompensed for what we did in the body, good or bad. We have to give an account for that. But the best thing about this, we do not do this alone. We don't live a Christ-exalting Christian life alone We don't do this in our own. Look at verse 11. Verse 11 really ties everything together. Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, ready, which are by Jesus Christ. This whole section here. This whole section here, what undergirds it is the work of God in the Christian's life. The way you live a Christ-exalting life is because God is the one working in you to carry that out. We're filled with the fruits of righteousness. All believers have the righteousness of Christ credited in them, don't they? This is our justification before God. But it is the works that we work out which is evident of our faith. These are works that God has ordained in eternity past. According to Ephesians 2. 10, Paul says we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, ready, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. That we should walk in them. In this verse, notice Jesus is the intermediate agent that produces these fruits of righteousness in our life. The only thing that would disrupt that. is sin. And that's why we have to constantly be confessing our sin to God. 1 John 1, 8, 9. But he's the intermediate agent. He's the one that brings us. He's the source. And it comes by agency of the Holy Spirit according to Galatians 5. 22. Remember, he's the one who applies it or gives us the power to grow this. It is really the joy the fruit of the Spirit. It's the fruit of Christ. And I think all this really ties to the one analogy we have in Scripture, and that's John 15. And if where Jesus, remember, is the vine, and we are the branches, and the Father is the vine dresser, or the farmer that takes care of that, we're to bear fruit for God. This is what a Christ-exalting Christian's life is all about. And what is this goal? Notice the last phrase. What's the goal? This is what it's all about. And this is what it should be for all of us. It should be for you. Notice the last phrase there. To the glory and praise of God That is our motivation. That is what drives us. That is our aim to live a Christ-exalting Christian life. We desire to see the Lord glorified. And I pray that's true for you. Paul says, in all that you do, do what? Do all to the glory of God. Philippians It's about a Christ-exalting life that is unified, joyful, and that aims to glorify God together as a local church through loving and serving one another and proclaiming Christ in order to make disciples. Church, don't ruin it. Don't ruin it. Live that life before Christ. I'll leave you with this. This is a good illustration that I stole from Chuck Swindle. I think he has good illustrations. He says Christians can be grouped into two categories, marbles and grapes. Marbles are single units that don't affect each other except in collision. Grapes, on the other hand, mingle juices. Each one is a part of the fragrance. Of the church body. The early Christians didn't bounce around like loose marbles ricocheting in all directions. Picture them as a cluster of ripe grapes squeezed together by persecution. Bleeding and mingling into one another. Fellowship and worship then is genuine Christianity, freely shared among God's family members. It's sad to think of how many Christians today are missing that kind of closeness. Sermons and songs, while uplifting are necessary, provide only a part of vital church, a vital church encounter. We need the involvement of others also. So if we roll in and out of church each week without acquiring a few grape juice stains, we really haven't tasted the sweet wine of fellowship. And that's what we see here in Philippians from a Christ-exalting Christian life. Faith Bible Church. You've seen the five characteristics of a Christ-exalting Christian's life. that you should aim to imitate. Don't settle for anything less. As a church body, glorify the Lord through your joy in him as you put others first, serve one another, hold each other accountable to live holy, depend on God's resources. Be thankful to God for one another and pray diligently to one another. Let us pray. Father, thank you for your word and its truth. God, I pray that you would help us apply it to our lives, God. Give us the strength to live a Christ-exalting life, not for our glory, but for yours alone until you come. Will you help us, Lord? We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.