There are many religions in the world today. You have observed them. Whether it is Islam or Hinduism or some form of Buddhism or the New Age movement, which seems to be a uh a compilation of various ideas, whether it's watching television and seeing someone in an orange robe with a bald head holding a bowl of rice in some foreign land in front of a temple You all have seen probably more religions in your lifetime than Christians even 200 years ago had ever witnessed by virtue of the television and the internet. You can find any religion that you want. Would you say that's an accurate picture? Do you want a religion that is very formal? That involves candles and incense and pomp and circumstance, and the priests dress up, the practitioners of the religion, in a various various costumes. We're very flamboyant. You can find that. Do you want a low-key religion where you come as you are and stay as you are in a group And you're able to sort of just be what you are, and there's no doctrine, there's no dogma, sort of the Unitarian idea. You could find that. Do you want a religion that demands That you walk barefoot through hot coals. You could probably find that. Or maybe a religion that says you can really get into the place of paradise if you walk on your knees. Down a cobblestone street during a certain holiday until your knees are bloody. I'm not making that up. There is that as well All these religions share different rituals, different rites. And have you ever talked to someone? About their religion. And it was not Christianity. They weren't a follower of Jesus. They were a follower of a code. Have you noticed, have you noticed the emphasis on what they did and the hope that what they did will get them into whatever it is they're looking for, whether it's a state in which all desire is gone and desire is evil. And so we want that state where Desire is gone and we're finally perfect, or whether it's a place of pleasure in the heavenlies, where you get to just be a glutton and a wine bibber and a profligate and just satisfy all your carnal desires. That's the ultimate heaven for some. Folks, Christianity is so, so different from all that. Because what we believe is not just, does not just take place when we're here on Sunday morning. What we believe is that we ourselves inwardly have changed because of Christ and his work on the cross. And this change not only affects what we do in this room, but it affects the way I treat that dude over there. Or that woman over there, my spouse, my kids, it even affects the way I treat my animals. Whether I'm a farmer or just have a cat or a dog, I mean, Christianity, we believe, because we've been born again, it affects everything in our lives, our money. The way we care for our vehicles, our stewardship of life itself. And that is why We are so serious, not just in here, but all the time about the decisions we make and about trying to find the will of God. I was reading this past month in an issue of Reader's Digest the story of, I believe it was a French journalist who portrayed a newly converted Muslim. And she was on s on the internet Skyping an ISIS fighter in another country and interviewing this individual pretending To be someone who was willing to go and be a part of this ISIS fighter's life. And I don't know if you've read the story, but it was chilling. Because on the one hand, she she had her her Muslim attire on, so he couldn't see who she was, but the more she talked to him The more apparent it was that he kind of lived this dual life. On the one hand, there was this devout Muslim who followed certain rules and regulations. And on the other hand, there was this carnal individual who believed that even though she was underage, That she could come all the way to his country and be his wife, joining his other wives that he already had. There was the carnality and yet the strict Islam that he did. There was the murder, the horrible, outlandish murders that he committed, and yet There was the strict holy Islam that he followed. There was this dual life. We don't do that in Christianity. We don't. We believe that every relationship should be governed by the Spirit of God and the Word of God. What we have here in Luke chapter 3 is one of those passages that calls out to us. With its theme of John the Baptist and repentance from faith and belief in the coming Messiah and actions that follow faith, we see the connection of dots. From heart attitude to action in all different areas of life. I want to just read to you some of this. All we're going to look at this morning in Luke is Luke 3, 1 to 14. And we'll let it play out for itself as Luke laid it out for us. The first thing he wants us to know is the time frame in which all this took place. And we'll end up with the concept of repentance eventually. Let's read Luke 3, verse 1, follow along. It says, Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee, his brother Philip, Tetrarch of Iteria, and the region of Trachonidas. And Lysanius, Tetrarch of Abilene, while Annas and Caiaphas were high priests, now this is interesting because Anis. was high priest for a while. Josephus did tell us that he was high priest from A. D. 6 to A. D. 15, but he was taken out of office by the Romans. But behind the scenes, he still had true authority. When Jesus was arrested, he went first to Annas and then to Caiaphas. who was the official high priest, but still this man was sort of the shadow authority behind the scenes. So Luke just says they were both the high priests. Verse 2. The word of God came to John, the son of Zecharias, in the wilderness, and he went into all the region around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance. For the remission of sins, as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill brought low, the crooked places shall be made straight, and the rough way smooth, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. Alright, let me just pull a few things out of this. Let's just sprinkle some facts at you. First, we know that Luke wants to You don't have to turn there, just listen. In Luke 1, he stated to Theophilus, because he had a perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write to you an orderly account. We continue to see Luke's orderly account because he mentions real political figures and time frames. For example, you know, because you love Christmas, Luke chapter 2, verse 1, and it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered or taxed. This census first took place while Cyrenius was governing Syria. Luke is a careful historian and he continues to lay out Time frames, and individuals. So Theophilus can go, ah, and so we can go, ah, yeah, I see this. I see the story as it's being portrayed. He also, in addition, we're back in Luke 3, he wants us to know that John the Baptist is the forerunner that was predicted to come before Christ. Where is John? Well, Luke says first that he's in the wilderness. If you look at Luke 3. 2, it says, the word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness. So we have this 30-year-old man, approximately, who's out there in the wilderness, probably because God sent him out there to commune with him, and now God is calling him in. He's calling him in to start his job. His job, verse 3, involves preaching, and that means part of his job is verbal. He has things that he's going to say. Of course, this is in keeping with Old Testament prophets. They were prophets who prophesied in the sense of preaching and also in the sense of prediction. And John is going to predict that the Messiah is here and the Messiah will suddenly arrive, but he has a verbal ministry. Now, this is key when it comes to the God of Christianity. Folks, the God of Christianity, first and foremost, says things. He says things to you and to me, and we have to listen and decide what to do based on those things. He sends prophets In the Old Testament, he did this frequently. We all know this, both major and minor, and others that are not, don't have books written after their names, but they are there and active. So if you look at your Bible, he's preaching, but in addition to that, verse 3, there is this baptism that he's doing, this ritual. And it is a ritual, a baptism of a certain meaning, repentance for the remission of sins. Now, let's just leave that idea of repentance alone for a second because we're going to work our way down through this passage and look at how that idea of repentance works itself out. right here in the context. But let's first go to this fact now. I'm leading you to this fact in verse 4 He is someone who's a voice who's preparing the way for someone else. And the first thing I want you to see here Is that John the Baptist and this idea of repentance is totally connected to Jesus. The things that John has to say are absolutely glued, cemented to the ministry of Jesus Christ. Now, a forerunner in the days gone by. The king has to travel a long way on a journey. Maybe the queen of Sheba or whatever. The qu there's someone very important. So she sends her workers out ahead, or he ahead of himself, and they literally If there is a valley that needs dirt in it, so the king's retinue can go safely through, they will literally fill up holes. And they will literally carve out roads so that the king can safely make his way through And their message is prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. So they're telling people, the king is coming, this hill has to be made low. These potholes have to be filled in. And this is what John the Baptist is doing. He is preparing the way. So there is, if you look at verses 4, 5, and 6, there's there's the verbal ministry, the voice, there's the preparation, and the fact that The repentance is connected to the way of the Lord. And then in verse 6, there's the universal nature of the ministry. Of the salvation of God. Look at verse 6. All flesh shall see the salvation of God. This is definitely one of the top themes in the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke. I can show you this further down the road. I don't want to get too far ahead of myself. But when you get to Luke chapter 4 And Jesus in verse 17, look at Luke 4, 17. We won't spend much time here. It says, And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book, He found the place wherein it was written, and Jesus read from Isaiah. And he's giving a good Hebrew lesson to the Hebrew listeners. And he says in verse 21, today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. But then Luke wants us to point out in verse 24, he points out to us something that Jesus said that was very controversial. Assuredly, I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country, but I tell you truly, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah. But to none, verse 26, of them was Elijah sent except to Zarephath in the region of Sidon to a woman who was a widow And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them were cleansed except Naaman. Now, who was Naaman a Hebrew? Was the widow a Hebrew? No. And you see their reaction, verse 28. So all those in the synagogue, when they heard these sayings, were filled with wrath, and they rose up and thrust him out of the city. They wanted to kill him. We also know that in previous, if you go back to Luke chapter 3 now, we already had Luke pointing out In what the prophets, the psalms of praise and prediction that people made before Jesus was born, you have Simeon, if you look at Luke chapter 2, verse 31. He says, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Luke is stumping on this idea that the Messiah is for all people. And here he is quoting what John the Baptist quoted. All flesh shall see the salvation of God. Jesus, the Hebrew, would not only save Hebrews, but also Gentiles. So here's John. He's preparing the way. He's preaching repentance. He's speaking in a very strong Offensive way? Look at verse 7. It says, Then he said to the multitudes that came out to be baptized, brood of vipers, who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? Now, how would you describe this? How would you react if someone came up to you and called you a snake? Would you be defensive? Would you say, whoa? You're calling me a snake? And you're calling everyone around me like a whole lot of snakes, a brood of snakes? And you're asking me about If someone warned me about wrath that's coming, I mean, there would be this sort of reaction in us, I think. But if I were to describe, you know, what he's doing here, this communication is. It's real abrupt. Would you say this is abrupt? It's demanding of a response. It's provoking A response. Maybe that would be the best way to describe this. John the Baptist, in communicating and preaching, provoked people to respond. And it's amazing, folks, when you look at your Bible here and you see how they responded to what he said, they did. They didn't back away. Their hearts accepted the denunciation that John laid on them. They didn't, they just accepted the fact of the necessity of repentance. And so he said, Who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? Look at verse 8, and we'll do some illustrations here. Hang in there. Therefore, bear fruits worthy of repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father, for I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees, therefore every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Now the baptism part was them coming into the river, and I believe full immersion, they were going down and coming up. But there was this visible testimony before others where they were going into the river and they were getting wet. The repentance part He describes it in verse 8 as, okay, bear fruits worthy of repentance. Repentance produces something. Now we're letting the passage define it. Repentance has to have fruits, whatever that is. There's something that grows out of a tree that just happens naturally. Because a tree is a tree, an apple tree is an apple tree, an orange tree is an orange tree. So there's this fruit, and so there's repentance, and it's kind of like a tree, and so there's going to be a fruit that grows from the tree of repentance. It's quite natural and expected, and John expects them to bear fruits worthy of repentance. And not to say that because they're Hebrews, because they're children of Abraham, that's good enough. Because it's not. So what we learn about repentance from this first opening passage here about John the Baptist is that repentance involves action or to be more precise, repentance always produces actions Now, have you ever been sinned against by someone? Don't raise your hand. But probably all of us in this room could say someone has during my lifetime sinned against me. Have you ever had someone apologize to you, and this is the way they do it? I'm so sorry you feel that way. I'm so sorry that you were offended. I'm so sorry I made you feel bad. I'm so sorry. I feel so bad that you feel so bad. Did you accept that? Was that good enough? I'm not really sure what that is. It seems like it's minimizing whatever the person did. And is there any blame being accepted? What if you told someone like that, well, look, you did this, and I expect you to do this now, if you're serious? How would you respond if the person said, What? You expect me to do that? I don't think I'm going to do that. Would you think the repentance was genuine? Now look, in this passage we see What repentance does. Let's let's let you know this passage well, so I'm not- I don't think I'm going to read the whole thing, but let's see what people were told to do Alright, look at verse 10. So they say, what should we do? And he says in verse 11, he says this: sometimes repentance gives Literally gives. You have two tunics, let him give to him who has none. And if you have food, let him do likewise. A repentant person sometimes shows his true repentance from a heart of generosity. In Ephesians, we have this, let him who stole steal no more, but rather let him work with his hands so he can provide for others. You have the cessation of theft, but then you have the generosity of giving. And so repentance, one of the things John says is. Give. Repentance has this action of reaching out and giving. In verse 12, we see that repentance Well, let's just read it. Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? Verse 13, and he said to them, Collect no more than what is appointed for you. So here are these thieves, and on the one hand there's generosity, but here he's saying to stop doing something you previously did. You had this habit. Of skimming money off people everywhere you went. It was your standard operating procedure. You always did this because you wanted their money and you didn't care if you deserve if it was lawful or not. Cease an activity. Stop. Sometimes repentance simply means that you stop doing something if you're serious, if you've really repented. But then we see the soldiers. And isn't it amazing that Roman soldiers are coming to listen to John the Baptist preaching and they're repenting? And look down here. He says In verse 14, they're saying, What shall we do? So he said to them, Do not intimidate anyone or accuse falsely, and be content with your wages. Now here's a whole different realm. Alright, you've got all right I'm gonna give you a coat. I have two. I don't need one. I have some extra food. I'm gonna give. Alright, alright, I'm I was collecting from you things I shouldn't. I'm gonna stop. But now repentance involves a heart attitude, contentment. And it involves words, accusations, stop. Intimidations, intimidating someone. Now, how does a soldier intimidate someone else Well, we could use our sanctified imagination here. Could a Roman soldier all dressed up in his Roman armor walk over to someone and simply do this? It's a look. That's it. It's a posture. Pulling out his sword in front of someone. It's real subtle. Can intimidation be subtle but effective? It can I was reading a book on a counseling book on helping ladies in abusive marriages, and the one woman testified that during church Amen. I'm not saying this because any man in here is doing this, okay? But this shows the subtlety of intimidation. During church, he would put his arm around her neck and squeeze her shoulder. And everyone in church thought that was the affection of a loving husband, but she knew that it was because something happened before they came, and that when he did that. She was going to get in a whole lot of trouble when she got home. She was going to get beat up. Here was one subtle act, and it was intimidation. Repentance in this situation involved, I'm going to stop accusing. I'm going to be content with my wages. So we have here really the effects of repentance that are very clear. So what do you think of someone who Who he he has a whole lot of money and a whole lot of stuff, and he says, I repent, I'm going to follow the Messiah when he comes. And yet he is like the rich young ruler. He doesn't want to part with any of it. Has he really repented? And what do you say to Zacchaeus? And Zacchaeus is a thief and he's in the tree and we know he's a wee little man. Here he comes and and he c Jesus comes to his house today, you know how the song used to go and and Jesus says, Zacchaeus, repent. And Zacchaeus says, I repent, but he doesn't pay back any of the money he stole, and he just just keeps on doing the same things he always did as a tax collector. Has he really repented? And what do you say of the individual who's a who's a soldier and he's always grumbling about his wages day and night? Ah, Caesar. Why did I become a centurion? Why am I, man, I I don't even like this armor. The swords and armor. And and and whenever you can. He's going to try to get money out of people through intimidation. He's going to throw his weight around and use his physical force as a trained soldier to do things he shouldn't. Has he repented? Folks, I'm here to tell you this morning that we have an epidemic. An epidemic! Of Christians who say they've repented, but there is no fruits of repentance. It is an epidemic. Don't fool yourself. Your words are meaningless if you do not bring these fruits suitable to repentance. You say, well, how do I know? How do I know if I'm taking this seriously enough? And aren't you glad that God's word is very clear and gives us another very good passage to look at? Look at 2 Corinthians. Open your Bibles to 2 Corinthians. Verse Chapter Seven, Second Corinthians seven The Corinthians had all kinds of problems, we know this. They were very wealthy. I mean, that's a temptation to their soul. There's nothing sinful about being wealthy. But there was a moment in their lives, multiple moments. When Paul called them to repentance, and there was one, there were probably multiple moments when they did repent, but there is this one time when Paul Lauds them, praises them for repenting, and thanks God that they did repent, and he uses a series of words to describe what they did. It's kind of like an art collector going through a beautiful museum and there are ten counterfeit paintings and there are ten paintings worth millions. And no one knows which is which. And he being an expert, he gets off his, he labels the genuine artifacts. This is really, this is a Rembrandt. And this This is a true masterwork of Raphael. And he just goes through and he labels those paintings. And now we all know this is the genuine article. Look at this one. And we can look at the counterfeit over here and say, no, that's not real. That's kind of what Paul is doing here. In 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 8. He says, even if I made you sorry with my letter, he wrote them a letter, called them to repentance. I do not regret it, though I did regret it, for I perceive that the same epistle made you sorry, though only for a while. Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorry, but that your sorrow led to repentance. For you were made sorrow, sorry in a godly manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing. For godly sorrow produces repentance, leading to salvation, not to be regretted, but the sorrow of the world produces death. Now here is one of, you could say this, the beginnings of repentance. You know, sometimes you have to get a fire going. And you can't just throw a foot long uh you know, a giant thick log on a fire. You start with the paper and the kindling and you stack it just right and then that fire just starts to get going. And then the heavy wood gets put on. This is sort of the beginnings of repentance, and he calls it here, if you look at your Bible in verse 10, a godly sorrow. This is definitely emotional, internal, sadness. Sometimes it's visible externally with tears. Sometimes it's not. But there is this emotional response because the individual understands the gravity of their sin. There are two wonderful, wonderful illustrations in the Gospels of the two types of sorrow he describes here. The one, verse 10, is godly sorrow. But the other is the worldly sorrow. Verse 10 says, the sorrow of the world produces death. There's Peter and Judas. Peter denied Jesus three times, and he went out, and what did he do? He wept bitterly about what he did. He did. He realized how horrible it was. But his repentance, his sorrow, the beginning of it, it didn't lead to death, it eventually led him back to who? Jesus. And who took the initiative? Well, Peter ran to the tomb with John. But then after that, Peter said, Go get my disciples and Peter. And Jesus recommissioned Peter. So it was kind of like after Peter recognized he had sinned and he had that sorrow, his feet were still pointed toward Jesus. Where did Judas point his feet? Well, he got his silver and he realized what he did and he threw it down. Where should he have pointed his feet? Back to Christ, to Jesus, whom he had offended, to God, who he had sold the Savior, the Son of God, and repented toward God, but instead he pointed his feet to a tree. and hung himself. He had a worldly sorrow. Now, if we were to work this out a little bit more, let me try to give you another two quick examples. Wow, we're totally out of time. We're gonna have to deal with this more next week. But have you ever caught someone doing something they shouldn't do and they're really sad about it? But you kind of feel like the only reason they're sad is because what? They were caught. And now they've lost their golden goose, whatever it was. They can't have it anymore. That's a worldly kind of sorrow. But have you ever had someone come to you and confess to you their sin? And you didn't even know they were doing it. And they came of their own volition and they said, I have sinned. I've done this and I hate this. That's godly sorrow. They're moving toward the light. And the wonderful thing about it is when you move to the light and walk in the light, your deeds are exposed and reproved and forgiven. Given. But when you walk to the darkness, there's no hope for you. If you cover your sin, you're not going to prosper, the proverb says. But if you confess and forsake your sin, you'll be blessed. And so here we have Peter, the godly sorrow, and Judas. the worldly sorrow. And this is the beginnings of what's happening in the Corinthians' hearts. They're going, wow, look at this letter Paul wrote us. And did we really do this? And are we really guilty of this? And We are. We've got to take responsibility for this. And there's this emotional response of godly sorrow. And then in verse 11, we continue to have words start to pile up. I think I can quickly go through these. Look at verse 11. You sorrowed in a godly manner. What? What diligence it produced in you, what clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal. What vindication, okay, these are a lot of words here. They they fall into certain similar categories. Diligence, there is an effort, there is an energy that it's produced. Sorrow, something's got to be done. Something's got to be done. Something's got to be done. There is this desire to clear yourselves. That is to make it right. So Zacchaeus says, I'll repay all these people. And he is he's this short little guy who's jumping up and down on his feet saying, I'm going to do something, and here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to show people that I'm sick. serious about my repentance. I'm gonna go clear, clear myself. Indignation definitely is this negative. uh emotion this anger, but it's not anger at individuals, it's anger at yourself and sin. It's thinking to yourself, how could I be so stupid? This is such a terrible sin. And I am ashamed of myself for doing this. It's this inter- it's anger turned within at yourself. Have you ever felt that way? Your anger at yourself. And then there's this, there the fear and and the vehement desire. Again, these are all these internal things that are going on in your heart. that produce zeal and vindication. Okay, I'm gonna get out there and make this right. I'm going to do to write this relationship. I'm gonna do what it takes. I'm gonna make restitution if need be. Do you remember David? Sinful David in the throes of murder and adultery. Even he understands restitution. When Nathan comes to him and tells him about the man who stole the lamb, what did David say? He's got to pay it back. And then some, he's got to make restitution. And someone who is repentant knows this. It's not just, okay, I've really sinned against that person. I repent, Lord. Bye. And they walk away. No, there's I really sinned against this person. What can I do to make this right? The adulterous woman, she eats, the Bible says, and wipes her mouth and goes her way. Like she's Done nothing wrong. That's not the repentant person. And look at it again, verse verse 12. Therefore, although I wrote to you, I did not do it for the sake of him who had done the wrong, but for the sake of him who suffered wrong. But that our care for you in the sight of God might appear to you. Paul's motivation, he's just emphasizing in this particular passage, look, I want you guys to know I love you, and I wrote that stern letter, and because of my love for you, my care in the sight of God for you, but they responded in the right way. You go back to Luke chapter 3. You have different groups of people, and John the Baptist is calling them to repent. And I believe many did. Soldiers who stopped intimidating. Can you imagine what a what a What that would have caused within the ranks of the other soldiers when you've got someone who says, who's about to extort money from some poor, helpless victim, and the other soldier says, I don't do that anymore. And I'm gonna not stop complaining about my pay. Can you imagine what happened in the tax collectors guild when all these tax collectors showed up and said, uh I'm not doing this anymore? Wow, it must have really created a stir. And the rough places were being made smooth, and the valleys were being filled in, and the mountains were being cut down. And the Messiah will soon come. And what is the Messiah going to do? He is the Lamb of God. Folks, think of this now. Who takes away the sins of the world? All the things that you and I have done, all the things that we regret, all the guilt that we know we justly deserve. Forgiven. Forgiven. Because the Lamb of God will stand in our place. He will suffer and die on that cross. And the God of heaven, the just God of heaven, will say, I am satisfied. There is no need of any other payment. Once and for all, my son has paid for the sins of the world. And and this is the joy of repentance because you know a mu uh I I hate to be harping on Muslims or any other religion per se, but these other religions they do these things and their consciences never satisfy. Never. But you and me, Jesus paid it all on the cross, and every time we feel this guilt and we have to go, oh, I've got to repent again, we can say, Thank God, praise God, my sins are paid for. I can receive forgiveness again and again and again and again. And our hearts can be drawn to our God Because now we know more and more every day, not just the judge, capital J, but the Savior, Capital S, the loving Father. The gracious Lord, the merciful Savior, all these things that he is, he is to us every day. Isn't that amazing, folks? See, the glory of the gospel and of Christianity is not that we minimize sin. It's that we look at it in the face and we say, I am part of the brood of vipers. But then we go on and say, Jesus paid it all. When you magnify the darkness of sin, you can then magnify the abundance of grace. Because where sin abounds, Grace much more abounds