Well, thank you again for inviting me to speak at your church. Uh it's a wonderful occasion because it is Father's Day Now Steve has told me I don't have to speak on fatherhood, but I couldn't resist. Um and I don't have direct experience to draw from, at least not yet. I'm not a father yet. Um and I pray that God would, if he's willing, uh would give us Children, uh, me and my wife. But until then, I'm just going to take God at His word when He says something like in Psalm 127, verses 3 to 5. Um, Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth. Happy is the man who has his quiver full of They shall not be ashamed, but shall speak with their enemies in the gate. congregation can speak to the blessings of being a father. And I am to that. Um as far as father figures in my life, uh I'm sad to say that my own father was not a great example. Um he struggled with alcoholism and eventually left us. Uh this happened during my teenage years, uh which were uh tru turbulent enough to begin with. But and even though I was uh attending church since I was a very young age, this breakup of my family really shook me up and led me down a path of sin. serious doubts and maybe even to a part like a partly to like agnosticism. I had questions not only about God's goodness, but I was starting to wonder whether he was actually there or not. But praise God, he found me in my weakness and in my intense struggles of faith. I began reading books, like apologetics books by Josh McDowell and um other books there, but my crippling doubts were not as waved until I turned to the scriptures. I remember reading through the New Testament, just frantically looking for some firm grounding. Solace for my sort of existential crisis during my teenage years. And one of my favorite chapters in the Bible is John chapter 10. And it was as if Jesus was introducing me to his Father, God the Father in heaven, saying, He's not like the Father that left you. So I'm just gonna read you because these verses are dear to me. John chapter ten, verses twenty-seven to twenty-nine. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall anyone snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. I and my Father are one. So in this chapter I was introduced not only to this good shepherd who is Jesus, but to this to his father. And I am still in the hands of my Savior and my Heavenly Father. And that's what we praised about this morning. And that's these songs are so wonderful because it reminds us of our Heavenly Father. But my experience does put a bit of a burden on those who are still fathers or um On the earthly fathers. However imperfect they may be, however many mistakes they make, they have an opportunity and a burden to reflect God's love to their children And if you have fathers, earthly fathers who have in many ways done just that, you know, show your appreciation to them today. Yeah, it's mushy and uncomfortable, but I don't think you'll regret it. Now, what about those who may not be called to start a family? you know, or become a father. Well, we're not exempt from the life of our church family, right? We need to participate, we need to remember that we are part of this faith Bible church community. Remember that Paul considered the church in Galatians household of faith. Do you consider this congregation a family, a household? He considered Timothy and Titus his sons in the gospel. Paul told pastors like Timothy to exhort old men like fathers, younger men like brothers, older women like mothers, and younger women like sisters. Is that the type of dynamic that we see in this congregation? So far from being irrelevant, we should consider how a day like today is an opportunity for for this church to become a closely knit family and especially to men today, like how are we becoming father figures to younger men here? And as younger men here, how are we honoring those older than us who are showing examples of faith to us? So I believe we can turn to the scriptures to find principles and plenty of examples of father figures. We got great candidates. I already mentioned Paul and his relationship with younger men and how he was a great example of faith to them. We could turn to Abraham, and we talked a little bit about that last week. How in Romans 4, verse 11, we see that he is the father of all those who believe. So we could go to the life of Abraham. Or if Job, who was not only pious but worried about the spiritual welfare of his sons, David, he had his mistakes, but he was a man after God's own heart. Plenty of examples in the Old Testament. Throughout the Bible in general, certainly worthy fathers to talk about. But I want to present to you a father from the Gospels, we don't even know the name of. Um but I find his struggles and intercession for his son very relatable. And whether like I said, we're fathers or not, we can learn from this man of ex man's experiences And what it means to be a faithful man of God. So we'll be turning to Mark chapter 9 in a moment. You have your Bible with you. And we'll be reading from verses 14 to 29. But as you turn there, let me just set the stage first. The Gospel of Mark begins, not from Jesus' infancy, but right from his adult ministry. After being baptized by John, Jesus Jesus proclaims the gospel, calls his disciples, performs great miracles, teaches primarily in the Galilee region. And he does become popular, but he also finds opposition from jealous religious leaders. And then crowds start to become divided, Jesus starts to withdraw a bit and begins to teach. In parables. In one occasion, he takes his disciples away to Galilee, to Caesarea Philippi. And teaches them the true meaning of discipleship as he begins his trek to Jerusalem. And of course he's going to eventually go to Jerusalem, finish his mission on earth by suffering, dying, and rising from the dead on the first day. a third day. That's chapter eight. And we arrive at chapter nine and we see Jesus a week later after Peter's confession And he takes this inner three among the twelve disciples. They're Peter, James, and John. You will often see them throughout the Gospels being invited to see Jesus' miracles closely. So they were like the inner circle, Peter and the two sons of Zebedee. And he takes the three to a mountain to be transfigured before them. And after this heavenly experience, the four of them descend to join the rest of the twelve. So nine of them are at the base of the mountain. But it looks like a lot more people have gathered. And we're gonna see what happened in verse fourteen. So let's go there. I'll read it And when he came to the disciples, he saw a great multitude around them and scribes disputing with them. Immediately, when they saw him, all the people were greatly amazed and running to him, greeted him, and he asked the scribes, What are you discussing with them? Then one of the crowd answered and said, Teacher, I brought you my son, who has a mute spirit. And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down. He foams at the mouth, gnashes his teeth. And becomes rigid. So I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out, but they could not. He answered them and said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me. Then they brought him to him. And when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, and he fell on the ground and wowled, foaming at the mouth. So he asked his father, How long has this been happening to us? him. And he said from childhood. And often he has thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if he can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Jesus said to him, If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Deaf and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more. Then the spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly, and came out of him. And he became as one dead, so that many said he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. And when he had come in to the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not test it out? So he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing but prayer. So I believe there are three principles here that we can learn from this passage about good fatherhood. And again, like I said, it's not just about people who have sons and daughters of their own, but any man here, and actually women too, who can uh be an example to those who are younger than them. First, and these are not uh maybe principles that are maybe revolutionary new to you, but something that is more of a reminder. The first principle is that we need to bring our problems to Jesus. And that's an example that we can set for the younger generation. So, what we see at the bottom of this mountain is a bit of a mess. There's a great crowd watching religious experts debating with the nine disciples. And here's how we might make sense of what was going on. The scribes probably came along with the father and his demon-possessed son so that they could test Jesus and his authority. This kind of thing happened often during Jesus' ministry. Of course, Jesus was not there when they arrived. So the nine remaining disciples tried to cast out the demon but failed. Maybe they did it one by one, maybe they did it all together. I don't know how they tried, but they failed. So, of course, the religious uh leaders were trying to win the crowd over. So they saw the botched exorcism attempt and said, see, Jesus, he's not the real thing. But the disciples were defending their master's authority. Maybe saying, just wait, we'll wait till until he comes down. And at this point, you might want to pilot on Jesus' disciples, the nine that were down there. But you might think of stop and think about the words of this one commentator named Alan Cole. He said, quote, One wonders why these same scribes, instead of further embarrassing the crestfallen disciples before the crowd, did not set about exercising the demon themselves as a proof of orthodoxy. It's like, okay, well they can't say, but why can't you do it? No one could help, and that's when Jesus arrives. The crowds gathered around him at the first sight of him. And it says in verse 15 that all the people were greatly amazed. Now this reaction isn't just because Jesus is such a charismatic person or he had this celebrity status, but likely, some commentators point this out, this lingering effects of the transfiguration which took place. So I think that's what's going on here. After settling down, he investigates the scene. And if I was him, I would have been like, I can't leave you disciples for one hour. Look at the mess you made. But thankfully I'm not Jesus and I'm not Lord. And he asks the scribes for an explanation, but just then the father emerges from the crowd and steps forward. And the father respectfully addresses Jesus as teacher and begins to tell him the vivid details of the demon possession. And you may be thinking, like, okay, it's but this deaf and mute. uh demon. But that seems to be like the least of his concerns, like being mute and being deaf. There's seizures There's violent falls to the ground, fire, water, foaming at the mouth, teeth grinding, paralysis Now some commentators think that oh these are symptoms of what we know today to be epilepsy. And some liberal scholars think that the people in Jesus' day were naive and they didn't understand that this was a medical neurological disease. But the gospel writers are very clear that this is a demon possession. Also, the gospels and other ancient literature regularly distinguish between demonization and physical maladies. So it's not that they're naive. They knew that this was a spiritual issue That a spirit has possessed this boy or this child, and it's just um manifesting itself in physical ways that seem similar to some of the disease that we see today. Spiritual maladies are a different beast altogether. So the father points to the disciples' inability to help his son. And we learn from chapter 3 of Mark, which we're not going to go to, but Jesus gave the 12 disciples special authority to exercise demons. But that does not mean that all demons are equal. Some are stronger, more intimidating, and more stubborn than others. And the nine disciples have basically ran into a wall. And now Jesus is. Now the stage is set to respond not just in exercising the demon. but also addressing an underlying problem, the lack of faith. But before I go into this issue of faithlessness, I want to just stress bringing our problems to Jesus. This passage is not primarily about our human ability to manipulate the spirits or spiritual gifts. Now the early church leaders, especially the twelve apostles, certainly had this authority to authenticate their message with these spiritual gifts In the foundational era of the church, I call them apostolic sign gifts, which I believe to have ceased with the passing of the twelve apostles and at the early church. But that's not really what this passage is about. Again, it's about bringing ourselves to Christ, bringing our problems to Jesus. That's what's most relevant universally and at this time. What does it take for us to come to Jesus, to humble ourselves? Have you ever felt like you're at a dead end? Out of your depth, barely staying afloat. I'm asking this question because often I assume that everything is okay with the people around me, because they have a successful career, because they have a family, because they have a cheery personality. But we don't know what's going on inside of you. I mean just we see the news and we We see people like Kate Spade, you know, that's a name that's emblazoned on so many stylish backs of New York women. Did we know that she was suffering from anxiety, depression, and personal demons? Who knew that Anthony Bourdain, you know, this globe-trotting chef who touched so many lives was spiraling out of control in his personal life. Only if we were to tell them, Come to Jesus. This may be getting really personal. But if you are silently suffering today, if you feel the burden crushing you, whether it's from responsibility of being a father, mother, husband, wife, At work, personal relationships. Come to Jesus. No. A new US report, according to Centers for disease control and prevention, there's an uptick in suicide rates in every state since nineteen ninety-nine, with the largest increase seen among middle-aged Americans. If you feel despair, perhaps like the one that this father felt, speak with the elders and the deacons of this church, the leaders of this church They don't have the solutions themselves, but they know Jesus who does, and they'll bring you to Jesus. I'm certain they will do for you what the disciples should have done in the first place. Pray and fast. And even if you're not at such a low valley Like and but you feel the conviction as a sinner that your security is not eternal. You should know that that knowing feeling is leading you to Christ too. If you feel you are unworthy of Christ, He still invites you to Himself. I love the inviting lyrics of the old hymn by Joseph Hart. Quote: Let not conscience make You linger, nor of fitness fondly dream. All the fitness he required is to feel your need of him. Again, let not consciousness make you linger not nor of fitness fondly dream. All the fitness he required is to feel your need of him. If you feel that need of him, come to him. He invites you. He says in Matthew 11, 28-29, Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you'll find rest for your souls. So he is inviting us. So what's the problem? Well, often it's not that he is not capable or willing to accept us, but the fault is often on our side. And at least the second principle, we must admit our lack of faith. So the first one was bring our problems to Jesus, bring ourselves to Jesus, bring other people's problems to Jesus. But first, we must admit our lack of faith. And that's why I think this father is a great example. Yes, we have Abraham as a father of faith, but I feel like I relate more with this guy. And I'll talk more about that in a minute. In verse 19, Jesus begins with his response and with a general denunciation of the masses gathered before him. Right then, you know he's not a crowd pleaser. No one is exempt from the exacerbated lament. O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Faithless generation is like an umbrella term for everyone there. James, John, Peter, the rest of the twelve, the scribes, the father. All are condemned by this rebuke. But all is not lost because there is one person in that group that can help, the one that is speaking this denunciation. Jesus Christ. Himself. That's why he says, Bring him to me. So he operates corporately people's unbelief. Now he turns and addresses the individual unbelief of the Father. The child is brought before the b uh the teacher and immediately the spirit throws him into a frenzy, likely to try to get the last uh lips in before uh knowing that his time is up. And not only does Jesus address the problem of the child, he is talking with the father as well. He could have simply exercised the demon and get on with it. But you'll see that in oftentimes in the gospel, Jesus establishes a relationship with the person being healed, with the family members of the person being healed. Because the problem isn't just about this disturbed kid, it's about the father's need for faith. Jesus asks how long the son has been like this, and the father, as much as his disclosure discloses information about his son, probably reveals much about his own state of being. He says, from childhood. Now I was trying to think here. How do you hear that tone of voice in your head when when he says from childhood, or any of the words for that matter, in this conversation. Let's use a bit of our sanctified imagination to delve into the father's possible emotions. Maybe frustration, anger, and bitterness. Maybe this son is supposed to be going to school and doing other things. Maybe the father thought finally maybe I can get to things in my life that I wanted to do. Maybe he looked around other fathers in the neighborhood who had a normal life. Or perhaps there's defeat in his voice. He might recall all the years of trying to locate physicians and exorcists before finally learning about Jesus' miracles. Maybe he choked up. Maybe he remembered all the sleepless nights, constant worries, unending fears that the child might drown or burn himself. Break his bones, utter helplessness as you watch the kid convulse, yet somehow holding on to the hope that he would somehow regain the years of childhood he lost. From childhood, he says. I mean looking at it like this, like would you really blame him if if he's a bit discouraged in his faith And that's exactly what we perceive in his words, if you can do anything. If you can do anything. It seems that he has some uncertainty about Jesus. Maybe he grew a bit cynical. But Jesus turns it around on the man because it's not about what Jesus can do, there's no question about that, but whether the man can believe. He says, if you can believe, all things are possible to him. believes. The doubting father is now challenged to become a believing father. And this challenge is for all of us today, men and women. If you feel short and inadequate in your faith, it's okay. Just be like him. Help me in my own belief. I admire this man, not because he moves his moved mountains with his faith, but he just admitted that he has faith, but he needs to grow in it. And thank God that Jesus doesn't withhold mercy because we lack faith or we're weak in our faith. He exercises the demon, and the son is no longer a target of possession. The evil spirit leaves the body and he does it violent it does it violently, so for a moment people think he's dead. But Jesus raises him up by the hand and restores him to his father. Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Could that be our prayer? Can we frame it in our intercession, in our confession? I could pray, Lord. I believe that you suffer for my sins Help my unbelief in knights and springs that are incomparable to the glory to come. Or, Lord, I believe in your spirit's power to transform. Help my unbelief in my speech and my temper, in my relationship with my wife and children. Or, Lord, I believe that you saved me through Jesus Christ. Help my unbelief when it comes to my stubborn un like unbelieving atheist friend. These could be Genuine prayers that while we lack faith, while we are we don't even have the faith of a mustard seed size, we can ask for more. And how is it that we could grow in our faith? That leads to our third principle. Turn to prayer and fasting. That's what we see in the last two verses in this private conversation with Jesus and the disciples. It's like a bunch of A-plus students who feel like they just failed a unit test. And the nine disciples are eager to get the answers back from their teacher. Where did they go wrong? Did they not inflect their command correctly? Should they have spoken louder to the demon? Should they have spoken softer? Maybe they should have pointed the finger at the kid or made some hand gesture I'm sure they're just kicking themselves. Why couldn't we do it? And it wasn't about mannerisms or it wasn't about a formula. It wasn't the method. It was the attitude of the heart, right? And the answer was right in front of their eyes. Only the disciples didn't look outside of themselves, they looked for answers in their own authority. They should have turned to prayer and fasting. And there are many ways that we pray and fast. There's prayers of thanksgiving, the prayers of praise which we have in our worship setting, corporate, individual. But in true form, prayer and fasting are means of trusting in God and not in ourselves. It's very simple. That's why I think our fleshly instincts do not lead us to fold our hands and fall on our knees. We remember when's the last time we ate, and our body instantly tells us when we're hungry. When's the last time we did our devotion in our scriptures? What is amazing here is that the ones guilty of not praying and fasting enough Are disciples of Jesus who lived, slept, and ate with Jesus, who has Jesus as their ultimate example. They would have known when Jesus took time off to get away from everybody and prayed. They would have known the prayer that Jesus taught them. And many times has Jesus fasted. And if Jesus' disciples failed, pastors, elders, and deacons were guilty of failing too. For me, it's like I want to get the method down, I want to get the administration down, the logistics down. Or get through this meeting. Prepare lengthy sermons. But when's the why isn't the first instinct to pray and fast for God to so that our faith would grow? And even if you're not a pastor, elder, or a deacon, do we have the regular exercise of praying and fasting? So I know that today is supposed to be a day of appreciation for you, but I want to exhort you as well. If you're a role model for younger brothers and sisters in Christ. Yeah. And of course if you have family members and sons and daughters who are growing in their faith or struggling in their faith Or if you have grandsons and granddaughters that you wish that they will grow to be godly men and women, listen to this devotion by Charles Spurgeon. He meditates on the same passage that we read today and talked about. And he's challenging parents to bring their children to the Lord. Despairingly, the poor disappointed father turned away from the disciples to their master. His son was in the worst possible condition. And all means have failed, but the miserable child was soon delivered from the evil one when the parent in faith obeyed the Lord Jesus' word. Bring him unto me. Children are a precious gift from God, but much anxiety comes with them. They may be a great joy or a great bitterness to their parents. They may be filled with the Spirit of God or possessed with the Spirit of evil. In all cases, the Word of God gives us one receipt for the curing of all their ills. Bring him unto me. Oh for agonized more agonizing prayer on their behalf while they are yet babes. Sin is there, let our prayers begin to attack it. Our cries for our offspring. Shall precede those cries which betoken their actual advent into a world of sin. In the days of their youth, we shall see sad tokens of that dumb and deaf spirit. Which will neither pray or write, nor hear the voice of God in the soul. But Jesus still commands, bring them unto me. When they are grown up, they may wallow in sin and foam with enmity against God. Then, when our hearts are breaking, we should remember the great physician's words. Bring them on to me. Never must we cease to pray until they cease to read. No case is hopeless while Jesus lives. I hope that that's our prayer, you know. For not only our own immediate children of course, but also the younger ones of this church. And that's a great application, great devotion on prayer. But let's not forget fasting. A few years ago, I remember reading a book by Richard Foster entitled Celebration of Discipline. Now the title may sound strange to you. Why would anyone want to celebrate discipline? But one of Foster's main premises is that discipline brings freedom. Freedom, not bondage. It's not restraining, but liberating. And prayer and fasting are one of those most important spiritual disciplines. that we could ever practice. Through spiritual disciplines we can soar to new heights in our spiritual life And what is generally true of all spiritual disciplines is especially true of fasting. Boster writes, quote, fasting must forever center on God. So that's good. More than any other discipline, fasting reveals the things that control us. Fasting reveals the things that control us. And when we usually starve or exercise self-control when it comes to food, we're usually doing it for some important reason, whether it's health. Yeah. And apparently there's all kinds of methods out there and something called intermittent fasting. You can like fast one day on and one day off. Um there's time sensitive ones where you fast for twenty-three hours, sixteen hours, twelve hours per day. But what are they doing? For sake of some important reasons, they're practicing discipline. Do we as a church have some important reasons to fast? We do. There are people dying all around us without knowing Christ in our neighborhood, city, state, nation, and beyond. It's great to see that this church is supporting missionaries We should be praying and fasting for their ministries. There are many people like this father and this possessed son in our circles. of influence. And when they come to us with their struggles and hope pray that God will give you that kind of opportunity even this week, that someone will open up with their struggle. Coming to you with in their wits end, we need to show them the way. Not turn to man-made solutions, but prayer and fasting. Yeah. From my experience, um, I heard that when you tell people, even people of different religion, or people who may not be religious at all, hey, is there can I pray for you? I never usually they don't say no to that. I'm sure they will welcome your prayers. That could be something of a conversation starter this week So, church, bring your problems and the problems of others to Jesus. Confess that we don't always live up to our name, faith, Bible, right? As means of trust, turn to prayer and fasting. That's the mission of this congregation. I know that Dr. Beale's going to be here next week and um you know he's I need to kind of give a good word about him because he's been the type of man that I can look up to as a father physically Yeah. You you don't have to look closely at his face that we're not related. Um but um but um you know during the seminary years he invited me into his home and began to care for me, you know. And just I don't know why he did that, but I'm thankful to God because of that. And you know, of course nothing will fill the gap left behind by my father, but God sent godly men like him. To really influence me. And it's not that they were perfect, but they were just vulnerable, just like this father in the story. They don't have all the answers. But they wanted to grow in their faith. They prayed for me. They fasted for the advancement of God's kingdom. And for all of you who are like that, not only with your kids, but with people who look up to you, wish you a happy Father's Day. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for being so merciful. Being so loving. You see all. You're omniscient. You're powerful. You're omnipotent. And Lord, at the same time, you are love. You sent your son to die on the cross for us. We should be orphans and alienated from your grace. But Lord, you have adopted us, given us the spirit of adoption. You have regenerated us. And we thank you for this great love that we can be called your children. And Lord, what is true of our initial decision to follow you? I pray that it will be true in all our lives, that we would come to you with our burdens, with our struggles, with our joys, with our happy events too. And Lord, we know that we always have room to grow in our faith. So we pray. We do believe, help our unbelief. Lord, we pray that we would turn to spiritual disciplines. Not in a legalistic manner or in a way where we boast it as something of a something of a pride before you and others. No, but as a means of trusting in you more In ourselves less. May we deny ourselves through fasting, deny ourselves through prayer. And Lord, may you use our example. Lord, not only to impact just our immediate family. But those around us, so that other people will be drawn to you. Not because we're so we're people who are so well put together or have it all together. But because we rely on a powerful God, though our faith is weak. And we thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.