So in a few days we'll be celebrating not Halloween, but something far better. Reformation Day. I don't go around dressed around dressed like a reformer, but around this time of the year I do try to read a story or two. From that period of church history. And I find that often these real men in real life were real heroes. In autumn of fifteen fifty-five, the staunch Roman Catholic Queen of England, Mary, better known as Bloody Mary has some prominent Protestants transferred out of the Tower of London to be tried and sentenced at Oxford These men were Hugh Latimer, Nicholas Ridley, and Thomas Kramer. Kramer succumbed to pressure to recant, though he'd repent of this later, but the other two remained faithful. Ridley would not remove his hat to honor the Pope's name. He unashamedly stated his convictions. He enjoyed his last dinner and slept soundly. He fully expected to be with Christ in heaven. He famously said before that, the breakfast next day would be painful, but the feast that evening would be pleasant and sweet. As for Latimer, he was glad that he lived long enough to die like this, as earlier in his life he had compromised in his faith. Next day, October sixteenth, Risley and Latimer were led led to their execution. There they embraced. They offered a few more they were offered a few more chances to recant, which they refused. Used again and again. They were stripped, chained, and burned at the stake. During their martyrdom, they prayed for their land. The elder Latimer also preached his final sermon to the younger Ridley. Be of good comfort, Master Ridley, and play the man. We shall this day light such a candle by God's grace in England, as I trust shall never be put out. That prediction did come true. And let me make two commentaries on this story. First, we celebrate men like Ridley and Latimer because they're forerunners of our evangelical faith. We're connected to them as we identify ourselves as conservative Protestants. We're not Roman Catholic. We're not Eastern or Oriental Ethiopian Orthodox. That's why I'm breaking from the north and sharing the gospel at the beginning of my talk today. Being a Protestant evangelical means that we host the five solas of the Reformation. Right. You guys probably know them well, probably heard it a lot. Scriptures alone. The word of God is inspired, that is breeded out by God. It is without error. And sufficient as our God. It's the final supreme authority over us. And the Bible tells us that God is perfectly just and holy while we've all sinned Broken as laws, lied, lusted, coveted, and none of us seek after God. We need help lest we spend eternity apart from God in hell That leads to Christ alone. Only God could save us from Himself, His wrath. That's why The God the Father sent God the Son. God became man in Jesus. He lived a perfect life and gave up his perfect life at the cross. He paid for the penalty of sins we committed as our substitute. Having finished his work on the cross, he died, he was buried, but rose again on the third day. He ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. And that leads to our response. So what? Right? And for that it's helpful to treat the next two solas, faith alone and grace alone, together. Faith alone. Faith requires us to turn from our sins. We must stop trusting in ourselves as we repent. We must admit we're sinners, turn to Jesus, and place our hope of heaven in Him only. We're not saved by our works, good works, but by grace alone. That's four, right? Grace is by definition free, free for us because Jesus paid in full our sin debt. Finally, we believe in living by for the glory of God alone. We're motivated by gratitude for his grace. We prove our faith to be genuine. We order our lives in a manner pleasing to Christ. We submit to God as we yield to his word, obey his commands. And that may lead to even suffering for Jesus. Who knows what the future holds for faithful saints here in this country Maybe we will join the ranks of the persecuted churches all over the world. Maybe we'll find ourselves saying something similar to what Latimer said to Ridley. Be a good comfort and play the math. And concerning that quote, here's my second commentary. That's not what I wanted to do. Okay, sorry about that. Play the man is an expression that might sound odd to our ears. What does that even mean? It's not some sport strategy. Like some say play the man and not the ball. Like when a soccer defender must concentrate on the opposing player and not focus on the ball he or she's kicking, that's not what's meant here, right Play the man means brave, be brave, or be of good courage. It means that he and Ridley must act like soldiers. were all men in those times. And this expression, play the man, can be traced back past the Reformation all the way to the early church. It was what a heavenly voice reportedly told Polycarp. This second century disciple of Apostle John, like Ridley and Latimer after him, was bound at the stake to be martyred, and there he gave bold witness to his faith in Christ before he died. And you'll see today that play the man is something that goes back even further. It goes beyond a follower of an apostle to a letter of an apostle. It's translated as be brave in First Corinthians sixteen, thirteen. The imperatives in plural, not singular, so he wants all Christians, male or female, young or old, to be valiant, plucky, intrepid. Take all the words from Thesaurus, right? Be brave simply. We'll look at more details in a moment, but first, here are a few comments on the context. Today's passage might not seem as organized as other parts of the letter. It might resemble a roll of post-it notes on a wall or a stack of postcards sprawled on a table. There's not too much argument tracing, diagramming, outlining to do. But there is here discussion of what's vital for ministry, people. I said last time if 1 Corinthians 16 was a business memo, its subject line would read financial resources and human resources. In the first few verses, we covered the financial resources, the matter of collection for the saints. We also began some discussion of human resources. As Paul spoke of his travel plans, and today we learn more about human resources besides the apostle, namely Timothy in verses 10 to 11, Apollos in verse 12, and then skip down to Stepanos and others in verses 15 to 18. Back up to 13 to 14, and you'll see there are some direct exhortations. to the Corinthians as well. But before I talk further, let's read the passage, 1 Corinthians 16. 10 to 18. And if Timothy comes, see that he may be with you without fear, for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do. Therefore let no one despise him, but send them on his journey in peace, that he may come to me, for I am waiting for him with the brethren. Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brethren, but he was quite unwilling to come at this time. However, he will come when he has a convenient time. Watch, stand fast in the faith, be brave, be strong. Let all that you do be done with love. I urge you, brethren, you know the household of Stepanos that it is the first fruits of a Kaya, and that they have devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints, that you also submit to such and to everyone who works and labors with us. I am glad about the coming of Stepanos, Sportunatus, and Achaicus, for what was lacking on your part they supplied, for they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, acknowledge such men. So as Paul manages church human resources, I say there are four reinforcement plans for them First, embolden the Lord's workmen. That's verses ten to eleven. Secondly, dispatch gifted ministers. Verse 12. Thirdly, rise as a tough and caring church. That's thirteen to fourteen. Fourthly, honor devoted leaders, fifteen to eighteen. The first, embolden, the Lord's workmen. There appears to be an abrupt switch from Paul to Timothy in verse 10, but it makes sense that as Paul speaks of his travels, he's reminded of Timothy's travels. Recall how he already mentioned sending Timothy earlier in the letter. He wrote back in chapter 4, verse 16 to 17, I urge you imitate me. For this reason I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful son Son in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church. Paul could send no one better to represent his character and his ministry. If he could make a carbon copy of himself, it'd be Timothy. That's why he said elsewhere in Philippians 2. And that's in verse 20 and 22. I have no one like-minded. As a son with his father, he served with me in the gospel. That's why the best follow-up plan is a personal discipleship plan. That's why a discussion of Paul's itinerary flows smoothly into Timothy's itinerary. And then here's what must happen when he arrives. It appears from the apostles' commands that Timothy needed some extra encouragement. It didn't help that the Corinthians were a tough crowd, right? If they said mean stuff to Paul, like his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible, that's in 2 Corinthians 10:10, how would they treat Timothy? A few weeks ago I met Phil, the grandson of Virginia Lineweber, who recently passed. Phil's a pastor at a church in Ohio. He told me that during one of his first sermons, he fainted, passed out cold, in front of everyone, just because of nerves Right. When he came too, he wanted to finish preaching. I'm not sure if they let him, I can't remember that part, but I'm not sure if Timothy ever fainted in front of a church, but he I wouldn't be surprised if he did, right? I hope Phil's okay with me sharing that. I don't think I listened to the sermon, but um You can see his need for encouragement elsewhere in Paul's letters directly addressed to him, so to talk about Timothy. He said, let no one despise your youth. This is in his letters. But be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Paul has to remind them to stir up his gift, not neglect it God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Timothy, do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. So and now speak to the Corinthians, Paul tells them in verse ten to assuage his fears, not intensify them It helped if the saints realize or recognize that Timothy is Paul's fellow worker. He does the same work of the Lord as Paul. So while he's there with them, he should be fearless. Verse 11 says, They should not despise him, that is, treat him with contempt. He must not be lively esteemed or rejected. Not only must the Corinthians care about how Timothy stays, they must care about how he departs Right? We don't get the impression that Timothy would be staying long at Corinth. After all, he must get back to Paul and the brethren in Ephesus so that Paul can go on his way. We also get the impression elsewhere, and this is a little bit later, that Timothy had a rough time at Corinth, and it prompted some change in Paul's travel plans, but that's a story for another day. For today, the reinforcement plan number one. that we must embolden the Lord's workmen, both as senders and receivers of men like Timothy. Now not all men are like Timothy in need of much encouragement and promotion. There are men like Apollos. We get the impression from verse 12 that the Corinthians really wanted him more than Timothy or even Paul. It sounds like they made a request to Paul that may have sounded like this, hey, can you get Apollos online? Can you get him to come back to us for a bit? He's eloquent, mighty in the word, fervent, accurate, and bold. He greatly helps those who believe through grace, watering what you planted here. As for the outsiders, he vigorously refutes the Jews publicly showing from the scriptures that Jesus is the Christ. Now, Paul's not going to deny them this good wish. He's going to try his best to dispatch gifted ministers like Apollos. That's the second reinforcement plan. Now it's worth noting here, Paul doesn't get jealous of Apollos. He wasn't discouraged by their request. On the contrary, he had strongly urged Apollos to go to Corinth with some brethren. That shouldn't surprise us. If Paul can rejoice when Christ is preached in every way, even in pretense, surely he'd rejoice in the gift and ministry of Apollos. Why Apollos didn't go immediately, we're not told. My guess is that Apollos was concerned that there really was some kind of Apollos party. Right? A faction or a fan club in Corinth. He did not want to be tossed around as a celebrity pastor by an immature congregation So a convenient time at the end of the verse might be better translated as a good or proper time. Maybe that's after the schisms have healed. That's just conjectures. What is clear is that Paul's will and our will should be to dispatch gifted ministers to places in need. We're about halfway through the sermon, so let's reflect on some applications based on these two plans. It's probably true that many here have heard hundreds and maybe thousands of sermons. You've heard them live in person, online, or on radio So the comparisons between preachers are inevitable. You might wish that I'm more like Apollos and less like Timothy. You might hear me speak for a half an hour today, but maybe you've listened to David Jeremiah or Alistair Beck or both for ten hours since Monday I assure you that by God's grace I don't really feel insecure about that. Well, why don't you pray that it stays that way? I should be glad you're taught God's word. And there's so many resources these days. Like biblical illiteracy is like inexcusable in our country, I feel like. But now let's talk about you as a congregation. There's a responsibility put on the local church to relate to preachers. Neither underestimating them nor overestimating them. It's your job to help me, the elders, the leaders, the teachers, and If you think I or some other persons like Timothy, well for me probably I am probably like Timothy, how can you help me be fearless as I do God's work If you think I'm like Apollos, probably not. How can you urge me to do more of God's work? So think about that as you review the first two reinforcement plans. How can I embolden the Lord's workmen to work boldly? How can we dispatch gifted ministers to minister broadly? But as you think about leaders, think also what you yourselves might do for the kingdom. That gets us to the third reinforcement plan: Rise as a tough and caring church. In rapid fire succession, verse 13 presents four imperatives. Well, we can and we will focus on one command at a time, does need to unite them as one, in one reflex. And the image here in verse 13 is that of soldiers in battle. They must rise up to the challenge of their enemies. And to be clear, our war is not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers. against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. This really needs a constant reminder for us, right, as we engage with the world. And the struggle begins with alertness and vigilance. So what does the command to watch mean? For us. Jesus often spoke of watching for his return and being ready. He also paired watching with praying in our struggle against the flesh. The apostles would reinforce and expand on these same points of our Lord. For example, Peter would say in 1 Peter 5, 8-9. I'll read it for you. Meditate on it. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him, steadfast in the faith. Knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world. Something to think about for next week And to be steadfast in faith, the church must stand fast in faith. Not only must our eyes of faith be focused, our feet must be firmly firmly planted. And the faith that he speaks of here is not faith in a vacuum. We've seen it's faith in God's power, in the preaching of Christ and Him crucified, and Christ risen from the dead. This has been seen throughout the whole letter. As the as for the command to stand, we're talking about firm adherence to the gospel in Colossians 1 23 Paul spoke of continuing in the faith, grounded and steadfast, not being moved away from the hope of the gospel. To stand fast in the faith is our ongoing work of sanctification. It's made possible because of Christ's finished work of redemption. God calls true saints effectually and regenerates them radically to overcome this world He who justifies us by faith empowers us to stand fast in that same faith. Next in the verse, Paul asks the church to be brave. I talked about this command at the beginning of the sermon. It's a word only found once in the New Testament. It's Andrizaste and it comes from Andrizomai or Andrizo. Just by saying it out loud or breaking the word apart, you get a sense of its meaning. Andro means man, right? The Greek verb part, I Z O, well I'm just gonna anglicize it there for you, is like our English verb ending I-Z-E. Okay, so think of words like finalize, to make final, okay, or hospitalize, to place in a hospital. Similarly, here we see Paul saying something like, be a man, be like a man. Of course, these days the transgender movement has taken that in an unbiblically literal way. But what Paul means here is that we should be courageous. Remember that's that those who go out to wars, even today, are mostly men. Paul's simply stating what's standard in his time. He's also echoing what was said to Joshua and other men of faith who fought the wars of Israel And speaking of the Old Testament, three times in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, we see this word. Be brave, right? Pair with the command to be strong. Okay, so that's just what we see in first Corinthians 16, 13 as well. By itself, this word to be strong can speak of physical maturation. But here and elsewhere, Paul's thinking of spiritual power, right? I think of Ephesians 3. 16, that we be strengthened with might through the indwelling Holy Spirit in the inner man. So put them all together. Watch. Stand fast in the faith. Be brave. Be strong. And we got a good picture of good soldiers of Jesus Christ. Together we can form an army, stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel, as Philippians 1:27 tells us. And this is what the church militant looks like, right? But the church is not all about fighting. To the four imperatives of verse 13, he asks another in 14: Let all that you do be done with love. Just as our spiritual gifts are empty without love, our spiritual powers are ineffective without love. So as a pastor, I must preach, convince, rebuke, exhort with long suffering, which comes from love, right? In healthy churches, saints are equipped to speak truth in love to one another. They help believers from other churches, right? Materially, as we saw earlier in this chapter. So that's how we rise, not as a tough, not only as a tough church, but a So I hope you see here that there's much we can do together as a community more than as individuals. But that doesn't mean that we dispose of leadership. I mean, look at our church. We are not purely congregational. We nominate and elect officers, elders, and deacons according to biblical standards. And as long as they submit to God, we submit to them and allow them to lead us. That takes us to verses 15 to 18. And the fourth reinforcement plan for church human resources honor devoted leaders We don't have much background on Stepanos. Some think that Fortunatus and Achaicus in verse 17 are his house slaves, but that's not certain. We do know for sure from chapter 1, verse 16, all the way back at the beginning of this letter, that Paul personally baptized Stepanos and his household, though that's not his custom. We see a clue here as to why he did that. Stepanos and his associates were among the earliest converts of Achaia, the region to which Corinthians the Corinth, the city of Corinth belonged. And because it was early in his ministry there, Paul did not have pastoral leadership in place yet, so he had to baptize them himself. Now it's true that there were some converts earlier from Athens, which is also a city of Achaia. Luke names a few in Acts 1734. Dionysius, Damaris, and others with them But there's no mention of a church in Athens nor a great revival there. Maybe that's why Stefanos and his house at Corinth are truly the first fruits of the region, because a church was established in Corinth And it thrived. Stephanos and his household are better indicators and foreshadowing of many people God had in that city. And it's evident the first fruits were fruitful. They devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints. What that means exactly, we're not told, it probably means they took it upon themselves to open up their home for local believers and show hospitality to traveling believers. They're showing qualities of good deacons. But we're not certain whether Stepanos and those like him actually held formal titles. Maybe Paul's calling for such appointment in verse 16. Maybe so, maybe not. But it is certain that such are just the type of servants churches should honor. The Corinthians must submit to those closely resembling the apostles in their character and their work. And Stepanos and others were not only busy working, they were also busy visiting. In verse 17, Paul says, Stepanos, Fortunatus, and Nakaicus came to to see him in Ephesus. What the Corinthians could not do themselves, these three men did in their place. They took their act on the road. And as it says in the first sentence of verse 18, they refreshed Paul spiritually, just as they refreshed the Corinthians. Now, what does it mean for us to refresh our brothers and sisters in Christ? There are many passages to consider, but I'll just share it from an old blog post from one of the co-founders of Desiring God, this guy named John Bloom. Take a picture or just write it down, but or you can find it online. Just five simple ways to refresh the saints in your life. So he takes um so Bloom takes some lessons from Paul's letter to Byleman, where we see that word. The one is to love and trust Jesus. That's very refreshing. Love the saints. Sharing your faith. Free your family members to serve the kingdom. Obviously, that's the main Thing in the subject of Fein Lemon, but make your home an embassy. So these are some of the things you can do, and that's what Stepanas and his associates have practiced such things. So Corinthians must honor them and other devoted leaders like them. The final imperative in today's passage is acknowledge in verse 18, a few verses ago in verse 15. Paul said the Corinthians already know what such leaders do, but acknowledging goes beyond knowing. Right? Recognition builds on cognition. This is probably similar to First Thessalonians five twelve to thirteen. We urge your brethren to recognize those who labor among you And are over you in the Lord and admonish you and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Don't take for granted godly leaders, whether they serve up at the front or back in the background. Honor those who are leaders by title and honor those who lead by example. There you go. Four reinforcement plans for church human resources Embolden the Lord's workmen. Dispatch gifted ministers. Rise as a tough and caring church. Honor devoted leaders. And we've been beneficiaries of godly people in our lives at the at this church. And now as much as we appreciate godly Christians, humble and gentle servant leaders, we know Know that there's none like Jesus. We sang about how He's not only strong, He is kind. He refreshes our soul, saying, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. So we need to turn to him so that we can be like him. Turn to him for spiritual renewal first, and then we turn to each other and refresh each other. And we do that by reminding each other of God's truth. So we'll do that as we sing our final song, Afflicted Saint to Christ draw near, your Savior's gracious promise here. His faithful word you can believe that at your days your strength shall be. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for just the truth of your goodness, your sovereignty. Your protection or your security that you give us. And Lord, we see that in our lives. And first of all, you sent your son. And you sent your son to be in flesh. To be with us, to dwell among us, and to ultimately to return someday to be with us. And we see the importance of just human interaction. to from the very beginning to be fruitful and fill the earth and now we see the importance of having true fellowship as we Just to center our lives around your will in your in your word and in Christ who is our head. And Lord, we see the importance of individuals and groups of people. Like Timothy and Apollos and the household of Stephanos and those with him. And we pray that we would be a blessing to others, or that we would also rise as loving people and be strong and courageous. And Lord, even though these may be just last few words of a letter, I pray that it would echo in our ears, in our hearts, as we start this week, as we meet later for membership meeting, that we would live for your glory. and then just uh and come together again as you will. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.