In Luke chapter 9, we have already seen the past few weeks the activities of Jesus Christ. The things that he did that no other man could do. These kinds of activities were evidence for who he was, the extent of his ability. We've seen in the past few weeks how he was able to still the wind and the waves. He was able to cure sickness when a woman with an issue of blood simply touched him, and her faith in him healed her because of it. We've seen him cast out demons by the thousands, and we've seen him raise someone from the dead. We've seen him in the Gospel of Luke feed over 5,000 people through a miracle of creation That is, food passing into his hands and coming out more than it went into his hands. It was on the basis of these things and the hearing of Jesus teaching that we have Peter and his incredible confession in Luke chapter 9 verse 20. When Jesus said, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said, The Christ of God. Now I don't think he completely understood the full ramifications of that title. But he at least was beginning to see that Jesus was God's Christ, God's anointed one, the one spoken of in the Old Testament. Now, have you ever been around someone when they are sort of at the height of their expertise and skill? and seeing that person receive the accolades of his peers and maybe at work and of other people, have you ever celebrated someone's success with them You probably have, even if it's just a birthday or an anniversary. You ever gone to someone's anniversary when they've been married 40 years or 50 years? It's quite a celebration and quite Quite an amazing thing to say that you are able to do, especially in today's day and age. When you get to that height of whatever it is, there is that celebration, there is that expectation. I mean you have someone who is a scientist and they've just won the Nobel Prize for whatever chemistry or biology or whatever it is. And there's this expectation that comes with that of glory, of wow, now what is going to happen? Peter has just identified Jesus as the anointed one of God. And now we're supposed to think, whoa, what is next? But if you recall, it's at this point that Luke Let's us in on this private conversation in chapter 9, verses 23 to 26, where Jesus begins, and really verse 22 as well, to share What has to come before the glory? And if you look at verse 22, he says, the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day. Then he said to them all, If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what advantage is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory. And in the his fathers and of the holy angels. Folks, it's almost like when they got to the point where they confessed him to be the Christ, at that point. Jesus took the gloves off and said, now it's time for you to hear the hard stuff. You've seen me heal, you've seen me raise the dead, you've seen me create out of my bare hands. Now you've identified me. Now I have to sort of give you the hard teaching of what is going to come next. What is coming next? Well, verse 22, suffering. The Son of Man will suffer. What is coming next, verse 22? Rejection. What is coming next? Well, if anyone wants to follow me, they're going to have to take up their cross. This is hard stuff. And certainly it's hard for us to see See it on the page, but it must have been far harder for them to hear it because there was the expectation of glory. You are the Christ. And now Jesus is, I'm gonna suffer. I'm gonna be rejected. You're gonna suffer. It must have been hard for them to hear and to figure out how to respond to it. What's next in the passage? Well, if you look at verse 27, it is actually a continuation. of the previous conversation. We have him talking about after Peter confesses him to be the Christ, that's verses 20 and 21. And then we have Jesus begin the hard teaching of his suffering, and then the kind of disciple that is able to follow him. And you have in verse 26 This interesting expression, he says here, the son of man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory and in his father's and of the holy angels. So we have this idea of glory introduced. There's glory when they return, but there's going to be shame for those who were ashamed of his words before he returned. And then in verse 27, he continues to talk, and he says, but I tell you truly, this is wording of emphasis here, listen. There are some standing here who shall not taste death till they see the kingdom of God. Now, this is interesting because he is creating an immense amount of anticipation with those words. They were anticipating and then they heard the hard stuff, but now he's kind of raised their anticipation again. And surely they're wondering what this could be. I mean, what what is the this kingdom of God that they will not die, that some standing there will not die to see. And let me just remind you some of the things that Luke has already recorded about the kingdom of God. If you just flip back a couple pages to Luke 1, verse 32. When the angel talked to Mary, he said about Jesus, this is Luke 1:32, he will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. So Mary, the mother of Jesus, heard from the angels something about a throne in relation to her son. Kingdoms have kings, and kings have thrones. And Luke is writing for us, Dr. Luke, the reader, ancient and modern, modern would be us. And letting us in on the fact that the angel told Mary about a throne. You go a few more verses over to verse 67. And you look at Zacharias and how he prophesied about John's ministry and also about the Lord. And we see here, oh let's just look, let's just pick up at verse 67. This is Luke 1. 67 Now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of those who hate us. to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. To grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our lives. There is this continuity in this praise from Zacharias. There is the Lord God of Israel redeeming his people, the Jews, raising up salvation for them. Verse 69, in the house of his servant David. David was a And now there is this horn of salvation raised up out of his house who will deliver Israel out of the hand of their enemies. A clash of kingdoms, Israel versus the Romans, a deliverance from the Romans, or a deliverance, if you were to apply it that way, but of course we know it's much more You flip over a few more pages to Luke chapter 6, verse 20, just showing here that the kingdom of God is something Jesus has already spoken of. Luke chapter 6 verse 20. When he begins Luke's record of the Beatitudes, which is different from Matthew's, but it doesn't mean there is a contradiction. They are complementary. But Luke chapter 6, verse 20, then he lifted up his eyes toward his disciples and said, Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Chapter 8 verse 10. So the context of the Beatitudes is Principles for Kingdom citizens, disciples of the kingdom. Maybe you could call it something like that. Luke 8. Verse 10, in this whole controversy of who can know and who cannot know, he says to his disciples, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to the rest It is given in parables. So Luke has already introduced to us the whole idea of the kingdom of God from the mouth of angels and prophets and Jesus himself. So when you flip back to Luke chapter 9 and you hear Jesus talk about in verse 27, some of you standing here will not taste death till you see the kingdom of God. Followers of his already had some kind of an idea about the kingdom of God forming up in their minds. It was probably largely Jewish in nature at this point. They probably were thinking largely in terms of political emancipation from the Romans. They probably had a more worldly oriented idea of the kingdom. This clung to them, by the way. This idea of Israel receiving the kingdom clung to them all the way through to Acts chapter 1 Where before Jesus ascended, they said, At this time, are you going to restore the kingdom to Israel? And the Lord said, No, it's not given unto you to know the times and seasons. So even after Jesus' resurrection, And before his ascension, they still didn't quite understand everything that had to do with the kingdom. So, why? Alright, we're back in Luke. So, so what we have in the Mount of Transfiguration. We have some kind of revealing of the kingdom of God. The Mount of Transfiguration follows after this discussion that Jesus had with his disciples If you look at verse 28, the connection, Luke makes the connection, and it came to pass about eight days after these sayings. And Luke, the historian, is very careful with his use of time. Matter of fact, if I could just get you to look at verse 10 and notice some of these time descriptions. It says in verse 10, and the apostles when they had returned. Verse 12, when the day began to wear away. Verse 18, and it happened as he was alone praying. Verse 23, then, verse 28, and it came to pass about eight days after these sayings. So Luke is very careful with his sequence of events and he wants us to know somewhat of the relationship of events. And so verse 28 is and the story of the Mount of Transfiguration. is definitely connected to the conversation that Jesus said. Some of you will not taste death till you see the kingdom of God. Now, the disciples have a worldly kind of paradigm in their mind for the kingdom of God. And what Jesus is going to show them. Far exceeded their expectations. Sometimes what Jesus shows his followers cannot be completely understood until later. I mean, after the Mount of Transfiguration, they come down the mountain and they don't tell anyone about this until later. 2 Peter chapter 1, we'll look at that if we have time. Peter says, Look, I made this known to you. So it was later. that they found out, but the nature of the things that happened up there far outstripped, perhaps, I think it's true, the disciples' ability to comprehend It was like a flash of lightning. Have you ever tried to see something in the lightning? And maybe there's something out in the field and the lightning flashes and you can see it and then the lightning's gone. And then you can see it no more. It was this Mount of Transfiguration is like a flash of the glory of Christ. And of the king coming kingdom of God. It was a glimpse of that glory, sort of just a moment in time when that glory shone out in various ways. And we can learn certain things about the kingdom of God just from the Mount of Transfiguration and what happened. But then it went away. And I do want to pull this out of that. Jesus is in the habit of exceeding the expectations of his disciples frequently. Has Luke not already shown us this? Wind and waves, demons Sickness, death, food. I mean, if you remember at the beginning of our service, I chose that passage on purpose. I mean You have this disciple who says, You are the king of Israel. You are all these great things. And the Lord says, you're calling me this because you think I supernaturally saw you under the fig tree. You're going to see a lot more than this. You're going to see angels descending and ascending on the Son of Man. Jesus is in the habit of exceeding our expectations, and among other things, that is because his glory is so much greater than we can ever imagine that when that glory shines out, it will always exceed our imagination and expectation. Because God in his infinity, in his eternality, is so much greater than us. What did the prophet say? That his thoughts are as high as the heavens compared to our thoughts. His thoughts are not our thoughts. We have such a great God and such a great Savior. So what's happening here? Well, if you look at your Bible We'll just start at verse 28 again. So if if you are looking at verses 28 all the way down to 36. You kind of have a movement up the mountain, on the mountain, and then back down the mountain. The up-the-mountain movement, if you look at your Bible, Would be verse 28, that he took Peter, John, and James and went up on the mountain to prayed, to pray. So there was this movement of Jesus, Peter, John, and James up that mountain. And while they're walking, there is the knowledge that they are going to that place to have a special prayer meeting. Almost like A church council would climb up onto a solitary place in order to have a time of quiet prayer together. It's also interesting to note that in the Garden of Gethsemane, when Jesus sweat drops of blood, he took them there also for a prayer meeting. And so there were those times when Jesus took his disciples for special times of prayer. On the mountain, there is verse 29, there is his appearance changing or being altered, his robe becoming white and glistening, the new King James describing it. So there is this personal transformation, verse 29. Then there is this presence of additional individuals on the mountain. That's verse 30. Then behold, two men talked with him, who were Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his deceased which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem There was the personal transformation. There was the presence of these additional individuals. And then there was this huddled conversation. And the individual shared in some way in the glory that was present. They were in appearance different than a simple mortal ordinary man. And then verse 32. There is this waking up of Peter. It says, but Peter and those with him were heavy with sleep. And when they were fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him. It's interesting that Jesus could outpray anyone. Here was this man who walked the streets. Didn't have air conditioning in a car to drive from church to church or place to place to minister. He walked. Their diet was not like ours. They didn't have all the things to eat that we do. There were times when he was so exhausted that he could sleep through a terrible storm in the middle of a boat, but he could still outpray his disciples. They were sleeping. They were tired. And so there's the transformation of Jesus, the presence of these individuals, and then the waking of his disciples and their response. They look around, they see what's happening. And if you look at verse 33, and it happened as they, that is Moses and Elijah, were parting from him. that Peter said. So so there must have been this time when Jesus is talking and we know the discussion, verse 31. He spoke And spoke of his decease or his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. We know what they were talking about, the cross and the death of Jesus. And Peter, James, and John can hear this. And then there's something taking place where it looks like these men are going to move away. There's this departure that's about to take place. And that's when Peter just blurts out. Master, it is good, verse 33, Master, it is good for us to be here, and let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said. Now, we could surmise that Peter still struggled in being alert. We can surmise that Peter is overwhelmed by what he's seeing. Because we can put ourselves in Peter's sandals at that moment as he stands there and think about how we would react, and we can think, I would be perhaps Totally overwhelmed by the glory that was there. And one of the things that Peter's language here indicates, if you look at it again in verse 33, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah, what does that mean? Peter recognized who these men were somehow. He knew who they were. So Peter is seeing the glorious appearance of Christ, this overshadowing glory, and there are the two, arguably, the two greatest men out of the Old Testament standing there talking to Jesus. It must have been incredible. And then while he is blurting this out, and there's various speculations as to why he would say this. Was he intending they should stay a while and kind of camp out or participate in this festival of the Passover or of booze? I don't know, but we do know his motivation. He didn't know what he was saying. He was just kind of blurting it out. Verse 34. While he was saying this, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were fearful as they entered the cloud. So as he is in this befuddled state, this cloud comes in. Now why the cloud? Well, whatever its purpose, there was this this lessening of their perception, it overshadowed them, and there was this creation of fear as they entered into it. So probably you have these men and their senses are suddenly heightened. The adrenaline is pumping through their body. They've gone from fall from almost to sleep. Waking, watching, saying something that doesn't make sense to a cloud enveloping them, and they're just Their senses are awake and they are finally alert, and it's at that point, verse 35, that a voice comes out of the cloud. This is my beloved son. Hear him And when the voice had ceased, Jesus was found alone. But they kept quiet and told no one in those days any of the things they had seen. And you could sort of say, verse 36, is the travel down the other side of the mountain. where they just don't talk about these things to anyone else once they get down the other side. Who is it in verse 35 that's speaking? It is the Father. This is my beloved Son. It's a He is identifying in the midst of those three men the greatest one that's there. The king is the one who gives out words The subjects are the ones who hear the words from the king. The father is saying, This is my son, hear him. It's like an identification of who Jesus is. He is the King. Now, you've heard this story many times So let's just go through a couple things here and answer some questions. Why Moses and Elijah? Question number one, why Moses and Elijah? Well, the answer to that is that the fact that it was Moses and Elijah implied a connection or a continuity between Moses, Elijah, and Jesus. They were talking together. They knew, they literally knew one another. And they knew they all shared this knowledge of the plan of the cross. In Deuteronomy 18, 15, if you'll turn now, let me get you to turn there. We'll turn to a few passages. This is where Moses told the people that someone was going to come like him, Deuteronomy 18, 15. And in my English version, the New King James Version, it capitalizes the word prophet for a reason, because it's saying that this is Christ. Deuteronomy 18, 15, Moses says, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your midst, from your brethren. Him shall you Hear. And what did the father say? Hear him. So here we have Moses, and the people were aware of this prophecy. Because there are allusions to it in the Gospels, and the people are saying, who is this? Well, it's like Moses or someone from the Old Testament who's been resurrected Elijah, you remember the famous passage that talks of him because it's the last book of your Bible and the last paragraph of the last book of your Old Testament. Turn to Malachi at the very end. All you have to do is turn to Matthew and turn back a few pages. And look at Malachi chapter 4, verse 4, 5, and 6. Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. Lest I come and strike the earth with a curse. Now you're probably familiar as a dispensationalist, most of us are in here. That is, those who believe in the future restoration of the kingdom of Israel. That there are two witnesses in the book of Revelation, and some have theorized that Elijah is one of those witnesses, that he will come back in that point. But here we have Elijah, and here we have this prediction of his return, and then here is Peter, James, and John looking at Elijah, talking to Jesus and talking to Moses. So why Moses and Elijah? Well, what does it do for us and for those men? Well, it shows a connection or a continuity. Their mission and their purpose was joined together. Moses said someone would come. Listen to him. Elijah was predicted to return. Of course, John the Baptist comes in the spirit and power of Elijah, but there is this continuity there between their mission and their purpose. The second thing that's accomplished by the Mount of Transfiguration, when it comes to the kingdom of God, think about this one. The kingdom of God is not affected by death. The dead are alive. Now you say, wait a minute. Didn't Elijah taken up in a fiery chariot? Yes, but Moses wasn't. He died before he was able to go into the promised land. And so we have a man who's carried up into heaven, no one knows exactly where heaven is, and Moses who died, and there they are. And Jesus said, you're going to see the kingdom of God. And so here we have this implication. Death itself is not an influence in the kingdom of God. It's irrelevant when it comes to kingdom citizens. You live, you die, there you are in the kingdom. You go up into heaven, there you are in the kingdom. That is where I think Jesus exceeded their expectations. I'm not saying they didn't believe in the resurrection or in life after death, but this is the kingdom, and death does not affect it. Thirdly, what happens on the Mount of Transfiguration and what they see, it was a reminder of John the Baptist, because we had, if you go back to Luke chapter 9, back there quickly. We have Elijah, and he must have reminded them of what Jesus said about John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ So we have Moses, the one who brought the law to Israel, and we have Elijah, who is a reminder of the forerunner of Christ. So we have, and then let me give you two more. Fourthly, what happens on the Mount of Transfiguration It shows that the kingdom is truly near. That it's like break it can break onto the scene. The glory of that kingdom. Jesus said, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And that's an expression that's saying it's right here, it's present, it's intruding into our world. Here it is, repent. And so here is Jesus showing them just how close it is. They're up there with him, and it kind of comes down on that mountain, and they see it. Now, this is one of the things that Jesus taught about the kingdom of heaven. It's near, but it's not yet. If you recall the parables of Jesus where he compared the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God, to a tree that grows. It starts out small and just kind of quietly grows until the birds come and roost in its branches. The kingdom of heaven is like, you remember all those parables where Jesus spoke about the kingdom in terms of it growing? In terms of it being discovered, in terms of it creating conflict in the here and now. So the kingdom of heaven is near But we also have the fact of them going down out of that place. They had to leave that vision behind. And they had to go down and face reality. So it was near, but not yet. And so that is something that they took away from the Mount of Transfiguration. They are part of the kingdom, but it's not yet fully known. And then lastly, if you look at your Bible again at what they spoke of. They spoke about the departure of Christ and what he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. This is Luke 9, 31. So Moses and Elijah knew the plan, what was about to take place. We need to pause here for a good application. You've heard of the expression, it's only the tip of an iceberg. The iceberg sticks out of the water, and you can only see 10-15 feet of it sometimes, and there's this massive structure. Under the surface that no one sees. Well, that's a good analogy of the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God. I mean, who would have known that these men were privy to information about the crucifixion of Jesus? They knew it was going to be in Jerusalem. They knew the time frame as it related to the days of his incarnation. Look at it again, verse 31. who appeared in glory and spoke of his decease, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. There was some personal knowledge of the timeframe of his crucifixion and where it would take place. The scriptures reveal to us that we were chosen in him before the foundation of the world. The scriptures reveal to us that Jesus was born of a virgin, that in the fullness of time, Jesus was born of a virgin born under the law. When you look at the history of our entire Bible, and it really what we're seeing is the tip of the iceberg. Underneath are these statements like from Jesus, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, and then we open Revelation up, the book of Revelation, and we go, wow, what a place! Folks, you and I need to be encouraged by the fact that there are things we cannot see that are bigger than the things we can see. Paul used this to encourage himself in 2 Corinthians when he said that we look at the things that are not seen because they're eternal. But the things that we see are temporal, they're just temporary, they're going to pass away. And that was part of the way he encouraged himself. It's kind of like if you had a you remember The Wizard of Oz. We all know that movie. And there's that sad part. The saddest part in the movie is at the end when you have the great and terrible Wizard of Oz. And then you have the dog go over and pull the curtain back and it's all a sham. I mean it's it's this old guy running machines. Remember that scene? And every and and I remember watching it as a child and going, oh Oh, that stinks. I thought it was something more than that. The kingdom of God is the polar opposite. Every time you pull back that curtain, there is an eternal depth to it. There is a complexity and planning and strategy to it. And if you were to have that moment where you pull that back, you could go into that kingdom, and it would be much bigger than the reality of what we now have so far experienced it. Pull back the curtain. That's what happened on the Mount of Transfiguration. And they were able to see some of the kingdom of God. It's incredible. Now. What do we do? What do we do with this knowledge of the mountain of transfiguration? Here's a real basic principle to help you with the Gospels. Whenever you want to know how to apply the gospels to your life, first of course, you look at how it was applied in the passage. Did Jesus somehow apply it to real life? in the passage. But if it's not really stated explicitly there, look to the apostles what they wrote and how they referred to what happened in the Gospels. How did Paul and Peter and the writer to the Hebrews talk about this coming revelation of the kingdom, this soon to see aspect of it. How did they relate that to everyday common experience? Well, there's one explicit relate uh passage that relates it if you turn to 2 Peter chapter 1. Turn there quickly. Peter did get the message Because when he later writes about the Mount of Transfiguration, he relates it with, he describes it with words that are fitting to a kingdom and a king. He says in 2 Peter 1, verse 15, Moreover, I will be careful to ensure that you will always have a reminder of these things after my decease. For we did not follow cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty For he received from God the Father honor and glory when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And we heard this voice which came from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. Why is Peter saying this? Verse 15, I want to write this down so that you never forget what I saw. This is simply Peter saying, depend. On the reality of the supernatural testimony I give, or my testimony of that supernatural event. It did happen. I saw it with my own eyes. If I came to you next Sunday and said, I saw Jesus and he disappeared, He was talking with two individuals, and a cloud came down, and when it came up, they were gone. You might not believe me. I don't think I would. You shouldn't. But Peter is, we have a natural tendency to disbelieve the supernatural. And Peter is saying, no, don't do that. Let me encourage you with something. Do you remember Revelation 1, the description there of Jesus Christ? He is in his glorified state. And in Revelation 1, I'll just turn there. Turn there, will you? What did Peter see? Let's talk about that for a second. Revelation 1 Look at verse 12. So John was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. He turned to see the voice that spoke. And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the feet. and girded about the chest with a golden band. His head and his hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like the like fine brass as if refined in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. He had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword And his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. Sounds similar to the Mount of Transfiguration and what is described there in Matthew and Luke, where Jesus is His his clothing turns white, not because it was dyed, but because of some inner light. Have you ever shown a bright, bright light through a cloth that was a different color and it turned white? Because The light just shone through with such intensity. That's what we're talking about here. This is what he saw. Looking at the eyes of Christ. And there is some fire, there is some illumination behind the eyes. I mean, we live in a world where lights are outside of us and shine upon us. But here is this being, and there is light within him that shines out. He lights up the room. He is the one who is glorious in this way. Now what is the Lord's attitude about his own? Let me be very specific. The visual Manifestation of the personal glory of Jesus Christ. What is his attitude toward that when it comes to you and me? Well, it might surprise you. Turn to John seventeen. And look at verse 5. You should be able to just pick out his attitude without me even saying anything. This is Jesus' high priestly prayer, which he prayed for us. for his apostles and disciples at the time and all that who would follow after. John 17, verse 5 And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Okay, look down a few verses at verse 24. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am That they may behold my glory which you have given me, for you love me before the foundation of the world. What is now the word glory here probably is has application or to more than just his personal The visual manifestation of his glory personally, but it certainly encompasses that. When it comes to Jesus' personal glory, he wants us to see it He wants us to know it. He wants us to look upon the glorious image of his Eternally incarnate, perfect body that he now has as God and man, and he wants us to be in awe of him. And for God to want that is righteous, if I could put it this way, you're not used to hearing it this way, righteously selfish. It is perfectly okay for God to want you and me to be in awe of his glory. And if we didn't have Peter's testimony and James and John, if they didn't tell anyone about this, we would have missed out on this This flash of lightning on the Mount of Transfiguration that they had, we would have missed out on that little piece of glory that he let shine through. This flash of glory. And so Peter in 2 Peter 1 is just saying, look, I want you to have a record of this. I saw this. It's not a fable that I made up, it's reality. So that's how Peter uses this incident in his ministry. And in his life. And how do others use it? Well, think for a moment about the kingdom is here, but it's not yet fully here. As we anticipate the full revelation of that kingdom, how should that affect us? How can we anticipate the return of Christ? What does that do for me here and now? Well, if you turn to Hebrews, and you know this passage, Hebrews 12, 2, we have Jesus and he is enduring the worst kind of suffering. And there's this principle here in Hebrews 12 verse 2. There's this principle of antis of joyful anticipation. It says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. So we are to look upon this incident or this example and emulate it and learn from it who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. I mean Sitting on the throne was what he was looking forward to. Folks, do you know that when Jesus anticipated sitting back on his throne, it made him joyful? He looked forward to sitting on that throne again. And this gave him the ability to endure present tense and ongoing the kind of sufferings that he endured. Joyful anticipation. Do you remember what that was like when you were a kid and you looked forward to Christmas break? Or do you remember what that was like when you were a kid and you looked forward to summer break? Were you like me? I mean you you're getting to June and you've got the last week of school and it's Monday and you can't wait till Friday, Tuesday, you can't wait till Friday, Wednesday, you can't wait till Friday What about the feeling of ah college? A little more rough. Finals. But you know when these finals are over, oh I get a break, so I can do this, I can just get through this, because when that break comes, no more finals. Isn't there a song that we sing, school days all done? And this, and you know, there's a statement, this too shall pass. It's not actually in the Bible. But it's true. All of this is going to pass. And there's going to be that glory. And you have God's permission to say hallelujah to that. To say, I cannot wait to see Jesus and the angels, and I can't wait for this to be gone. It's f Fine. To even at times. You know, you're allowed to smile about that, to think about how wonderful that will be. That's what our Lord did for the joy He anticipated that joy. And so he was able to present tense endure. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, we have Paul using The anticipation of the return of Christ for another reason. Turn there to 1 Thessalonians 5, and then we have one more after that, so hang in there. 1 Thessalonians 5 And look at verse six. Might have to pick up a little more context here. Yeah, let me describe the context a little more. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 is about the return of the Lord and the day of the Lord. And that's the day of judgment when finally all accounts are settled. And he's telling them that they know, they know certain facts about the return of Christ, the day of the Lord. Verse 2, you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes in a certain way, secretly as a thief in the night, unexpectedly For when they say peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them as labor pains upon a pregnant woman, and they shall not escape. Now, that doesn't sound like joyful anticipation. And that's exactly the point he's about to make in verse 4. You brethren are not in darkness, so that this day should overtake you as a thief. You are all sons of light and sons of the day. You are not of the light nor of darkness. So we where exists this idea of light is the idea of we have foreknowledge of the day. We have facts revealed to us in the scriptures of the day of the Lord. We are not dreading his return, we are rejoicing in his return. And so, in light of our anticipation as sons of light, as children of light, verse 6. Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation. For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, And that's referring to whether we live or die, depending on relation to when he returns. We should live together with him. Death has no relationship to the kingdom of God. It's irrelevant for those who are part of it. Therefore, verse 11, comfort each other and edify one another, just as you also are doing. What's being said here is that you and I should, in anticipation of the coming kingdom, be alert. Be alert. Jesus endured suffering. We should be alert as well. And then lastly, and you don't have to turn there, you can if you want, 1 John 3:2-3, and talking about Jesus. And this is one of my favorite verses, passages in the Bible, 1 John 3, verses 2 and 3. Beloved says, Now we are children of God. And it has not yet been revealed what we shall be, but we know. We're children of light, right? We know that when he is revealed, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is pure. This is fascinating to me because it's this hope, this positive thing that causes us to do sort of a negative thing in the sense of Pushing away from our lives and out of our hearts, impure things, sinful things, things that are not like Christ. We we're kind of in the habit of just constantly working to get rid of those things. Jude 23, The author writes about how we save some, snatching them from the fire, hating even the garments that's spotted by the flesh. It's an illustration of we're in the world. But we're not of the world. And so we're constantly sort of cleaning our spiritual clothes, trying to purify ourselves because we anticipate the day when we can see Christ. Where does this leave us? Sometimes the best truths are just back to the most basic truths. One day you will see Christ face to face. You will see his glory, and he wants you to see that glory. That's why he took those men up there. And one day you're going to be in that situation where where you see him if If you are truly born again, if you know him as your personal savior, let's allow the knowledge of that day for you and me. By the way, let's let's quantify. That's always helpful. Who's going to live 50 more years in this room? Maybe our young ones. You don't have to raise your hand. That's okay. I'm not. I well, okay. I could be I could be ninety-five. I doubt it, but I could. Okay, let's let's let's 70 more years. Who's gonna live seventy more years just to be Very few of us in this room are going to live 70 more years. Think about that. And you're going to see him Let that motivate you not to depression, but to the joyful anticipation of seeing your Savior. Let's pray together. Let's pray