Have you ever studied something and said to yourself This is fascinating, but I don't want to go any further. You might dabble in a subject, but you don't want to major in it. You're content to be a dilettante, no need to be an expert. You don't need encyclopedic knowledge of this topic. Wikipedia will suffice. That's why I see like value in introductory or survey courses in school. Uh many years ago as a college freshman, I chose intro to astronomy as one of my electives. Why, I don't know. I mean, but it was fun. I don't recall his name, but the professor was Energetic and engaging. Some highlights include him railing against zodiac signs and astrology. Another memory involves the discussion of what's known as wave particle duality of light. Um what is the nature of life basically? Is life like particles, divisible corpuscles, right? That is do they behave like balls that bounce off surfaces and scatter? Or is it like a wave diffracting through holes, bending around obstacles and changing directions like water and sound? So probably not your casual water cooler talk tomorrow at work. Probably more likely talk about Super Bowl or something else, but Great minds though, luminaries, pun intended, have debated this for centuries. We're talking about names like Isaac Newton, Christian Huygens. such names. Thomas Young, Max Plenck, Albert Einstein. And this was when I was like, this is fascinating, but I don't want to go any further. No way I'm signing up to be astrophysics major. But it was still fun to learn a bit about the wave particle duality of light. We got something so ubiquitous and so commonplace as light, yet we find it so mysterious. What is light? The most intelligent creatures of humanity have devoted their lives to understanding it fully. And indeed, light is powerful and amazing. Even if we don't understand all of it. But God who made it is more powerful and more amazing. That's the I guess one thing I got out of that class. And our wise creator just uttered a few words. We are two words in Hebrews. Hebrew to bring light into existence. Or our God creating light was just a light day at work. So we marvel at his power and design as we continue in Genesis 1, a few verses at a time. As we do, it would help for us to slow down and meditate on these verses. Don't go 100 miles per hour or 186,000 miles per second. Slow down to focus on the first day. We set the stage last week with Genesis 1 to 2. Now looking closely at these three verses, next three verses. We see what happened next. There's a pattern set for the rest of the creation week. So let's continue now with Genesis 1, 3 to 5. And just three verses here Then God said, let there be light, and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good. And God divided the light from the darkness. God called the light day and the darkness he called night. So the evening and the morning were the The first day. Now the Bible answers the most important questions of life. As I've just mentioned, many ask questions about the duality of light. But Moses answers here the bigger question. Where did light come from? The answer is God created it. Simple as that. But there's occasion here To discuss not just the physical nature of light, but also metaphysics and metaphors of light. So the questions addressed here, besides where does light come from, is what kind of God creates light? What potential and energy does he possess? As we continue with the introduction of the doctrine of creation, we have four lessons about God the Creator. I hope that these four truths will remind you that of him and through him and to him are all things and to him be glory forever. But first, God displays creative power in his speech. That's verse. three. Secondly, God discerns goodness in his work, that's for A. Thirdly, God distinguishes between his works for B. Fourthly, God differentiates time periods by his design. That's verse five. I think it's often good to explain how I get my sermon points from the passage, and I'll come back to this slide multiple times. Okay, if you don't write everything down. But uh the way I derived these points was to locate God in verses three to five. So I'll come back to the slide. You see him four times as Elohim, the majestic plural form of our one God, full of power, we talked about that. Each time you see Elohim, you see a while imperfect verb before it. So that results in four strings of declarations here. Then God said in verse 3, Why Mer Elohim? And God saw at the top of verse 4, Why Yah Re Elohim? And God divided in the middle of verse 4. Why yabdel Elohim? Lastly with the conjunction left untranslated in English. God called in verse 5, why Elohim. So with that outline in mind, first God displays creative power. his speech. I'm going to have a okay boomer talk for a moment. Except since I'm not a boomer, I guess I'll call it okay gen Xer talk. It annoys me to hear young people say, I spoke it into existence. Do you ever hear that? For those unfamiliar with this lingo, it's this idea that by thinking and talking about something with intention, you can manifest it into reality. You might call it positive affirmation, positive self-talk. At best, it's like the adult version of the little engine that could. I think I can, I think I can. At worst, we have the so-called law of attraction. It's a philosophy that suggests our thoughts are energy. Right? So our thoughts attract either good energy or bad energy of the universe and then you know brings it to you, makes good things happen Well, let me try to be nice, but well, truthful. Your speech is powerful, no doubt. Okay? You can do a lot of good with your words, you can do a lot of bad with it. Just ask James, read chapter 3 of James. And your thought life is also important. No amount of butt, no amount of positive thinking and speech can do what God does here in verse 3. God said, let there be light. And there was light. It's the simplicity of it all. That's a sounding. Elohim just spoke As I mentioned earlier, the command, let there be light, is just two words in Hebrew, Yehi Or. The result is immediate, and there was light. Again, just two words in Hebrew. Wahi or. God displays creative power in his speech. Now grammatically speaking First three looks kind of boring, I mean, but there's plenty of room for apologetic discussion. Okay. One question raised by many people How can there be light created on the first day before the fourth day when the sun, the moon, and the stars were created? We know there's light on day one, but what is the source of that light? Well various answers have been given for thousands of years. Here's just like one article from Answers in Genesis. Collect it's like a sample. And I got a summary here. The apologist Tertullian of Carthage believed that this light was the earliest visible manifestation of Christ's glory. Later in the fourth century, Ephraim the Syrian held that we're seeing a bright mist or pillar of light that was later repurposed as the sun, the moon, and the stars. His contemporary Basil of Caesarea used analogy of fire and lamp to assert that God first created the essence of light, then later created the substance of light. A little later, Augustine of Hippo would say, no, no, the light described in day one refers to angels who are bearers of light. Meanwhile, Jewish rabbis had their own thoughts. Some of them conclude that day one preview the Shekinah glory of God that would later fill the tabernacle, the temple, and the whole earth. Skippable skip over about a millennium. English Puritan Matthew Poole sees here a bright cloud moving across the earth. American theologian John Whitcomb says it's a proto-sun that existed before the current sun. Okay there are a lot of options here. None are without dispute. You know each one has probably some weaknesses, right? Either scientifically from nature or exodetically from scriptures. I tend to think that there was some unique source of light during day one to three, different from what we have today. The source functions similarly to our sun as it helped with the measure of day and night. I don't have trouble believing in strange one-time events taking place on the first day of the first week of the The universe. In fact, we should expect weird things happening in these first few days of the universe. But whatever your view, we should agree that God displays creative power in his speech. So I'm gonna move on. So that's enough in verse 3 for now. Let's go on to verse 4, where we see God performing two more actions. The first half of it says, And God saw the light, that it was good. So after displaying creative power in his speech, God discerns goodness in his work. The first of seven instances in Genesis 1, where God sees what he did and declares it good. Last time he says it's very good. It's striking that Moses reports God's own thoughts on his performance. Elohim not only resembles the productive worker, he is like an artist who appreciates beauty and design. And it's his own evaluation of his own work that matters and carries weight. There are times when my skilled wife makes something with her hands. Usually that's results in something pretty on the walls or yummy on the table and yummy in my stomach. Now because I have very little of those same skills, I usually just think of them as great. Better than anything I could do, for sure. But sometimes something will not sit right with her. There's some imbalance in shape or taste. I just repeat, no, it it looks good to me, right? But E-Ray, if E-Ray is not convinced, her judgment is final. Like it's possible that the the yummy food that she a might go into like a trash bin or something and like I have to like You know, walk her off the ledge there. But she tells me like she's a perfectionist, she's an artist. Like she takes her craft seriously. And who is to tell her otherwise, right? If she's what sees what she made and it's not good, what can I say? Right? And isn't that the human experience though? Like frustratingly, like we make something, it's not quite what we pictured in our heads. We say or do something. Oh, I didn't mean it that way. Or I didn't mean for that to happen. Thank God that when he created, he did it flawlessly. That's why he discerns goodness in his work. Uh weightier reflection and application of this has to do with morality. Because Elohim is the creator of all things, he's the judge of all that is good and bad, right? We as his creation do not have the right to impose our judgment over his judgment. We have no authority to change the definition of physical laws, moral laws, and biological laws. We must seek God's discernment and lean on His revelation, His discernment of what is good. To do otherwise is rebellion, cosmic treason, simple immaturity. Instead of listening to what God does what does God say on this matter or that matter, we are wicked children. We defiantly ask, says who, right? Or like the serpent, we say, has God indeed said What's worse, we transgress boundaries, suppress truth, and exchange it for a lie. You know, I was think about this verse. No, we're like those described in Isaiah 5:20. Those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light, and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet, and sweet for Continues to today with foolish humans calling male female, female, male, absolute relative, relative, absolute. The list goes on. We must let God, who spoke all things into existence, have the final say on all things, including values and principles. It is He who I'll come back to this later, but for now let's go on to second half of Genesis 1:4. So we saw that God divided the light from darkness. Elohim has spoken and created the light. Elohim has seen that light is good. Next, Elohim separates light. From darkness. So we learn here that God distinguishes between his works. That might seem obvious and plain, but let's see the significance of this. So here some uh subpoints. First I want to stress that both light and dark are God's creation. We're not talking about the light and dark as a uh Analogy for good and evil, which the Bible does talk about that. We're talking about the absence of light and darkness. Our Creator declared in Isaiah 45, 7 to 8. I am the Lord and there is no other. I form the light and create darkness. That word is Barah, right? We talked about that last week. I make peace and create calamity. I the Lord do all these things. Secondly, we should stress that the Lord is sovereign over light and darkness. The Creator is not limited by his creation. His perception is not limited by darkness or enhanced by light. Remember how David puts it in Psalm one thirty nine twelve? Indeed the darkness shall not hide from you, but the night shines as the day. The darkness and light are both alike to you. Thirdly, the one who divides between light and darkness has the right to demand separation, among other things. See that word for divide in Genesis 1. 4 is badel. It's used for division of waters and lights in the rest of this chapter in Genesis 1. The next time you see this verb is in Exodus 26, 33. Their God commands that there be a veil to divide between the holy place and the most holy place in the tabernacle. Later in the law, Badell used to describe or distinguish between holy and unholy, unclean and clean. Israelites from the Canaanites, Levites from the other tribes. All this to conclude that the same Elohim who is holy in majesty, the same Creator who separates light from darkness, the same God demands we be holy in morality and separate from evil. But next, light and dark, God has separated, He calls day and night, respectively. That's what we see in Genesis one five as the first day comes to a close. So to reread that God called the light day and the darkness he called night. So the e Evening and the morning were the first day. From this we get the the fourth truth of the day. God differentiates time periods by His design. So we've already established from the first word of the Bible that there's a beginning in time, that history is linear. And God being omniscient knows all things concerning time. He knows the measure of my days. He knows the hour of Christ's return. He knows the moment a sparrow falls to the ground. And our creator Elohim has also named light as day and darkness as night for our knowledge's sakes. The various lessons we learn from this differentiation of night and day. In Psalm 19, verse 2, David reflects on how day unto day utters speech, and night unto night reveals knowledge. In Psalm ninety, verse twelve, Moses says, God teach us to number our days and gain a heart of wisdom. John Kelvin reflects on another possible lesson. If we had only a single continuous day, we would not realize so clearly the good that God does for us with life. Light. But when night overtakes us and we are cloistered within it, so to speak, needing a candle to guide us, and then when morning returns, we see how God has pitied us. When light uh let's see When lying down and rising up, we must bless his name for protecting us through the night and watching over us while we were asleep. And when day is at hand, let us also thank him for bringing us to a new life. Life. This might be the first lesson of the first day of the first week. But now as we end day one, I want to focus on the second sentence of Genesis 1:5 for a few minutes. A little bit technical, but it says so the evening and the morning were the first day, just two quick subpoints about it. First note how a day it proceeds from evening to Morning for us today. We technically a day begins at midnight at twelve AM. But we normally speak of the dawn as the start of a new day And we tend to measure a day from sunrise to sunrise, whereas the traditional Jewish practice has been to measure it sunset to sunset. Secondly, in Genesis 1, you'll see this formula, six times demarcate the six twenty-four-hour days of creation. Now, throughout the Old Testament, every time there's an ordinal number attached to the word day, we're speaking of literal 24 hours. So even if the day of the Lord, or the day of the Lord's vengeance, lasts longer than twenty-four hours, right, that's more symbolic use of the day. When we see words like first, second, third, fourth, these are ordinal numbers attached today, we're consistently speaking of 24 hours. I bring this up because of the whole young earth versus old earth debate. Now we as church do not take a position on earth's age as a test of fellowship. Right. We don't make it a test of fellowship here, but I will say that my position is the young earth position. I'm not here to argue science with you, but I'm just saying grammatically speaking There's nothing in Genesis 1 that suggests a symbolic use of the word day. You know, this is not poetry, it's just straight narrative, right? Com so we see that in the wild consecutive that I talked about last week, the narrative sequence that we see here. So Genesis one is really about the first hundred forty-four hours of history. So now that we're done with the coverage of the first day, we've set the stage for the rest of the creation week. Now you might find these details, you know, academic, tedious, but there is a gospel significance, even here in these first few verses of the Bible. Sort of hinted at it at the earlier part of the service. I mentioned last time the contrast between old and new creation. We also discussed our fallen state. Relying darkness. Now, with this talk of separation of dark and light, there's here a foreshadowing of the good news of Jesus. So here's what I mean. While the sermon passage I read, Genesis 1 3 to 5 speaks of the natural light The scripture reading, part of the scripture reading Carrie read earlier, 2 Corinthians 4. 6, speaks of the supernatural light Prophet Moses speaks of that electromagnetic radiation detectable to the human eye. Apostle Paul speaks of the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. But with both, it's the same Elohim, Creator God, who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. This kind of work in a sinner's heart is called effectual calling. It's God's work that utilizes apostolic preaching of the good news of Christ. It's God's work that overcomes satanic. Blinding of our corrupt minds. But I should back up. Why are such drastic measures necessary? Why must the Creator Elohim speak today over our hearts as he did the first day? Well, again, it's the creation fall redemption story arc of the scriptures. In just a few pages, we'll see the first man and woman lead the world into futility and bondage. And every man and woman since then have inherited their nature and followed in their example. Morally speaking, we love darkness rather than light We hate to have our deeds exposed. We hide the shameful things done in secret. Not only our sins, but the things in our hearts defile us from within. God condemns Evil thoughts, adultery, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, the list goes on. So because we walk in darkness, we're identified with darkness We're justly under the Lord's righteous wrath. We rightly deserve to be expelled from His kingdom, cast out into outer darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. But thankfully, God did not leave us like this. After creation and the fall, He made a way for a redemption. God sent his son, God and man in one person, Jesus, the word made flesh. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. He came into the world as the light of the world. Those who follow him do not walk in darkness, but have the light of life. But as is the case with every sinner in every era, it was so in the first century. Darkness does not comprehend the light, so people rejected Christ. One of his own disciples betrayed him, colluding with the religious leaders to have him killed. But this was all part of the plan of salvation. The light of the world gave himself over to the power of darkness for our sake. Light of the world by darkness slain. He was led to be crucified. He died on the cross as our substitute, paid the penalty of our sins. He declared his work finished, then breathed his last. But then on the third day Jesus rose from the grave, demonstrated to many that he's truly alive before ascending to heaven. And someday he'll return. judge all mankind, he'll establish his kingdom, he'll lead his people to a new heaven and new earth. There he'll be the everlasting light of the new Jerusalem Nations of those saved and the kings of the earth will walk in the light of the Lamb. But Christ did all that so that we might be delivered from the power of darkness. We can be in God's marvelous light through Jesus. So here's how: repent, turn from sin, self-righteousness, and selfishness Believe in Jesus, then you'll be sons and daughters of light and no longer abide in darkness. You'll be conveyed into the kingdom of the Son of His love. This miraculous transformation is not granted by good works of your own. Heaven is a gift, undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Once we accept this good news, we live as new creation, we bear witness to the light of Christ, and go into the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And while we point to our Creator, we can testify to the glowing beauty of Christ. So let's make our final song, our declaration: Fair is the sunshine. Fairer still the moonlight and all the twinkling starry host. Jesus shines brighter, Jesus shines pure than all the angels heaven can boast. Let's pray. So we thank you that we enjoy your creation. After dinner we can turn on the lamp and do our studies and work on our hobbies and Read books, watch TV, or just whatever we desire to do. We thank you, the creator of all things. We bring you glory. We thank you for that miracle of the first week, creation week. We're also thankful for the miracle you did in our hearts. That the light of the gospel might shine over our hearts. So that could not be done with our corrupt fallenness, with our hearts that are deceitful. We're thankful that through your word, through the gospel, where you do these miracles. We want to see more of these miracles. We want to see see them with children we know, we wanna see them with friends in our lives, family members who do not know you. And so we turn to you, the God of creation. Pray that you will create in the hearts of the people we pray for a clean heart, that you will work in their hearts, you will convict them. That the seed will bear much fruit. So we pray for that and for those who have already this um this knowledge of you. That we will grow in that knowledge and that we'll Will be salt and light in this world. Christ's name we pray. Amen. W