I don't know much about the Amish community. We do enjoy shopping at the Dutch country market in Laura once in a while. We visited Lancaster a few times for sights and sounds and other activities. But I don't have much insight into their social dynamics besides what I've read online. I don't know firsthand what it's like to Grow up Amish. Most of what I know is from that weird Al Yankovic song. Parody song from mid-90s. Amish Paradise So while reading about them, I learned about what's called the rum springer. It literally means running around. It's a rite of passage during the teenage years. It's when a youth aged 16 and above face some life-altering decisions. Do I stay, get baptized, join the Amish Church, get married and settle down here? Or do I leave for the outside world? During those pivotal years, they're permitted to learn about what's out there. They may try non-traditional clothes and hairstyles. They may drive, not horse-drawn vehicles. They may be excused from home prayer. They may get a taste of alcohol and other recreational drugs. Apparently, though, a large percentage chooses to stay, something like 85 to 90 percent. I say all this because I wonder if every man or woman who grew up grows up in a traditional religious home faced something like the rumspringer That is okay. I know my grandparents and parents were or are devout Christians. Perhaps all of my siblings, cousins, and friends are as well. But there's a come there comes a time when I must make the choice. Will I follow Christ myself? Is this what I want to do? Not what everyone else wants me to do. You may face that question in teenagehood. It could be later. I get the impression that Abram's nephew, Loth, was older when he ventured out on his own. Up to this point in Genesis, as we begin chapter 13, Lot played a passive role. He's the son of Haran. His father dies, and his grandfather takes him out of earth His grandfather dies and but he's still overshadowed by his uncle. I'm sure Lot has a will of his own But he's been under the authority and influence of other men most if not all of his life. So now what if he strikes out on his own? Will his relationship with Abram change? More importantly, will his relationship with God change? So let's look at Genesis thirteen, the entirety of the chapter, our sermon text for today. Genesis thirteen. Then Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him to the south. Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver and in gold, and he went on his journey from the south as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and I, to the place of the altar. which he had made there at first. And there Abram called on the name of the Lord. Lot also who went with Abram had flocks and herds and tents Now the land was not able to support them that they might dwell together, for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. The Canaanites and the Perizzites then dwelt in the land. So Abram said to Lot, Please, let there be no strife between you and me, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brethren. Is not the whole land before you? Please separate from me If you take the left, then I will go to the right, or if you go to the right, then I will go to the left. And Lot lifted his eyes and saw all the plain of Jordan that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as you go towards Zoar. And Lot chose for himself all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east, and they separated from each other. Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the city of Canaan. Of the plain, and pitched his tent even as far as Sodom. But the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and sinful against the Lord. And the Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, Lift your eyes now and look from the place where you are, northward, southward, eastward, and westward, for all the land which you see, I give to you. you and your descendants forever and I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if a man could number the dust of the earth, then your descendants also could be numbered. Arise, walk in the land through its length and its width, for I give it to you. Then Abram moved his tent and went and dwelt by the Terebin trees of Mamreh, which are in heaven, and built an altar there to the Lord. Genesis thirteen is a straightforward narrative. Abram and Lot return to the promised land together. But soon there's division. They must separate. Lot goes one way while Abram goes another. That's simple enough Of course, there's more. I think the text itself indicates some important lessons for us readers. I know some significant names, words, and phrases repeated in today's passage. And by observing them, we can derive some key principles. First noteworthy repetition is the name of the Lord, Yahweh. Three times we see it in Genesis 13. Verse 4 ends with the familiar refrain from the previous chapter. Abram called on the name of the Lord. Verse 18 ends with the familiar scene. Abram building an altar to the Lord. And in between, while Abram is for God, in verse 13, the men of Sodom are against the Lord. Here's another noteworthy repetition. It's a phrase translated as lift eyes and see or look. Look at verse 10. This is after Abram allows Lot to go first. Moses narrates, and Lot lifted his eyes and saw the plain of Jordan. There's that phrase, lift eyes and see or look. That's a goal-getter. He liked what he saw. He went for it. You might feel bad for Abram as he has to settle for what seems to be second best. But as soon as his nephew is out of sight, Abram hears the Lord's comforting voice. Look at verse 14. God says to the patriarch, Lift your eyes now and look from the place where you are. There's that phrase again. Lift eyes and See or look. If we truly believe that God wants what's best for us. We'd rather be in Abram's position than Lot's. Don't look with the eyes of flesh. Look with eyes of faith. I'll have more to say about this contrast later, but for now here's the outline. We have verses 1 to 4 as one part, 5 to 9 as another, 10 to 13 as the third. 14 to 18 as the fourth. So based on these four clusters of verses, I say there are four paths for choosing God's best for our lives. First, in times of reflection, repeat your spiritual discipline of worship. That's verses 1 to 4. Secondly, in times of contention, consider the pursuit of peace. That's 5 to 9. Thirdly, in times of decision, discern the moral dangers of society. That's 10 to 13. Fourthly, in times of separation, set your hearts on the promises of God. That's 14 to 18. The first path for choosing God's best for our lives is in times of reflection, repeat your spiritual discipline of worship. Much of what we see in Genesis 13, 1 to 4 is a mirror reflection of what happened in chapter 12. Remember there was sorry. Remember there was a famine in Canaan, so Abram went down to Egypt. Now Abram goes up from Egypt. He's retracing his steps. He returned to the southern portions of the land known as Negev, literally south. He went back up north to the central part of the land. He ended up between Bethu and I. That's where earlier he pitched his tent and built his altar. These are familiar paths and stops in Abram's journey. So what has changed? Has anything changed? I'd say yes. As he revisits those places, Abram's not the same this time around He has increased in wealth, consisting of livestock, silver, and gold. You saw his gains in Egypt in Genesis 12:16. Sheep, oxen, male donkeys, female donkeys, and camels. He has more employees, male and female servants. Well those are just material gains. They're not as important as those hard-earned spiritual lessons. Remember that in Egypt Abram walked in fear of man rather than in fear of God. By lying about his marital status, he endangered his wife, he imperiled the Pharaoh and his house. The pagan king had to rebuke Abram for his dishonesty. Abram had to learn from his mistakes. And he's going to keep learning. But for now, as he returns to Canaan, he'd have time to reflect on those lessons and praise the Lord who taught him those lessons. He'd have a greater appreciation of who God is and what he has promised. Are Abram's fickle, imperfect, susceptible to temptation? The Lord is constant, perfect, unchanging. So even as Abram arrives at the same place of the altar, calling on the same name of the Lord, there's a freshness in worship. There's newness in his praise. There's more urgency and fervency as his faith has grown. As a brief application, I turn to you. Think about how many of you have worshiped at the same location for years, even decades. Maybe you're sitting at the same exact cue since the 2010s, the 2000s, the 90s, the 80s, the 70s, maybe. But are you the same person? Sure, you're older, but besides that, by God's grace of sanctification, I hope and pray that you have changed and you are changing. You may have had your tribulation, but can you say it produced in you perseverance, character, and hope? Romans 5 tells us. You may have had moments of immaturity and timidity, but are you now more mature in Christ and bolder in witness? Each time I see you from up here or greet you at the door as you leave, I should be encountering someone who's always leveling up spiritually, right? As we repeat our spiritual discipline of worship week by week, our experience of God should be what I call an upward spiral. So that's the first of four paths for choosing God's best for our lives. As Abram leaves behind Egypt, he's still a worshiper of Yahweh, but hopefully better than ever. His relationship with God is growing. Not only that, Abram's ability to relate with other humans should improve as well. That leads us to his next task. In times of contention, consider the pursuit of peace. Now when I say contention, I'm not saying Abram and Lot were at each other's throats. It's not like a Western movie where two rugged men face off and say, This town's not big enough for the two of us. But the Bible does tell us the land was not big enough for the two of them. Both Lot and Abram had too many flocks and herds. There were too many tents full of servants. As expected, the first half of verse seven reports that a strife developed between the herzmen. The second part of the verse seems out of place. What do Canaanites and Perizzites have to do with Abram and Lot? Some commentators think that Canaanites were city dwellers from urban contexts, while parasites were country folks in unwalled villages. But more important than their distinction is their commonality. They were both people of the land watching closely the division of rich foreigners. As one commentator observes, the contention between Abram and Lot would be, one, very dangerous, two, very scandalous. The Canaanites and the Parasites have capitalized on internal dysfunction they see there, they might seize this chance to attack and plunder them. Even if they're not so violent, Abraham bin Laden will be bad witnesses to the community if they allow the strike to continue. So there's a serious problem, but Abram's on it. He gets right to the point in verse 8. Strife should not exist because Abram and Lot are brethren. They're kinsmen. They're family. They share faith in the one and only God, in land of many gods. And thankfully the solution is simple. If they go their separate ways, stripes This is a wise move. Abram demonstrates how in times of contention we must consider the pursuit of peace. And Abram doesn't wait for peace to happen. He's not passive about it. As Paul would say later, if it is possible, as much as it depends on him, Abram will live peaceably with all men. He seeks peace, pursues it, he expedites peace by giving Lot the first choice in the matter. Abram and Lot move apart like the light poles of two magnets. Abram and Lot were part ways just as Paul and Barnabas parted ways in Acts 15. It's what's best for them, and those all those united to them. Again, let's pause for a quick application. When there's a heated dispute somewhere, are you the one who lowers the temperature of the room? If not, why not be one of those peacemakers this year? The verse for us to talk about maybe later, Ephesians 4, 2 to 3. 42 to 3 says, as all of us walk worthy of the calling with which we were called, we must, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long suffering, bear with one another in love, endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There's a lot of other passages that talk about unity. Now up to this point, Abram's the model for choosing God's best for our lives. He's on the right path. He worships God in times of reflection. He pursues peace in times of contention. Now let's consider all this from Lot's perspective. He too must decide, will he choose God's best for his life? That gets to the third path in times of decision, discern the moral dangers of society. I've never bought and owned a house, but I know the three rules of real estate. The three rules of real estate are location, location, and location. Where a property sits determines long-term value and attraction. Now, if we only care about material blessings and prosperity, Lot got himself a great deal. Look at the way Moses describes all the plain of Jordan in verse ten. The word plain is kikar, indicating a round area. The circle touches at its bottom the upper tip of the Dead Sea. It encompasses both sides of the Jordan River. But you see, Lot crosses the Jordan to the eastern side and heads southward along the Dead Sea coast. He's going to arrive near Zoar, also known as Bella. You see, the land was well watered everywhere. It was verdant, green like the Garden of Eden, the first home of mankind. It was like Egypt, watered by the Nile. Where Abram and Lat uh Lot recently visited. Maybe it would remind of the river Euphrates and their homeland. No wonder then that Lot chose for himself all the plain of Jordan according to verse eleven. By doing so, he left the promised land. He dwelt in the cities of the plain. He eventually pitched his tent at Sodom. Meanwhile, Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan. Now, from an earthly perspective, you think he got the raw end of the deal But Moses, going back to verse 10, reminds us that the land's fertility and becundity won't last. Now you might say to me, give lots some slack. Hindsight's twenty twenty How could he have known that Sodom and Gomorrah would be judged? It's not like he could flip to Genesis 13, 10 in his Bible app and read what Moses said about Sodom. But Lot can read people You know soon enough. By experience the truth of verse 13, the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and sinful against the Lord. And what made them so bad? Now when we think of Sodom, what gets all the attention or sins of sodomy, homosexuality? But according to Prophet Ezekiel, Sodomites were also guilty of pride, gluttony, laziness. Uh only guilty of that in my life. They were guilty of sins of omission as they did not help the poor and the needy. Guilty of that too. This isn't Ezekiel 16 by the way, all these things would become plain and obvious to Lot. Over time, Lot would regret deciding to live among them Can read this later, but as 2 Peter 2, 7-8 tells us, Lot was righteous, yet he was oppressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked. He was his righteous soul, righteous by faith in Christ, felt torment day by day, day to day, seeing and hearing their lawless deeds. It all started with this decision. He made on this day. So it turns out even if Locke was righteous by faith like Abram, he wasn't wise like Abram. Lothwith learned the hard way, the first lesson of the Psalms. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scorn. It's best. Good application here to avoid heading down certain streets. It's best to decline a seat at some tables. Of course, practically speaking, we can't separate from the world completely. But that's application again. Think about another verse from Ephesians. Chapter 5 verse 11. Think about how we can avoid fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness and rather expose them. For that end, to choose God's best for our lives in times of decision, discern the moral dangers of society. So we're out of the picture now. We turn back to Abram. I wonder if Abram felt some sadness, wistfulness at this point. It'd be nice to have some companionship with other men. Remember Abram's oldest brother died early, his other brother's not around, his father passed away, now his nephew is leaving him. It's true that those who follow God may sometimes experience loneliness. That Elijah in the Old Testament, Jesus understands his disciples scattered during tribulation. When he needed them the most, they left them alone. Close to death, Apostle Paul was eager to see Timothy. Why? Demas has forsaken him, having loved his present world. Others were gone too. Today, saints are shunned and forsaken by close friends and family for following Jesus. Christians converted after marriage are abandoned by their unbelieving spouses Some even pay the ultimate price in honor killings. As disheartening as that may be There's great comfort from God. We see it in the last part of Genesis 13. In verses 14 through 18, we follow the fourth and final path for choosing God's best for our lives. In times of separation. Set your hearts on the promises of God. If there's indeed some age gap between them, that's the closest thing to a son. that Abram had now he's gone. The laughs, the talks, the camaraderie were no more. It's like Abram became an empty nester, even before he became a father. There might be a temptation to covet the better land Lot has chosen. But it's in such moments that the Lord speaks his promises to Abram. God fills the gap in his life In two ways I see. First there are land promises. If Abram did indeed struggle with envy, if the grass did look greener on the other side, if his eyes did turn a shade of green, God would minister to him. In verse 14, the Lord commands them to take a panoramic view: north, south, east, west. Abram's reminded all that he sees is his. And besides the land promises, the Lord makes seed promises. Look at verse 15. Abram has to part with his nephew, but he's promised descendants. And we're not talking about a handful of people a few generations down In verse 16, the Lord reveals that their number will be as the dust of the earth. This is an amazing declaration considering Sarah's barren. But when is God guaranteeing it? It's good as done. All that remains for Abram to do is to stay within the land of promise and wait for the fulfillment of God's word. That's what he's commanded in verse 17. And as we end the chapter in verse 18, we find them at the Tereban trees of Mamre. In Hebron. Mamre is the name of a man, an Amorite, a descendant of Canaan. Yet he and his two brothers became allies of Abram. We'll see more about that later. We don't know the full story how that came about, but maybe they respected Abram's God, or even better, shared in Abram's faith Whatever the exact nature of their relationship, Abram's allowed to freely worship at the property of Mamre in Mamre's grove of trees There Abram responds to God's revelation with gratitude, I hope I think, building an altar there to the Lord. This is the chance to reflect on lost departure. It's in such times of separation that we must set our hearts on the promises of God. choosing God's best for our lives. Now I don't want to you know give this impression or you to understand this sermon to be some four-step plan for a happy life. Or self-improvement. Genesis 13 is not mainly a passage concerning one old man's wisdom and one young man's foolishness. It's primarily about God. His promises. Who he is. It's about the God of the Bible who makes promises and keeps them First and foremost about calling on the Lord's name and worshiping Him. So now's the ask the time to ask yourselves. What's my relationship with God like? Have you called on the name of the Lord to be saved? No percern that left to ourselves. We need saving. We set up idols in our hearts by coveting what belongs to others. Phil talked about that a little bit during the prayer. Our hatred, pride, wrath, perversity, gossip lead to strife and contention We're no better than the people of Sodom. We're guilty of sexual immorality, premarital and extramarital sex, heterosexual, homosexual sins. That's why we deserve God's holy, righteous judgment. We stand under his wrath and we're headed for hell. Left to ourselves. But God did not leave us like this. The Father sent his son Jesus to bridge the gap between God and sinners. Jesus is God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life. And he gave up his perfect life to pay the penalty for our sins. He died in our place to reconcile all things to himself. He made peace through the blood of the cross. And having finished his work there, he breathed his last. He was buried. But on the third day, Jesus rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection for many days. And the Father highly exalted his son. He gave him the name which is above every name. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind, th the living and the dead. Then every knee will bow, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. As that judgment day is approaching, now's the time to call on the name of Jesus to be saved from sins. There's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. So repent, turn away from sin, forget any notion of saving yourself, call upon the name of Jesus. Lord Jesus. Believe that you have life in his name. Cannot earn or deserve a place in heaven with good works. Eternal life's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone and Christ alone. So now we can live in confidence that whatever happens, whatever God ordains, is right All things work together for good to those who love God. We have this comfort from our Lord Jesus. Everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake. Shall receive a hundredfold and inherit eternal life. Great comfort. When we're lacking, we're assured that God is our portion in the land of the living. We can really mean what we're about to sing, complete indeed, each one supplied, and no good thing to me denied. Since thou my portion, Lord, will be, I ask no more. Complete Indy was praying Lord, we do thank you and praise you that we have your word. We see that just men and women throughout history. I put their faith in you. They've struggled. There are a lot of things they didn't know. A lot of questions. What is my next step? Where should I go? What where should I settle? Who should I associate with? These are questions that are relevant, whether it's thousands of years ago or just even today. But we thank you that you are the same, that you revealed yourself through your word, and we can trust in you. We know who you are, we can put our faith in you, and we can walk by faith. So we pray that in various seasons of our lives, whether it's reflecting, whether there's contention, Or whether there's just decisions to be made and whether we're separating from others. Or pray that we would turn to you, trust in you, seek the truth that is stable and secure. We thank you that as we just go to work this week, as we turn back to our lives, just out in the world, at schools and workplace and various places. That we look to you, that we lift our eyes of faith to see the promises you have made in your word. Thank you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.