Good morning. Would you please turn in your Bibles with me to the Book of Colossians, chapter three? We'll be focusing this morning on the first four verses of Colossians chapter three. The Apostle Paul under Divine Inspiration writes these words. If then you were raised with Christ, Seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him. In glory. Let's look to the Lord in prayer once again. Father, we have Had the privilege of singing your praises this morning. We have had the privilege of reading your word. We have had the privilege of blessing the name of our Savior in song and in prayer And now we have the privilege of opening her word together and looking into it. We come, Father, with the expectation that your spirit, the author of the words that we have read, will do the work that you have promised will be done. That your word will not return to you void or empty, but will accomplish the purpose for which you have sent it. May your purpose be accomplished in each. Of our hearts and minds this day. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to begin this morning with a question. If you knew that the Christians in a certain city were about to experience a catastrophe. Some natural disaster perhaps. And you were going to write a letter to them, what would you say? If you knew perhaps a year or two in advance that a a cat a catastrophic event, a massive destructive event was going to come on the the city of Dallas or Chicago or closer to home, Baltimore, or Columbia, or Washington, D. C. What in your mind would be the most important things that you believe would need to be said to the Christians in that city in a letter? The reason I ask that question is because that's exactly the situation that we have before us this morning in the book of Colossians. As we look carefully at the chronology of the New Testament, we find that the letter that is before us this morning was written about the year 57 A. D. by the Apostle Paul. And just two or three years after this letter was written, the city of Colasi was leveled by an earthquake. A massive earthquake. Buildings and homes were destroyed. Many structures were likewise destroyed in the fires that spread in the wake of The earthquake, and most of the inhabitants of Colossae lost their homes and their livelihoods, and in many cases their lives, historians tell us. And no doubt the Christians of the city of Colossae were just as severely affected by all of this as the rest of the population. And in fact, over time, over decades and a few centuries, the earthquake problem in this area became so severe that the After many attempts to rebuild, the city of Colossae was finally abandoned. And the site was not actually rediscovered until the 1830s. Archaeologists rediscovered that location, and today the site of the city of Colossi is a large open field. Near a city called Hanaz in the modern day nation of Turkey We don't often think about that, that it's the modern-day nation of Turkey where the Apostle Paul did a great deal of his missionary effort. Now, of course the Apostle Paul didn't know that this calamity was coming, just three years after he wrote this letter. But this gives a striking example of why it's important for us to always keep in mind the ultimate authorship of the Word of God. That it is indeed the Word of God. 2 Timothy 3. 16 tells us that all scripture consists of the breathed-out words of God. God used human instruments to communicate his words. And 2 Peter chapter 1 tells us that the nature of Holy Scripture is that holy men of God were moved or driven by the Holy Spirit to write the words that they wrote. And we're told by Peter that in some cases those who wrote didn't understand the significance of what they were writing entirely. In some cases, for example, the prophecies of the Old Testament, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, things that we find in the book of Daniel, these were things for a far, far distant future. And the men who wrote these things didn't entirely understand what they were writing were told, because it was for a later time. Much later. But in the case of the words that we have before us in the book of Colossians this morning, there was a significance and an importance and a purpose that was very soon to be realized. Not far distant, but very soon. This is a letter written by God the Holy Spirit to Christians who are about to lose everything in terms of this material world. In some cases, no doubt, they were even going to lose their earthly lives. Or they were going to lose loved ones. Great calamity was about to come upon them. But what do we find in the book of Colossians? What does God the Holy Spirit tell these people to do through the Apostle Paul? Does he tell them, evacuate the city, because it's going to be destroyed? We don't find that Does the Holy Spirit tell them save up and buy a year's worth of food and other things that you'll need so that you can ride this out? So that you can by some means in some way in some degree of comfort survive this catastrophe Does the Holy Spirit say, to put it in our terms today, go down to your local membership club and for $3,000 you can buy a pallet load of food that'll last you a year, a survival kit. You can go down to Sam's Club or Costco and get those. Does the Holy Spirit tell them to do that Does the Holy Spirit tell the church at Colossi what foreign investments they should make with their assets to protect them from the coming calamity? None of these things do we find in the book of Colossians. What do we find? We find a book that is about the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ If you want to remember the outline of the book of Colossians, you just need to remember three words that begin with the letter D. The book of Colossians is all about Christ's preeminence. And in Colossians chapter 1, we find the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ declared. In Colossians chapter 2, we find the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ defended. Against Satan's triple threats of worldly philosophy, legalism, and man-made doctrines. And then in Colossians chapters 3 and 4, we find the preeminence of Jesus Christ. demonstrated. We find exhortations and commands to the church and to the individual believer to demonstrate in our lives The preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ in every circumstance, in every situation. Now we might well ask the question, why write a letter? that in the first two chapters is packed with nothing but theology, and then in the next two chapters talks about how we're to deal With one another and with the world, when in fact these people are about to lose everything. Why write detailed instructions to Christians about Christian living when they're soon going to be in this kind of a struggle for their very survival? On the face of it, it seems utterly impractical. Woefully ignorant of the real need. And I think that many in today's evangelical churches would not hesitate to call this kind of an action sinful because we're so materially focused. God the Holy Spirit through the Apostle Paul did not instruct Colossian believers in physical survival. He instructed them in spiritual survival. Seek those things which are above. Where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. Why? Because you died. You were crucified with Christ, Paul has told them in chapter 2. You're dead in Christ and alive in Christ. That's where your life is. Your life is hidden with Christ and God. That is the place of ultimate safety. No message was more relevant for the Colossian Christians. This is what God in His wisdom placed before them as the most relevant thing, the most important thing. No message is more relevant for us in our time and in our need. We live in a peaceful country, but we know As we look at the history of our nation, not only the recent history, but the longer-term history of our nation, how quickly peace can be removed We forget that it was not that long ago, relatively speaking, that the United States went through a civil war in which tens of thousands of people lost their lives. And by the way, that was also a time in which, because of the work of chaplains among the Armies of that day. There was a great turning to the Lord among the soldiers because they were facing death and they knew That it wasn't survival in this world that ultimately mattered. There's nothing wrong with making a living. There's nothing wrong with saving for the future or providing for your family. God commands us to do those things. That's not the point. The point is that God repeatedly warns us in the pages of Scripture that those things are not the source of peace. Jesus said, John chapter 14, My peace. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives to you do I give. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. What is that peace? Well, in the preceding verse in John chapter 14, Jesus said He says, the helper, the comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all things that I've said to you. That's where peace is. God's true peace is to be found in salvation through Jesus Christ, in the indwelling of the Spirit, through the comfort that is thereby available to us. As we're taught how to live and how to think by the inspired word of God. The Apostle Paul's fervent and continued prayer for the Colossian believers, people who were about I pray, Timothy and I are praying, that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you may walk worthy of the Lord fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might according to his glorious power For all patience and long-suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sin. Christ, who is seated at the right hand of God What is the knowledge of which the Apostle Paul speaks here? What is the growth that he speaks of according to the Book of Colossians? Well, the central focus of that knowledge and that growth is the person and the work and the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's another way to remember the outline of the book of Colossians, and that's to remember John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life. In Colossians chapter 1, it's almost as if the Apostle Paul had that verse in mind as he was writing this epistle. In chapter 1 of the book of Colossians, he sets forth Jesus Christ as the way to eternal life, the source of God's all-sufficient supply for the experiences of this presentation. Present life. In Colossians chapter 1, we have the most power-packed statement of the doctrine of the person and the work and the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ that we find anywhere in Scripture. And then in Colossians chapter 2, Paul sets forth Jesus Christ as the truth in contrast to and in opposition to all the worldly philosophies and legalism and man-made doctrines, man-made religions. And God the Holy Spirit, through the Apostle Paul, tells the Colossian believers chapter 2, verse 18, don't let anyone cheat you of your reward. By entangling you in those falsehoods, entangling you in the thinking of this world. This is what is important to God. And then in Colossians chapters 3 and 4, Paul sets forth Jesus Christ as the life. Not only the life in terms of our salvation bringing us to spiritual life, but also in terms of the life that we are to live. He's the one who's to be preeminent in the Christian's character and conduct. As we read through chapters 3 and 4, we find various categories. Christ is to be preeminent in the home, in the workplace, and our witness to the world, and our service within Christ's body. In everything and in every circumstance. Paul, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is holding forth the person of Jesus Christ as the one who is, in his very essence, the total contradiction. The total opposite, the total antithesis of this present perishing world system. He holds up the wisdom of Christ. Christ as the total opposite of the way the world thinks. He holds up the life that we're to live in Christ as the total opposite of the condemnation that the world is under. And he holds up the life that we're to live in Christ as the total opposite of the way the world lives and thinks. All of this was written to people who were about to lose everything materially, everything that the world values, and in many cases, quite possibly their own lives. And with this in mind, this was the most vital knowledge that these believers could have as preparation for what to come. was going to come. In chapter 3, verse 15, just a little beyond where we read earlier. Paul writes this, he says, Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which you were also called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. And I want to stop right there because it's very interesting to look at those words in the original language. In the original language, it literally means let the Word of Christ be at home. As a welcome guest within you. Welcome the Word of God as a welcome guest within your heart, within your mind. mind. And if that's true, you'll be teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace. In your hearts to the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, you will be equipped to do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him Chapter 3, verse 15 literally reads like this: Decide with absolute determination that the peace of Christ will be the judge of all your thoughts and actions. In every situation, whether in calm or in catastrophe. And how's that accomplished? By the Word of God being a welcome guest within our hearts and our minds. That's entirely counter to the world's way of thinking, isn't it? But it's God's perfect way for his saints. It's the way of safety, even in the face of loss of possessions, even even in the face of loss of physical life itself. Your life, God says, is hidden with Christ in God, the ultimate place of safety. It's hidden in Christ in God now and for eternity. You know, our problem is not what some people, even in the church, want to tell us that it's I've heard people, I'm sure you've heard them say also uh that some in the church are in danger of being so heavenly minded that they're no earthly good. I'm sure we've heard that. I think our danger is the opposite, according to Scripture. We're in danger of being so earthly-minded. That we're not setting our minds on things above. That's not where our affections truly are. If then, or as the Apostle Paul literally says it here, the Apostle Paul being a very logical writer. The Apostle Paul usually spends the first half of his epistles roughly teaching doctrine, reminding them of what they already know, the various churches, and then leading them into additional truth. And then he comes to a point where there's a conjunction of some sort, a logical connective, where he says, all right. On the basis of knowing these things, therefore, this is how you should live and how you should think. And in this case, we have two of them. In Colossians chapter 3. We have first of all this connective right at the beginning of chapter 3, if then, or literally since then, you've been read raised with Christ, seek those things which are above. And then verse 5 and onward, we find a number of cases where the Apostle Paul uses the word therefore. If you've been raised with Christ, since then you've been raised with Christ, therefore put to death your members which are on earth. Therefore, verse 12, as the elect of God. Holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, humbleness of mind, and so on. The Bible is a very logical book. The Bible is a very reasonable book And dear friends, this morning I'd like to focus our attention in particular on Just very briefly, what are those things above? What are those things above? What is it that we find seated in Christ at the right hand of God We find his eternality seated there. We find his holiness seated there. We find his immutability, his unchangeability seated there. We find his omnipotence seated there. We find his omniscience seated there. We find his infinite wisdom seated there. We find his infinite love. We find his infinite grace. And we find, as the Apostle Paul tells us in chapter 2 of this epistle, we find the head of the church seated there. The head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. This world is passing away, but Christ's church is eternal. And so Ephesians chapter 5 tells us that he is now at work. By the Holy Spirit in this world, in this present age, He's at work sanctifying us by the cleansing power of His Word That he might, as we're told in Ephesians chapter 5, present us to himself on that great day when this world passes away and the new heavens and new earth commence, that he might present us to himself a glorious church Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, holy and without blemish for eternity. Where on earth can you find that? Nowhere. These things being true, let me ask some questions this morning. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above. What are you seeking? Christian, what are you seeking this morning? Are you seeking the things that will prepare you for the life to come? Are you seeking the things that will honor God in this life here and now? What are you accumulating in your life? What are you investing your time in? What are you investing your mind in? What are you feeding to your spirit? What are you exposing your household to, your spouse, your children? What are you watching? What are you reading? What are you listening to? Are you focusing your affections on the things of this earth, on the philosophies of this world, on the thinking of those who are bound for hell? Or are you thinking about those things which are above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God? Do you desire Him, His person, His holiness above all else? Many places in the Word of God, this world system and the ways of this world, the thinking of this world, is described as a particular kind of character, a harlot. We find this in the opening chapters of the book of Proverbs, in particular in the Old Testament. But we also find it in the New Testament, and I'd like to call your attention to just one example this morning. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, beginning at verse 9, I just want to very briefly work through a number of verses here But beginning at 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9, the Apostle Paul says this: Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous Nor drunkards nor revilers nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you But you were washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. In other words, Christians. You've been separated from these things. These are past tense things. They're supposed to be past tense things with us. Don't go back to them. And then verse 12. The Apostle Paul says this. He says, all things are lawful for me. And this is This is something that requires some explanation. What the Apostle Paul is really saying there, literally, is all things are possible to me. But he follows that immediately with, but all things are not helpful. What does he mean by that? More literally, he is saying, all things are not things that I accumulate for their supposed benefit, because they don't. All things are lawful for me, all things are possible for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any of them. Literally, I will not be mastered by them. And then he speaks, because he's speaking in a particular context here, of foods and matters related to foods. But then he comes back and he says, now the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord and the Lord for the body, and God both raised up the Lord and will raise us up by his power. And then notice the principle of our life in Christ that we find in verse 15. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. Or do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her? For the two, he says, God says, shall become one flesh. But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him. And then Paul says, flee sexual immorality. And here, in the original language, it's actually stronger than the mere physical act. It's actually a reference to promiscuity of any kind. Promiscuity of any kind That allows our minds to wander and to grasp hold of and to set our affections upon things that displease God. Every sin that man that a man does, Paul says, is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality commits sin against his own body. Why all the imperatives here? Why must we flee? Immorality. Actually, it's not merely immorality of the body, but also This term incorporates immorality of the mind, of the spirit. What does Paul say? Next, verse 19. Here's the great principle. Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you? You, whom you have from God, and you are not your own, for you were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. The truly blood-bought spirit-intwelled believer in the Lord Jesus Christ must utterly reject the things of earth That is not where our affections must be. We must, in a very real sense, despise those things. Why? Because you're the present temple of the living God on earth. Those things can only defile the temple. Those things can only pull you down. They may seem to bring pleasure or success or many other things, but in reality they only bring misery. Why? Because they defile the dwelling place of God. And these things are under the curse. They're dying. They can do nothing for you except confuse you and defeat you. But there is no confusion or defeat in Christ. There's perfect clarity. There is absolute victory in Christ These things can't do a thing for you. Christ has done everything for you. He bought you with his own blood, Paul says. You're bought with a price. He owns you. He is the one person in all of the universe who has the wisdom and the holiness And the knowledge to consistently and without fail have your best interests at heart as a believer. The world won't have that And for all those reasons, he demands and he truly deserves your undivided loyalty. You're not your own. You were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. We must flee to the preeminent Christ. We must flee to the heavenly altar. We must flee to the heavenly throne of grace. We must rest in the one who knows our future perfectly and will control our future perfectly And has extended grace to us even though he knows our past perfectly. You must submit to His mind, His will, His Lordship. If then you were raised with Christ. Seek those things which are above, as the authorized version has it, set your affections on top of Things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth, for you died and your life is hidden. In the ultimate place of safety for now and for eternity. Your life is hidden with Christ in God. Amen. Let us pray