Well, I'm grateful for the opportunity to come up to Maryland and experience more heat and humidity than we have in Florida. I consider myself a uh in a way a self-supporting missionary to Pensacola, Florida. If you were to give me the globe and say, pick a spot where you'd like to minister for the rest of your life. I can tell you it would not be Florida. I know a lot of people go there for vacation, but uh personally I like cool weather. I like snow. I like mountains. I like all the things you don't find in Florida. But you know, the Lord has, I believe, called me there to reach the lost of Pensacola through the tool of education. And um He has blessed in many ways, and I'm appreciative of how he's worked in in my life, my family's life. It's not always easy. And it's not always easy, I know, even here at faith, as we're looking for a a pastor, those times of transition, those times of change. Are never easy. They're never things that you would want. Say, oh, I want to go through a time like that. But if I can be a little bit like the Apostle Paul and come and be an encouragement to you this morning, that's my desire to be. We would, I think, collectively, whether here at faith or our church, we would consider ourselves a Bible-believing church, right? If someone were to ask you, what kind of church do you go to? We don't want to say, well, I'm of this denomination or that denomination. We just say we're a Bible-believing church. But what does that really mean? Well, we'd probably say it means that We actually have scripture references with our doctrinal statement. And I checked your website, you do, so that's good. You qualify as a Bible-believing church corporately. But what about the individual living, breathing, working, going to work, having a family, raising children? What about the individual elements that make up this corporate body of believers? Could we still consider ourselves, or better yet, maybe I should say, if someone who was close to us responded to us, would they say, yes, they are a Bible-believing individual? Sometimes we like to to classify ourselves as that, but do we always live up to it? This past week, since we were up, kind of what has become a family tradition for us is uh when we meet together in the summertime to go to Kenobles. It's an amusement park up in in um Pennsylvania. I'm not sure if any of you have heard of it. I hadn't before. This little tradition got started. So we went there the other day and we had our our ride tickets. We had plenty of time on our hands. Um we had maps that showed us where the rides were. And you know what we did for a good portion of the day? We sat around on the shade benches talking about what we were going to do next. And we just burned a lot of clock time just talking about what we're going to do next. I'll be honest, I was perfectly content with that. Um I'm not a big ride guy. I don't mind going on them, but I don't need them. I don't need that uh That sense of daredevil, I'm okay just relaxing. And I was particularly okay just relaxing that day because I was tired. I hadn't got much sleep prior to that And the more we talked and sat on these shady benches, the less I had to walk, the less sunshine I had to be in. I was okay with just kind of sitting there. But there's a strange thing about us as Bible believers sometimes. Sometimes we live out our Christianity in a similar lack of focus direction. Sometimes we like to sit around and debate or discuss what the Bible means when in reality we ought to be doing a little bit more of what the Bible says. And sometimes we talk about, we try to split these fine hairs, saying, well, maybe it means this or maybe it means that. When if we were to be truthful and honest with ourselves, we know what it means. But sometimes we like to lean on that cliche, and probably you can finish it for me, that ignorance is Ignorance is bliss. So if I don't really know what it means, maybe I won't be as accountable to do it. We learned this art even as children, right? Oh I didn't hear you, mommy. Oh I didn't know you meant that. And even into adulthood, we carry this on and practice it regularly. We don't answer the phone because we don't know who it might be. We don't answer the door. We don't do a lot of things. We don't read the instruction manner. We don't read the nutrition label. We don't do a lot of things because to read that might mean that we Know it, and to know it means that we're accountable to it. And as Christians, often we treat some of the basic doctrines of Scripture as if they're mysterious, when in reality, there's no mystery about them. I'd like to take some time this morning and focus on one of those truths that, quite frankly, there's no mystery about it, although sometimes we treat it that way. If you were to go into a Christian bookstore, you'd find many, many books on faith. What is faith? What does it mean? How do you see it? What can you do with it? Quite frankly, the Bible's pretty clear about what it is. And the founders of this church, this local church, felt it was so important that this church is named after them. Faith, Bible. What does it mean? Let's see what the Bible says about faith. Hebrews 11:1 says, Now faith is the substance where you could say the confidence or the foundation of things hoped for, the evidence, or you could say the proof. So according to Hebrews, faith leads to tangible identification. Faith leads to tangible identification. According to the FAA, on any given day here in the United States, there are over 2. 2 million individuals who fly here domestically in the United States. Those people who fly, they board their plane because they have faith that it will reach its destination safely. Now they may lack complete understanding of the principles of aerodynamics or the mechanics of aviation. They may even have a little bit of the emotion of fear as they step onto that plane. But the bottom line is they believe by faith that that metal tube somehow will channel them through the sky to their destination. And so these 2. 2 million individuals every day demonstrate faith Faith is simply that tangible identification with something else. God, who's a good author, so defines faith in Hebrews chapter 11. This theological term, and then he goes on to illustrate it in the lives of well over a dozen specifically named individuals. And for most of these individuals, the reference in Hebrews is simply a brief synopsis of a more complete story already told earlier in Scripture. And one of the individuals just happens to be one of my favorite Bible characters. And so that's the one I'd like to reference this morning in a portrait of faith seen through the life of Joseph. Now, in any good church, there's going to be a varying level of Bible knowledge because there should be a varying level of experience in Christianity. You should have your saints who have been walking with Christ for many years and know the Bible well. And you should have some relatively young new believers who are still learning. So for those of you who are still learning some basic stories of the Bible, Allow me just a very brief overview of the life of Joseph. So while I'm doing this, you can turn with me to Genesis chapter 50. That's where we'll park for a while this morning. Joseph was born to Jacob, the great patriarch, after whom the nation of Israel is named. Jacob had 12 sons. As best we can tell, Joseph was number 11 of those twelve. So you'd think he'd get the Um those of you who have had many children, you know what tends to happen as the the later children come along. Okay? You've been there, done that. You're not as concerned with all the safety and the the struggles, you know that children pretty much are are fairly indestructible and um they'll make do, they'll figure it out. And uh If and where they need to be taught, their older siblings can take care of that. So the nature of parenting as more and more children come is to be a little bit more laissez-faire, hands-off, as the younger children Come onto the scene. There's nothing wrong with that per se. That's what we assume Joseph is growing up under. However, Joseph was the firstborn of Jacob's favorite wife, Rachel. So even though he's number 11 in the chain, he's number one when it comes to the favorite wife, Rachel. We would today call this a blended family. And the way that Jacob raises his sons unfortunately leaves something to be desired. So Joseph grows up in what we would call a dysfunctional family in some regards. That's why I like Joseph. Because just about any problem you can find in today's society, Joseph had access to that same kind of problem. He didn't grow up in a glorious home environment. In fact, because Dad was playing favorites, from what we can tell from Scripture, Joseph was hated by his older brothers, even though Joseph's life seemed like it was one with a great deal of um potential. Joseph was a promising young man. His brothers were very jealous of him. They hated him so much they wanted to kill him. But instead of killing him, they came up with a better idea. Let's sell him into slavery. That way we get rid of him and we make money in the process. That's a win-win situation. We go through this story so many times, those of us who have grown up in church, and we fail sometimes to think of the identification that if that were happening to us, how would we feel? Now, I had four brothers, and we had some rough and tumble times sometimes, but I never was concerned that they were actually going to kill me. Never concerned that they're going to sell me into slavery. I probably thought they were too incompetent to pull it off, even if they wanted to. Growing up with brothers, you have some friction. But you're still brothers at the end of the day. And today we've got a great relationship. That wasn't the case with Joseph. Joseph was hated to the point he was sold into slavery. And this wasn't the type of slavery where they could check up on him and some day down the road and see how he's doing. He's gone, never to be seen again. Likely not even to have a very long life. That's the perspective of his brothers. And Joseph lives through this We know that he lives through a number of unimaginable circumstances. He serves God with faith and obedience. God blesses him. And over a period of time, he rises in his second command over all of Egypt. Later, when his brothers were going through a famine, they came down to Egypt to buy food, and he recognized them. But about twenty years had Had passed, they didn't recognize him. They had no reason to. They had no idea to even suspect that he would be there, especially not in the position he was in. He would have looked totally different than when they sold him into slavery. Probably dressed in the royal garb of Egyptian royalty, speaking a different language. They had no reason to recognize him, but he recognized them. And after a period of time, he revealed himself to them and basically reached out to them with forgiveness. And is seeking to restore relationships. Sometime later, Jacob, their father, dies, and the brothers are fearful at this point because they suspect that Joseph's kindness to them had been motivated Because of his respect for their father Jacob rather than a true, genuine forgiveness. Look with me in Genesis chapter 50, verse number 15, to get their perspective on Joseph's motivation behind his supposed forgiveness. Genesis 50, verse 15. When Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us. And will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him. So they acknowledge what they did was wrong. They acknowledge that vengeance is probably coming their way. In other words, now that Dad is dead, Joseph will seek revenge on us. Or so they think. So they concoct this plan to try to do a run-around. Of what is likely coming their way from their perspective. They send a messenger to Joseph, and they tell this messenger to tell Joseph, hey, Jacob is now dead. Joseph already knew that. They've already buried Jacob. Jacob is now dead. Your brothers desire to be your servants. They want your forgiveness. And at the news that this messenger brought to Joseph, Joseph's response. Was tears. He wept. He was heartbroken at the fact that they're questioning the motive of his forgiveness. So all these wrongs that they had done to Joseph He finds it within himself to forgive them. And then now they're questioning the genuineness of his forgiveness. You see, what Joseph's brothers are doing to Joseph is what we do to people sometimes. They're attributing their evil heart to him. Surely nobody can have a heart that's that clean and pure. We know we don't, so surely nobody can. They don't recognize a pure heart even when they see it. They think his kindness must just be a charade to them. Joseph's response to them is an amazing one. He's one of the most powerful people in the entire world. Every prophetic dream that God had given to him has come true. There's really nothing that he can't do at this point. He's in Pharaoh's good favor. He has complete access to Pharaoh's wealth. Pharaoh even entrusted him to take his wealth up to bury Jacob in return. Pharaoh allowed Joseph's family to settle in Goshen, some of the prime real estate of Egypt. Pharaoh's given Joseph anything he wants. And now here are his brothers pleading to serve him. He's now in complete control of the situation. This is a situation Joseph hasn't been in in the past. In the past it's always been he's the victim. Now he's in complete control. He's in complete control. The fate of his brothers is in his hands. But notice in these circumstances a few points about Joseph, and we can see his faith through this First of all, Joseph repeatedly shows his emotions. There are seven different verses in Genesis that refer to Joseph weeping. Now, if you think of a man who has gone through the difficult times of life like Joseph has and has risen above it, you think that's a man who has had to overcome his emotions He's had to walk past it. He's probably hard as steel. There's nothing that can influence him emotionally. And yet, seven different times we find Joseph weeping. In these later chapters of the book of Genesis. He wept when the brothers, when he heard the brothers confess amongst themselves that they had done wrong. He wept when he met Benjamin. He wept in chapter 45 when he reveals himself to his brothers. He weeps on Benjamin. He weeps on his brethren. In chapter 46, he weeps when he reunites with Jacob. He says he wept on his neck, the Bible says he wept on his neck a good while. This is an emotional man. And now he weeps when his brother sends his messenger back, begging for them to be his servants. What do I find from the life of Joseph? It's okay to show emotion. It's perfectly okay to show emotion. Joseph's emotion, though, was not bitterness. It wasn't hatred. It wasn't anger. people. Joseph's emotion was completely relational. He wanted that relation to be relationship to be real re-established. Despite his powerful position, he has a tender heart. And he got that from his relationship with God. Second thing I see is that Joseph acknowledges the evil. Notice that he said when he responds to his brothers in verse number 20, he says this. He says, But as for you, ye thought evil against me. He doesn't pull any punches here. He doesn't gloss over it. He doesn't hide it. He says, yes, you thought evil. You intended evil for me. You had evil plans for me. I acknowledge that. Don't attempt, when someone does you wrong, to gloss over what they've done to you. It's perfectly fine for you to have emotion. It's perfectly fine for you to acknowledge the evil that they've done. But notice that Joseph goes beyond their actions and says the evil came actually from the core of their being. He said, You thought it, you planned it. From inside of you it came out. It wasn't just an action. He recognized where it was coming from. It was coming from the heart. And then Joseph willfully, willfully, puts it behind him. Look in verse number 19 as he continues. Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? He tells them, Don't worry about it. Don't be fearful, because I'm not the one who brings vengeance. We know from Scripture, vengeance belongs to God, God only. Then he goes on in verse number 21. He says this: not only don't fear. I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. I appreciated Randy's prayer as he was praying for our president. And one of the things he prayed for was kind word. Words. We lack kind words in this country. We lack kind words because we have evil hearts. Joseph had a pure heart. Kind words come out of a pure heart Unkind words come out of an evil heart. Joseph's heart was pure. His words were kind. He made a conscious decision to do good to those who had hurt him. Matthew 5. 44, Christ says, But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them which curse you, they curse you. Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Joseph is fulfilling the principle taught in Romans 12. Mark, put a mark in your Bible, if you would, in Genesis 50. We're coming back there. Turn with me to Romans chapter 12. In Romans twelve, the Apostle Paul, under the leadership of the Holy Spirit, Gives us some very clear instructions how to handle people who we feel have done us wrong. Romans 12, beginning in verse number 17. He says, recompense to no man evil for evil. So Joseph acknowledges that he had been done evil, and the Bible command to us as believers. We claim to have faith, as believers, is don't return to evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men So we know that peace doesn't always happen, but from our end it must. In other words, Joseph didn't live peaceably with his brothers, did he? But it wasn't his fault. They're the ones who sold him into slavery. As much as lies in you, live peaceably. So when Joseph then had the power to control that relationship, he did it with peace. Now that he is second in command, he's living peaceably. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine. I will repay, saith the Lord. What happens when we attempt to get even with someone? We're stealing from God. We're thieves. If we do something to get back at someone who did something wrong to us, we become thieves to God because we take something that rightfully belongs to Him, and that is vengeance. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Sometimes, though, the reason that we try to get even is because we lack faith that God will keep his word. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. Joseph didn't have these verses. To reference. We have these verses to reference. He embodied these verses. We have more knowledge than Joseph did. We have no excuse for returning evil for evil. As I come back to Genesis, I notice Joseph's faith. And this is really the heart and the core of what I'd like to encourage you with this morning. Joseph's faith, really I see two things. First is this: he believed that God is greater than man. In verse number 19, I love his response to his brothers when he when he gives them the reason not to fear him. He says, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? Remember what Romans says? Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Joseph says, it's not my job to repay your evil brothers. I know that you were evil to me, but you don't have to worry about me. It's not my job. I'm not in the place of God. But he goes farther than that. Gee, sometimes we think, okay, fine, I won't repay the evil, but God, kind of like the disciples, can you call down some fire on them? I'd love to see it happen. I'd like to be a witness. God, I'd like to see your power in their lives. Joseph didn't do that either. Notice what he said in verse number 20. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, Notice verse 20. But God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Brothers, you meant evil. But my God is greater than your evil intentions. Your evil intentions landed me in slavery But God's good desire put me as second in command in Egypt so that you could be saved. Joseph completely turned that on his head. And he did that by faith. Think of how powerful Joseph is now. He's likely carrying on the business of the palace. His brothers came in from keeping their flocks in Goshen. He's royalty. They're living on government subsidies. They tried to destroy him for their own profit, yet his response is actually he's scolding them for the fact that they are thinking of him too highly. See, they're treating him as if he's God. I'm not God, brothers. I don't have a right to bring vengeance into your life. That's not my role. Put yourself in Joseph's place. Think as Joseph would think. As we think of the story of Joseph, who sent Joseph to Egypt? We think as brothers did. But that's not what Joseph says. Flip back a few pages in your Bible, probably to Genesis 45. Genesis 45, beginning in verse number 4, three times Joseph said, God sent me to Egypt. See, humanly speaking, we think, well, his brothers did. They sold him this slavery, the scoundrels. That wasn't Joseph's perspective. Joseph believed that God was greater than man. And the fact that he was in Egypt was because God sent him, not his brothers. Look in verse number four of chapter 45. And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me. This is when he was introducing himself to them. I pray you. And they came near, and he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. Now keep in mind, he says, Yes, you sold me into Egypt. But how did Joseph get there? Verse 5. Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. What a man. How evil can these brothers be? And yet Joseph says, don't be angry with yourselves. God's bigger than you. Then he goes on to talk about the famine. Jump down to verse 7. And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. That statement there amazes me. It was not you that sent me hither, but God. So, my question to you, members of Faith Bible. We say that we have faith. What has happened in your life that is a source of bitterness, frustration, anger, hurt? Can you say the same thing that Joseph did? It wasn't, and you can fill in the blank that did that to me. It wasn't fill in the blank with a person's name or whatever Whatever that caused that to happen, but it was God. Because God had a greater purpose. Now Sometimes we live in the dark. Joseph didn't know all these things when he was in slavery. He didn't know what was going to happen. He was living by faith that God was in control, even though it didn't look like he was in control. How many times do we live and it looks like, God, this is terrible? Where are you? But by faith, Joseph knew he's there. When Potiphar's wife tried to accuse Joseph of wrongdoing, Joseph's response, How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? He knew God was watching, didn't seem like it, but he knew it by faith that he was. How could Joseph forgive his brothers? Look at verse number 15. Moreover, he kissed all his brethren. Yes, every single one. He remembered who had said, let's kill him. He remembered who had said, let's sell him into slavery. And yet Joseph kissed them and wept upon them. And after that his brethren talked with him. What kind of a response is this? There's a reason that Joseph is seen as a type or a picture of Christ. He has forgiveness that's off the charts. How does he get that forgiveness, though? Forgiveness is possible when we recognize that my life, my pleasure, my enjoyment, my dreams, my plans, whatever, is not all that there is to live for. In fact, my past, as I view my past, whether it was harm that I inflicted on myself because of my own unwise decisions, Or harm that someone else inflicted on me because of the consequence of their decisions. Let's face it. Joseph could have blamed Jacob for his problems. Jacob was not a good father. Joseph could have said, you know what? If I had a better dad, I wouldn't even be in this situation. If my dad would have taken control and raised his sons the way that he should have, I wouldn't be here. Joseph didn't blame his dad. He didn't blame his brothers. He simply said, God, this is your doing. When I recognize the sovereignty of God, it softens the past. When I truly trust that God is who he says he is, that he is sovereign, loving, merciful, and gracious. If I don't truly believe that, forgiveness is out of my reach. I can't believe I can Can't forgive somebody. Oh, I can bury it a little bit. In other words, I could take their offense and I can say, I choose to put that behind us. And the next time they offend me, I can say, I'm not going to retaliate. But really what we do sometimes is we're actually storing them up, aren't we? Until we just can't take it anymore. In all those little instances, maybe it was the tone of voice that somebody spoke to me in. Maybe it was a look. Maybe it was a neglect. Whatever it was. Maybe it was a lie. All those instances that I say that I had put in the past, then when I've had enough, I just can't take it anymore, I bring out what, not the latest incident. I bring out all of them. Remember this one and this one and this one and this one? It's like the whole jar comes out, and I just dump them on them. That's unfortunately how we often live. And yet Joseph moves beyond that. Why? Because he believed in the sovereignty of God and the goodness of God. If I believe it, I simply become his channel. I'm just a channel of his sovereignty and his goodness. The offense may be small, but I can move past. It may be large, but I can move past. Hey, why do we celebrate Christmas? Why is Christmas so great? Because Christmas is the celebration of the extent to which God reached out to us to proffer forgiveness to us. He sought us out. Joseph sought out his brothers. He could have remained in hiding You realize that? His brothers didn't recognize him. He could have allowed them to come, he could have even given things to them and never revealed himself to them and watched from a distance how they struggled with their own bitterness and guilt. But he reached out to him. I wonder today, this morning, if we're going to be a Bible-believing church, who is it that you need to seek out And offer goodness in return for their evil. That's what Joseph did by faith. Now I reference Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 11 is filled with a number of examples, illustrations, portraits that God gave to us to illustrate the definition of faith. He gave us the definition, and he illustrates it. And yes, Joseph is one of those illustrations. Now, if I were writing the book of Hebrews, this is the story, Genesis 50 that I just referenced. That's the story that I would reference. Because at this point, Joseph is the one in complete control. See, prior to that, Joseph was always the victim. Victims don't have much power. He had no other choice. Logically, other than to turn to God and cry for help. But here he's in control. Who does Joseph turn to when he's in control? He still turns to God. That to me is faith. That would be the epitome of faith. I'd put that in Hebrews 11. But that's not in Hebrews 11. When God decides what he wants to use as a picture of Joseph's faith, do you know what he uses? Hebrews 11:22. Here's what he says about Joseph. By faith, Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. What? All those things that Joseph did in his life by faith? And here in Hebrews 11, 22, God chooses to tell us about his parting words about moving his bones? What is that? That seems almost bizarre. Joseph's great life of faith and the picture that God gives to us, the portrait of faith, is take my bones to Canaan after I die. How is that a picture of faith? Turn back with me to Genesis 50, if you're not there. Because that statement. References the belief that Joseph had that God keeps his promises. Joseph had faith that God is bigger than man, and that enabled him to forgive But Joseph also is a believer that God keeps his promises. Look in Genesis 50, verse 24 and 25. This is the account that Hebrews is referencing. And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die, meaning he's on his deathbed, he's very near death. And God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land unto the land to which he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Joseph knows that the promised land, Palestine, Canaan, that's where Israel ultimately belongs They're dwelling in Egypt right now, but that's just temporary. He was dwelling in Egypt, but that was temporary. Their ultimate home is the place that God promised to his fathers. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. So Joseph, in a sense, is bringing a prophet right now. He's saying there will be a time when God will come. We'll no longer live in Goshen. We won't be in Egypt. And when God moves you back out of Egypt, back to the land that He promised our fathers, I want you to bring my bones there. In other words, I don't want my heritage to be in Egypt. I'm second in command of all Egypt, but that's not what I want to be known for. I want to be remembered for being part of that royal line of the King David. Of David's offspring, Jesus Christ. I want to be included in that line. That's where I want my heritage. Not in Egypt, where I have a name for myself. I want to be in the royal line. Of the Savior. By faith, Joseph knew that was still to take place. He had no confidence that it would, other than the good word of God. Romans 8. 28 is a passage that probably most of you can quote by memory. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to purpose Now, if you read the rest of Romans chapter 8, you know that in context, he's referring to the good that's about to be worked is that we'll be conformed into the image of Christ and ultimately to be glorified in his love. But that's the promise that we have to us. Heard evangelist Will Rice speak one time, and he says, he said, faith is living beyond what you can see to what God knows. Faith is living beyond what you can see to what God knows. Joseph knew from God that Palestine was the place that was the gift from God to his family. He couldn't see it. He didn't know how they were going to get there. But he knew that's where they would end up. And he says, when you end up there, take my bones with you. And that's what God says that is a portrait of faith. Why? Because it shows that lineage that will continue on and ultimately lead to our Savior. We often look at the story of Joseph and thinking how neat it is that God delivered him out of all of his troubles, and it has such a happy ending. Yet Joseph didn't know how these circumstances would turn out. Out. He didn't know that he personally, how he would come through each of these. I know that God had revealed some dreams to him that gave him some indication that something good would happen, but Joseph didn't have details. By faith, he accepted it. What circumstances are you facing right now, or have you faced, that seem overwhelming? Maybe for some of you it's the fact that you're on the hunt for a pastor. As a church, that can be overwhelming. That's not a surprise to God. Don't let that discourage you Maybe you're suffering the consequences of someone else's wrongdoing. Maybe you were a victim of crime. Maybe you're suffering as a result of your own poor decisions. Maybe something seems unsettled in your life. My question to you this morning, but I hope will be an encouragement to you, is will you put your faith in God to allow Him to take you where He wants you to be? Believing that his destination is best? Will you show others the substance and evidence of his glorious power and plan? Because ultimately, that is what faith is. It's the intangible connection, it's the tangible connection, I should say, to something that can't necessarily be seen. right now. Some of you may have never put your confidence in God for the area of salvation. David, the very one who I was referencing to be king, cried, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. That is faith. I can't see, I can't touch the loving kindness of God, but by faith I believe that it is there. Maybe it's salvation that some of you need to take the step of this morning. Maybe it's forgiveness of someone else. Jesus on the cross said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. That was essentially Joseph's cry, was it not? God sent me to Egypt. It wasn't you. Don't be angry with yourselves. Basically, you guys didn't know what you were doing. The very thing that they were afraid of, the brothers, they were afraid of Joseph becoming Too powerful within their family, the very thing that they were afraid of, they served as the catalyst to make it happen. Because they didn't have faith. God's a great God. Maybe it's circumstances. Psalm 113, verse 3 says, From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. The only way that I can do that, from the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, In light of life's circumstances, is to believe that God's in control of them. And there's nothing that comes my way or comes the way of my family that catches God by surprise. God doesn't respond to circumstances. He orchestrates them in my life to accomplish his will for his glory and my good. That's his promise. Faith Bible? Do you believe it? That's what makes us a Bible-believing church. Father, I thank you for the goodness that you have shown to us in many ways. Even when we see difficult circumstances in life, circumstances that hurt, Father, that lead us to tears and broken hearts. Even in that, I ask that you would give us a faith like Joseph's, where we recognize that you are the orchestrator of these circumstances to accomplish a greater and a better good than we can see with our own eyes or feel with our own senses. May we trust you, follow you, obey you, and enjoy your companionship. Into the name of Jesus I come. Amen.