But at the very outset, we need to understand that we are established for a purpose. And that in our marriages, God desires that these marriages that we have Are marriages that are focused on God's kingdom purpose, as well as understanding that our families In the very beginning, prior to the fall, were to propagate image bearers, to multiply image bearers for the sake of God's kingdom as well. You'll see in your handout that God made man to have dominion over the fit over creation. And God made marriage here as God's image to bear God's image for God's kingdom purposes. He made the family to proc procreate God's image bearers and increase his kingdom. We see then obviously that God had a job for Adam to do. He was the first biologist, we might be able to say. And to name all the animals, and he gave for Adam a help meet for him. And of course, we know that to be Eve. And he was given, according to Scripture, for companions. She was given for companionship and procreation and domestication. It was, in other words, folks, my point here that I want to make at the very beginning of this is to understand that God's idea of marriage was for it to be God-glorifying and to have a Specific intended purpose in mind. And I want to make this application. Oftentimes, when I'm just doing uh premarital counseling or marriage counseling, those kinds of things. One of the things I will ask someone, perhaps they've been married for 15 or 20 years or 25 years, or I don't have much marriage counseling after that point usually. They need to counsel me after that point Probably, but um, but uh uh I will ask them, Why are you married? And do you know the majority of the time when I ask that question? What suppose what response do you suppose I get? Most of the time I get I don't know. They have to think, they have a sort of a deer-in-the-headlights look like, why are you asking this question? I have a specific problem. I want you to answer. Deal with this problem. Would you please deal with this problem? Why this is irrelevant? I'm married, I don't need to know why. It almost has that kind of, I had one person say to me, you know, I I I didn't expect this holistic approach. Well Then sometimes I'll ask this. I'll say, hey, uh, can you tell me why you got married in the first place? And they will say to me Well, um, we got married in the first place. The the typical answer, if there's a typical answer, it would be that I'm um, well, we were in love. Now, let me just ask you, I'm just curious, how many of you would say, I've been married for at least five years? Would you raise your hands if you've been married for at least five years? Okay. All right, majority of the people here. How many of you have been married for at least 10 years? All right, I'm just curious. This will help other other pastors to see where we're. How about 15 years? Okay, 20 years? 25 years? 30 years. Some of you are just old. Alright, okay. All right. So all right, very good. Now, those of you who have been married at least five years, even more like ten years probably, did you really love your spouse the way that you love them now in the very beginning? Would it be fair to say, folks, would it really be fair to say that you didn't you didn't even know what love really is almost when you first got married? Most would probably realize that. So when we say we're in love when we start our marriage, what does that mean? And I'd like to suggest to you that when someone says they are in love at the beginning of their uh their dating relationship or their engagement or whatever, um When they're in love, they're probably meaning, though they wouldn't make maybe make this connection, they're probably meaning I feel as though that person can meet all of my needs. Or at least a lot of my needs. Now, they may not articulate it that way, but that's really what they're feeling: that this person can meet my needs. And folks, it isn't long after you're married for the first year or two or three that you realize that there it there becomes a breakdown of expectation. Because no one can meet all of our needs except for who? God. Now, God certainly does use spouses to meet some of our needs. But God can meet our needs with or without a spouse, can't He? And what we've got to realize going into our marriage is that if we go in with the expectation that our each one of our that each each Person going into marriage is going to meet the other person's needs, and we're going to have this fairy tale life. Those of you who have been married longer know that that isn't a reality. And that's what we've got to do is place our hope and expectation in God, who is the fulfiller of our true needs. So then, what is the right purpose for getting married? The right purpose for getting married is that I believe that I can serve God better with my spouse than without my spouse. That I can genuinely do that. Now, if you're married and you have not thought about that, then your aunt the answer to that question is yes, you can. Wherever you are now, perhaps you said I never really thought through that. Whatever you are now, you can fulfill God's kingdom purposes for your life better with your spouse than without your spouse now, if you're married now. And folks, that begins the foundation for a solid marriage. It's not focused on one person or the other person or the needs of each other. The foundation for a solid marriage. Is that our marriage is going to be for God's purposes, his kingdom purposes, and serving him. And we're going to see in more detail in a few minutes what that is. Now, when we think about all of this, it's important for us to also think about to realize that the family needs to have the is an extension of the marriage. It doesn't mean folks that if you don't have kids, you're not a family. And God really whatever state there are advantages to every age. every s every kind of state that that someone might be in. If they're single, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7 that I would that you be like me, because I can wholly focus myself in the Lord. God has great purposes for single people. He also has great purposes for married people and those with they're married with kids. In other words, folks, none of this is a s none of these things are essential to serve God. But if God has, in his divine plan and providence, given you a marriage, or giving you a s uh kids, then all of this needs to be for the purpose of glorifying Him and serving Him, and you've got to establish fairly firmly with firm conviction that I can serve God better together with my spouse. And with my kids and not. And so that our families become service teams for God. Now I guess I am preaching. I said I was going to lecture, and now I'm preaching. I guess you can't take the preach out of the preacher or something. Alright, as we're going, as we're continuing here, let's look more at what happened after the fall. After the fall, what we find here, in letter B, there, is that the process of the fall. That what transpired is that God's original intentions of the man leading, God's original intentions were really reversed. Rather than the woman helping the man to rule God's creation, the man aided the woman. Do you remember- remember who who took the fruit first? Well, it was Eve. Of course, Adam was completely culpable in this whole process because it says that he was with her. In other words, she was taking the lead. It was a reversal of the roles. And what we find in the passage is that We have all kinds of problems as of course the whole world lieth in wickedness because of the fall. Let me do this. I'm gonna just for sake of time going to move through some of this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 2, verse 24? Of course, as a result of the fall, we have all kinds of problems. You have suffering. You have um A great deal of just difficulty in nearly every area of life. Romans 8 says it this way: that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth together till now. As a result of the fall. Genesis chapter 2, verse 24, I'd encourage you to keep this in mind because what it does is it summarizes God's ideal for marriage. What is it a Christian marriage supposed to look like? In chapter 2, verse 24, it says this. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And we'll verse read verse 25, and they were both naked and man and his wife and were not ashamed. Now, I want you to notice in our outline here, under summary of the Christian idea, we're on page two now that there are Some clear things that God says ought to be in the marriage that are God's ideal as He establishes marriage in the Bible. We see here, first of all, monogamy. Alright, just keep these locked in your mind because they're going to be important as we go through this. God says monogamy is the is what God's ideal is for marriage. And then we see durability. And fidelity. Durability meaning permanence. Fidelity meaning faithfulness to that one spouse. Then God's ideal also is heterosexuality and complement complementarity. I'd not heard that word that way. That's Kostenberger's word, but um I'm I'm sure it's He didn't make it up either, but um you see the word there. I didn't think of it that that way. Heterosexuality and complementary. Okay, so folks, this is God's plan. This is God's ideal. Now, what we then want to do is ask ourselves the question: how did all of this play out? See, on one hand, you have God's ideal in the first three chapters of Genesis, and on the other hand, you have man messing up God's ideal in the first three chapters of Genesis. So then what do we what what then is the conclusion of the matter? In fact, what when we look at how this all plays out in the Old Testament, what do we find? Well, we continue to find throughout the Old Testament that God establishes Clear responsibilities for every for both the husband and father and both and the wife and the mother as well. We see here some major responsibilities is to love and cherish his wife, to treat her with respect and dignity. To bear primary responsibility for the marriage and union of uh and ultimately authority over the family, and to provide food, clothing, and after the necessities of the wife. So we find here some very clear necess clear responsibilities. In the Old Testament. We find the same thing for the wife in the Old Testament. There are clear responsibilities given. And we find some very clear examples of God's ideal. For example, Proverbs 31 of the wife. Wives, how many of you read that passage and went, wow, that is a tall order. I really believe what God is ide God is identifying there is God's ideal for a wife and a mother. You see her as a manager of the household. You see her as one who is supportive of her husband. And of course, the beauty of the wife is on the inside in that passage. We find also the beauty of sex in marriage. We find this in Song of Solomon, and we see clearly that God intends this to be a culmination of God's companion of the companionship and the oneness in the marriage. So you see these kinds of ideals. Let's also look at the role of the family in the Old Testament. We find, let me just identify a definition for us then of family as we're working through this. Letter B, we're under number two, letter B, the bottom of page two, number one, the definition of the family: one man and one woman united in matrimony. That's a almost a novel concept in our culture. Barring death of a spouse, plus normally natural or adopted children, and secondarily any other persons related by blood. In fact, folks, what we find in the Old Testament is when we think in our Western world of the family, we normally think of the nuclear family with a fat well, we used to think 50 years ago of the nuclear family with the father and the mother. and the kids. And that's sort of the the family unit. Certainly that was the case in the Old Testament, but you what you had as they uh as they socialize with each other is you had secondary family as well beyond that all in most cases living together. And you had, of course, in the nation of Israel an entire community of people that were hopefully supporting the marriage and the family. Of course, we're going to find a breakdown here. uh later on here. Um as you turn the page number three The role of the Father in the Old Testament is to be instructor and provider and protector. I would commend for you Kostenberger's list on pages eighty seven through eighty-eight, it gives you a much more thorough list of the responsibilities that you find in the Old Testament of a father. And then the role of a mother as well. You have uh Proverbs 31, managing the house, hold affairs, and bearing naming and nurturing of children. There are all kinds of things there. Proverbs 31 gives you an excellent list as well. Then you find another couple of key passages, Deuteronomy 6, 8, 4, 4 through 9, which gives us the claret, clear Mandate for the nation of Israel to instruct their children. There needs to be clear, frequent, regular instruction. The primary responsibility of this was the father, and secondarily, the mother. And you find the book of Proverbs as really a excellent instruction book for the family and what God's ideal is and how it's all supposed to work. Um as we move through, we have exent now. Let's just pause for a moment here. We have all of this of what God's ideal is. God's ideal responsibilities for mothers and fathers and family husbands and wives, God's ideal responsibility. All of this, we have this clear ideal of what God expects. But I just want you to think with me, if you think of the characters of the Bible, as a whole, what do you find? Do you find success in God's ideal? Or in the Old Testament, do you find primarily failure? And I would suggest to you, although you have some exemplary examples, primarily, folks, what you have. It's failure. I mean, just think about all of the, even the patriarchs and all of the different people in the Old Testament. I mean, if you think of David and Eli and Samuel. When you think of all of the different Old Testament characters, they may have had very admirable qualities in different facets of their life, and David was a man different God's an arp. But when it came to their marriages and their families, we find a great deal of failure. Really, that kind of started with Adam, didn't it? When Adam did not step in and lead his wife. when facing the decision of taking the forbidden fruit. And as we go into the different sit different uh passages in the Old Testament, we look at the different characters, you often have What you find is a failure of leadership. You could really almost say that that is the theme of the Old Testament. Failure in leadership. And it certainly that failure in leadership affects families. And so I've if you'll notice the chart there that will help us a little bit, actually, I just list a couple of examples: polygamy. Remember that ideal of Genesis chapter 2, verse 24, the ideal of monogamy and durability, fidelity and uh heterosexuality, those kind of you have that ideal there. Well, just think about Solomon with polygamy and and divorce being becoming very rampant by the time Malachi writes uh uh his uh the book there. Adultery, homosexuality in Some and Gomorrah and other places, the dilution of gender distinctions, with a failure of leaders, leadership. You have all of these kinds of things. By the time you get to the end of the Old Testament, you are finding that there is great failure in leadership and great failure in the family, and you have a reversal and a breakdown in nearly every area. Now, just generally speaking, why is this? It is because of the fall, isn't it? It's because of sin. So by the time we get to the Old Testament We are left with something really wanting, aren't we? We are left with great need. And if we make application here, let me just ask the question Do you suppose that apart from God's divine intervention and God's superintendence and God's provision, do you suppose that you would do any better than David? Or Eli or Samuel or some of these others, or Solomon. Do you suppose that there would be any? No, the answer would be no. We we need what what should we come to when we come to the end of the Old Testament? We ought to come to that there is great need for God's redemption. And his working in the lives of individuals that will enable us to be able to have the kind of families and marriages that God wants us to have. So let's now move to the New Testament and look at what God says about marriage in the New Testament, particularly now with what Christ says about it. And what we find here is that Christ lifts up. He maintains the importance of permanence in the marriage. As we look at Matthew 6, 19, 6 and other passages, there are lots of other passages in the scripture as well on this in the Gospels. Now Christ lifted marriage and the importance of marriage so high that the disciples listened to his discourse on this and they said to him, We really ought to just um You know, uh, we probably should just never get married. Your standard is so high. Once we're you're telling us you're committed we're once we're committed, we can't get out of this thing. The disciples said, well, maybe we should also really just consider celibacy. And of course, Jesus deals with that as well. He says some are gifted for that, and the implication would be that others are not. But the point that I would make here with marriage and Christ's commentary on it is that it it he upholds this institution when we get to the New Testament. But folks, I want us to also establish that when we think of the family, Christ has a maybe what may be surprising approach to it. When you think of Christ talking about father and mother and brethren and children, if you really think about what Christ actually says about this. What conclusions would you would you come to? Well, number two, letter A, the community of believers that he is developing, disciples that he is calling. Really transcended those of natural relations in Jesus' mind. In fact, what we find is that Jesus was rejected by his own family. And Jesus taught that one's primary loyalty must be to God. And he taught that the gospel takes precedence over the family. And Jesus urges people to make the kingdom of God the ultimate priority rather than the family. Now, folks, what I'm pointing out here is this. Jesus called people to leave their families. Now, before you say what in the world is this doing in a marriage in a marriage and family seminar, let me just think through this for a minute with you. These all of these converts that Christ was converting were going to be first generation Christians, essentially, right? I mean, all things being equal. Uh for the most part. And so let me just ask you, how many of you are first generation Christians? That means that your mother or your father, neither one of your your father or mother knew the Lord. I'm just curious how many are out there. Okay. The minority, the strong minority. Okay, I think I saw put them up up, put them up again. Okay. Okay, so we're talking about Uh maybe 10, 10 to 10 to 12 people in the room. That's that's a probably um that's a liberal estimate. So so let's just think about this. What does this mean for us as second generation Christians? And hopefully our kid or more, third, fourth, whatever, or our kids who are going to be hopefully second generation Christians. Christians as we pray for them. It means, folks, then that not necessarily are we asking our children to leave us, though they ought to be ready to leave us if God wants them to, for the sake of the kingdom. But what we've got to do is realize that as families, our goal is to disciple our kids. Because we are going to place a purpose on this whole thing called the family. The purpose of family in the New Testament is going to be to exalt discipleship and to encourage it and to foster it in our kids and to pray that our kids come to Christ. And grow up with unique hearts and grow up wanting to serve God. Our focus then is not internal, where we are thinking about how can we keep Focusing on our families. No, we want our fo our the focus of our family to be on serving God for kingdom purposes. Because the emphasis that Christ placed is on following Christ. Let me just make this application. I think sometimes we are making our families the end rather than the means In other words, everything we're doing is to the pr is ch is that the family would become uh what we want it to be. And we find all these means to the end. In other words, maybe even the gospel is that way, where the gospel is the means to having a good family. Folks, that is a mistake. And it's not, it's errant. What we ought to be doing, folks, is rather saying that our families are the means to the end of glorifying God through discipleship. Now, as we continue, and I have to hurry, but as we continue, we're gonna look at we'll just I'll just mention that Peter has a message message for marriage, a very important message. In relationships where they are really not equal, you have husbands, although God's standard is always to marry somebody that you are equally yoked to. But in the case where someone gets saved after they're married or um one spouse is not serving the Lord, you have a passage in 1 Peter 3:1 through 7 that deals with that. And we are supposed to remain in the marriage if at all possible, also according to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And then what we find here then is Paul's vision for marriage and family. Paul's vision for marriage and family, the Apostle Paul here, is more developed, I would suggest, than any of the other writers of the New Testament. Because Paul begins to look at the whole end goal. We don't have time to turn there, but in the book of Ephesians, what you find is that marriage is to be It's to be to work toward a healthy church. Let me give you an example. Let me explain this just real real quickly. In Ephesians chapter 5, most of you will be familiar with that hopefully. In Ephesians chapter 5, what you find is a lot of instruction on the husband and wife relationship. But you also have in that same passage interwoven with that instruction on Christ and his church. Let me just ask you this question. We're talking about Ephesians 5 now. Which is it talking about? Is in Ephesians 5, is it talking about Christ? Is the main instruction about Christ and his church, and the marriage is illustrating it? Or is the marriage ill the is the main instruction on marriage and uh and the church in Christ are illustrating it? Which one is it? Is it the first one or the second one? Okay, most would identify it as the first one. And in fact, you find in the passage, he says there in the passage, I speak concerning Christ and his church. Why then would you get have direct commands in that passage? I mean, if all it was was an illustration, why wouldn't it say wives are submissive to their husbands? And so the church needs to be submissive to Christ. Why wouldn't it say Christ, husbands do love their wives? Why wouldn't it say it that way? Or husbands are to love their wives. Well, it is because, folks, God's desire is in order that that the marriage and the family ought to. Be healthy for the sake of the church. In other words, a healthy healthy marriages and families build up healthy churches. And unhealthy marriages and families break down unhealthy churches to the place where they're unhealthy churches. It doesn't mean that you have to be in a marriage to contribute to having a healthy church. It does mean, though, that if you have an unhealthy marriage, you may be contributing to the lack of health in your church. And it is a warning for all of us. And so the command there is for husbands to love their wives as Christ loved the church. And for wives to submit themselves to the leadership of their husbands. Now with all of this in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, would you? Because I want you to see the call the just the culmination of all of this. As you're turning to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, would you remember that in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, we find a connection between the headship of a woman and a man. And the headship of a man and Christ, and the headship of Christ and God, in that passage. Now we see in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 where all of this is heading. First Corinthians chapter fifteen. Picking up here, um Let's pick up in verse uh twenty 27 For he that for he hath put all things under his feet, meaning Christ. But when he saith, all things are put under him, it is manifest that he is accepted, which did put all things under him. And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him. That put all things under him, that Christ may be, that God may be all in all. What you find there in that passage, folks, is a restoration, a future picture of the restoration of God's original intention of establishing his kingdom. That we learned about all the way back in Genesis chapter 1. The point here would simply be this: that our marriages and our families ought to have Clear kingdom purpose through discipleship. And we need two things in order for that to happen. Number one, we need God's grace. Because if we look at the examples of the Old Testament, we will surely fail if we don't have it. And secondly, we need. Spirit filling. And that's why you have in Ephesians chapter 5, you have in that passage an entire section that it talks about the filling of the Holy Spirit, and it is by no accident that it the result of the filling of the Spirit is submitting yourselves one to another, which the result of that then is a healthy marriage. And a healthy family. And I would actually add a third thing, even though I only said two. The third thing in that passage would be that we have to put on our spiritual armor. And God, we we desp we we need to come to the point in our lives, in our marriages, in our families where we get on our knees. And we realize that we are going to be completely. We are going to fail apart from the grace of God in our lives. It requires, folks, of us humility because God resisteth the proud. But gives grace