Well, you're here this morning, and as I've said before, you have, as we've gone through Ephesians, you have a certain way of viewing yourself. Sometimes you view yourself in terms of your your habits. Your hobbies, your job, your relationships. In Ephesians, there is an identity that Paul writes to the Ephesians about It is a context that he is driving home to them over and over again. He uses different words in identifying these Ephesian Christians. He's teaching them to behave a certain way only because of who they are in Christ. You are someone who is light. Ephesians five, verse eight. Ye were sometimes darkness, that is in the past, but now you're light in the Lord. So walk as children of light But really, this whole idea of identifying Christians and it it's all throughout the first three chapters. He begins in chapter one, if you'll remember, and flip back there. When we have this great hymn of praise, and he says that we, Chapter 1, verse 3, are people who have been blessed. with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. We are chosen, verse 4, to be holy and without blame before him in love. We've been predestinated, verse 5, to the adoption of children. We have the status as sons before God. And we are just over and over again, verse 7, redeemed, forgiven. We have been given an inheritance. And verse 10, there is going to be this fullness of times in which he gathers together in one all things, all of us. Who are in Christ. It just goes from Ephesians 1, 2, and 3, there's just over and over again. Put off the old man, put on the new. So we you you are a new man and all these things. You were dead, but now you're alive, so act as someone who is alive. And so if you look at Ephesians 5, we have a walk of love, Ephesians 5, verse 2. Because Christ loved us and gave himself for us. A walk of light, verse 8. And so we are, as if you remember from last week in verses 8, there is, now are ye light. In verse 13, the light manifests things, it makes them evident. In verse 14, there is this call to salvation. Arise from the dead, and Christ shall give you light. So having said some of these things, as I'm just sort of running over them with you, we next arrive in chapter 5 at this whole issue of the will of God. Look down at verse 17. Wherefore, be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. I want to introduce this this morning by talking to you about mine and many Christians' struggles with the will of God. I think for a long time now, at least in the years that I've grown up in fundamental independent Baptist churches, there's been this idea that the will of God Is something that must be found through sort of a hyper-scrutinizing of your life. You kind of go over the circumstances and you try to find the perfect will of God. So much so that a young man might say, Is this woman God's perfect will, or is this woman God's perfect will? And what is often the case as Christian young people grow up is that instead of looking at the Word of God to find the will of God, they're constantly looking at all the doors that are not opened before them and sort of preoccupied with their circumstances instead of a practical application of the will of God. This is one of those passages in your New Testament that brings us all to the will of God. And it very clearly tells us what the will of God is. So let's look at this this morning. And let's kind of open this up and examine it and try to get a better understanding of what the Scriptures say is the explicit and simple will of God. The will of God is not something that you must search for and find. It's something that you must obey And apply. And there is a big difference when it comes to sometimes the way we do it. So first we have in verse 15 He says, see then that ye walk a certain way. Now the see then is a connection back to the fact that we are light. We are alive from the dead. Romans 6 says that we are united by baptism into his death and also his resurrection. We're dead to sin, but alive unto God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have new life And so we should have a a kind of walk. Again, this is part of the theme of Ephesians. He jumps back and forth between identity, walk, identity, walk. The word walk simply means lifestyle, the way, a habit. Becomes a lifestyle. And that's the way we are to look at it. Identity to lifestyle. So because we are risen from the dead and because we are light, we're supposed to have verse 15. A circumspect walk. Now that word, it's translated circumspectly, is speaking of walking with great care. As if you are looking at where you're about to take your next step, and you're aware of your surroundings, and you're going to be careful as to where you put your foot. I was taking a Bible class from a dear man who was a Greek scholar, and he loved the Lord so much, in spite of all his scholarship. That whenever he thought about Jesus, he would frequently tear up in class and cry in front of a group of college students because he loved Jesus that much. But he, in going through this passage, he said that one day he was in a foreign country, and in that country, people had big walls around their houses. And they would erect a big uh stone wall out of cement and stones they found in the field, or if they could afford it, cinder blocks, And they would take glass bottles and they would just break them into all kinds of pieces. And then on the top of that wall, and the fresh cement that was there, they would embed these jagged pieces of glass. So if you climbed up there and you wanted to climb over, your hands would go right on that broken glass, and you could really bloody your hands if you tried to do that. And he said that when he was there one time, he saw a cat walking across that glass. And the cat was just kind of walking along, and every step it took, it was careful. It was careful. There was glass embedded there, and that cat was walking circumspectly on that wall And it reminded him of this passage, and so he used it in Bible class as an illustration. The sort of careful walk of that cat so he wouldn't get his paws cut. On top of that wall. And that is the idea here. So we need to stop right there and just think about this. How much thought do you give your footsteps day to day? Now, I get convicted when I think of this. Because have you ever, has this ever happened to you? You drive home and you get into your your garage, you turn off the key, and you go, wow. I don't even remember making the last three turns. I was so preoccupied with something. Don't raise your hand. Has that ever happened? Alright, raise your hand. Has that ever happened to anybody in here? Okay, good. I'm glad I'm not really, really weird. Weird but not really, really weird. That's happened. Have you ever rushed through a morning and you had maybe a meeting or two and you thought you have to stop and go, what? What just happened in that meeting? What did I say? And isn't that kind of the American lifestyle where we kind of we get up in the morning and we don't walk through our lives, we rush through our lives. And it's very, very possible that we can develop a walk, a lifestyle, that is completely insensitive to those steps. Like the cat rushing across all that broken glass. And then is it not also true that sometimes when we do that, we look down and our paws are all we hurt, and we have to stop and think, whoa. What am I doing with my life? What's been happening the past six months that I am in such pain that my feet hurt so much? Here's the command that we walk circumspectly, that we have this carefulness with what we do. And here's the contrast in verse 15. Look at it. It says, See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Now the wisdom he speaks of, he'll expand on in verses 16, 17, and really all the way through the rest of the, well, not the total rest of the chapter, but at least through the next paragraph But let's just pause for a moment and think about fools and wise. Okay, so a fool, one of the easiest ways. To recall to your mind what a fool is, is to think in the book of what? Proverbs, right? What is a fool? Well, look at turn back to Proverbs chapter 1. Just go to Proverbs 1. We won't do this very long. And I'll remind you of sort of some of the characteristics of a fool. Hopefully this will come to mind and you would be able to just keep your keep something in Ephesians saying go back there real quick. You could just Quote Proverbs 1, what's often called the introduction to the whole collection of Proverbs. Look at Proverbs 1, we'll read the first few verses. The Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel. Now here's why this collection exists, to know wisdom and instruction. To perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity, to give subtlety to the simple To the young man, knowledge and discretion. A wise man will hear and will increase learning, and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. That sounds good. To understand a proverb and the interpretation, the words of the wise and their dark sayings. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools Despise wisdom and instruction. Here we have a first mention of a fool in the collection of Proverbs in the introduction of this collection, and one of the predominant Huge characteristics of a fool is when it comes to wisdom, he does not receive it. The word in this version is he despises wisdom and instruction. Now, when I was young, I used to think that when I became wise, I would not need to learn anything else That I would kind of arrive at this state of wisdom. You know, there would be this noise, ding, kind of like when something comes out of the oven, you know, ding, and ah, I am now wise. There is no reason for you to speak to me anymore. I know everything I need to know. And then I grew up. And I realized, wow, the more I know about this subject, the more I know about what I don't know about this subject. And just when I thought I could change my oil. Now I got transmission fluid fluid to deal with and now that the transmission fluid is bad I gotta figure out how to put one of those little water pump thingies on the side of my engine and take that off and if that goes bad then there's the serpentine belt thing. And it comes off. And how do you put that on? And the more you learn, the more you know that there's a lot of things you don't know. And so there is this characteristic about a wise person. He never stops learning. Have you ever met an old man who listens to a young man? And you think, why is that older gentleman listening? And it sounds like he's almost learning something from that younger man. Because he's never stopped learning. He's always trying to increase his wisdom. A fool is the one who says, uh, I got it. I know this. Don't tell me what's going on. I know everything I need to know to make this decision. I don't need any counselors. I really don't need you to tell me what to do. It's my life. And that is why when our teenagers reach the magic teen years, we as Christian parents do our best to disciple them out of that, right? Because they kind of reached this age where they they're gaining some knowledge, but they could make the mistake that they have enough knowledge and that their parents don't need to teach them anything else. A fool rejects the whole growing process. And so as you flip through the pages of Proverbs, you find out about how a fool speaks. He's hasty with his words. You find out about how much he speaks. He speaks his whole mind. He doesn't hold back. You find out about how he responds to people. Proverbs 11, 11. He answers a matter before he hears a matter. And so there's sort of the way a fool talks, and you find out about that. Then you find out about the way the fool handles his animals. He doesn't care about the life of his livestock. He lets his walls break down. He's lazy. And you go through the whole book of Proverbs, and there's this character sketch that the whole collection builds in our minds of what a fool is. And if you go back to Ephesians now quickly to Ephesians 5, there is the circumspect walk, and then there is the proverbial fool. But Paul, in writing to the Ephesians, he pulls out one of the things that he wants to emphasize about the wise person. The wise person is, the fool wastes time, has no value for it. He kills it. Have you ever heard that expression? Have you ever used it? I need to kill some time. That doesn't sound very good, but I have to admit I've said that before So what does the wise person, what is the one thing that Paul wants to bring out to the Ephesian Christians that we're supposed to do as wise people? Verse 16, we are supposed to redeem the time. Now the time, the word that's translated the time, is the definite article time. It's not so much speaking of time itself as sort of an abstract concept. But it's probably a reference to your the time. Each of us in this room have the time. It is our lives. That moment, literally the moment in which we live within the context of time itself When our bodies grow up and then decay, when we're subject to all the natural processes of the universe, is there a day when that will cease? Time will be no more. That's the future day. But now we have the time and we must, the word here translated redeem it, or redeeming is the idea of purchasing it, buying it back. getting it back because the days are evil. Have you noticed that? If you don't have a proactive plan to your life, you will get swept into that evil. Your time will be killed, wasted, and squandered. Have you ever gotten up in the morning and you had no to-do list? You had no plans, and you just kind of went with the flow, and by the end of the day, you're thinking to yourself, I wish somebody would give me back those eight hours. Because I don't even know if I accomplished anything today of any merit or worth. Nothing got accomplished with eternal value. That's the idea here. You don't let your life happen to you. You try to manage it because of the nature of life. Now Solomon writes about this in Ecclesiastes when he talks about time and chance, and he talks about how we could all get caught up in the circumstances of our day. And we really, there's so much about our lives that's unknown. You know, a storm comes and a tree is knocked down, and we might see that a storm is coming, but we don't know the damage that it's going to cause, and it's kind of like the way circumstances are. We don't know what tomorrow will bring. Did you ever think you would live to see the day when dozens of Coptic Christians in the Middle East are having their heads cut off? Did you ever think you would see that in your day? And where's the outrage in America? Where's the outrage when poor innocent people are murdered? I never thought I would see that day. It's an evil day. The more I read about what's happening in Nigeria and China and India to our Christian brothers and sisters, the more I realize that it's an evil day. And so that we must have the circumspect walk. And we must have the proactive plan. We've got to buy that. The idea here is that if you don't go and try to purchase that time back, it will be lost to you. And folks, seriously, when you lose a day, do you ever get it back? It's gone. Forever. Recently, I was looking, well, not recently, it was maybe a year and a half ago Time flies. Recently I was looking at a website on inventions and it was a startup website where people put their inventions on there and then they try to raise money to actually mass produce their inventions. And I was fascinated by this watch this guy came up with. I don't know if any of you have heard about it, but it's a watch that you put in your age, your weight, and all these different things, and it tries to come up with How long you'll live. Seriously. And then what it does on the one part of the watch is it counts down to your death. And on the other part of the watch, it gives you the regular time. So I'm not making this up. This is a real watch. So the goal, I was actually considering buying one. Okay. The goal is you're going through your day and you start wasting time. Oh my boy boy 22 more years and it it does it does it in years and days and and I think seconds and look it up make sure I'm telling you that part right What did Moses say? Teach us to number our days. And I thought, wow, this would be a way to sort of give myself a kick and a jolt. So that I don't waste my life because I'm so prone to do that. But that's that that's the point because we don't know. And Solomon in his in Ecclesiastes his advice was Cast your bread on many waters because you don't know what's going to happen. So just go invest. Give a portion to this many, but give this much Give more than you would usually give because we don't know what tomorrow is going to bring because of the chance element of life. Now for us as Christians There are no chances, right? There's nothing that's lucky or not lucky. Everything is brought under the superintendence of God Himself in a special way. Every circumstance for the good. To be conformed to the image of Christ, so there is never something that happens by accident in your or my life. But having said that, are you redeeming the time? Or are you just letting the days slip by? Are you really taking into account that the days are evil? And is that motivating you to buy back the time? You know what the fool says? There's a lion in the streets. I can't go out there and take care of my fields. He uses the perceived His perceptions of danger in his circumstances as an excuse to immobility and laziness. The Christian uses it as a motivation to diligence. That's the difference. And so we redeem the time, verse 16, because the days are evil. So we are supposed to, verse 17, then, and this is where the will of God comes. Look at verse 17. Wherefore be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. The circumspect walk, the proactive plan, but where do you get your strategy? What are you supposed to do? What is the will of the Lord? Well, evidently, the fool doesn't receive it or care about it, but you do, because you are a Christian. Let me invite you to just look at some passages in your New Testament that use the phrase the will of God or the will of the Lord. Look at 1 Timothy chapter 2. 1 Timothy chapter 2. Let's build in our mind an understanding of what the will of the Lord is. In this case, it is God who wills something. This is his will. 1 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 4. The context here is prayer for everyone, especially kings and those who are in authority, for verse 3 This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. It is the will of God that men and women, boys and girls, come to a knowledge of the truth. The mediator, verse 5. There's only one, Jesus Christ, the mediator between God and man. And it's the will of God that we pray for the salvation of leaders and all kinds of different people. This is his will. This is why he sent Christ to die and to be raised, so that men and women would be saved. If you look at First Thessalonians chapter four, verse three. First Thessalonians four, verse three, we see this. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication. That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel, that's your body, in sanctification and honor. The context of the 1 Timothy passage was. Pray a certain way, because this is the will of God, the salvation of man. And in this passage, it's live a certain way, a sanctified life. Because God doesn't want you involved in this sexual sin. So the sexual revolution is rejected by Christians. Because we want to live a holy life, knowing, look at your Bible again at verse 4 that every one of you should know how to possess your vessel in sanctification and honor. There's this dignity to the Christian lifestyle when it comes to his sexual choices, because he's living a life wherein he's trying to be sanctified before the Lord. Because he's saved. This is the will of God, prayer, and certain choices when it comes to what you do there. But then there's some difficult even these you kind of understand. But when you turn to 1 Peter, it gets a little harder. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2. First Peter chapter two verses thirteen to fifteen Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. This is 1 Peter 2, verse 13. Whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers. And for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Here's the will of God. Christians are law-abiding citizens. You know that when the church was first born in the book of Acts, and it traveled through the first century, and Nero died, and then you had other Caesars take his place. That one of the common things people said about Christians is that we were cannibals, that we drank blood. Where do you think they got that idea from? The Lord's table. Because we're always talking about blood. Jesus' blood. And that sounded gross to them. And so the rumor thing can get going. And there was this accusation that we were having these secret meals and these cultic rituals. That is, look down here again, that is verse 15: the ignorance of foolish men. What are they saying about Christians now? I have seen on the news that Christians are often characterized by the actions of one church somewhere that does something really stupid, such as picketing military funerals. And saying things that are so blatantly hateful that I, as a fellow, if they indeed are Christians, as a fellow Christian, would be sorely tempted to punch them in the nose. And if I'm tempted with the Spirit of God within me, what are lost people tempted to do? But they say things about us, don't they? What does this text say will put to silence the ignorance of foolish men? Verse 15. When you and I, verse 13, submit to the ordinances, to the governors, then we put to silence. When we are law-abiding citizens, And they make outrageous and outlandish claims about us. And they look at our track record, and it doesn't mean we're perfect, but we really abide by the law, and when we make a mistake, we pay for it. Then they're not going to have anything to say. It's as if we said, come into the Lord's table services, see what we really do. No one drinks blood here. We have the gospel to preach to you. Shine a light on us. We're imperfect, but we're striving to obey. And folks, this is the will of God. The will of God. It should be a concern to you, and it should be a concern to me. Look down a few more verses at verse 20. This is the same chapter, 1 Peter 2, verse 20. For what glory is it if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? But if When ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently. This is acceptable with God. Now, it doesn't use the word will there, but it says very clearly what is acceptable to God. And what's acceptable here is that you and I, when we suffer for our faith, We do it with the right attitude. And if we there's not much profit if we suffer as lawbreakers who Run like crazy on the highways who never pay our taxes who, I don't know, cheat and steal And we suffer, there's no profit in that, but there is if we take it patiently and we suffer for doing well. Now, I want to step back here for a second. When I was growing up and taught about the will of God, I didn't get these passages. They talked in general terms about the Spirit of God and the peace of the Spirit and about circumstances, and the Spirit of God is definitely a part of the will of God. We don't have time this morning to really get into that, but we're looking at very clear passages in the New Testament. So let's look at one more. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. Turn back to 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, and I'll try to wrap this up You know this. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. And everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus Christ. concern in you. And wow, even as I read that, I think about my week, and I don't know if I gave thanks one time other than when I ate. How about you? In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God. Now turn back to Ephesians and I'll tell you how very simply we can we can wrap this up. The cat on the wall. The Christian in his life. Watching where different steps go, looking for the broken glass, being careful. Here's how you're careful. Here's my schedule. I really should redeem some time to pray for the salvation of all people. Because that's the will of God, the salvation of people. I should buy some time back to do the will of God. Wow, I should be careful where I walk when it comes to this the sexual revolution of this country and the absolute the sort of the direction it's gone now. I should be careful That I'm sort of making sure I take heed to my heart. For out of it is the issuing of life. And so if I expose myself to all this media that is so Pro this or this or this. I need to be careful. My heart is so easily affected. I'm going to walk that circumspect walk around that broken glass. I'm going to be careful. Wow, I know that it's the will of God for me to submit, and that is not always enjoyable to me, so I will do my best to drive the speed limit. And if I if I get a ticket, I'll pay it right away or go to the court and try to work it out. I'm going to make sure I I pay my taxes and if I make a mistake, I'm going to go ahead and pay it up, pay up. Now that doesn't mean Now, the IRS is not always right. We all know that, okay? But I'm going to work it out and make sure everything is right To the best of my ability. This is the will of God that by my well-doing I'm going to put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. They're saying this about me, but I'm really a law-abiding citizen. This, I'm gonna, I'm gonna walk. and watch out for the broken glass. Wow, I might have to suffer for doing what's right. But I want to be acceptable to God. I want my response to my suffering to be right. I want to walk, I'm going to be careful that I suffer for the right reasons and not the wrong ones. 1 Peter 2. 20. I am going to thank God if all I have is this tuna fish sandwich for lunch and celery sticks. Maybe I'm not going out to eat with everyone else. Maybe I'm on a tight budget. Maybe my relationships aren't all perfect. Maybe my marriage isn't exactly what I would like to be, but I am going to find something Something today to thank God for. Whether it's the sun in the sky or the birds on the branches or the clean air I'm breathing, I'm going to thank him for something. Because that is the will of God. Folks, I think America has turned the will of God into sort of this capitalistic thing where our main goal in life is to find out the job that God has for us. Am I going to be a plumber, an electrician, an engineer? I have to find the will of God. And I in my personal experience, and what I'm saying now is a pastoral observation. Okay, take this and think about it. Chew it up, spit the bones out. What if we spent more time just obeying and applying? Obeying and applying, applying and obeying, and less time straining. Is that the will of God? Is that the will of God? You know what one man said? He said that when it comes to the will of God, if you are obeying what you know in the scriptures, You're abstaining from sexual immorality, you're endeavoring to be thankful, you want to be a spirit-filled individual, you you're you're obeying what you know. The next question is not to ask What is the will of God? The next question is, what do you want to do? What do you want to do? Do you want to go to that college or that college? Bring in counselors. You don't want to disobey the word of God. You want to get a wise counsel, but what do you want to do? Isn't that what happened with Paul in the book of Acts? Did he receive a vision every single time on what city to go to? On what synagogue to first enter? Folks, he did not. Now there were times when the Spirit of God directed him. Did God tell Paul whether to drink Coke or Pepsi? No, being facetious. I would drink Coke. What would you drink? Pepsi, there you go. Here's the point. We have a great f if we're just doing the will of God, if we're trying to proactively buy back the time, and we're involved in this process. Where where do you feel like God's leading you? Where do you want to go? And the author of this particular book said that he had a friend Who wanted to minister to Muslims in the Middle East. And he told his friend, his friend was an obedient Christian, not a perfect Christian, but obedient. And he said, go for it, and we'll help you. And that friend ended up in Canada. Because once he got moving, he thought he was going to go here, but God guided him to the Muslim population of Canada. And that is where he ended up serving. And he was right in the will of God. When we have a correct understanding of the will of God and a circumspect walk, it frees us. It frees us from hyper internalizing and speculating and being so distracted with finding the perfect will of God that we never do the will of God. Here, this is the will of God. Let's pray together Father, we thank you that you are a God who loves us, who died for us. Who gave us your spirit and your word. Father, thank you that we have your word translated into the English language. French language, the German language, Chinese language, all so many different languages. Father, please help us. Lord, we're so spoiled, especially in the English language. Father, help us to really read it because we love it. Father, I pray for that individual who might be here and who doesn't know you. And thus they don't know the will of God. Father, we know that it's you that it's your will that they they find you at long last. God, who is love. God who knows their sin and will forgive it because of Christ. Father, I pray if there's someone here like that today, that they will know the will of God, their salvation. That they would be saved. And Lord help us. Help us to have the big things big in our lives and the small things small. Help us to have the right priorities. Well folks, I give you a second if you have something to tell the Lord We'll keep our heads bowed, our eyes closed. If there's something in your heart that the Spirit of God has brought forward for you to deal with, talk to Him. He hears every thought.