Well you guys have really been terrific in accommodating me over the years. If you recall, of course we used And uh so I would come in that way. Then you put in a railing, which was very nice and thoughtful. I'm sure only for my benefit. And now, uh, you know, forget the stairs, just one little tiny step there. Um and uh I'm sorry, I'm just having fun because I'm thinking over the years as uh um Uh some of our uh visitors were coming uh up the steps and uh and they were having as much difficulty as I was. I'm thinking, you know, I used to be able to take those steps two at a time, but that's uh not exactly uh true anymore. So we uh rejoice in that we're gonna have a what? New resurrection body one day and then all things will be made new. I would uh appreciate continuing Continued uh a prayer for uh our son uh Jonathan. Um he's forty-six, he has this uh uh incurable disease, uh cortigo basal syndrome, which has affected both his uh mind as well as his body. His whole right side is pretty much uh uh m uh are largely shut down. So uh just uh continue to uh pray for him. Thankfully he's in a bit of a plateau, which is really nice because if you've got something that's sort of you know, destroying things in your body. A plateau is good. So they have uh he and his wife Kim, they live in Illinois. They have three Three uh children ages uh five, uh uh seven, and eleven. So um uh it you know, it's uh it's not an easy task. Um uh for his wife to manage uh pretty much everything and have to work because he can no longer work or hold a uh position. So uh just uh thank you and also thank you for your pastor who along uh uh who has often uh come with me when I visit Mark Hazlitt, uh a uh um former uh seminary graduate and uh missionary with uh uh frontier ventures uh who had a stroke uh almost three years ago now. And uh sung just uh a couple of weeks ago went with me again. And I gotta tell you, I visit Mark a lot, but uh when I visit him with your pastor Um he he just l the visit's gonna be a success. Um it's because uh your pastor shockingly likes to tease And Mark just loves it and uh he you know I think it transports him back to when we we would uh fellowship uh together. But uh I just want to say you probably don't see all the different things that your pastor does and uh I hope you appreciate And by the way, just in case you hadn't figured this out, there's no pastor that's perfect. And if you haven't figured that that out, you better figure it out pretty quickly, right? Sorry. Okay. That's the end of my little uh update and encouragement. Uh so I'm delighted that they're uh that I can come here and preach while they are um celebrating uh their anniversary. Well, you know, sometimes we do complain about some rather trivial uh matters. I I wrote this down in my uh notes here, such as, and and I wrote it down, so I'll say it, the perils of our sports teams. like my Orioles. Um I know some of you are also Orioles fans and uh and and the Ravens although the Ravens still have a shot, you know Well, it's not a great shot to turn things around, but there's still a shot. Uh or we're gonna complain about the weather too cold, too hot, maybe too rainy, uh, who knows, too stormy. But while you and I sometimes complain about these things, uh in uh many parts of the world uh life is oppressive for a very different uh reason, uh far more important things uh going on uh all kinds of wars either uh between uh countries or uh with uh you know within countries and going on right now I'm sure you and I are quite familiar with some of these, uh such as the conflicts uh between uh Israel and um uh uh Hamas and uh you hope that, you know, that's uh um you know, maybe uh going to be settled now, but somehow with the Middle East one can never be too sure that things will be settled, uh, or Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which has lasted uh um over three years now, three and a half years. Um and of course two days ago, just to you know to make us feel even better, North Korea proudly announced that they've got a they think they have anyway, an ICBM system that can reach as far as the United States, any place in the United States. And um so that's not exactly a comforting thought either. But there are actually far more conflicts than these. The Geneva Academy lists more than 110 armed conflicts that are going on right now around the world. Forty-five in the Middle East, in North Africa, 35 in Africa, twenty one in Asia, seven in Europe and six in Latin America. Now I don't know uh about you, but I don't really like talking about war or thinking about it. And for us here in this country we really haven't uh experienced uh uh a serious threat uh of war, certainly not on our soil, in quite a long time. But that's not true for many people around the world today. And it certainly wasn't true for Daniel personally, having been taken captive at a young age. or for the prophecies, of course, in his book. The last time I was with you, we talked about Daniel's. the uh first vision in uh chapter seven dealing with four scary monsters. Speaking of Halloween, that might have been a good message to preach around Halloween time with all these scary uh monsters and and by the way I'm uh of the side that I do give out tracks and uh candy, good candy trick or treat as a witness. That's the way I use it. So I realize we've got all different ideas and I do understand the negative aspects that certainly we would want not want to emulate, but I figure if I've got uh if if I've got neighbor children coming to my house, I kinda wanna, you know, give 'em a track and be friendly, etc. At least that's the way I look at it. But at any rate, uh some people just associate all these things with uh uh negative uh negative aspects which are certainly sadly part of it as well. And Daniel 7 was pretty scary. Well Guess what? Here we are now in Daniel chapter 8, and it's also a scary chapter, not quite as scary perhaps as chapter 7. dealing with all sorts of worldwide battles and conflicts. And I hate to tell you this, but in the remaining uh four chapters of the book. If uh I'm invited to come uh an a again then we'll probably go through the rest of them. And uh there are all kinds of more conflicts uh going on. But I think there's a slight shift in focus in these last five chapters of Daniel. From Daniel 2 through Daniel 7, the language that Daniel uses is Aramaic, which was The common diplomatic language of the day used for nations to communicate with one another. Much like Latin was later used and Today that common language is probably English. Uh I think that was a uh uh um appropriate for those chapters because chapters two through seven speak primarily of the domination of the Gentile kingdoms. But then in chapters eight through twelve, Daniel shifts back to Hebrews. Because while there is still plenty of world domination by Gentile nations, the emphasis in these last five chapters shifts to the future destiny of the Jews. God's people. It's been there earlier in the book, but it really takes center stage, I think, in these last five chapters But the other thing that struck me, as I read through this chapter multiple times this week, is that though there are all sorts of wars mentioned, Ultimately, there's only one key war. The war of Satan and his emissary, the Antichrist, against God and against God's people. And that's why, by the way, I think even though I did not pick the scripture reading, um uh I think that scripture reading from Second Thessalonians was actually Quite appropriate because Paul is warning of the same thing there. And I would submit to you today that despite uh what you might think. That war has been going on virtually from the beginning of the scriptures in Genesis chapter 3. With Adam and Eve in the garden, and it will continue right up until the end when Satan is totally defeated in Revelation chapter 20 So whether you realize it or not, despite what our outward circumstances may be, if we're aligned with God, then guess what? Satan, who has never stopped waging war against God, will be waging war against us as well. So I think we can learn some things here in Daniel 8 to help us in our battle against him in our lives together. Well, I I also want to make one final point before we go through this passage, and it's one that really applies to any passage of Scripture that we study. But I think that it especially applies to a passage like Daniel 8. And remember, I'm preaching on Daniel 8 because it follows Daniel 7. And then that followed Daniel 6. It's not my favorite chapter of the book of the Bible to preach. It doesn't matter. It's the next one. Right? We believe in expository preaching. So I'm going to go through that next one, which is Daniel 8. Okay? Now, here's what I'm going to say. You and I, you and especially I need to approach the interpretation of this passage with awe and humility. Now, possibly that strikes you as something pretty odd for someone to say, since I'm, of course, going to unravel all the complexities of the passage in the next few minutes, right? Well, possibly not. Let's jump for a moment to the last verse in the passage, chapter 8 and verse 27. And I do hope if if uh if you have your Bibles that you'll be following along with me. In Daniel eight twenty seven it says, Then I, Daniel, was exhausted. Literally, I was done is what the the verb means I was done and sick for days. Then I rose up again and went about the king's business, but I was appalled by the vision, and there was no one to make me understand it. But y you might say, well, we have the advantage of history on our side that Daniel didn't, and that's true, up to a point Yet despite what you may read in your study Bible or your favorite commentary, not everything is crystal clear. In fact, my own understanding of a portion of this chapter, verses 9 through 14, happens to differ with most of the conservative Bible-believing pastors and scholars I've consulted. Which means, quite frankly, that I could be wrong. I'm quite sure of the gist of the passage, but not of every single part. Daniel didn't understand it, and he was one of the most godly prophets who ever lived. So you and I need to approach our understanding of it with awe and So there's a disclaimer that I don't usually give. I probably should give it in every message, but especially I'm giving it today. Okay, let's go dive into the text. And as I've done in previous messages of Daniel, I first want to try to explain the contents of the chapter and then provide some key applications for us today. The chapter divides pretty neatly into two main sections. First of all, Daniel's vision in verses 1 to 14. Then the interpretation of the vision in verses fifteen to twenty-six and then finally that final verse twenty-seven giving us Daniel's reaction to the vision Well, the vision itself has two parts: the vision of the ram and the male goat in verses 1 to 8, and then the vision of the little horn in verses 9 to 14. In the uh the the vision of the ram and the male goat, Daniel's vision in chapter 7 was dated in the first year of King Belshazzar, or 553 BC. B. C. The vision here in chapter 8 is in Belshazzar's third year, or 551 BC, about two years after the previous one. According to verse 2, in the vision, Daniel saw himself in the citadel of Shushan, or Susa. Which was about 220 miles east of Babylon, located in present-day southwest Iran. Though some commentators do think that Daniel actually was physically present in Susa, uh most think, and I would agree, That it's more likely that this was the location of the vision and Daniel was still physically in Babylon. Well, why then is Susa important? Well, here's what's interesting. At the time of Daniel's vision, it wasn't a very significant place at all. But when the Persian king Darius I took the throne around 522 BC, he made Susa his administrative capital of the Persian Empire It's where Nehemiah uh later uh served as the cupbearer to the Persian king Ar uh or to Xerxes according to Nehemiah 1-1. It's also where Esther, the uh queen of Ahasuerus, was during the time of the events of the Book of Esther. Now at this point I need to reiterate that while both the exploits of Daniel in chapters 1 to 6 and the visions of Daniel in chapters 7 to 12 are chronologically arranged in their six chapter units. The exploits first, then the visions. By the time of Daniel's vision in chapter 8, the events of chapters 5 and 6 haven't happened yet. Daniel's interpretation of the handwriting on the wall in 528 that Belshazzar's kingdom had been given over to the Medes and the Persians. uh would happen a dozen years after Daniel's vision here. So by locating Daniel in uh Susa in this vision, the Lord's already showing Daniel a glimpse of what this city's future would be, demonstrating once more that he knows all about the future. In verse 3, Daniel sees a ram and a male goat. The ram has two horns, with one higher than the other, and one coming up last. So since the ram attacks west, north, and south, it must come from the east. Verse 4 tells us as well that no one else could overcome it. It did whatever it wanted and was in total control. But this is a theme that we've seen many times before in the book of Daniel, and we see it in this chapter as well. While a nation may think they're in total control, uh there's always another nation of power that will eventually challenge and suppress surpass it. And that's precisely what happens in verse 5 with the male goat that comes from the west, a goat with a notable horn between its eyes. In verses 6 and 7, that goat attacks the ram and destroys it, trampling it to the ground. And so we see in verse 8 that this male goat does exactly what the ram had done previously. Magnifying itself exceedingly. But as soon as that happens, the large horn is broken, and four horns come up from it. Now, despite what I have said earlier in this message, I'm 100% convinced of my interpretation of verses 3 to 8 of Daniel 8. because of the great gift of interpretation that has been gifted uniquely to me. Okay, I just said that to see if you were still awake and following me because I know this has been a rather long introduction. No, I am a hundred percent sure of the interpretation. Because of verses 20 and 21 of this chapter, in those verses, the angel Gabriel tells us precisely what these creatures represent. According to verse 20, the Ram represents the kings of Media and Persia. Media was at first the dominant nation, but soon Persia became dominant Um and uh course that was exactly what happened. And uh so when uh these uh nations United, then of course, uh this prophecy would indeed uh come uh true. And uh as verse four indicates to the West Um Medo-Persia subdued Babylon, Syria, Asia Minor, and made raids upon Greece, uh to the north, Armenia, Scythia, and the Caspian Sea region. To the south Egypt and Ethiopia. Well, Daniel 8. 21 similarly tells us that the goat of verses 5 to 8 is the king of Greece Which would be Alexander the Great. Just as Daniel 8, 5 accurately prophesied, Alexander's speed in conquering the entire Near East was legendary. In fact, I had a terrible world history teacher, I mean really terrible, uh, in uh ninth grade. How terrible? Well, when it came to Jesus, and that period he said Jesus was a charlatan and all of his disciples were schizophrenic. Yes, that was said publicly in the school in a classroom of 90% Jewish people and me. And so I spoke up and all of a sudden I was receiving C's and D's in that class instead of A's. Anyway, uh that's another story for another day. But one thing he did impress upon us, we did learn a couple of facts of world history and the one thing I remember was Alexander the Great uh because he was twenty-two when he began his campaign in three thirty-four BC against the Persians Three years later, in 331 B. C. , he had achieved total domination of that area. And by the time of his sudden death in 323 BC, B. C. , at the age of 32, he had created one of the largest empires of the ancient world, stretching from Greece on the west to northwest India on the east But the end of verse 8 tells us that even the mighty power of Alexander the Great was broken, and verse 22 tells us that four kingdoms arose from his empire. These would be the kingdoms of Ptolemy, Egypt and Palestine in the south, Seleucius, Babylon, on the east, Lysimachus, Thrace and Asia Minor on the north, and Cassander, Greece and Now we get to the all-important vision of the little horn given in verses 9 to 14 and explained in verses 23 to 26. Notice before we continue further that one of the greatest kings and conquerors in history, Alexander the Great, receives a total of only five verses in this chapter. Four verses in the description of the vision in verses five to eight, and one verse in the interpretation, verse twenty-one. But this little horn receives twice as much space. the vision of verses 9 to 14 and then four verses in the interpretation in verses 23 to 26 Briefly summarizing verses 9 to 14, this little horn grows great toward the south, the east, and the west, meaning that it probably originates from the north. It aligns itself against the host of heaven, considers itself to be equal with the Prince of the Host, and utterly disrupts the temple sacrifice. Committing the abomination of desolation against the holy place for 2300 evenings and mornings. In Gabriel's interpretation of the little horn in verses 23 to 26, we're told that this little horn arises in, and I quote, in the latter part period of their reign when the transgressors have reached their full measure. End quote. This king will be skilled in intrigue, he'll be insolent, he'll have all kinds of power. But verse 24 says it's not his own power. In other words, his power comes from another source. Verse 25 says he'll destroy all kinds of people. He'll be deceitful. He'll even go against the prince of princes, but he'll be broken without hands. And that's the interpretation given by Gabriel, not quite as straightforward as the interpretation of the ram and the goat given in verses 20 and 21. So the big question is, who is this little horn of verses 9 to 14? Now here's where, and I know I'm begging your indulgence for like probably the third time in this message, but I've got to get just a little bit technical for a few minutes, and so please bear with me Most commentators, uh conservative and liberal, uh say that the little horn here is the Seleucid King Antiochus IV Epiphanes. If you have a study Bible, it probably tells you that in its notes. But just remember, the study, the the notes of the study Bible aren't what? Inerrant. They're made by a human being, which means they can be wrong. Antiochus IV Epiphanes reigned from 175 to 164 BC. They'll tell you also that the abomination of desolation refers to the desecration of the Jerusalem Temple on December 15, 167 B. C. , where Antiochus offered a pig on the altar. The end of that period is seen as December 14, 164 B. C. , when Judas Maccabeus rededicated the structure and that a time period by the way is celebrated by the Jews as Hanukkah. That's where it came from. Uh and that position is supported by the non canonical books of first and second Maccabees. Which describes what Antiochus did as an abomination of desolation. However, by the time that we get to Gabriel's interpretation of this little horn in verses 23 to 25, Most conservative scholars see there that these verses refer to the Antichrist, not to Antiochus. Antiochus, then, according to these uh scholars, would be a type of the Antichrist. But I don't think that view is correct For one thing, Gabriel is giving us the inspired interpretation of the little horn of verses 9 to 14. So why would he all of a sudden be talking about the Antichrist if Antiochus was the little horn earlier? In other words, I would think that the interpretation directly refers to the vision, as it does in the case of the ram and the goat. So my view is that the little horn of verses 9 to 14, and in Gabriel's interpretation of verses 23 to 25, is none other than the Antichrist. The same as the little horn of Daniel chapter 7. I don't think Antiochus is in the picture here at all Gabriel tells Daniel several times that the vision belongs to the time of the end, in the latter time of their kingdom, when transgressors have reached their full measure. If the vision truly does belong to the end time, then the Antichrist must be in view, not Antiochus. Gabriel explains in verse 25 that the little horn shall stand against the prince of princes, but he shall be broken without hand. Well, that frits the Antichrist exactly, who goes against Christ himself. The phrase broken without hand seems identical to the The stone of in Daniel 2, 45, that was cut out of the mountain without hand, and it destroyed all the kingdoms of the earth. Finally, the phrase abomination of desolation, or its equivalent, occurs four times in these last five chapters of Daniel. Here in Daniel 8, 13, then in chapter 9, verse 27, then in chapter 11, verse 31, and finally in Daniel 12, verse 11. If I live that long and if I'm asked back enough, uh we'll go through all of those in who knows in in the next I don't know how long. Anyway, well when Jesus speaks of the abomination of desolation, don't worry, the boring part is almost over. Okay Okay. I think this is intriguing, of course, but I realize my perspective is not exactly your perspective. But when I I do want you to uh make note of this point. When Jesus speaks of the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet in Matthew twenty four fifteen, there's no question that he was speaking of a yet future Event, one which would usher in a period of end-time tribulation prior to Christ's glorious second advent He wasn't speaking of an event that happened nearly 200 years earlier, despite what Maccabees and the Jewish historian Josephus say. By the way, and I hate to say this, and I know this is so boring, but I did my dissertation on Josephus, uh, so I know a little bit about Josephus. And um I don't, just because Josephus says something doesn't make it true. That's the only thing I'll say here. And if you read him carefully, you'll find he actually speaks of a succession of abominations of desolations, first Antiochus, then the Romans, and then the Zealas. All of them, according to Josephus, are an abomination of desolation. But I believe that in Daniel, just as our Lord states, It's a yet future event when the Antichrist will commit some horrendous act in the Jewish temple that will usher in the period of great tribulation. So the 2300 evenings and mornings of verse 14, I take as actually a reference to 1150 days since the issues. The issue is the number of sacrifices that would be missed to each day. That would be a little less than three and a half years, the time of the Great Tribulation. And for anybody that's actually interested in more on this, not less, but more, I'd be happy to send you a 13-page single space. paper that I presented at an annual meeting meeting of the Evangelical Theological Society on the Abomination of Desolation. Just email me. The emails should be in your notes and you can request that paper. I don't expect a large amount of request um for that, but if you are interested, please don't help me. All right, now let's look at the interpretation of the vision in verses 15 to 26 and specifically of the arrival of the angel Gabriel in verses 15 to 19. I'm not sure if you are aware of this or not, but Daniel 8:16 is the first place in the Bible where the specific name of one of the Lord's angels is given. Now I'm not talking about apocryphal or deutero-canonical books where frankly named angels are a dime a dozen, like in Jubilees. They're all over the place in Jubilees. But in the inspired scripture, there are actually only two. Gabriel, who's mentioned here and in the next chapter. Daniel 9 and Michael mentioned in Daniel chapter 10 and Daniel chapter 12, as well as Jude 9 and Revelation 12, 7. That's it. That's all of the named angels of the Lord in the Scripture. And when they show up, it signifies a momentous event or series of events. Aside from these two occurrences in Daniel, Gabriel is mentioned only twice more in the scriptures. And I hope you remember where those are, right? Luke 1. 19, where he appears to Zechariah. announcing the birth and the significance of John the Baptist, and then in Luke 1. 26, where six months later Gabriel announces the birth of the Savior. To a young virgin named Mary. Kind of momentous events. Well, that's it. Those are the only occurrences of the angel Gabriel in Scripture. Here in Daniel 8. 15, Daniel's trying to understand the vision that he has just had, and a voice calls out in verse 16, instructing Gabriel to give Daniel the interpretation. That voice may be that of the pre-incarnate Christ, but we are we can't know for sure. Daniel is terrified at the appearance of Gabriel. He falls into what seems like a coma-like state. But Gabriel touches him and he makes him stand. Then in verse 19, he says, the vision pertains to the appointed time of the end. He then gives the interpretation of the ram and the goat, as we've already discussed. And then in verse 23, Gabriel explains that the rest of the vision, the little horn, will occur when transgressors have reached their full measure. So if my understanding of the little horn is correct, then Gabriel's interpretation refers to the Antichrist, the same uh um uh uh Being that was described in your scripture in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, who is empowered by Satan. Who will be unleashed in the end time. Just as with the birth of Christ in the Gospel of Luke, Gabriel is pointing to another exceedingly significant event. namely the rise and the fall of Antichrist who will oppose Christ in the end time and oppress his people. This isn't just some Seleucid king in the second century BC. This is the Antichrist, Satan's last gasp at thwarting Christ. Here are a few things we learn about the Antichrist from these verses. First of all, he is very prideful, magnifying himself and exalting himself to be God. Verse 12 says he magnifies himself to be equal with the commander of the host. Second, he stands against the prince of princes That's in verse 25. That is, of course, the Lord Jesus Christ himself. Third, he does everything that he absolutely can to destroy God's people and sanctuary. Probably the rebuilt temple in Jerusalem. We get that in verses 11 to 14 and then 24 to 26. Fourth, he operates with cunning and deceit, verse 25, caring nothing for truth in the process. Verse 12, and I love this phrase, I mean I hate it, but I love it. It's so descriptive, says that he throws truth to the ground. You know what I think of often these days when I when I look at uh world news and what people say? They're throwing truth to the ground and what? Stomping on it. Uh you and I need to be what? People who uphold the truth at all costs, and hopefully you and I will be people who not only value the truth, but we represent that in uh in ourselves in our own characters. Anyway, uh but finally, uh fifth and most importantly, the Antichrist ultimately won't be successful. He'll be broken without hand. that is supernaturally without human power. Revelation 19, 19 to 21 tells us clearly That the Lord Jesus Christ will utterly defeat all the powers of evil orchestrated by Satan, including the Antichrist. when Jesus returns. Well in the last verse of the chapter of uh 827 we have Daniel's reaction to the vision and Gabriel's interpretation, which I shared to you uh with you at the beginning of the message. Daniel says he was exhausted and sick for days, and even after he resumed the king's work, he was still appalled by that vision, and he couldn't easily understand it. It's actually verses such as this one, and I hope you uh understand what I'm saying here, that make me utterly convinced of the inerrancy of the scriptures. Because let me put it this way. If I were Daniel and I'm writing this book, the last thing I'm going to say is, I'm the exalted prophet of the Lord. I'm not going to say, hey, I couldn't figure it out. Right? That's in the book. What we have here in the scriptures is accurate and true. even when it isn't very flattering to the people involved. I just didn't want you to miss that point because to me it's amazing. You know, if this thing were uh uh uh uh you know just somebody's made up story They're not going to include that part, are they? I mean I I don't know about you, but in my dreams I'm what? I'm the hero of the story. Right? Well okay, maybe maybe Maybe in yours you're not. I don't know. Maybe that says something about me. But I think that's true of most people. You want to be the hero. You're not going to make yourself out to be a wimp Right? Are you? I don't think so. So that to me means this is actually what happened and Daniel is accurately recording it. Okay. I see at least thank you for going through all of this with me and and uh you know enduring the whole mess. Um now I see four key applications for us today. And the first is this make sure reading and studying the Word of God affects you. Make sure reading and studying the Word of God affects you. Don't simply treat it as some kind of intellectual procedure. Yes, we want to do our best to understand it. I spent a lot of time here trying to help you at least understand it. We do word studies. We compare scripture with scripture. But what I'm struck with here is that Daniel wasn't simply a robotic agent of the Lord. Receiving his word, you know, like, I don't know, AI or something, uh, so he could share it with us. No, he was viscerally affected by it. I think that is so important. I love what Warren Wearsby writes at the end of his exposition of this chapter, and then I'm going to quote it at a little bit of length. He says Daniel is a good example for students of prophecy to follow. His investigation into God's prophetic program wasn't a matter of satisfying curiosity or trying to appear very knowledgeable before others. He was concerned about his people and the work that they had to do on earth. He's so identified with what he learned that it made him ill. Too many prophetic students don't wait before God for instruction and insight, nor do they feel burdened when they learn God's truth about the future. Instead, they try to display their knowledge and impress people with what they think they know. The whole exercise is purely academic. It's all in the head, and it never changes the heart. Folks, anytime you and I read or study Scripture, yes, it should challenge our minds, but it should also challenge and move our hearts. Make sure that you approach the study of prophecy and this, I think, the approach study of all scripture with great humility and great awe. Second, be aware of world events, but recognize that God knows and controls the future. Be aware of world events, but recognizes that God knows and controls the future. He's ultimately in control of all world leaders regardless of how powerful they may seem at the time. That was true in Daniel's day with Nebuchadnezzar. It was true with Belshazzar and Cyrus as well. and Darius and Alexander the Great later on. And it's just as true today with Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong-un, and every other dictator. And it will be uh even be true of the Antichrist. Be aware of what's going on, but rest in the Lord and in his wisdom, in his power, and in his His sovereignty and protection. God knows and controls the future. And if you don't believe that, I challenge you to read Isaiah 40 to 48. All together in one reading. Isaiah 40 to 48, and I hope you'll be convinced. Third, if you're a believer here this morning, recognize that you're in a war. Satan has always been at war with God and with God's people. In 1 Peter 5. 8, Peter warns the believers to be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And he really likes to set his sights on those who are making a difference for the Lord. That's why you and I need to be vigilant in praying for one another, especially for our pastors and our missionaries and others on the front lines of battle. And if you really haven't experienced all that much opposition lately, well perhaps it's because you're not much of a threat. You've conformed yourself more to the delights of the world than trying to make a difference for Christ. Remember, our citizenship is in heaven, not here on earth. It's easy to become a bit too complacent with the things of this world, things that aren't bad in and of themselves, but bad if they take our attention away from what truly matters. And a corollary to this third point is that as a believer, you need to know the tactics of the enemy. He's got a bunch of them, and he's used them successfully ever since the Garden of Eden. As we've seen here in Daniel 8, he's a master deceiver. He's a liar. He's one who has no regard for the truth, casting truth to the ground. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 11 14 that Satan transforms himself into an angel of light. He masquerades as someone good, not someone evil. Paul talks about the armor necessary to combat Satan in Ephesians 6, 10 to 18 and other. Encourage you to study that passage so you can use it personally in your battle against Satan. Finally, and something always to keep in mind, is that we should rejoice in our standing in Christ, who will ultimately win the battle. There's no question about that. Satan and his emissaries will be broken supernaturally without human hand. by Christ himself. If you ever need to remind yourself of that, reread Revelation 19 and 20. Now, I don't know the outcome of many wars here on earth, but we know for sure the outcome of the one that Daniel 8 is talking about. Ever since the cross and the resurrection, Satan is a defeated foe. And his final sentence Is all that remains. He's still capable of inflicting some heavy casualties upon unsuspecting believers, but he is a defeated foe. As Paul says so triumphantly in 1 Corinthians 15, 57, and I close with this: Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus. Christ. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for your word. I thank you for the truth of your word, Lord, and I thank you for the prophet Daniel, Lord, who even writes that he didn't fully understand these things. and how affected he was by them. Lord, I would pray that I, myself, and each one here uh as a believer would always be affected by your word as we read it. Help us, Lord, not to be in such a r rush to complete the reading of your word that we don't really ponder what it means. And then ponder what it means for us. Help us, Father, not simply to treat understanding of Scripture as something academic But it's something that pierces our heart so that we might be in obedience to your word. Help us, Father, not simply to be hearers of your word. But doers also. If there's anyone here this morning that's never trusted in Christ as their Savior, I pray that they would do so, recognizing that their own sin separates them from uh God. And yet, because of what Christ has done on the cross and risen again, our sins, uh He uh He paid for all of those sins on the cross. And we simply need to trust in Him, the resurrected Lord Jesus Christ, to have forgiveness of sins and mercy forevermore. What a joy that is, Lord. And I would pray that if there's anyone here this morning that's never trusted in Christ as their Savior, they would do so today. But the rest of us, Lord, help us to realize that if we're truly standing for you, Then we will experience opposition. Something that was true in Jesus' day, it was something true in the Apostles' Day, and it's certainly true in our day as well. Help us, Father, to be aware of these things, but help us also to rejoice, because Christ has won the victory. Christ has won the battle, and Satan's doom is in the world. Thank you for all these things. Help us, Lord, remind us of these things, even as we go through headlines. Uh Lord, help us to uh to understand these things, but not to get Uh completely excited about every headline because we recognize you're the one who controls the future. And we rest in you. In Jesus' name we pray with thanksgiving. Amen.