We're looking at Ephesians 5, verses 6 to 12. Ephesians 5, 6 to 12. Let no man deceive you with vain words, that is empty words. Useless words, unprofitable. For because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. What things? Well, those are the things mentioned in verses 4 and 5. Filthiness, foolish talking, and jesting, which are not cr not appropriate, but rather giving of thanks. Alright, that that But mostly verse 5, there's the whoremonger, the unclean person, the covetous man who is an idolater. They don't have an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with these vain words because of these things. We're in trouble. Verse 7. Be not ye therefore partakers with them? For ye were sometimes darkness. I mean, in the past we were dark morally and in our behavior, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit of this light, is in all goodness and righteousness and truth. Proving, it's demonstrating what is acceptable unto the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove, expose them. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. We'll read one more verse, verse 13. But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. For whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Folks, you know as well as I do that we live in a dark world. I prayed about this world, referring to it as a world full of smog. At no time in the history of our country, perhaps Has it been darker than what is happening than now with the more morality of our nation becoming so Skewed, off-focused, and confusing that the highest court in our land is trying to weigh in on something that God established so long ago And that is also so obvious that it is according to nature. It is so clear in a common sense way that when you have what we have today going on in our nation, it's it's the end. In other words, the rejection of the natural creative order in this way and the rejection of relationships between genders is sort of the end of an act of rebellion that began with this and this and this, and then finally you have this Sometimes things are confusing, even to lost folks, sometimes to Christians, but this is not confusing. The point is, what we're dealing with today is not is not the beginning of a process, it's the end of a process. And yet there is within our culture still the idea that God will not hold us accountable for our actions. That we can sin with a high hand, we can do what we will, and God does not see us, God does not hear us. That's what the psalmist said. There are these people out here and they say, Who's going to see this? And they just go on and try to do what they're doing. And it is possible that you and I, our children, our great-grandchildren, could be deceived by empty words and led to believe that it really isn't that bad. That when it comes to relationships doing these kinds of sexual sins, that God is going to just kind of give it a pass. And of course, verse 6 says, no, it's because of these things that the wrath of God is coming upon the children of disobedience. In verses 7 down to verse 13, we have further exhortations to Christians on how we should relate to the works of darkness. What are the works of darkness? Well, if you go back a little ways and you look at verse at chapter 4, verse 21 and 22. We see that let's read verse 21. This is chapter 4, verse 21. If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, that you put off concerning the former conversation or conduct, the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. Why is there this old man? What is his behavior like? You go up a little bit further and you look at this description in verses 17, 18, and 19 of the way the Gentiles walk, and it is truly. Disturbing, uh depressing. Verse 17 Don't walk as the Gentiles in the vanity of their mind, having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them. Because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling have given themselves over to lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. There's a progression here in verses 17, 18, and 19. There is this empty mind, this dark, darkened understanding. And because there is not knowledge, there is not appropriate. understanding of the gospel and an acceptance of that. There is an alienation, verse 18, from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them. Their heart is blind, their mind is is callous, that is unfeeling. Verse 19, they're so past feeling that they're willing to just sell themselves out to the devil. Lasciviousness speaks of just a wanton lack of self-control, just pouring your heart into the sin, just going for it. And when it's strengthened here with uncleanness, with greediness, it's just this piling on of words that gives this picture of someone who doesn't know the truth. They don't care about the truth. They're insensitive to the truth. And they just go for it when it comes to sin. And that is what we are seeing today. We are living. In, I don't know how else to say this, but in a land of sewage, it's everywhere So, what are we supposed to do? It surprises me, first of all, if I could say this of chapter 5, verse 7, that he even has to say this. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. You would think after the description in chapter four and after the commands to put off the old man and put on the new, that we would understand, okay, there are certain actions of lost folks that I can't participate in. And yet he still, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, says the obvious, don't be a partaker with them. The idea here is Is having joining in with the activities that they are doing, associating with them to such an extent that you have started to participate with them. Sometimes theologians talk about this as the doctrine of personal separation. You say, how does this work? Well, it can be difficult. to know where to draw the line, can it? And as a pastor, I have to be careful not to tell you Faulty logic is to reason from an instance or one example and make that apply to every example. Okay, that's faulty reasoning. So, what I have to do is just put it in terms of the way he puts it first. Look at verse 8. You were in darkness. There's this. Think of what you were before you were saved. What did you do in that darkness? Of which you are now ashamed. He puts this stark contrast before us of darkness and light. You were dark, but now are ye light in the Lord, so walk as children of light. There's an identity here You used to be this, but now you're this, so walk in keeping with your identity. Now, I have made a reference to Kyle Boy, it's been maybe a month or two ago, about an individual, pastor, and this is actually on our church blog, who Who's very public about his struggles with same-sex attraction. A pastor. You say, wow, that is shocking. And I say, Yes, that is shocking. I'm kind of shocked that he's so public with it. But he is in Britain, and this is what he says. He says, I am not the sum of my desires. I do not make myself identity out of what my base and carnal desires are. My identity flows from my union with Christ because I am first and foremost a Christian. And so my behaviors don't identify me. What I am in Christ identifies me. We all have sinful desires. I say no to mine, and you need to say no to yours. What he's doing there is he is beginning with who he is and then trying to walk worthy of his identity. That's what's happening here. You are light in the Lord, so walk as children of light. So there is this separation, and we know from elsewhere in the scripture, what fellowship has light with darkness. You can't have a room with the lights on and the lights off at the same time. In this room, it's filled with light. And so there is a stark contrast between the behavior of the children of light and the children of darkness. And so we are not to be partakers with them. He then in verse 9, he just speaks in terms of the result of light or the spirit in us, the fruit of the spirit. So we he identifies us with the Lord and the children of light, and then he pulls us into this This cause and effect. There's the spirit within us. There is what happens within us that produces fruit. Now, this is easy. This is kind of Difficult to maybe understand, but not really when you think about it. In Galatians 5, we have the fruit of the Spirit Fruit is not something that happens through artificial sort of rigged-up means. In other words, if I have an apple tree and I go plant it in my yard, I don't have to go hire an engineer to figure out how to make apples grow out of the branches on that tree. Fruit is a natural result of a created process. God is the one who put in one apple seed all the genetics and all the information necessary for that seed to die and grow and become an apple tree and produce fruit. As a Christian, when you walk in the Spirit, there is going to be this natural, this supernatural process that's at work that, if I could put it this way, automatically produces Love, joy, peace. It flows out of you as you endeavor to walk by the Spirit and obey the word. Now it doesn't mean that that doesn't it this doesn't mean that it it doesn't require Require effort from you. Like you can just kind of get up in the morning, brush your teeth, and run out there without really praying, getting into the Word to try to understand what who God is and what He has for you. So it's not in isolation to spiritual disciplines, those strengthen your walk with the Lord. But that doesn't change the fact that there is this amazing process going on in you in you, in your spirit. And your spirit is in your body, so it happens in your body too. It's not like it can happen in your spirit, but not in your body. Or an indivisible union. And so he's pointing out here that as we walk according to the light, according to the Spirit, there is goodness and righteousness and truth Righteousness has to do with the meeting of a standard. Goodness has to do with going even beyond righteousness to sort of go the extra mile in sort of a generous way. Truth as opposed to error. So someone who is filled with light, you know what they're trying to do? They're trying to find out what God wants. And they're trying to do it. They remember what they were in the dark, but now they want to do the right thing, the good thing, the true thing. And this is what you do, folks. You realize that the symbol of light here is not an accident. When you turn on the light, it exposes, it reveals. And look at your Bible, and what is it that this reveals to the world in verse 10? When you walk in the Spirit, and there's the goodness, righteousness, and truth, you prove, you demonstrate what is acceptable to the Lord. Even this week, as we continue to pray about what happens with the Supreme Court, when you walk in union with your husband, your wife, your children, and grandchildren, when you endeavor to have that Christian family in Truth. We are showing the world, no matter what happens out there, we are demonstrating to them what is truly acceptable to the Lord. And their conscience is going to see that. And we are lit, folks. I don't know if the right word is literally, but it's true that we are shedding light out into America and into the world. The light that you don't want to hide under the bushel. The city that is set on a hill. You, as children of the light, that's who you are. And that is why in verse 11 that we are not to partake, we are not to have fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather to expose or reprove them. Now, the lie that is held in verse 6 is that the wrath of God will not come on the children of disobedience But there is another lie that you and I probably hear, and that is the lie that that the that That darkness has a profitable fruit. That in the end, the bad guys do win What do you think of that lie? Well, I think that we need to make sure we are thinking biblically. First of all, is it possible for a bad guy to die in this life, happy, wealthy, with many friends? Is that possible Possible? Yes, that is possible. In this parable of the rich man and Lazarus, the rich man did not become a pauper and then die in a heap of trash. Lazarus was still in a state of poverty at the point of his death, and the rich man was still in a state of extreme wealth When you think of the kings in the Old Testament, the ones that were extremely uh Adept and wise at politics and building cities and defenses, those sometimes were the kings that were the absolute worst morally So you could have someone like Amri, and you could have someone who really makes mistakes and blatant sin when it comes to morality and the religion of his nation, and yet politically they are really sharp. I mean, Solomon picks up on this in Ecclesiastes when he talks about the problems with justice and how people, justice is not always served in this life. And yet you have Jesus say this: it will be better for a millstone to be tied around your neck than for you to harm one of these little ones. Because isn't it true that although someone could die, an unjust person, in great prosperity and with wisdom, and their friends surrounding them, yet they will face God in the end. It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. And here is the lie that crime pays That morality really won't affect the way your pocketbook is filled with money and the friends you have. Folks, this is a country we lived in. I hate to say it, you know, politically The candidates that are out there in either party, or if you're an independent, in any party, is there anyone out there saying character matters? Being faithful to your wife, faithful to your husband, loving your kids matters. Is there anyone out there? I've heard statements from Republicans and Democrats. who blatantly deny that character matters. And I'm not naming names on purpose, but I could. And you've heard these statements. I know of a preacher who was in line at the grocery store, and the woman in front of him was about at least a third older than him, over 70. And she is ranting about how character doesn't matter in the current, at that time, political office office of the people that were involved there. I'm trying to be real general. And the pastor turned to her and said, ma'am, you know that that's a lie. Character does matter. And she was embarrassed because she had been rebuked in public like that. But what do you think? Do you think God eventually will hold These works of darkness, the people that do them, accountable, or do you really think they're fruitful? Fruitful or unfruitful, verse 11 Well, we have to accept, verse 11, that we shouldn't have any fellowship because they are unfruitful and that we should expose them. Because verses 12 and 13, they are at the very bottom, verse 12, ashamed. I never thought I would watch the news on a given day and hear the terms that people speak of in America today. They just let it rip. And there's no shame in it. If they want to talk about that's why sometimes you'll hear me even say same-gender marriage. Because I try to be careful with what I say from the pulpit. But they let it go when they're talking about the latest escapades of this person or that person I mean the whole the the scandals we've had in the past 20 years politically, I mean it's a new level of communication in the in the airways, whether it's CNN or Fox News. I'm sorry, it happens at both of them. Folks, I no, I hate to say this, but Fox News can be one of the most crude, immoral networks that are out there. They might be they might ascribe more to your political viewpoints, but morally Don't give them a pass. It is a shame. What does it say in verse 12? Even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. It's a shame to even speak about it. Adam and Eve committed one sin, and they were so terrified and so ashamed. That they ran away and hid in the woods. We're now living in an age when people have parades in downtown Baltimore. Where they're weighing wearing costumes that are and there it is on the evening news. And your kids are seeing it, my kids are seeing it, your grandkids are seeing it. And it just sort of desensitizes all of us to this. What we should do biblically is we should look at that and we should feel ashamed that our culture has gone down to this level. There should be this response. You know what? That shouldn't even be named among us or even spoken of in a casual way. And so if we have this attitude, verse 12, when we reprove It says in verse 13, but all things that are approved are made manifest by the light. For whatsoever doth make manifest is light In other words, when you and I talk to folks and we reprove and we expose the sins of our culture, we are acting as the light. Folks, the light of I heard a Muslim cleric a few years ago. And it I think it was right after 911. And he was in a radio interview. And there he was. And they were trying to get t talk to the talking heads of Islam and find out how they would respond. And I think this man was an American. And the reporter said, so sir, are you going to sort of back off on your activities in proselyzing or whatever? Are you going to kind of hide a little bit after this? And the cleric said, absolutely not. He said, now we have to be even more bold because people don't understand Muslims now, and it's only going to get worse. So my view is, he said, then I'm paraphrasing, my view is to just get out there, be more bold as a Muslim and about my faith. Folks, why don't Christians talk like that? Why don't we talk like that Our Evangelism and Missions Conference this year, its theme is evangelizing Muslims And I don't care what anyone says. We're supposed to take the gospel to the world. I'm actually trying to find a man who was a former homosexual but got saved to come and tell us his testimony. As well. We have to be light, we have to expose, we have to reprove. If we just huddle in this building, and all church is to us is meeting here. It doesn't matter who you vote for. Folks, it doesn't matter who you vote for if the foot soldiers that are out there in the trenches aren't light. One man in political office, one unregenerate man, will not turn the tide. You must turn the tide evangelistically I'm not saying don't vote for the right person. Whoever is on your conscience says. I'm not saying don't participate in politics, but as a kingdom of heaven. There are certain priorities, and it's not behavior, that's what you actually are. Folks, it's like this: if I held up a light bulb to you And I said, you know what I'm going to do with this? I'm going to paint the walls of my house with this. And I took that light bulb and dipped it in paint and went out and just started painting. I would be misusing the very nature of that light bulb. Light bulbs get plugged in and they shed light. And that's what you and I are, by our very nature. So, where does this leave us? Let me give you three quick applications. Number one, first. Personally, is there an area of your life where you have begun to participate In the very works of darkness, the things you used to do before you were saved. Is there any area of your life where you feel like you've drifted We live in a current, and you and I are swimming upstream and our arms get tired, and there are times when we just start to drift, and I have to check myself and my family often to say, Am I drifting? and make a course correction. Of course, you say, okay, what would that be? All right, well, without talking about specific things, let me just tell you this. What kinds of things do the Gentiles produce with their empty minds? What kind of product comes out of a mind that is alienated from the life of God? Are you partaking of that product? Are you feeding on that product? I really want to name different things. I'm trying not to. Well, I'll name a few things. Maybe it'll keep you awake. Alright. Don't get mad at me. That one show called Duck Dynasty How do you view it? They pray at the end of every show, right? I've watched it. They like to blow up things. They have real cool long beards. But is there light in that show? You say, wow, you're really conservative if you don't watch Duck Dynasty or whatever it's called. I watched it. Got it out from the library. I watched a few episodes. Okay, that is mild compared to other things that are out there. I mean Someone who doesn't love God and they have a show that is somewhat off color. I mean, what what are you doing? What are you consuming? Have you drifted? That's the first question, okay? I think that's serious. It's not just TV. It's everything in life. Secondly, where are you with verse 9? The fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth Because you are a child of the light, there should be this natural process going on when the fruit of the Spirit is evident in your life. Look, hey, I've really been struggling with this lately. My attitude lately has really, I've been like this, trying to keep my attitude right. There are times when I have to go, lock myself in a room, and get on my hands and knees and just pray for God to help me with my attitude. What is your attitude at this very moment towards your wife, your husband, your kids, your church, your church friends, your neighbors, your God Is there goodness and righteousness and truth? If someone saw your life, would they see what is acceptable to the Lord? Or would they just see a slightly cleaned up American citizen who watches all the same things and does all the same things, and the only thing they think is different about you is that you uh Uh, you go to church on Sunday. It's not really good. The Mormons go to church more than we do. They're moral, but they have no gospel. Does your life demonstrate what is acceptable unto the Lord? And then thirdly, here is the hard thing. Folks, I worked, you know my testimony Like 15 different jobs in 10 years to get through Bible college. I've worked all kinds of secular work. It is really hard to be the one. Who does verse 13? The reproving, the making manifest. It's really, really hard to do that, especially in today's politically correct culture. When's the last time you did it? When's the last time you spoke to a neighbor, a friend? But here's the thing. There are other scripture passages that talk about this. Tell the truth in love. But has there been an instance in the last six months, say when when you have said, you know, you know better than that? Character does matter. You know what? God, I don't hate gay people, but God made a husband for a wife and a wife for a husband And he says that that's sin. We love all people as Christians, but this is actually wrong. Now I'm not saying you go to your job and blast it over the intercom system. I know that many corporate, wow boy, maybe most of the large companies today, they get Everything's changed in ten years. And in government work as well. But you're still light. Everywhere you go, you're light. Let your light shine. Don't hide it under a bushel. Let it shine. A light bulb that's held under a bushel eventually will burn out and blow up. You can't take it. Aren't there times when you just have to say something in love, by God's grace, but you say it because that's who you are? The end of all this is. You're identifying yourself with Christ. You're being who you are. And what kind of effect can this have? Oh wow, you can make a difference this week