A New York Times article published earlier this year entitled Why You Should Dig Up Your Family's History and How to Do It It was written to encourage individuals to take some initiative in doing some genealogical research for yourself. The author Jaya Saxena comes to the following conclusion after tracing her line directly through Union and Confederate soldiers, slave owners and abolitionists. Along the way, she also encounters in her genealogy the Bengali Theosophist Bohini Chatterjee, the subject of a W. B. Yeach poem She's also trying to verify whether there are witches in her line too. Her conclusion from the journey Um quote, learning your history is forced reckoning, asking you to consider whose stories you carry with you and which ones you want to carry forward. Now you don't have to come to the same conclusion as Saxena to share the conviction that genealogy is an enlightening exercise. The Son of God who became one of us also has a genealogy. And where he come from has largely determined where he would go. As we switch from Luke to Matthew for this week and next, we encounter the first passage of the New Testament, which is mostly names after names. But they're not just names after names. It's a journey of God's providence and promises. The first verses of Matthew are like a ligament that connects us from the promises made in the Old Testament to promises fulfilled in the New. Let's read Matthew 1, 1 to 17. You'll find the passage in your insert, divide it up, or you can turn with me in your Bibles. Matthew 1 The Book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers. Judah begot Pares and Zerah by Tamar. Paras begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram. Ram begot Aminadath, Aminadath begot Nashon, and Nashon begot Salman. Salomon begot Boaz by Rahab Boaz begot Obad by root. Obad begot Jesse, and Jesse begot David the king. David the king begot Solomon by her, who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon begot Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asah. Asah begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat begot Jura, and Juraam begot U Dye Uzziah begot Jotham, Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah. Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah. Josiah begot Jekoniah and his brothers about the time they were carried away to Babylon. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Uh Sheltio and Sheltio begot the Rubabel, Zerubabel begot Abiud, Abiud begot Eliakim and Eliakim begot Azor. Azar begot Zaduk, and Zaduk begot Achim, and Akim begot Eliud. Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar begot Matan, and Matan begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations. And from David until the captivity in Babylon are 14 generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are 14 generations. Um so they say for pastors, um either be good at apologizing or be good at memorizing names. I guess this could be like a good practice to pronounce names and Anyway, I was just thinking that there's so many names here. The broad main point here is that Jesus has the pedigree to be the king of the Jews. Like the Jews in John 8, Jesus can say, Abraham is my father. He can also say that he's the seed of David and the rightful heir to the vacant throne. We could divide up the genealogy into two parts based on these two names, but as you see in verse 17, the author of the gospel, Matthew intended three. So I'm leaning on the author's own stated intention. So I do derive my three principles from that. Jesus, the son of Abraham, will bless the nations. So that's verses 1 to 6, middle of verse 6. Jesus, the son of David, will rule Israel. The second half of verse 6 to 11. Jesus Christ, born of a virgin, will save his people. Verses 12 to 17. First, Jesus, the son of Abraham, will bless the nations. Earlier this year on April 7th, I preached on Luke 3, 21 to 38, which includes another genealogy of Jesus. You may recall that Luke's genealogy goes past Abraham for four and a half verse, four and a half verses, twenty names after Abraham, all the way back to Adam. I said then that Matthew, in comparison, is interested in presenting Jesus as the Messiah, the King of the Jews, while Luke is more interested in presenting Jesus as the Son of Man, the Savior of all mankind. Matthew is a Jew writing to other Jews. Luke is a Gentile writing to another Gentile, Theophilus. That difference won't impact the content of their respective works. But while Matthew's genealogy stops at Abraham and is definitely focused on Israel, that does not mean that God doesn't have a plan for the nations. In fact, it will be through Abraham that all nations will be blessed. Turn with me to Genesis 12, 1-3, where when we have God's first recorded words to the patriarch. So from the first book of New Testament to the first book in the old. Now the Lord had said to Abram Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house, to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Later, God changes Abram's name to Abraham, from the name meaning exalted father to the father of many. And then after he passes tests of faith, including offering his own son, Isaac, God reaffirmed the promises made to him. So let's go forward to Genesis 22. Verses fifteen to eighteen. Genesis twenty-two, verses fifteen to eighteen says. It's after the ordeal of offering of his son. Then the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time out of heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, says the Lord, because you have done this thing. And have not withheld your son, your only son. Blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore. And your descendants shall possess the gates of your enemies, of their enemies. In your seed, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. Verse 18 is worth another look. In your seed, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. Now that seed, just let me cut to the chase, is none other than Jesus Christ Himself. Of course there are many descendants of Abraham, but only one that will bring blessings to Gentiles like you and me. That's Jesus. Paul confirms this in Galatians 3. The apostle says that we can be recipients of God's promises, just like Abraham, and be declared righteous through faith. The promise and blessings of the Holy Spirit of God did not come through the good works of the law, but through faith in Jesus alone. If you want to follow along with me, let's read Galatians 3, 5 to 9. It says there, Galatians 5 to 9. Therefore, he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? Just as Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Therefore know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. All this to say that God from the beginning had a plan to redeem people from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. The seed of Abraham is at the center of that plan. We go back to the genealogy of Matthew. And as we go back there, we can see that even in the list of names, God foreshadows this plan. We start with Abraham, of course, as Paul points out in Romans 4, which we're not going to go to. Abraham was justified by faith alone while he was uncircumcised, like all the Gentiles. But we can go further than Abraham What's distinctive about Matthew's genealogy is that it also includes Gentile women of diverse kinds. We look at verse 3. We're not told about the origins of Tamar in Genesis 38 or anyone anywhere else, but her name suggests that she was an inhabitant of Canaan. She was left forgotten by Judah, her father-in-law, whose patriarchal duty was to give one of his sons to her. Then she dressed up as a prostitute, tricked them into sleeping with her, and once pregnant, exposed Judah's guilt. Though Tamar is hardly an innocent person, she was proven to be more righteous than her father-in-law Judah, and continued the line of the Messiah. We skip to verse 5. Rahab was a harlot, an inhabitant of Jericho when Joshua led the Israelites into the promised land of Canaan. In Joshua 2, we see that she helped the spies sent by Joshua, for reconnaissance, hiding them from the king. The writer of Hebrews notes that she did this in faith, Hebrews 11. 31, proved genuine by her actions, James 2. 25. Then there's the Moabite woman Ruth. She left everything behind and followed her mother-in-law Naomi to Israel. Because of her loyalty to Naomi and her God, Ruth was better for Naomi as a daughter-in-law than as if Naomi had seven sons. Ruth 415. These women were foreigners, poor and marginalized. The kingdom of God is open to such people. Charles Virgin notes, quote, Jesus is heir of a line which flows the blood of the harlot Rahab and of the rustic root. He is akin to the fallen and to the lowly, and he will show his love even to the poorest and most obscure. Inko What a wonderful message of grace. And it just gets better. In the Old Testament era, you see few trickled into Israel. But as we speak, we witness the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant as the church fulfills the Great Commission and makes disciples of all the nations, as the fullness of Gentiles comes in. As you see, the Gospel of Matthew is book-ended with good news of inclusion of Gentiles, foreigners, and strangers. Faith Bible Church supports many missionaries worldwide from Hong Kong to Spain to Kenya. But I say we should make more effort also to reach the different ethnic groups all around us. I'm just gonna talk about Howard County, but I'm sure similar statistics are in Orondo or Baltimore. I read a Baltimore Sun article dated January 30th of this year The author cited Department of Planning and Zoning, which stated that Howard County would soon become the majority-minority county. By 2017, nearly half of the 320,000 residents were identified as minorities. A quarter of the residents speak a language other than English at home. Maybe we need to pick up Spanish and Hindi, right? You know, on duolingual. Right, John? Lauren? Chuck? Like I said during one idea night, our church's um ethnic diversity is closer to Wyoming than Maryland. Now there's no way to control who accepts the gospel or not, obviously. But perhaps we can try to reach our black, Hispanic, Asian neighbors. Perhaps we can be more welcoming to those of other ethnicities if they come visit us. Perhaps as Tim suggested Wednesday night, we can take turns inviting visitors over. Whatever we do, let's take the gospel of Jesus, the son of Abraham, to all the nations. I'm thankful that God used men and women to take the gospel to Europe, Asia, and Africa so that people like you and me can hear the hear about Jesus and be saved. But it all started with the house of Israel as Jesus concentrated his ministry efforts in reaching the Jews. He started with them because he was their anticipated and destined ruler, the Messiah, the son of David, good and benevolent king. And even as Jesus as the son of Abraham opens his table to Gentiles like the centurion in Matthew 8 The son of David, the king, had mercy on those who cried out to him, Jew or Gentile, as we see in Matthew 15 and 20. That leads to the second point. Jesus, the son of David, will rule Israel Even though there are many kings in the lineage of Jesus, there is only one indicated as such, David, twice in verse 6. David is so important that his name is counted twice as it ends the first set of 14 generations and begins the second set of fourteen. Matthew seems to suggest this from the headings used in verse 17. Zechaniah's name does not get the same treatment. Further, scholars surmise that the very reason we have three sets of fourteen It's numerological, right? Numerology. David's name is formed by three Hebrew letters, Dalit, Wow, and Dalit again. These letters are fourth, sixth, and again fourth in the alphabet series, which add up to 14. The entire genealogy was probably an apologetic teaching tool to prove that Jesus is the Son of David. But it was not comprehensive. Matthew left out some names to fit the 1414-14 pattern. For example, author Wyatt Graham observes the following From his source, 1 Chronicles 3, 10-15, Matthew leaves out the descendants of Joram and Adaliah, the daughter of the infamous King Ahap. Omitted are Ahaziah, Joash, and Amaziah. If we account for Attaliah's own reign as queen, we have four generations of Ahab's family removed from the Messianic line. It is a fitting disgrace for those who violated the second commandment, as we see in Exodus 20, 4-6. And the practice of not having a comprehensive genealogy is not unfounded. But back to David David set the standard for all kings, and God made a covenant with him. I'll read a portion of the covenant from 2 Samuel 7, 12 to 16, if you want to follow along. Second Samuel seven, twelve to sixteen. Feel free to look at it later too. This is just a portion of the Davidic covenant. When your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. And he shall build a house for m my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the blows of the sons of men. But my mercy shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever. We know mainly from the narratives of 1 and 2 Kings and 2 Chronicles that there was no seed of David that would have a lasting kingdom. No one that could establish the house of David and throne forever. They also come to death and rested in their graves. That's because all were sinners. Right? Starting with David, though considered the greatest king of Israel, he was an adulterer and a murderer. And Matthew reminds us of his crimes against Uriah and his wife in verse six. The glories of David and his reign seemed to be lost forever later when the Babylonians came and destroyed Jerusalem in early 6th century BC. Then Jesus came. As Matthew proves with this genealogy, and Paul confirms in Romans 1. 3, Jesus is born of the seed of David according to the flesh. But Paul goes on to say things about Jesus that can never be true of David in the next verse. Declare to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. By resurrecting from the dead, Jesus, the son of David, proved himself to be greater than his forefather David. We can also turn to Psalm 16, where David got a glimpse of his seed, the Messiah. He writes in uh Psalm um sixteen, nine to eleven Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will rest in hope. For you will not leave my soul in shoal, nor will you allow your holy one to seek corruption. You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore In verse 10, David said he would not be abandoned to the grave, but he also had a vision of someone else. Listen to Peter's explanation of this passage in Acts 2, 29 to 32. Men and brethren, let me speak freely to you of the Patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God has sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, he would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne, he, foreseeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ. That his soul was not left in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus God has raised up, of which we are all witnesses. Peter could literally point to the tomb of David where his body lay. Whereas the tomb of Jesus, the son of David, was empty. Here's the gospel. Unlike David, Jesus never sinned, having not even one single lustful or murderous thought. He never failed to do his father's will in speech or act. He lived a perfect life and then offered it up at the cross as a sacrifice for our sins. All of us have sinned and fall short of God's glory. We all deserve death and eternal punishment in hell. But Jesus became our substitute, taking upon himself the penalty we justly deserve. Having faced the wrath of God at the cross, he died, rose again, and ascended to heaven. Now Jesus offers you eternal light if you would repent from your sins and trust in Him alone for your hope of heaven. Not in your good works. Bow down to him as king while he still offers this gift. Jesus is not only the king of the king, uh king of the Jews, but the king of kings. He is not only the root and offspring of David, but he has the key of David. He who opens and no one shuts, and shuts and no one opens. Revelation 3 and 22 God will establish the kingdom of David through Jesus' seed. While so many kings have failed at the throne, Jesus will prevail. When Jesus returns, when our Savior returns, he will sit in that throne upon in Jerusalem on that throne of David And what does this all mean for us? Well, as we have, as one gospel tract puts it, two ways to live in light of Jesus' kingship. We can continue living our way, rejecting God's rule and running life our way. Or we can live in God's new way. Submitting to Christ and relying on his death and resurrection. The same choice, the two ways to live, stood before the people of the first century when God's Son came to earth. But before we get there, we see that there was the Babylonian captivity, the humiliation of God's people, as Jerusalem fell and was captured by foreign invaders in 586 BC. There was some fervor as Persians allowed the Jews to return and restore Jerusalem. Prophets Haggai, Zacharias, and Malachi spoke divine revelation. to this returned post-exilic people. But then the silent years came. So did the transfer of power out of Persia to Greece and to Rome. Where was the Messiah? He was not found in the revolts of the Maccabees. He will come from a totally unexpected place. He would have as his mother a humble maiden pledged to be married to a carpenter named Joseph in a lowly town of Nazareth. And that leads to the third point. Jesus Christ, born of a virgin, will save his people. Now we're going to talk about the significance of Jesus as Savior next week. We're just going to talk a little bit about this passage, especially verse 16. In verse 16, Joseph and Mary are introduced. But in the eyes of the world, who is Joseph compared to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, or David the king? Who is Mary compared to Ruth? Yet God uses this lowly couple as parents of the highest king. To draw attention to this fact, Matthew uses a grammar here that stands out from all the verses that preceded it. Count the number of the verb begot from verses 2 to 16. Okay, time's up. I counted 39. 39 times we have Father begot Son, Father begot Son. On and on. But then all of a sudden, we break from the pattern. We don't have and Jacob begot Joseph, Joseph begot Jesus. No, we have, and Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Instead of Joseph being the progenitor of Jesus, the title given to him is the husband of Mary. It was Mary of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Now if the genealogy lowered you to sleep sleep with Father begot son, Father begot son, we now have a break at the end But why the change? Well, as you already know from Luke, and as we will see next time in the second half of Matthew 1, Joseph had nothing to do with the conception of Jesus. It was all Holy Spirit. What is about to be stated narratively in the next passage is stated grammatically here in verse 16. Matthew switches from the active voice begot to the passive voice, was born. Commentator Richard T. France explains. Quote, the new phraseology makes it clear that Matthew does not regard Jesus as Joseph's son physically. The genealogy is clearly intended to be that of Jesus' legal ancestry, not of his physical descent. It was not God's will that Jesus would carry Joseph's genes, but it was necessary for Jesus to inherit Joseph's legal right to be a descendant of David. Through Mary, Jesus would be David's physical descendant, which I think Luke 3 presents. So the long genealogy of 42 generations ends with Jesus, who is called Christ. He is the promised seed of Abraham. He will be the one who raises again the tabernacle of David, Amos 9. 11. He is the king who saves his people and blesses the nations. He is the prophet greater than Moses. He is our priest who intercedes for us in heaven. Is he your king, your prophet, and your priest? He has come down to be near us. We want to see the significance of his name Emmanuel next time. He is powerful but humble. He who is awesome in might is gentle as a babe. That's a beautiful paradox which we celebrate. In the final song we're going to sing, in the chorus, we see how the lyrics begin with this, this is Christ the King. But at the same time, another truth is revealed at the end of that chorus. The babe, the son of Mary. I pray you bow before him as Christ the King and embrace him as the babe, the son of Mary. Let's pray.