Good morning. Good to be with you again. I uh Hope you'll come back tonight. I'm going to share some thoughts on prayer, and it probably won't be anything that any of you haven't heard before, but In my work as chaplain, frequently people come to me and say, pray for me, pray for me. And if you're a man or woman of God You'll find that to be true in your own life as well when people that you know go through a crisis, they they may be a little reluctant to do that more so than the people that I'm dealing with. But you know, uh tonight I want to talk about how I respond to that because the real goal is to get them connected to the Savior themselves. And uh and we'll we'll kind of come at it from that angle tonight. But this morning I want to go back to some stuff from last week. Can we just have a brief word of prayer, though, before we get into God's Word? Father, as we open your word now, again speak to our hearts. Search us, know us, show us any wicked way, lead us in the way everlasting. Help us to be people of faith, Lord, to walk with you and to find your purpose and your plan for us right now Lord, we want you to do great and mighty things beyond what we would ask or think. Even though we may be old and past our prime of life, like Abraham, Lord, you can still bless us. Tests of faith come even in old age. And so we pray these things so that you would be glorified through us. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Well last time we started talking about the promises to Abraham, they weren't just things that God was telling would happen. They were things that God was telling that he was going to do for Abraham things he would cause to happen. He was going to make his name great. God would bless him with descendants like the stars of the sky. God would give him the land. God would give him a seed, and through that seed, everyone on earth would be blessed. And last time we looked at how that Abraham didn't look at the promise to inherit the land as a mandate to go conquer it. He actually was very generous toward Lot and even with the people of Sodom did not require them to pay tribute or try to gained control of the land when he had it right there in his hand. Um but uh God he did have some doubts and and he when he asked God, God told him you'll have descendants like the stars of the sky and And when Abraham believed God, God credited it to him as righteousness. And that seems like it's just sort of a side note, but that's really, especially as we'll see today. The assurance that Abraham would have a part in God's kingdom and that his plan would be fulfilled He also gave Abraham a covenant where he said, you know, you're going to be in this land not yours, and in 400 years I'll bring you back to this land. And we talked about how that was fulfilled. The time in Egypt and the Exodus last time, and God's purposes were accomplished there. But when all that was done, and Abraham's vision was done and the covenant was made, There still wasn't any child. And Abraham and Sarah were getting old. And let's pick it up there in Genesis chapter 16. And look at uh look, we're going to kind of walk through several chapters and then look at some things in the prophets about what God said about things. Genesis chapter sixteen. I'm going to read the first six verses Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children, and she had an Egyptian maidservant whose name was Hagar. So Sarai said to Abram, See now the Lord has restrained me from bearing children. Please go into my maid, perhaps I shall obtain children by her. And Abram heeded the voice of Sarai. Then Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife. After Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, So he went into Hagar, and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress became despised in her eyes. Then Sarai said to Abram, My wrong be upon you. I gave my maid into your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, I became despised in her eyes. The Lord judged between you and me. So Abram said to Sarai, Indeed, your maid is in your hand. Do to her as you please. And when Sarai dealt harshly with her, she fled from her presence. The story starts out with kind of another one of those episodes on the heroes of faith that shows that they weren't perfect even in their faith. Which is a model for us. Their faith is held up in Hebrews 11 as heroes of faith, both Abraham and Sarah, by the way. But uh they felt compelled because of their growing age. They had been in the land ten years, it tells us. Uh no child yet, God said it had to happen. And what Sarah does here sounds strange, but I think I mentioned last week that some archaeological things from the Nuzzi tablets actually indicate that This was something that sort of like uh you know in vitro fertilization it's something surrogant parrots, that kind of stuff today that those desperation things when people want children. Uh it was the way they did it at that time. And maybe Sarah felt compelled to to go this route. And you look at her response afterward and you say, What a silly woman. But you know, are we that much different? How many times do we do things to try to make happen things that God in his word says are gonna happen? Uh things that uh you know that all we need to do is trust and and Wait for God's timing. It's hard. You know one of the hardest things about faith is waiting for God's timing? So They take matters into their own hands. Hagar bears a child to Abraham. This is not according to God's plan. Last time we Pointed out that when God spoke to Abraham, the husband and wife have a one-flesh relationship, so the promise he should have been thought of it as going to happen through Sarah. But Ishmael is born. And before all that happens, though there's an ugly thing happens, I want you to notice another thing before we leave this passage. It says that Sarai took Egyptian and gave her to husband Abraham to be his wife in 16 verse 3. But Abraham never considers it that way. It comes out as early as verse 6, when Abram says, Your maid is in your hand, do to her as you please. In other words, it wasn't like from that point on that Abraham had two wives. He had a child, but marriage is a covenant made between a man and a woman, and Abraham doesn't you know, uh doesn't look at it as they're married. Um that comes out especially later on, again, where God affirms that fact In fact, that's picked up in the New Testament in Galatians chapter 4, where there's an allegorical, you know, of the covenant that God made with God as It and Sarah's uh the promised seed is like the one between Abraham and Sarah, an unconditional marriage covenant, and the one between uh the other people of of Ishmael was uh one that was more of a contractual thing. But so there they are. Now now Hagar's going to have this child. And It's uh Sarah, you know, lays down the law, puts her foot down because now Hagar thinks she's Queen B, and uh that's not right, and Sarah recognizes that. And so Hagar flees from Sarah. Let's read a little bit further. Verse 7: Now the angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness. by the spring on the way to shore, and he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, where have you come from, and where are you going? She said, I'm fleeing from the presence of my mistress, Sarai The angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit yourself under your her hand. Then the angel of the Lord said to her, I will multiply your descendants exceedingly, so that they shall not be counted for multitude. And the angel of the Lord said to her, Behold, you are with child, and you shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has heard your affliction. He shall be a wild man, his hand shall be against every man, and every man's hand against him, and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren. Then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are the God who sees. For she said, I have also here seen him who sees me. And so she bears Ishnael. I want to point out that though what they did was unbiblical, uh it was against God's plan, it did not, as we'll see later, fulfill the promise. But that doesn't mean that everything the child was necessarily cursed of God. In fact, as you follow it through, Ishmael actually looks like, you know, when Isaac doesn't have a child till he's sixty, and you know, Rebecca is barren for twenty years from the time he's forty to the time he's sixty. Ishmael's out there, he has his twelve sons and his nation. You find the same thing happen again with Isaac's son, Esau and Jacob. Esau was 40 years old when he got married and he started building up his family and has his 12 sons. It isn't until Jacob is over eighty years old that he gets married. You can figure that out by figuring out backwards when he stands before Pharaoh, he tells how old he is, and if you figure out how many years the Plague had gone on and Joseph was thirty and Joseph was born, you know. You can put those dates together. I believe, if I remember correctly, he's eighty-four when he got married And uh why is it that if God promised that Abraham's promised child was going to have descendants like the stars of the sky, that you get twenty five years until he has Isaac and and another sixty years until Isaac has has Esau and Jacob and then another eighty years and so it's a hundred and fifty years out from the time of the promise and there's still Jacob. Could it be that God is showing that the promised seed is not just, you know, who's ahead at the moment, but it's something that we need to look at and live our lives by faith, like the patriarchs did. Seems that way. And before we leave this passage though, God gives Ishmael a promise But it's not the same promise that he gave to Abraham or Isaac or Jacob. It starts in verse 11. The angel of the Lord said, You're with child, you shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael. That name was given by God, you know, for the child. Because the Lord has heard your affliction, he shall be a wild man. God had said the promised seed would be a blessing. His hand will be against every man, and every man's hand against him. That doesn't sound like the child that's going to be a blessing to people. And he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren. He's not going to inherit the land. He's going to actually dwell in the presence of his brethren in somebody else's land. And so it's clearly a different promise. But as I said, Hagar is pleased with the promise. And so life goes on. You notice the chapter ends in verse 16. It says that Abraham was 86 years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to him. So that's. He was ten years, it tells us earlier in the chapter, and now it's eleven years since he ent came into the land. Chapter seventeen starts out, when Abram was ninety-nine years old, so thirteen more years elapsed. The Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am Almighty God, walk before me and be blameless. Chapter 17, verse 2, and I will make a covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly. Then Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be a father to many nations. of many nations. No longer shall your name be called Abraham, but you shall be Abraham, for I have made you a father of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you and their generations For an everlasting covenant to be God to you and your descendants after you, also I give to you and your descendants after you the land in which you are a stranger, all the land of Canaan as an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. So God is appearing to him again and repeating the promise, and he's changing his name from Abraham, which means exalted father, to Abraham, which means father of multitudes. And along during this appearance, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but uh notice verse 10. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised. So he gives them a sign of the covenant. And he also tells them, look, I'm not only changing your name, but I'm changing Sarai's name to Sarah. Down in verse 15, God said to Abram, for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai. That I in the end makes it possessive. It's my princess, is the way that to be translated, but Sarah would be noblewoman or or you know queen lady or something like that. Sarah shall be her name. I will bless her, and I also will give you a son by her. Then I will bl I bless her, and sh shall be a mother of many nations. Kings of people shall come from her. Then Abram fell on his face and laughed and said in his heart, Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? And Abram said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you! Then God said, No, Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his descendants after him. And as for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He shall beget twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation. But my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year. Notice what happened here. When God appears to him, thirteen years have gone by and the whole family assumes, up, we got the promised child, Ishmael's it. Even though what the angel said to Hagar, I wonder how much of this Hagar communicated to Abram and Sarai. We don't know. It ended up in the Bible, so it must have got communicated at some point. But uh But thirteen years have gone by with everyone assuming that Ishmael is the promised heir. And when God appears and says that no, Sarah's going to have a child. Abram's first response is to say, let Ishmael live before you. I'm content with it the way it is. But God's promises and God's plans, you know, it doesn't always go according to our desires. And this was something where God had a, God said no. Your wife Sarah is going to have a child. You can see the same thing in Isaac's life. He wanted to bless Esau, and God said, nope, Jacob. And you know with Jacob, he had his twelve sons. Who looked like the one that everybody should bless? Looked like Joseph. God said Judah. King David had eight sons. Jesse had eight sons. Who got left out when Samuel came to town? David. God said, nope, none of these seven. I'm choosing. And it wasn't something that the parents Really, uh God would tell them what he's doing, but uh it was his God's plan, his promise, and it was going to happen according to his plan Imagine the next day Abram calls his servants together. Then God has appeared to me. From now on, don't call me Abraham. Call me Abraham. Don't call me exalted father. Call me father of multitudes. Sarah, call her Sarah instead of Sarai because she's going to have a child. And then look at their old boss and say, right, boss, whatever you say, bother a multitude. That's what you are. And and It when God sometimes we get embarrassed because of things God has said in his word and and you know we look kind of foolish believing in us six day creation or or or believing that really, you know, that uh God intends men and women to be different and biology is, you know, matters rather than just what we think. And Sometimes we get beat down by the world and look at Abraham. He's not ashamed to change his name and make a public thing out of it. And so if the men were were snickering to themselves, I wonder what they said when Abraham gave them the sign of the covenant, because It says down in verse 12 that anybody who is born in his house or bought with money from any foreigner who's not your descendant had to be circumcised all the men. That sign of the covenant for them was affirmation that they believed in this promise to Abraham, and if you're going to be part of this household, you got to be on board with the promise. Abraham might have lost a few servants that day. We don't know, but uh seems logical that he had. But in any case. There he was. Abraham made it clear he believed God's promise, and his faith is shining. Well, it tells us that Abraham believed, but then in chapter 18, God appears again. And this time There's three men show up, and Abraham runs and invites them in for a meal. We find out later in the chapter that two of them go down to Sodom, and they turn out to be angelic beings that destroy Sodom. But one of them stands before Abraham, and it tells us later in the chapter that Abraham, down in verse 22 of verse chapter 18, the men turned away from there and went towards Sodom, but Abraham stood still stood before the Lord. This is what people in the Old Testament call a theophany. It was some sort of appearance of Christ who sat there and ate a meal with them before the incarnation. But the Lord, when he spoke to Abraham, he had a mission, and I believe the mission of this appearance primarily was to get Sarah on board. Pick it up at chapter 18, verse 9. Then they, this is the three men, said to him, Abraham, Where is Sarah your wife? So he said, Here in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and behold, Sarah, your wife, shall have a son. Sarah was listening in the tent door which was behind him. Now Abram and Sarah were old, well advanced in age, and Sarah had passed the age of childbearing. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I've grown old, shall I have pleasure, my lord, being also old? And the Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I surely bear a child since I am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. But Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh, for she was afraid, and he said, no, but you did laugh. God calling Sarah out on this, I believe, was to confront her unbelief and Abraham's promise. And my basis for saying that is because when you go to Hebrews 11, it says, by faith Sarah conceived. Perhaps the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah bolstered her fate because you know Abraham wondering how I'm going to inherit this land, seeing the object lesson. God had told Abraham it's going to be 400 years because the iniquity of the Amorite was not yet full, and Abraham left to look down there and said, What about all this stuff I hear coming out of Sodom? And and God's destruction of Sodom might have been, and and also Lot's wife, what happened to her. Maybe those things had an impact on Sarah, but whatever it was. In Hebrews 11, it says that Sarah believed God's promise, and it seems like this encounter had something to do with it. So now both of them believe God's promise, and uh that Sodom and Gomorrah is destroyed. We're not going to spend time on that today. Let's skip all the way over to chapter 21. In chapter 20, Abraham once again says Sarai is his is his sister and once again is uh uh caught up in that lie and and and called out by God, God again protecting Sarah. In chapter 21 Isaac is born. And they name him Isaac, which means he laughs. And uh pick it up at chapter 21, down at verse 8. They're all happy now. The promise has been fulfilled. So the child grew and was weaned, and Abram made a great feast on the same day that Isaac was weaned. And Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, scoffing. Therefore she said to Abram, Cast out this bond woman and her son, for the son of this bond woman shall not be heir with my son, namely with Isaac. And the matter was very displeasing in Abram's sight, because of his son. But God said to Abram, Do not let it be displeasing in your sight, because of the lad, or because of your bondwoman. Whatever Sarah has said to you, listen to her voice, for in Isaac your seed shall be called. Yet I will also make a nation of the son of the bondwoman, because he is your seed. I find it amazing that God repeatedly says, you know what? Ishmael is not the promised seed, but just because he's your son, I'm going to bless him anyway. Yeah, he'll be a wild donkey of a man, and his hand will be against everyone, and everyone's hand against him, but he's still going to have descendants like the stars of the sky. No, he's not going to inherit the land, but uh he'll dwell in the presence of all his brothers and God has purposes and plans for things beyond what we would ask or think. I point this out, and you know, there's some people that I work with in the jail that they feel like They've always been a problem child to everybody, to their family, and some people can kind of relate to that, the fact that God cares about you, even if you've really blown it and you make a mess of things. Even if other people can't stand you, uh uh it doesn't mean necessarily that you should be that way and try to be that way. But uh God's mercy and his his blessings are are amazing. But the promised seed is Isaac And the fact that God tells them, and this this actually was against the customs of the time to send away, you know, this from what we know, a little bit we know of the customs. And it was displeasing in Abraham's sight that God says, what Sarah said is right. Ishmael is not going to be a co-heir of the promise with Isaac. And a very difficult thing Abraham did. He believed what God said and obeyed what God said, even though it went against his wishes. And it seems like that now, you know, life is good. He has the promised child. He he's believed God enough to obey, send Ishmael away. And then comes chapter 22. Let's go to Genesis chapter 22. Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham. And he said, Here I am. Then he said, Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering, on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. Now notice first of all this is a test of Abraham, a test of his faith. When God tests people's faith, it isn't because he wants to see what is happening. He already knows what's going to happen. He does it either to show other people what you're made of, and like Job was tested to prove to Satan, uh, and he blessed them for that. Or in some cases to show us ourselves that maybe we're not what we think we are, or maybe uh to show off our faith to for whatever purpose. But this is a test, and the goal of tests like this is to glorify God. And now Abram is told to take Isaac, having sent Ishmael away. And offer him as a burnt offering. And, you know, if I heard a message like this, I think I'd check myself in for an evaluation. somewhere, but uh but Abraham knew God's voice, and there's something else that he understood, I think, about God's plan that comes out here. Notice first of all that he tells them, don't just do this anywhere. He says, go to Mount Moriah. You know where Mount Moriah was? 2 Chronicles chapter 3 makes it clear that that's where the temple was built. But when you go to the land of Moriah, he says, I'm going to show you a specific mountain there. In other words, it probably wasn't just on the Temple Mount. I believe he was leading him to the very place where Jesus was crucified. And I say that because further on in the story, he says, in this mount it'll be seen. Let's read those through. I'm jumping ahead here. Verse 3, so Abram rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. He split the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abram lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, the lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you. What's wrong with that statement? You all have read the New Testament, so you know where I'm going with this. But he's saying we're going to go over there. And he's in his mind, he's not telling his servants. I asked the guys one time, why do you think uh why do you think Abraham said, We will come back to you? And one of them said, He was lying because he didn't want to tell him that he was going to kill his son. I said, yeah, yeah, well, I guess that's one reason. But in fact it tells us in Hebrews that that he believed that God was going to raise Isaac from the dead. He really believed that Isaac was going to come back with him. And that somehow that because God said that this child was going to be this this, you know, blessing, that he believed somehow that this was going to be the beginning of Some resurrection kingdom or something, I don't know. Verse uh six So Abram took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and the two of them went together. But Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. Then he said, Look, the fire and the wood, but where is the land for the burnt offering? And Abram said, My son, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering. So the two of them went together. This is what Abraham believed it was all about. It was a test of Abraham's faith, but What did Abraham think? What what what could he possibly think? You know, in his mind, he had to think this was going to accomplish something in God's plan. He believed that Isaac was going to rise from the dead and come back with him. What could possibly be the purpose of offering him as a burnt offering? Abraham believed God would provide a lamb. And that this land would somehow be part of God's plan, not just uh of of uh of God's plan for the ages, that's important because you know what Muslims will actually have a day when they celebrate this offering and they believe it was Ishmael. But uh but let's follow it through because the faith of Abraham was that God not only will provide a lamb but He will in the future, from this point of time where we're talking about here. So he goes, I'm not going to read the whole story. He takes Isaac, binds him, puts him on the altar. And when it's all done, there's a ram in a thicket. God tells the angel tells him, don't do it, don't follow through. And uh so he offers the ram instead. He says, Abraham, I believe you know you're you passed the test. And look at verse 14. Abraham called the name of the place, and when I do this in a jail, I misread it on purpose. I say, everybody, follow along in your Bible. Sometimes I mix up words. Abraham called the name of the place the Lord has provided. Is that right? And usually the guys will, some half the class will nod yes, and then somebody will say, Well wait a minute. I know it said the Lord will provide. Because the ram in the thicket wasn't the lamb that Abraham was expecting when he went up the mountain. And neither was Isaac, but Abraham believed that there was a Lamb of God still coming. In the mountain of the Lord The name of the place he called the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day in the mountain of the Lord, it shall be provided. It is future tense. There's going to be a lamb provided in this mountain. And that's why I believe that it was the same mountain where Jesus was crucified. But God then repeats his promise to Abraham. Verse 15: the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time out of heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, says the Lord, because you have done this thing. And have not withheld your son, your only son. Blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is on the seashore, and your descendants shall possess the gates of their enemies. Verse 18, in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. In your seed. Your seed is going to be a blessing to everyone on earth. Well. That's Isaac, right? He's the promised seed. Well, when you get to to Isaac's lifetime, skip over to chapter 26 and verses 3 and 4 if you were here a Sunday night. A few weeks or back that we looked at this. For those of you who were here, forgive me for repeating it, but it's necessary to get to where I want to go next. Look at chapter 26, verses 3 and 4. Here's God speaking to Isaac, Dwell in this land, and I will be with you and bless you. For to you and your descendants I give all these lands, and I will perform the oath which I swore to Abraham your father. This is Speaking to Isaac, and I will make your descendants multiply as the stars of heaven, and I will give your descendants all these lands, and in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Well, who was Isaac's seed? It was Jacob, and right, what Esau and Jacob, the twin brothers, we'll flip over to chapter 28. Remember this whole story? I was going to speak this evening on Jacob, but I realized you had a sermon on that a few weeks back, so I decided not to. Chapter 28, look at verse 13. Here is the vision of the ladder from heaven. Behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham, your father, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and your descendants. Also, your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth. You shall spread abroad to the west, to the east, to the north, and the south. And in you and in your seed All the families of the earth shall be blessed. So the seed of Abraham was going to be Isaac? No. Well, Isaac's seed would be Jacob. Yes. Well, Jacob's seed. Who's Jacob's seed? Well, he had twelve sons. And I'm going to just summarize some things for time's sake. God appears to at Jacob's deathbed. He blesses each of his sons. And he singles out Judah and says, one of your descendants, all the nations are going to bow down to. And he points that out. Many, many years go by. And God appears to King David in 2 Samuel 7. 14, and he says, one of your sons is going to be my son also. And then many more years go by and uh, of course, Jesus comes out of David's line, and the New Testament opens up. The genealogy of Jesus Christ, the seed of Abraham, the seed of David, and then he goes through specifically who begat who and the whole lineup And so the seed of Abraham was Isaac, that's true, but ultimately it was Jesus. And I want to take just a few minutes here. I'm not going to prolong this because I know we have communion today. But I want you to look at a couple of things in prophecy. What would the fulfillment of the promises to Abraham ultimately happen at Christ's return? Let's go first of all to Isaiah chapter 2. Isaiah chapter 2, verses 1 through 4. Isaiah chapter two, verses one through four. The word that Isaiah the son of Amoth saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem Now it shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills And all nations shall flow to it. Many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, and we shall walk in his paths For out of Zion shall go the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, he shall judge between nations and rebuke many people. They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. There's a time coming when Jerusalem, everybody's going to go to it, and the law will go forth from there. Well, why is that? We'll flip over to Isaiah chapter 11. Isaiah 11 is toward the end of a prophecy that I know that you also had a message on recently, that the message to King Ahaz started in chapter 7. When he told Ahaz the sign, the virgin will conceive and bear a son, and you shall call his name Emmanuel. And then when you get over to chapter 9, he tells the people. Unto you a child is born, unto us a son is given, his name will be wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, and upon the throne of David he'll reign. And the passage goes on and talks about more things, terrible things that are going to happen that Assyria is going to do, and it even makes a prediction in there of Hezekiah's victory in chapter 10. But when you get to chapter 11, he comes back to the prophecy of Jesus. In chapter 11, verse 1, there shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. The spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding. And he goes down, skip all the way down to verse 10. In that day there shall be a root of Jesse. Who shall stand as a banner of the people, for the Gentiles shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious. It shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time To recover the remnant of his people who are left from Assyria and Egypt, from Patros and Cush, from Elam and Shynar, from Hamath and the islands of the sea. He will set up a banner for the nations and will assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. The same prophecy is given in Genesis, or um I'm sorry, Isaiah 49, where it says that uh uh he's gonna too small a thing for you to gather just uh The tribes of Israel, but I'm also going to make you a light to the Gentiles. I want to look at one more passage here. Let's go to Isaiah chapter 53. Isaiah chapter 53. This also we looked at on a Sunday evening. But I want to say something about it before we close here. God will provide a lamb. That was a statement of Abraham's faith. And Isaiah 53 actually portrays the sufferings of Christ, who was introduced by John the Baptist as. The Lamb of God that would take away the sin of the world. But anywhere there's a prophecy of Jesus' birth and death, usually coupled with it is a prophecy of his coming again and his reigning. And if we had more time, I had a couple more that I wanted to look at. But look at the end of chapter 53. You're familiar with this prophecy of Christ's birth. You know, he was wounded for our transgressions. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. Those are all famous lines out of this describing Christ's death and a purpose for it. Even giving some of the details, being buried with the grave of the wicked, but the rich at his death, you know, of Joseph of Arimathea. But skip down to verse 10. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, he has put him to grief. When you make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days. And the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Well, who is the seed of Jesus? If he was a fornicator, his enemies would have pointed it out. If he was married, we would have a record of that. Well, look at verse 11. He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. He'll justify. That's the New Testament teaching, right? Well, here it is in the Old Testament. When the Lamb of God died for sins, the result was that he would justify many because he bore their iniquities. And then he comes back to verse 12, therefore I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong because he poured out his soul to death. And uh in Jeremiah it talks about the king that would come who would be called the Lord our righteousness. And and uh says that, you know what, if you can break your covenant with the moon and the sun, the the moon by night and the sun by day, then that my promise will fail to have a descendant of David sit on the throne. But here's the thing that I want to say that related to Abraham. Those seed of of Jesus, you know in Galatians 3 it talks about through Abraham all the nations will be blessed. It doesn't say everybody will become Abraham's nation. It says through Abraham's seed all the nations will be blessed. If we had time, I'd look at some more prophecies here that detail that Jesus would reign from Jerusalem, regather the tribes of Judah, Israel, Ephraim. All those words are mentioned. And also rule over the nations. And but here's the thing: it's only those who have received the gift of righteousness That are going to really enter the millennial kingdom because everybody else is going to receive the mark of the Antichrist and be destroyed at his appearing Uh, you know, if you believe in the millennial kingdom, you understand that during the millennium more people will be born and there'll be a rebellion at the end of that. But those entering into it are going to be for the the people that didn't receive the mark of the beast are going to be his his people, uh that that are recognized that and some of the Jews are it isn't until Jesus appears they're gonna look at him whom they appear and mourn for him. But uh this is this is why it says that if you believe in Jesus, you are Abraham's seed. Because it's those who are born again, whether they're Jew or Gentile, that are Abraham's seed in the spiritual sense. And those that aren't born again or don't have the gift of righteousness are never going to see the kingdom of God, whether they're a Jew or a Gentile. They're not going to see Christ reign because they'll be destroyed along with uh the followers of the Antichrist. And I'm kind of jumping way ahead, and I I wish I had time to show you more prophecies. Um Let's look at just one. One more here. Look at Ezekiel chapter 37. We'll close with this. Ezekiel chapter 37. Does God keep his promise to Abraham? Absolutely. Did it happen in Abraham's time? No. Did it happen? Did it happen in Jesus' time? No. But it will happen. God is going to complete every there's not going to be one thing that he spoke to Abraham that's not going to be f fail to be fulfilled Look at Ezekiel chapter 37, go down to verse 21. Then say, Thus says the Lord God, surely I will take the children of Israel from among the nations. Wherever they have gone, and will gather them from every side and bring them into their own land. And I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel, and one king shall be king over them. All, they shall no longer be two nations, nor shall they ever be divided into two kingdoms again. They shall not defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions But I will deliver them from all their dwelling places in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them, then they shall be my people, and I will be their God. David my servant shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall also walk in my judgments and observe my statutes and do them. This has to be future. Because after the Jews returned from exile, yeah, Ezekiel was a prophet that prophesied during the exile, but after the exile, there really wasn't a Davidic dynasty re-established the way it had been before. There was the Maccabees, which were descendants of the priests and different people. By the time of Mary and Joseph, descendants of David were still there, but they weren't in any position of political power. But this is saying that he's going to regather the people to the land under David, and and he could be meaning literally a resurrected David because I believe there would be resurrected people involved in the kingdom. You know one of the things about rewards that says they happen in the resurrection? We don't know at all what that's going to be. One time somebody said to me, oh, you mean that people in the millennium will be People with natural bodies and people with resurrection bodies. And he scoffed at the idea and I said, What you mean like Jesus walking with his disciples for forty days and eating with them? You think that can't happen? I don't know. There's a lot of things we don't know about prophecy. But over and over and over again, uh I could show you at least another dozen passages where it it describes exactly what was promised to Abraham happening. That the promised seed comes back and regathers the tribes of Israel and reigns from Jerusalem. So what does all this mean to you and I? Why do we even bother to look at prophecy? Because prophecy is one of those things that predicts. That shows us this is God's word. And like the passage we looked at last time in Isaiah 51, when you look at how God fulfilled his promise to Abraham, have you ever thought about God's purpose for your own life? Have you had, since you were young, a desire to serve God in some way, and now you feel like, nah, I'm too old. Nothing's ever going to happen. All the opportunities are gone. You know, the things that God can do with you, He uses weak things to confound the mighty. I have been shocked as I've gotten older to find that I've actually had more fruitful with the juveniles in a jail than when I was younger. I've been at this 18 years And uh I hope that uh I can do it for many more years uh if the Lord tarries. But whatever it is, don't don't Force something, but just humble yourself today and say, God, what do you have for me? What's your plan? I want to be like Abraham Even then as old age, willing to lay down the law the Isaac as an offering. Sometimes we just kind of get comfortable. We're ready to retire. Yep. Everything is as it's always been. Don't be that way if you believe in the God of Abraham. Because we're commanded to lay up treasures in heaven, not on the earth. And that's, I believe, also the resurrection it's talking about because Jesus has said in Luke 14, 14, and the resurrection is wherever rewarded. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, if there's no resurrection, you know, we're miserable. But these promises should bolster our faith. God keeps his promises. He did it for Abraham, and he'll do it for us. Let's close with a word of prayer. Lord God, thank you for this record in Scripture laid out over millennia of time. Of how you kept the promise to Abraham, how it's unfolded step by step, how it continues. Lord, we we see the signs of your coming. We know it's growing here. We don't set dates, but we understand it. That things are going to happen according to Scripture. And Lord, we don't understand it perfectly. There's many things about prophecy that we don't understand, but it's so clear that you are going to keep your promise to Abraham. You're going to fulfill exactly what you said you would do. We thank you for that. Lord, you've said that you're going to complete your good purpose. He who began a good work and us is going to see it to completion as well. Help each saint here to understand what your will and purpose is for their life. And to boldly be like Abraham, not ashamed to say that we believe what God's word says We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.