Happy Mother's Day. Who has a child who has the oldest child in this church? Who has a child that's More than sixty years old. Sixty. You have a child older than sixty? Amen. Congratulations. Who has the youngest child? Who has a child under one year old? Congratulations. Who has a child the furthest distance from you? Where do we start? How far is yours, Stephen? Where? Where's that? So we want to wish all of you mothers a happy Mother's Day. I was, you know, the next the next part of James. Starts off this way. I'm supposed today, if I'm following the schedule, today I'm supposed to be saying, what is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members. And so I was thinking of how I could twist that to fit Mother's Day. And I thought, you know, I could say, this is what mothers live in. Quarrels, conflicts, you know. But doesn't really fit mothers. It says you lust and do not have, so you commit murder. Uh that may fit mothers in terms of their desire. So I thought it would be More appropriate if I talked about what my mother taught me. One of the uh statements that our son made, our rebellious son, who caused Many gray hairs on my wife's head over the course of six or seven years as he went his own way and disobeyed just about everybody. Uh one of the statements he made when he was writing something about his mother was that she raised six children and didn't kill any of them I thought that was an insightful statement. So I've got the title. I got the title from the the book I'm sure you're familiar with. All I really needed to learn in life, I learned in kindergarten. I can't remember who wrote it. I should have done more research on who wrote it and what. But you remember the book that said, you know, don't hit people, share everything, play fair. Put things back where you found them. Clean up your mess. Don't think things that aren't yours. Remember that book? Nobody remembers it. Okay, well, there was a book put out 30 years ago, probably So I'm I'm this is a takeoff on that book. Okay? Everything I needed to learn in life, I learned from my mother. I've been impressed with the kinds of things that mothers teach you that you don't get anywhere else. And so our passage today, 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 Verses 5 to 10 makes the statement that I was, Paul says, we were like mothers. And he's implying the fact that you can learn things about God, about ministry from others. I'm reading 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 5 through 10. For neither at any at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness. God is witness. Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others. When we might have made demands as apostles of Christ, but we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her children. So, affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives. Because you had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil. For laboring night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. You are witnesses, and God also, how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believed. When I think about my mother, who passed away December the 8th, 17 years ago. I realize how many of these qualities that Paul mentions here were exemplified by my mother. I didn't realize it at the time. But looking back, I saw and can see many qualities. And let me just point out three qualities that Paul is talking about in this passage. That my mother taught me. Number one, my mother taught me honesty. Honesty. For neither at any time, verse five Did we use flattering words, nor a cloak for covetousness Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. The word cloak, a cloak for covetousness. The word cloak is the word excuse It's actually a word that means to shine forth, meaning to turn the lights on something so you can hide something else. So they're turning the lights on, acting maybe humbly or something like that, to hide their covetousness. And Paul says, none of that. And you'll notice he said, as you know, you know And then he said, glory. We did not seek glory from men. Glory is the word honor. Dignity, reverence, in the sense of the kind of reverence that will give us something material gifts or honorarium or impressing people with the dignity of being Christ's apostles. You understand, boys, that we are the apostles of Jesus. Christ himself appointed. None of that. None of that And then you have the word demands. When we might have made demands. The word demands is the word wait. It's the word responsibilities, to put responsibilities on people. And so what Paul is talking about is that we placed on you no responsibilities to support us. To take care of us. You have none. We were here serving you for nothing. We were here because of God So I find in this series of words an attitude of honesty and purity and The desire to simply see the person helped by God's grace. And that was my mother My mother wanted me to grow up to love Jesus Christ, and she did not care what it cost her She didn't care how sh I how how much she got out of it My mother was the ultimate teacher. She didn't believe in flattering words. She wasn't worried about me having a good self-image. She wasn't worried about whether I liked it or not. She taught me truth. Here are some of the la the subjects my wife took my mother taught me. Logic. She taught me logic. If you fall off that swing and break your neck, you're not going to the store with me. She taught me religion. You'd better pray it'll come out of the carpet. She taught me justice. If you don't straighten up, I'm gonna knock you into the middle of next week. Prophecy. Keep crying, I'll give you something to cry about. Envy. There are millions of less fortunate children in this world who don't have wonderful parents like you do. Anticipation. Just wait till we get home. Or just wait till your father gets home. You're gonna get it when you get home. Responsibility. When that lawnmower cuts off your toes, don't come running to me. Medicine. If you don't stop crossing your eyes, they're gonna freeze that way. Debate. What were you thinking? Answer me when I talk to you. Don't talk back to me. She taught me genetics. You're just like your father. Do you think you were born in a barn? She taught hope. One day you'll have kids and I hope they turn out just like you. Then you'll see what it's like. You remember any of those kind of statements? Yeah. Those are very useful statements, you know? Helpful statements. My mother, of course, you understand the fact that that I'm exaggerating, okay? Hope you don't believe my mother was exactly that way. My mother also had a dictionary of important words She had the word dumbwaiter. You know what a dumbwaiter is? One who asks if the kids would like to order dessert Feedback, the inevitable result when the baby doesn't appreciate the strained carrots. Full name, what you call your child when you're mad at him. Grandparents, the people who think your children are wonderful, even though they're sure you're not raising them right. Hearsay, what toddlers do when anyone mutters a dirty word. Puddle a small body of water that draws other small bodies wearing dry shoes into it. Top bunk, where you should never put a child wearing Superman jammies. My mother had the gift of helps. She displayed the gift of helps. Anyone who needed help, my mother wanted to be there. We had a lady in our church who had a husband who was an alcoholic. I remember my mother in Joe's bar. Trying to help that lady get her husband home. She wouldn't ever enter Joe's bar. But she wanted to help that lady. My mother painted more rooms, more bedrooms, more church rooms than almost anybody else. She just wanted to help. An amazing gift of helps. She needed no credit. She didn't need to be recognized. She just did the job. Here's First Peter chapter five, verse two. First Peter five two says And three says that our ministry for Jesus Christ depends on an attitude that doesn't have to get something from it An attitude of honesty, an attitude of willingness. Here's 1 Peter 5, 2 It says, shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion. Not because you have to, but willingly. Not for dishonest gain, but eagerly. Not as being lords over those entrusted you, but being examples to the flock I learned that from my mother. It was easier for me To obey some of those commands because I saw how my mother did them. Secondly, my mother taught me God's love My mother taught me God's love. Verse 7 says, But we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her children. So affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives. Because you had become dear to us. Notice he was in it not just to communicate the message. He was in it no matter what it cost. If this takes our life, all right, so be it. Communicating to you, raising this child is more important. Than my life. That was my mother. Think of how nursing mothers cherish their babies. Their life is wrapped up in a baby. She's available for that baby at any time, day and night. And she doesn't say to the baby, Will you quit drinking so much milk? and Needing so many diapers. She just keeps holding the baby, stroking the baby, kissing the baby, hugging the baby. Contrast that with the child's response. Do they understand it? Do they care? Do they get sentimental over it? No, they often take advantage of it. Frustrate the mother because she cares so much. But the intensity of her love has little to do with the child's response. However, that child responds to her, she loves. I can remember actually I hate to use the word enjoying, but I can remember actually frustrating my mother knowing that I could set her off by the way I acted. Any of you ever did that? We were putting a roof on a house. I was probably 19 or 20. My mother was out in the front yard shouting to me to be careful, watching me as I walked around on the roof. And I was walking around on the roof. Intentionally, in dangerous ways, to see how frustrated she would get. You know? I didn't appreciate her love. Neither did I connect that as a picture of God. You ever thought about the fact that God loves you that way? That God has that kind of desire toward your good? Here's Isaiah chapter 49, verse 15. It says, Can a woman forget her nursing child? And not have compassion on the son of her womb. Surely they may forget. Yet I will not forget you. You hear that statement? Surely they may forget, but I will not forget you. So the prime example of love, the first experience anyone has of love comes from a mother. Can a mother forget and have no compassion on the child she is born? No. Absolutely not. There's an unbreakable attachment to her child that no one else has. The mother knows that that child belongs to her. In a way far beyond any other kind of belonging. That child is part of her. Literally a part of her body. In some ways, the mother is a god to her child. She's his creator. She's a supplier, his director, his coach, his doctor, his judge, his prophet. This priest, God says, learn from your mother because that's the picture of my love. And there may be a mother somewhere who doesn't really love her baby and forgets the child she's born, but that's not the picture of me. I will never forget you. So when you hear women weeping for their children, and who and mothers who go out of their way Concerning their children. And chase after their children, and don't let their children go. God says, that's a picture of me. That was my mother. My mother took care of my needs and loved me way beyond anything she should have done. My brother lived in our house. My mother had four children. My brother lived with his parents, my parents, until he was forty. My mother, he he went to work early in the morning. My mother got up every morning to cook him breakfast. Every morning. You would think she would teach him someday and say, hey, get your own breakfast. You're old enough. That never bothered her. She got up every morning to cook and breakfast. And my mother was not an early to bed, early to rise woman. In fact, one of the things that bothered me was the fact that I could not be more like my father. My father got up every morning at five o'clock to study his Bible and pray. He taught a Sunday school class at Barcroft Bible Church for 40 years, the Wolverton Bible class. He typed out all of his notes, and we have all of his notes. He taught through the Bible, and we've got all those notes and notebooks that he typed out. And he was up every morning. By nine o'clock at night, nine thirty at night, he was asleep. I was not like that. You know, there was a time in our lives when We delivered newspapers, my wife and I. Six kids, little income. We delivered newspapers. And so we had 400 customers and we got up at four o'clock in the morning. And she drove 55 miles and delivered 200 of them, and I drove 55 miles and delivered 200 others. And we would be done at 5. 30, quarter of 6. And I thought, this is great. You know? I love this early morning stuff. You know, listen to J. Vernon McGee on the radio as you deliver newspapers and or some of these other guys and be blessed early in the morning and ready to go at 6 a. m. Whenever I stop serving newspapers, I'm going to keep getting up early so I can spend time in God's Word and study God's Word. I never did it. Complete failure, you know. I was always embarrassed because my dad would get up at five o'clock religiously. I couldn't get up at five. And I think it wasn't until I was probably 60, 55 or 60, I began realizing the fact that I had my mother's genes, not my father's. My mother did her best work after midnight, you know, and that kind of thing. But here's my mother who goes to bed at two. She's up at six to have or five thirty to feed my son, my brother. Service. Service. Love. What's it like to grow up without that kind of love What are kids like who never get that kind of love? I thought I'd try to track down Osama bin Laden's relationship with his mother. You know, Osama? Everybody know Osama? What would you guess it was like? What do we know about her? What kind of love did Osama learn? Well, her maiden name was Ali Ghanam. She was from Syria and married Mohammed bin Laden at the age of 22. in 1956 and moved to Saudi Arabia to be with him. She was his tenth wife Mohammed bin Laden was 48 years old. Okay? He's 26 years older than her. Was in the construction business, was very successful, extremely wealthy. He had immigrated to Saudi Arabia from Yemen, had developed close ties with the royal family, had all kinds of prime construction jobs. Given his status, the competition for his attention was fierce. It sounds like women fell all over him, and family members generally idolized him. Since Islamic law allowed only four wives, Muhammad used the method of keeping three long-term wives and saving the fourth wife slot. For short-termers. Can you imagine this arrangement? So Osama bin Laden's mother was a short-termer According to Osama's half-brother, there were 54 siblings within the Muhammad bin Laden family. Which ultimately included at least 20 different mothers. The fact that his biographers are not even sure of the number of his wives and children illustrates The low regard for women and children in Saudi culture. Since Osama was the only child of his mother, He had very little contact with the rest of his family. Can you imagine very little contact with an extended family of 54 siblings and 20 mothers? What was it like in the home of a wealthy polygamous oligarch? Apparently it was absolutely miserable. I think it's difficult for us in Western culture to imagine what this Eastern family was like. According to one quote, bin Laden's early life was isolated, filled with nannies, tutors, and servants. His mother didn't fit in very well with life on the compound. She did not like covering her face with a burqa and was scorned by the other wives. She became ostracized by the other woman and was referred to as the slave. So Osama became known as the son of the slave. He was raised largely by nurses and grannies, and nannies, not grannies, nannies, who on the ladder of importance in Saudi culture were less important than wives. So the label, son of a slave, never left him. He was shy, generally rejected by brothers and sisters. His relationship with his father was probably the most important thing in his life as a young boy. And he was absolutely devastated at the age of 10 when his father died in a plane crash. According to one of the children, his dad was planning to marry his 23rd wife that night. He was on his way when he died. After that, the households, the wives, the kids all dispersed. Osama was sent back to live with his mother, whom he apparently hardly ever knew, hardly even knew Apparently, his mother tried to reach out to him, but he grew further and further apart from her, so there was almost no interaction between them. At the same time, in connection with his father's death, he received an inheritance. Eleven years old, almost no connections, he received an inheritance. You'd like to guess how much? Eighty million. Here's an eleven-year-old kid who hasn't learned love, who has very few connections with eighty million dollars. Is that a recipe for disaster, or is that a recipe? Do you see why he came to the conclusion that his mission in life was to kill as many people as possible? It looks to me like he missed the incredible privilege of knowing the love of a mother. A tragedy. Have you been loved? Have you been loved by a mother You know, 1 John 4, verse 19 says, we love him because he first loved us. Love is something that you learn. You learn because you have been loved. Love is not something innate in us. We weren't born with love. We learn. to love. And we love because we have been loved by Jesus Christ. We love because we have been loved by a mother, a father. And perhaps you grew up without that kind of love. And you say, I'd like to have that kind of love. You know where you find that kind of love? You find that kind of love in Jesus Christ by loving somebody else Choose a kid that doesn't have love. Choose an orphan that doesn't have love. Choose somebody else that is lonely. And love them for Jesus Christ's sake. And you will find God's kind of love. You will learn to love. I learned love from my mother. I am rich. I am rich. I am richer than Osama bin Laden. I'm sorry to say far as he's concerned. So honesty, love, one more. My mother taught me God's kind of work. Here's verses eight, verses nine, and ten. Verse nine For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. For Paul, ministry was labor and toil. Labor and toil. Night and day, 24-7, he wanted to preach the gospel At the same time, he wanted to lay no additional responsibilities on them. You don't have to support me, even though the law gives me permission to ask for it I want to preach the gospel with nothing else connected with it. The only thing connected is your response to God. So he moonlighted. He built tents, probably to support himself and other members of the team. Raising children takes moonlighting and daylighting. It's so daily, it's so inconvenient, it's so urgent when it comes. You have to adjust your entire system. scheduled to the demands of your baby or your child. You have to interrupt whatever you're doing for the needs of your child. And of our six children, our two sons never went to the hospital, the first and the last, at least in the first 16, 18 years of their lives. Our four daughters in the middle all went to the hospital for major things. You know, our oldest daughter broke her leg one time and just interrupted everything. Second daughter sliced open her head and you know all that kind of stuff. And when those kinds of things happen, everything stops And they demand your full attention. That's the way Paul worked. When mothers are about to give birth, you call it labor. Labor. And that's what it really is: intense labor. I trust all of you men, all of you old enough men have seen a woman in labor I watched my wife six times, and every time she brought tears to my eyes with the absolute intense struggle she gave to deliver a child. She seemed to go to the edge of her physical capabilities. I wondered why she didn't have a heart attack, or why she didn't pop twenty blood vessels since they were all standing out on her neck and everywhere else. She had one huge desire to get this baby out. And that was only the beginning. Once the baby was out, the work was not over. It was just the beginning of labor. My mother, my mother understood that. And my wife has said, in fact, she said to me this week, make sure you tell them. My mother committed herself to being at our house every Monday morning to wash clothes and iron. And she spent eight hours at our house every Monday, and sometimes she came back Tuesday because she didn't finish it. And my wife has said she is the one who kept me from going crazy. With six kids all squeezed together. We had six kids in nine years. So it was twelve years nursing Twelve years in diapers, you know, all this stuff as they went all went through the thing together. And my mother, they lived 23 miles from us. My mother was there every morning, every Monday morning, 8 o'clock. There she was Washed clothes, iron, incredible. What a testimony Labor. Labor. I don't know if I ever saw my mother in front of a TV when we were growing up. Of course, we didn't have a TV. I had to stop at my friends' houses to watch TV Mm-hmm. I don't remember the first TV we got, but I do remember the first color TV we got. It was used, it was a console, this thing, this big thing that sat on the floor and it didn't work very well. But we would be watching TV and my mother would be working. We would be eating dinner around the table in the dining room and my mother would be cleaning up and washing the dishes Only later in her life did she stop to r watch a little TV. And then Perry Mason became her favorite. And then, of course, her beloved Redskins And later on in life, she got a dose of, a surprising dose of interest in pro-wrestling. So I could tell things were really getting bad when she got into pro wrestling. When she wasn't working for her children and husband, she was out in her garden. She grew things that I never learned to love. Rhubarb. Swiss chard, other non-edibles that really you couldn't use on hamburgers and french fries. Think about the different motivations between fathers and mothers. You know? Fathers usually go to work for pay. Mothers work for a different reason. Fathers Work to get. Mothers work to give. Fathers work with something that usually gives them a sense of accomplishment. Mothers often work with somebody who doesn't appreciate her work. She's not at work because of the positive feedback her child gives, or because he's going to make her rich, or perhaps Because he responds enthusiastically. She may be doing work that doesn't seem to be accomplishing much. Just a mundane caretaker of rebellious children. You see the difference? There's a motivation there with mothers that is a picture of God. A picture of God who loves, who gives, who serves us Simply because of his love God's work is often unrecognized and unappreciated. John says, he was in the world, talking about Jesus. The world was made by him. He was the creator, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, his own received him not. Unrecognized. Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount that you may be sons of your father in heaven, for he makes his son to rise on the evil and on the good, sends rain to the just and the unjust. He's working for the benefit of his creations, even though they could care less. Work. You ever notice that verse in Mark chapter three? Where Jesus' relatives and friends were trying to come and get him because he was overworked It's Mark chapter 3, verse 20. It says, Then the multitude came together again, so they could not so much as eat bread. But when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold on him, for they said, He's out of his mind. Jesus and his disciples were so busy they didn't have time to eat. And his relatives wanted to do an intervention because they thought he was out of his mind. That kind of work is crazy, according to them. So, this kind of motivation that Paul's describing comes from. The previous verse where he said, So affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel, but also our own lives. It didn't matter what it took. There was something more important. Sacrifice is the surrender of something you have for the sake of something else. In baseball, a sacrifice bunt means you allow yourself to be tagged out so that your teammate can advance. It's a second phase. You sacrifice when you surrender your money so someone else can eat But sacrifice is even more than that. It's losing something that you don't have to lose. You have power to keep it. But you choose to lose for somebody else's benefit. Why choose to lose? According to Paul, there's something more important than his life and interests. It was his children. His spiritual children, and the future of the Church of Jesus Christ. They were the theme of the story Paul realized their incredible value. He wasn't there for a photo op to spread his name. He was there to die if he could help his kids. You ever had that motivation? There to die, he could help his kids. That's a motivation that helps us answer questions, that helps us answer problems, that helps us pray in a way where we want what God has rather than. But we can do and get out of it. I don't know if you've heard the story of David Jeremiah. He tell he told it on the radio at least once or twice of his mother having such a problem with him and she would say to him, Make your bed, clean your room, straighten this thing up and he had no concern. And she kept warning him that if he didn't clean it up, he was going to suffer the consequences. Of course, one in, one ear, one out, the other ear. One day in school, he's in school. He's called to the principal's office out of class, and there stood his mother, who had arranged that he should be taken home to make his bed and then brought back immediately to school. The only problem was that everyone in school found out why he was called out of class and had to go home. For that he took much laughter, joking, harassment from the other students. He said he learned very quickly. In fact, he said, now, at night when he gets up to go to the bathroom, he makes his bed Contrast that with what Osama bin Laden got. Eighty million. And no love. No examples of somebody who cared enough about him to spend time with him. And push him and and help him develop His teenage activity included nightclubs in Beirut, free spending, fun. He was sent to Lebanon to high school Where he was free from the restrictions, he had a generous allowance, a luxurious lifestyle, including his own Mercedes and a chauffeur. He spent much time in nightclubs with wealthy other young playboys. And so on. Unappreciated. So, what's it like to grow up without a mother to model these godlike characteristics? Does this statistic say anything? Eighty-five percent of all the people in prison come from a fatherless home Eighty-five percent. Can you imagine the emptiness of not having a mother or a father to teach you? So is it worth our time to sacrifice time, energy, money to help one of these children Most of you are old enough to have grandchildren, maybe great-grandchildren Is it worth it sacrificing yourself? To help a grandchild, to help a great grandchild, to help a neighbor child, to help somebody in Sunday school, to help an orphan? People go through life with great sacrifice to buy a diamond or a boat. Or get a piece of paper that says they've completed a course of study to have the experience of waitlessness for ten minutes in a space shuttle. Is a child worth anything? How much do we spend? How much effort do we spend? How often do we pray? For these children who depend so much on learning honesty and love and a work ethic from their mother My mother raised four children. Kept raising us until she was ninety. She passed away at ninety-one. Along the way, she adopted other children. A guy came into our life, into our family life, named Homer. He was nineteen, married, came from West Virginia, got a job in the government, came into our life, he got adopted by my mother. He and his wife. nineteen years old. I had four boys. My mother saw to it that he got to the Washington Bible College and saw to it that he graduated and saw to it that he got into seminary and saw to it that he I don't know how much she saw to it that he went to Catholic University and graduated and got a PhD and later on became president of Washington Bible College. That was one of my mother's kids. Homer Heater, Dr. Homer Heater. And then another guy came in named Jim, Jim Lecky, who was a missionary Had very little. My mother was so concerned about them she would go to the store to buy a bag of food just for the Leckies. So we could take it over to the Leckies. What a beautiful picture of Christ. 2 Corinthians 8:9 says that in order to meet our need, Christ had to become poor. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That you, through his poverty Might be rich, might become rich. Think about this. Jesus, God, chose less, chose poverty. In order to fix our need. How's that for sacrifice? You ever considered poverty as an expression of your desire to be like Jesus? That's a radical thought in Elkridge. You want to be like Jesus? He became poor. To help us. Christ's riches, Christ's power, Christ's glory, Christ's honor could not make mankind rich. Christ could only make rich through his death, through personal poverty. Couldn't Christ stay rich and make rich? He was God. He could do anything he wanted to. No, maybe there's a principle here that riches are only communicated through sacrifice Even God couldn't buy our salvation with riches They were bought with the death of his son. So I would encourage you today. I would encourage you to be thankful for your mother. If she's still alive, make sure you say to her thank you so much. Appreciate what she has given you. And I would encourage you to ask God for wisdom and strength to become more like your mother, at least in the characteristics that she pictured to you, Jesus Christ. And think in terms of how can I serve somebody younger, a child, as I was served By my mother. I say to my mom, thank you very much, Mom. I appreciate it.