So my wife asked my first form what he wants for Christmas. His response was a book about Noah's Ark. So no surprise there. He loves that biblical account, right? Anyway, I should enjoy such uh small and good requests now. There may come a time when he starts asking for toys, video games and Maybe a car or something like that. Now it's not that I don't want to give to my son, you know, nice things, what father doesn't. But as good parents, we have to emphasize what matters most, right? Faith, character, relationships. I do have extra motivation to stay focused on what matters most. I didn't have much growing up, but what's worse, my dad wasn't around much. I was very young when he immigrated to the U. S. while mom and I stayed in South Korea. It wasn't until I was eight we'd be reunited as family here. But the many years apart caused the rift in my parents' marriage. It turns out my father's achievement of the American tree American dream came at a great cost. Have you ever thought about the cost of the American dream? There's a song from Moriah Carey. No, I'm sorry Just kidding. There's a song from Christian band named Casting Crowns entitled American Dream. Some of the lyrics go like this concerning someone named Jack. Uh just some lyrics here. All work no play may have made Jack a dull boy, but all work no god has left Jack with the lost soul. But he's moving on full steam. He's chasing the American dream. He's gonna give his family the finer things. His American dream is beginning to seem more and more like a nightmare with every passing day. Daddy, can you come to my game? Oh baby, please don't work late. Another wasted weekend and they are slipping away. Cause he worked and built with his own two hands and he poured all he had in a castle made with sand But the wind and the rain are coming crashing in. Time will tell just how long his kingdom stands. You get the idea. And towards the end the song repeats, all they really wanted was you. Right? It can be simple as that. Your family need and should want you at home more than what you bring home. Now here's the transition to the sermon topic. If your loving spouse and wonderful children want just that, you, just you, your presence and intimacy, how much more does God want you? Just you. Even missionaries and pastors can get so wrapped up in serving God, giving their energy and money that they neglect their devotions and time in His presence. Today or in a few days, some churches will celebrate Christmas by singing, happy birthday to you, Jesus. Well, what would the Son of God really want from us? Is it too far-fetched to say that all he really wants for Christmas is you? As we think about these matters We continue our sermon series, keep calm and read psalms, right? In busy seasons, years, even decades of working. Building a legacy for yourself, providing for your family, trying to get yourself a good future. The scriptures remind us what it means to prize God above all. Right. And if we are to prioritize him above all, we must learn what he wants. He wants more than sacrifices you make for him, your family, and yourself. All he really wants is you. Today, a few days ahead of Christmas. We'll get a good reminder of this truth in Psalm 40. So let's read verses 6 to 8. Sacrifice and offering you did not desire. My ears you have opened. Burnt offering and sin offering you did not require. Then I said, Behold, I come in the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God, and your law is within my heart. So last time we covered verses 4 to 5. We discussed how we should think of God and how God thinks of us. We are to think of God rightly. So see Him as trustworthy. As for how God thinks of us, consider his wonderful works and his gracious thoughts toward us. We spoke of his gracious thoughts toward the people of David, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give them a future and a hope. Looking beyond that, we relish in his gracious promise promises toward us, the Gentile saints, the things which God has prepared for those who love him. In response to such graciousness, we come with gratitude. And with that gratitude, you might ask: what would the Lord require of me? What's on his wish list? You might say in summary that all God wants for Christmas is you, all of you, all for Himself. But to be a bit more specific, Davis agenda in Psalm 46 to 8. Is fulfilling God's wish list. The wish list consists of three items based on each verse of today's passage. First, more than sacrifices, he demands our whole obedience. That's verse 6. Okay. Secondly, more than obligation, he wants our personal initiative. That's verse seven. Thirdly, more than externalities, he seeks our heart-driven desire. That's verse eight. First on God's wish list is this, more than sacrifices, He demands our whole obedience. Let me reread verse six. Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, my ears you have opened, burnt offering and sin offering you did not require. It helps us start with the details here, individual words and phrases before we return to the big idea. David uses various words to describe the forms of worship in the old covenant, sacrifice offering, burnt offering, and sin offering. The psalmist wants us to see the four in two pairs. The first pair, sacrifice and offering, are more positive. They have to do with fellowship and gratitude towards God. The second pair, burnt offering and sin offering, are as the name suggests, more negative. They have to do with the effects and consequences of sin. It points to the removal of it. But taken together the main idea is the same. Deva is saying that the entirety and the whole spectrum of the sacrificial system leaves something to be desired. But we don't have to look elsewhere to figure out what that something is. What's desired by God is right in the middle of verse 6, literally in the middle, my ears you have opened. This sounds strange. What does that mean? Some think that David's referring to the custom in Exodus 21, 1 to 6. In the ancient law of slavery in Israel, a man could go free on the seventh year. But say the slave wishes to remain in servitude to this particular master, the master would take him to the judges and to the door or doorpost. There he pierced the willing servant's ear with an awe, a pointy tool as a ceremony symbolizing voluntary lifelong service. Other commentators think that's not what David meant here. Instead of piercing the earlobe, maybe the psalmist, David, is speaking of digging the ear canal. That is God opened David's ear to hear his word and obey. It's similar to what Solomon saw for himself when the Lord appeared to him. And basically gave him a blank check. Here's what he requested in 1 Kings 3. 9. Give to your servant an understanding heart to judge your people that I may discern between good and evil, or who is able to judge this great people of yours. That phrase in 1 Kings 3. 9, an understanding heart is literally a listening heart or an obedient heart. Now we didn't we know that Solomon did not guard his heart from idolatry, and David wasn't perfect either. But in these precious moments, they were pleasing God because their ears were open. They understood the heart of worship. They understood that if God has your ear, he has your whole body. That's why, as you saw earlier, the inspired Greek translation of Psalm 40, verse 6 in Hebrews 10 interprets my ear you have opened as a body you have prepared for me. Okay, so you can I kind of highlight it there for you. The ears like the leash that I put around my dog's neck. Okay, so if I have the my dog's neck, I have his whole body, her whole body. They're like the handlebars of your bicycle, okay, or the steering wheel of your car. So to have ears open to the Lord means you're open to his authority and leading. You give him your whole allegiance and obedience. So from Psalm 40, verse 6, we learn that more than sacrifices, he demands our whole obedience. And this isn't the only passage that talks about this demand. God never concealed his desires from us. From the sacrifices of Cain in the early days to the sacrifice of praise today, our king made it crystal clear what he wants. Okay. Here's a string of verses that reinforces this the point of Psalm forty verse six. It's probably good to just jot down the references. I'll have him up here. We're some verses from Hebrews. Hebrews 11 4 reveals that by faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. Through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it he being dead still speaks. A few verses down to verse six at Hebrews eleven we learn Without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. We see how foundational faith is. And this faith must be genuine and sincere. That's because there are fakers and pretenders everywhere and even among men of great stature. Fast forward to 1 Samuel. The priesthood has been established, the sacrificial systems already in place. What's relatively new is the monarchy. The first king of Israel, Saul, certainly looked apart, but he has to be rebuked multiple times. In one instance, Samuel the prophet was especially grieved He learned that instead of obeying God, avenging Israel and eliminating the Amalekites, Saul spared the king. And the animals. He pointed fingers. Saul pointed fingers and made excuses, saying, The people took of the plunder, sheep and oxen, the best of the things which should have been utterly destroyed to sacrifice to the Lord your God Samuel didn't buy that. He responded in 1 Samuel 15, 22 to 23. Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and the stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you from being king. Abel and Saul both failed to recognize that God desires faith that leads to obedience. And the failures of the first son of Adam and the first king of Israel continued in Israel. It got so bad in Isaiah's time that the prophet had these. Skating words to begin his book. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken, I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know. My people do not consider. Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who are corrupters, they have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked to anger the Holy One of Israel, they have turned away backward. They were so bad that they were basically Sodom and Gomorrah spiritually speaking, and headed towards the same judgment. Now you might think that such people would be atheistic, irreligious, having nothing to do with worship. Well actually they kept up the formalities and practiced what became dead rituals. And the Lord was not pleased. So here's Isaiah 1, 10 to 15. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me, says the Lord? I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand to trample my courts? Bring no more feudal sacrifices. Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of assemblies, I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred meeting. Your new moons and your appointed feasts, my soul hates. They are a trouble to me. I am wary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Another prophet around Isaiah's time. Micah basically repeated this. We read we read in Micah Micah 6 6 to 8. With what shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old? Okay, will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, ten thousand rivers of oil, shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body, for the sin of my soul? He has shown you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God? So I'll wrap up. That's a lot of verses. What is good in God's eyes is what is best for us. Faith, obedience, justice, mercy, humility. It's all based on a proper relationship with God. It goes beyond one or two hours you might spend at church each week. More than sacrifices. He demands our whole obedience. Let's move on now. We go on to the second line of God's wish list to find out more than obligation, He wants our personal initiative. Isn't that true of all of our relationships? We don't want our children or students to do their chores, homework, or Bible reading begrudgingly, right? Don't you want them to do such things? To uh want them to want to do those things Wouldn't it be great if your subordinates or employees show up on time with enthusiasm and energy? Okay. Initiative, right? That's the basic idea. Now, as I did with verse 6, let me first address some of the details of verse 7. I'll reread it. Then I said, Behold, I come. In the scroll of the book, it is written on me. We see the initiative and behold I come. Now that God has David's ear and God has David's body, David moves with energy, impetus. It's the same holy passion that Isaiah displayed when the voice of the Lord asks, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us, here I am, send me. That seems straightforward. David's eager to please the Lord, so he says, Behold, I come. But what about the second part of Psalm 40 verse 7? What's this scroll of the book? What's written about David in there? It's hard to figure out exactly what is this scroll. Besides here, this word for scrolls found only in three other books, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Ezekiel and Zechariah. The entire phrase, the scroll of the book is even more uncommon, occurring just in four verses total, Jeremiah 36, 2, 4, Ezekiel 2. 9, and here Psalm 4. Psalm 40 verse 7. That's all we got to go by. Gerald Wilson collects some options for interpreting the scroll of the book And I don't have it listed because there's so many actually. Here's one. Since the phrase is found in Jeremiah and Ezekiel, maybe it's a record of God's word revealed to the prophets. Here's another, maybe it's a scroll that records David's petitions stored in the temple. It will serve as a testimony when the Lord finally answered his prayer. It's kind of like a prayer time capsule. Other options include the entire law of Moses, a personal confession of sin, a job description for kings, we see in Deuteronomy 17, 14 to 20. Or from that same passage, maybe it's a personal copy of the law David has written. There are many diverse options here. But even if we can't figure out exactly what's written on that scroll, we can safely infer that it's God's word. And we can figure out based on context what it meant to David. I agree with Wilson's conclusion here. From his reading of the word of the Lord, David has a convicting experience of his sin and guilt, and then he hears the good news of God's righteousness. So Wilson gets this from the surrounding verses. That's probably what's recorded there. So these are truths and experiences central to an individual's conversion. And David says it's not just written for the general audience, it is written of me. So I think that he's saying that this word is applied to me. Right. That means that the psalmist took it personal in a good way. Well many of us growing up reading the Bible, maybe Maybe all your life. There's a moment though when we realize this book is written for me. God is speaking to me through it. Right. It's not merely about them out there or those people back then. I open up the Bible, I'm immersed in it, and I find myself in it. But I'm not God. I'm not the good guy. I'm not the main character of the story. I'm man, I'm a sinner. I'm the antagonist, the enemy of God. I'm the sinner that needs rescuing, I'm the sinner that is rescued. This book is written about me. Right. This reminds me of Augustine, right? He wrote a salvation testimony in his confession. Literally the book is called Confessions. How he heard a voice bid him, take up and read. Take up and read. He turned to Matthew 19, 21, and he was converted as he heard Jesus say through the word, right? Go sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. This is when Augustine saw that the book was written of him. Or how about Martin Luther? He hated the righteousness of God until he found what Paul found in Habakkuk. The just shall live by faith. This was what they call the reformer's gate to paradise. The gate to paradise. This is when Luther saw that the book was written of him. Just a few centuries later, there's John Wesley in seventeen thirty-six a conversation with a Moravian pastor, August. Gothliff, Spangenberg changed his life. The German pastor asked Wesley, does the Spirit of God bear witness with your spirit that you are a child of God? John was speechless. He didn't know what to say to that question. Spangamer kept going. Do you know Jesus Christ? Wesley recorded in his journal, I paused and said, I know he is the savior of the world True, replied he, the pastor, but do you know he has saved you? I answered, I hope he has died to save me. So the perils of seafaring and his this serious conversation really shook John Wesley. When he returned home to London, he was at a place called Elders Gate. Then he heard someone read what Romans meant to John Martin Luther. Um the preface to Luther's commentary. And then Wesley wrote again in his journal, I felt I did trust in Christ alone for salvation. And an assurance was given to me that he has taken away my sins, even mine. And save me from the law of sin and death. This was Wesley's breakthrough. This is when Wesley saw that the book was written of him. Is this book written of you? Can you say this book is written of me? Plea with each and every one of you. Don't take initiative with God only because it's the right thing to do, the respectable thing to do. Don't just serve here because your spouse wants you to do it. Don't merely come out because you don't want to disappoint your parents or or children. More than obligation. God wants our personal initiative, that personal initiative rising out of a personal conviction from the Bible that is written of me. And that means look beyond outward behavior, be introspective of your internal motivation. That leads us to what's next on the Lord's wish list. More than externalities, he seeks our heart-driven desire. Let me reread verse 8. I delight to do your will, O my God, and your law is within my heart. This verse can be seen in two parts in parallel. What does it mean to delight in God's will? It's right there. Have his law within your heart. It's one thing to be accustomed to doing his will or be forced to obey his law is entirely something else to delight in it How did David reach the spiritual state? Well, it wasn't because he's better than us, he's got a spotless record, or he's some perfect character. Right? He's like us. He abused his powers all the time. He committed adultery and murder. He even tried to cover it all up. He understood how simple he can be in thought, word, and deed. But David found salvation from sin. Sovereign Lord effectually called him. That's how David could repent and trust in his promises of grace and mercy. Because of God's gift of faith in David's heart, God's law could reside within his heart. And so that's how David became a man after God's own heart. There's a lot of mystery here in the study of the inner workings of God in us, right? Especially regeneration through the Holy Spirit. And we don't have to understand all the mysteries here, but there is a message that must be clearly presented and clearly understood, and it's the gospel, right? The good news of Jesus. To make a firm connection to the gospel, recall that Psalm 40 is one of the ultimate messianic Psalms. That means there's a partial fulfillment in David's life, but its ultimate fulfillment can only be in Jesus. The son of Jesse could only do imperfectly what the son of David can do perfectly. After all, as I just mentioned, David's a sinner like you and me. Like us, he was brought forth in iniquity. His transgressions needed blotting out. His sins needed cleansing. Like us, David was lustful and hateful. Only someone greater than David could live a perfect life of submission to God. And David knew that someone greater than him would come through his line. That's what we look forward to in Christmas and celebrate. The Lord made a covenant with him, a promise that someone from his genealogy will be established as ruler forever. He will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace Even when Israel was at its lowest point, the Lord did not waver in his promise, but maintained his promise. A rod shall come forth from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of its roots. So God remained faithful to his promises. But because God's people broke the law and the old covenant, a new covenant, a new covenant was required in its place Jeremiah summarizes this new covenant promises in Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34. It's worth re reading it over and over again. Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34. Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord. when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not accord not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. All right, and I will be their God and they shall be my people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they all shall know me from the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember. Remember no more. So the writer of Hebrews cites this prophecy to confirm that the second new covenant is better than the first old covenant. Now back to the writer of Psalm 40, David. Even as he lived under the law, the psalmist got a sneak preview of what Christ would bring. Sort of like an advanced screening and individual sampling of the new covenant blessings through the gospel. He enjoyed forgiveness of sins and intimacy with God that all his people would enjoy someday. He displayed a heart-driven desire that every Israelite would display in the future. And what David foretasted, and we must never forget, Is this there's a cost for forgiveness and internal cleaning. Man must pay the price, but we can't afford it. Before God, you and I and David can only give to God only after we become beneficiaries, recipients of grace. We can never be benefactors to God. We can never first give to God so that He owes us. And we might be repaid by Him. To pay that price, then God sent his son. God and man in one person, Jesus. And when he came into the world, he said, Sacrifice an offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. Behold, I come to do your will. This was true of every moment in Jesus' life. He always did those things that pleased the Father. He never rebelled or turned away. Each day he lived in full dependence on him. Now Isaiah 50, verse 4 to 5 basically describes Jesus' daily walk. He awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my ear to hear as the learned. The Lord God has opened my ear Jesus gave his ear and heart and body to the Father. That's why he lived the perfect life. But for him to be the mediator of the new covenant, his blood had to be spilled. For there to be a remission of sins, there must be shedding of his blood. For us to be sanctified and our bodies a living sacrifice, Christ had to offer his body once for all. And become our atoning sacrifice. For that end, Jesus was crucified. He died on the cross to pay the penalty of sin, the wrath of God, hell itself. He took the punishment we deserve as our substitute. So Calvary became his altar. He gave something more precious than any sacrifice or offering of animals. He offered himself as sacrifice for sin once for all. He entered a most holy place once for all. He laid down his life as a ransom for us. Having finished his work, on the third day he rose from the grave. After showing many proofs of his resurrection, he ascended to heaven. Since he had by himself purged our sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. He is our high priest, always living to make intercession for the saints. And someday he'll return as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords to judge all mankind. Know that this very moment Jesus is able to save you to the uttermost if you come to God through him. Again, there's no hiding behind your sacrifices. No performance that makes up for your bad performance. No good efforts that cancel out the bad. No acts of service that would get you into heaven. Come just as you are, knowing you're poor and helpless. Turn from sin and self-righteousness, repent, turn to Jesus and trust in him only to enter heaven You cannot earn it or deserve it. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone So we live in gratitude now. So let's give all of ourselves to Christ, who first gave all of himself to us. Because our Savior first came to do the Father's will, we can now imitate him. We'll never outgive Jesus, but we can give out of an abundance of praise and overflow of thanksgiving. Let's remember that this Christmas. Let's join the angels, shepherds, and sages. Come and worship Christ, the newborn King. Let's pray. Well, we thank you and as we're so might be occupied with gifts and Gifts to give and gifts to receive. Lord, we think about the greatest gift. Lord, you gave the greatest gift by sending your son. What's more precious than that? Lord, so humble us as we think about just what we can give to you, Lord. Lord, just we realize that nothing we do can merit salvation. Then get us into heaven. And all we can do is just have tokens of gratitude that we offer to you. Even this worship this morning. We come with grateful hearts, knowing that we have been shown mercy. We are beneficiaries of the gift of grace. So we pray that it won't be just this time of the year. We remember the gift of your son. But help us to remember all throughout. And Lord, may we remember that you desire us. A genuine intimate relationship with us. Lord, just in our busyness of serving or doing things, may we take time. To spend time with you and to give ourselves to you our heart, our obedience, our love. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.