This morning we're looking at Ephesians 6, verses 18 to 20, and we will read this. I'll read it for you first. Ephesians six, verse eighteen Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. And watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints and for me That utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds. That therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. I think I told you of when I went down to the Museum of the Marines, the Marine Museum that's down closer to DC. In the midst of the displays that they have there, they have a lifelike, interactive display in which you walk into one of those boat trans the boats that transported the marines. from their destroyer inland to a particular island that they were trying to take. So you actually get into a reproduction of one of these transporters. I don't know what they're called, forgive me for that. You get in and then you look up and they actually had real footage from that battle that had been recorded playing on the screen in front of you. So you're in the boat. It closes up behind you and you're watching what the real Marines were watching when they did that thing. They have the sound system set up so that you can hear the ping-ping of bullets ricocheting off the metal of the boat that you're in. You're watching the planes go down and the And the rocking of the boat up and down as they're cutting across the waves to get to the island. And finally, when you get there, they have this thing where a ladder goes up or I'm trying to remember correctly, you're vacating the boat in the midst of all those bullets and all that absolute mayhem. And when you get off, you can imagine being a Marine getting off into the middle of a horrendous battlefield. It is, I just can't even imagine. I mean that really helped me to imagine what that was like to be a soldier in the midst of a horrible battle. The context here in our passage is still the battlefield. We have, of course, the armor of God, and we've gone through the different pieces that Paul uses to illustrate. the nature of spiritual warfare. He says we're in a struggle. It's not against flesh and blood, but it's against these spiritual beings in high places. They're organized and powerful, but we have the armor, and so verse ten, we should be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might, and put on each piece of this armor. After saying this, he begins to speak about prayer. Now I believe verses 18 and 20 is not to be ripped out of the context. And sort of disassociated with the armor of God. It's a part of the experience of the soldier, the spiritual soldier, in the middle of spiritual warfare. It's something that should take place. As we are out battling for Christ, giving the word of God, preaching the gospel, this is really, if you would want to describe verses 18 to 20, a kind of battle prayer. The kind of prayer that's necessary for the midst, the midst, the middle of spiritual warfare, prayers for spiritual warfare, in keeping with the context that's here. Now, this is different from the other two prayers that he has also mentioned in Ephesians. Those prayers Hudson read and Ike read for us. Let me just remind you of those if you turn back to chapter 1. And by doing this, we'll draw a contrast between the two prayers he already mentioned, what they are like, and the battlefield kind of a prayer. Ephesians 1, verses 15 to 21. And what we'll do is center on verse 17. Here's this prayer that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom. And revelation. Verse 18, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that ye may know. And he mentions three things here that he's praying that they might know. Verse 18, the hope of his calling. Verse 18, the what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. And verse 19, and what is the exceeding greatness of his power? Paul is praying that they might come to understand through the power of the Spirit that their hearts might be enlightened. To know the hope of their calling, the glory of their inheritance, and the exceeding greatness of the power that God has given them through Christ. This is a prayer for understanding, comprehension into spiritual realities. You can picture someone grappling with these in their mind, praying and asking and saying, Lord, help me to understand what it means to have power in Christ. Help me to understand, Lord, what this inheritance is. I will go to your word and seek. to understand. The second prayer in Ephesians 3, if you turn there, verses 14 to 19 You could call a prayer for fullness. It has to do with the inner man and what's happening there, and for strength. Ephesians 3 verse 14, for this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 16, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might in his spirit in the inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints, What is the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge? That you might be filled with all the fullness of God. You pull words out of this prayer, and it's a prayer for strength in the inner man through the spirit, the dwelling of Christ in us that produces stability. Rooted and grounded, but also love, the expression of that stability. And the comprehension, verse 18, would also overlap with the first prayer A desire for them to understand the nature of the love of Christ that passes understanding. You say, well, that almost seems contradictory. It's not. You can understand certain things about life and creation, but you might not understand everything. You might understand, for example, that the sun is very hot And you might actually work out a mathematical equation that represents that heat, but have you really, can you really get your mind around what it's like to be in the center of that heat? And to know how what that would do. I mean, there's a certain amount of understanding, but there's also this. Why would Jesus love sinners in the first place? So these two prayers, excuse me a second, these two prayers, if you wanted to boil them down, they're about spiritual understanding and comprehension. If you go back to Ephesians 6 now, we can see that something different is happening here. He says He says that he is praying. Verse 18. Look at verse 18. Let me pull out some of the words so that I can sort of make evident the points that I'm going to make this morning. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. And watching all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. What does this mean? Well, first there is this idea of. Prayer. Now the word that's the the Greek noun that's translated prayer here is used 37 times in the New Testament. And the English noun prayer or prayers is found 53 times in the New Testament. 37 of these is this Greek noun used here in Ephesians. It's a general word. It just means to take the position of prayer before God. Prayer can mean a number of different things biblically. For example, you can pray a prayer of thanks. You can pray a prayer of confession, you can pray a prayer of praises, or you can pray a prayer which supplicates. And I hope my voice holds out to the end of this sermon. A prayer of supplication. And we have four times in the New Testament where the general Greek noun for prayer is used with uh the the a Greek noun for supplication. But that noun is also translated prayer. So why here in Ephesians do we not have, if you look at your Bible, Verse 18, praying always with all prayer and prayer. Well, that would seem kind of redundant. It is two different Greek nouns. Let me show you at least two passages where we have those nouns separated out. Look at Acts 1. 14 And I'm going to make a point from this and then quickly move on. Acts 1, verse 14, Philippians 4, 6, 1 Timothy 2, 1 and 5, 5 are the four references. But Acts 1, 14, we have these words separated. These all continued with one accord in prayer, that's our general Greek noun for prayer, and supplications, that's a different Greek word, with the women. And you look at Philippians 4. 6, which many of you have memorized, you could probably quote this. Philippians 4:6. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. And what we have in 1 Timothy twice is the same thing. You have prayers, and that is separate from supplications. So why the separation? Probably this is an indication of prayer taking the posture of prayer or the position of prayer. By posture I don't mean necessarily lying down or raising of hands, but the position of prayer before God when you're going to talk to Him. The supplication would be the requests, asking things of him. You get ready to pray, and then you ask. You ask if you go back to Ephesians 6. You ask as you're in the midst of spiritual warfare, you're just going to continue to ask for different things. What we see then, if we were to just sort of summarize what he's saying here, there's the perseverance. Look at Ephesians 6, verse 18 again. Praying always. With all prayer and supplication. And then he says, with all perseverance, for all the saints, there's this idea of not stopping Always being in this position of prayer before God, always being ready to pray to God. Then there's the idea of being alert. That's the word watchful. You know what's going on around you. Your spirit is not deadened to spiritual things and the cause of Christ. It's inclusive. How many of the saints are we to pray for? All the saints. Verse 18, the very end. Supplication for all the saints. And then what you have is this attitude of prayer that never ceases. You're alert to the needs of all the saints, and so your supplications, if I could put it this way, would be strategic. They are not supplications based on guesses or possibilities, but they are supplications that have a certain amount of detail in them. Rather than just saying, God bless the missionaries, you're saying, Lord, please help this missionary with their physical trial that they might have strength to be strong in their context on the mission field. So we have here a prayer designed for spiritual warfare that emphasizes perseverance, alertness, that's inclusive to all the saints. And that is strategic, that has detail in it. So let's just look at these four things quickly and draw them out and apply them to our lives today. First, Let's take the idea of unceasing, praying always with perseverance. Now, when I was a child and I heard things like this preached, I really thought that I was supposed to be on my knees. all day long. And I didn't wasn't quite sure with what this meant to always be praying. This isn't the only passage in our New Testament that emphasizes this. In Romans 12, 12. Paul writes and says, to continue steadfastly in prayer. In Philippians 4, 6, we're supposed to pray in everything. And in 1 Thessalonians 5. 17, we pray without ceasing. Now what could this mean? What does it mean to be constantly in this state of prayer? Well, let me give you at least one or two illustrations. When you go from a life of being single to a life of being married, everything changes Especially for you ladies. Often you you combine names, or many of you have completely left behind your maiden name, and now you take his name What else changes? Well, you know, you go from your parents' house, both of you, the husband and the wife, to live together, to leave and cleave. Wow And so you go from being alone to being united, one flesh under one roof It's interesting in the Sudanese culture there's a great struggle there because they can't afford another roof and they can't often afford another room. So you have one hut, and the parents are on one side, and the newly married couple is on the other. That creates a lot of problems there. But there is this idea of leaving and cleaving The mindset changes as well, right? It's no longer what I want. Singular. Me, me, me. Well, I'm going to work today, and when I get home, I'm going to go play golf with my friends. Ah, that's not the way it works. Once you get married, there is this additional, what, oh, what does she want to do? Oh, what does he want to do? There's this new relationship and your whole perspective. Your whole perspective on life has changed from me to we. The Lord picks up on this in the Lord's Prayer when He says, our, our, our Father. Which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. He teaches his disciples to think in terms of all of us together. So when you make decisions as a married person, there's always this realization, this awareness that it's not just you, it's your spouse that is involved. And so you might talk to her or him about the decision. Bills that need to be paid, the to-do list for a Saturday, how to raise the children, how to respond to the grandchildren. And that is sort of what's happening here for a Christian. There's to be this realization that now God is involved in every decision that I make. And so now there's this communication between me and God, and it really never stops. We're to pray with all different kinds of prayers in all different kinds of situations. Which is the way my pastor, Pastor Mark Minich, when he looked at the Greek very carefully here, paraphrased the idea of unceasing prayer. And so when you're at the grocery store and you need God to give you wisdom, you pray. When you're discipling someone and trying to teach them about the nature of the Bible, You talk to God. There's just this open, unceasing communication, and it is a wonderful thing. What would it be like if you went a day, one day, without this kind of communication? Communication. Have you ever done that? Have you ever gotten up and you didn't talk to God? The praying without ceasing, you you turned off the tap of water, the well of water that's supposed to spring up into your life. What if you just got up and forgot about God? What if you just ran to work? What if you just tried to deal with all your relationships and the complexity of those at work? And you never asked God for anything. And by the time you got home, how would you describe your spirit? What would happen? That is what we can't have. In the middle of a battle, you may look at your friend and see that they also are having a hard time. You must pray. I think of David when his men were about to kill him. I mean, that's a pretty tense moment But he had this spirit of prayer about him. We see this spirit of prayer illustrated throughout the Psalms. He was quick to pray. And so he encouraged himself in the Lord and he took action. He knew what to do because he went to his God and he encouraged himself in his God. What is this? It's a Godward posture of the heart. It's a spiritually minded person. It's seeing life from God's perspective and talking. Talking, talking to him about it. That's what this is about. Unceasing prayer. Are you praying like that? Do you have an attitude like that? Secondly, if you go back to Ephesians, we have this idea in this prayer of watchful or being alert. This has to do with simply being sensitive to the needs of people that are around you and of the circumstances in your life. Turn to Luke 21 for an excellent cross-reference to this. Luke 21. This verse offers a contrast to watchfulness that will help us to see what it is and what it isn't. Luke 21, verses 34 to 38. I'll just read this verse, and I think you'll see what I mean when you read it. I'll give you another moment to turn. Luke twenty-one, thirty-four to thirty-eight. And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting. or or drunkenness or out of control. And drunkenness and cares of this life so that day so that I'm sorry, and so that day come upon you unawares. What's he talking about? The second coming of Christ. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. Watch ye therefore, and that's our word. And pray always that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass and to stand before the Son of Man. Here's Christ's exhortation to his followers. Watch and pray always. What is the enemy to the sensitive heart, to the alert heart? When it comes to the second coming? Well, the contrast is verse 34. A heart that is overcharged or overworn. And drunkenness could be a part of it. What does drunkenness do to a person? What does drunkenness do to a person's alertness to their surroundings? Well, you take someone like that out of their car and you put a line on the ground and you say, do you see that line? And they look at that line and you say, walk a straight path on that line. And they are not even able to perceive the length of the line, the straightness of the line. They can't even walk. A six-foot straight line. Drunkenness impedes the sensitivity of our faculties, our hearing, our seeing, our smelling, what we feel with our touch. And it can also, of course, affect how we view Christ, the church, spiritual realities We know that the inner man is fused with the outer man. Nothing happens to your outer man that does not in some way affect your inner man. They're connected. And they were never designed to be separated, by the way. If Adam and Eve had not sinned, we would not be dealing with all that we're dealing with now, and death, and the separation of the inner man from the outer man. A drunken person. Can you talk to them about a spiritual reality? Have you ever tried? I have. I have on too many occasions tried to witness to someone while they were inebriated, and I learned to stop. For the most part, it's impossible to do. That's an easy one. I don't think any of you are worried, you know, you're going to go out, you're going to get drunk, and your heart is going to be is going to lose its alertness. But there is in verse 34 the cares of this life. Now, this is one of those expressions in the New Testament that often affects our inner man, our inner person. When you are worried and anxious about whatever, pick whatever, fill in the blank, your marriage, your finances, your kids It's a distraction that distracts you away from that battlefield alertness that you should have. It happened to the apostles, right? The feeding of the 5,000. Christ does this incredible miracle. The Bible says they weren't aware of it. Their hearts were hardened, so much so that after the miracle was over, They're in a boat headed out, and Jesus says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and they're going, Oh, oh, it's about bread, bread, something about bread. It was because they were tired. If you recall previous to that, Jesus wanted to take them on a little vacation to get some rest. To go out to a desolate place, to get away from the people, and their expectations were dashed. They didn't get their rest. They were exhausted. And so they weren't sensitive to what was happening around them. And what what if I were to ask you, what is what what was the greatest moment of spiritual warfare in the New Testament? Or we could maybe we would say the top five. We might say the cross, Jesus hanging on the cross. Was that spiritual warfare? Was there something going on in the background we didn't know about? I don't know, you'd have to argue from silence. But what was that one moment in the life of Christ when immense pressure was put on him? The guard turn to the garden in Mark 14 and look at this. Mark 14. I believe this is one of the greatest moments of spiritual warfare in the New Testament. Along with Jesus, when he was tempted by the devil himself in the wilderness. Listen to what he says. Can you imagine Jesus pleading with his apostles, his disciples saying, look, pray for me. Please pray for me. Watch. Stay alert. Mark 14, verses 32 to 42 And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane. And he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here while I shall pray. And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy. And he said unto him, Can you imagine Jesus saying this to you personally? Turning to you, Peter, James, and John, saying, look, my soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death. Tarry ye here, wait right here and watch. And he went forward a little and fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, Father. All things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me. Nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt. And he cometh and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Couldst thou not watch one hour? Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. And you know what happened. They weren't able to stay awake. They were so physically exhausted. And of course, they they just didn't know. I mean the moment of the greatest pressure in the life of Jesus, and they're missing it. Evidently they didn't see the drops of blood either. Certainly there, I'm now this is just a uh Uh an educated opinion, but if they had seen the drops of blood, wouldn't they have become suddenly alert? Look, he's he's bleeding out of his head and his hands. What is this? What's happening? Jesus, what's happening? I would guess they slept through it all. And this is, folks, being alert to what's happening around us is really, really important. Let me apply this. Let me be blunt. There is a myth of the independent prayer warrior. The person who just has this prayer life and it's kind of over here and they really don't meet with other Christians. to find out what's happening. They're not really alert to what's happening in their own local assembly, but they think That it's okay to kind of be this independent prayer warrior. Alertness implies a knowledge of who in this room is struggling. Spiritually. Can you name one person that you prayed for by name in this room? Are you alert to the needs of your brothers and sisters? Do you know right now who in this room is struggling with discouragement? Or who is facing a battle with an addiction? Who's struggling with doubt about their faith? Our Wednesday night prayer service is not well attended. And if you don't ever gather with your brothers and sisters, you'll never find out, you'll never be alert to what they need. Dear brothers and sisters, it really is a myth to think you have a good prayer life if you don't know what's happening in the lives of everyone that's here. And I struggle with that too. Frankly, I have it easy. Okay? This is easy for me to preach at you this. You know why? Because my whole life is you I think about you day and night. I'm always thinking about you, and I probably worry more than I pray. Ask my wife. Sometimes I'm up at three in the morning worried about you, and my problem is I need to turn that into prayer. I have it easy because I know all of you and uh you talk to me. But it's a challenge, isn't it? It's a challenge to know one another. And that's why you should make it a priority, even if you can't come on a Wednesday night, to talk. Find out what's happening. Be alert to what's happening. Don't be an independent prayer warrior. Because that's really a myth. Try to be alert. And that brings me then to the next point because it's right there in the text. If you go back to Ephesians 6, you see that it's inclusive. Go back to Ephesians 6. Ephesians 6 says, praying always with all prayer. And you look down at the bottom of verse 18, it says, For how many of the saints? One or two or three? No, for all the saints. Now this this is a pretty inclusive. All means all. Now you say, wow, how can I possibly pray for every Christian that's on the face of the earth? Yeah, I can I feel that way too, but at least it means that you have an inclusive outlook on your prayer life. There are Christians right now, and they don't come to Faith Bible Church. They go to another church There are Christians right now in Egypt and South Sudan and Nigeria and China. There are Christians all over the face of this earth. There are Christians in Vietnam, North Korea. And we need to be alert to this and have a kingdom of God outlook, not just a local church outlook. Although we should be alert to what's happening here, we should also care about what's happening out there. I think I told you that the South Sudanese folks are planning on starving next year. The Christians. The rainy season didn't happen. They have enough food to get to next rainy season. No, I'm sorry, they don't have enough food to get to the next harvest. And so I talked personally with a man, and I'll show you his picture tonight. And he said, we're going to starve next year. And I said to him, what are you going to do? How can you avoid this? He had no answer. When we have an all-saints outlook, we're gonna look out from Jerusalem. We're gonna look out from Samaria And we're going to look out to the uttermost parts of the earth and we're going to say, what is God doing? And what should we pray for in the lives of our brothers and sisters in Christ who are everywhere? And isn't it a wonderful thing that they are everywhere? We praise God for what He's doing on the mission field. And that brings me finally quickly to this. That is that the prayers are to be specific or strategic. That is where we have our Greek noun translated prayer, but also another Greek noun that's translated supplication. Putting those together, you have the posture or the position of prayer before God, and then the requests of prayer. Prayer and supplication. Supplication for all the saints. And for me, and he gives a specific request for the Apostle Paul. Look at it. Verse 19. Here's the request for Paul that utterance May be given unto me that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. Here's an example of a specific request. Paul is an ambassador in bonds, he's in jail. He doesn't ask for prayer for him to be released. It's kind of a shock, isn't it? He doesn't ask for them to pray that the food in his prison will improve. He doesn't ask. He doesn't ask for anything material. He asks them to pray for boldness. The word boldness, it simply means to say all the words. Say everything that needs to be said when it comes to the gospel. This, now think about this. When you've taken this position of prayer, when you have this attitude of unceasing prayer where you're always willing to relate your life to God and to talk to Him about it When you're alert to the needs around you, then you are ready. You are ready in that moment of need to say, I'm going to pray right now for you. And I'm going to pray this for you or that for you. Phil in our men's work day yesterday stole one of the passages I was going to use. It's a wonderful passage, and I enjoyed reading it Saturday as well in 2 Kings 19. Turn there quickly for And we'll wrap this up. 2 Kings 19 is the story of Hezekiah facing a crucial moment in the history of his nation. Someone had come in and insulted the God of heaven, the Lord, the God of the Jews. Rebshekah had come as a mouthpiece of the evil king and said, Why are you going to trust in the God of Israel? Look at the gods of all these other nations. We were able to thump them, and we're going to thump you too. That's not in the Hebrew, that's a paraphrase. Thumping. And so Hezekiah has to take this letter and do something with it. Have you ever had bad news come into your home? Really, really bad news. I've had that happen to me, and there have been moments when I felt my heart start to pound in my chest. Because I'm facing something that's just so overwhelming that there's this moment of shock and anxiety. Certainly Hezekiah was a man. He was used to pressure. He was a king. But he had a choice to make. And he chose the right thing in 2 Kings chapter 19, verse 14. Look quickly. Someone knows it. 2 Kings 19, 14. And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messenger and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubims, Thou art the God, even thou alone, and all of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth Lord, bow down thine ear and hear, open, Lord, thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Senekarib, which hath sent him to approach the living God. Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations and their lands, and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were no gods. But the work of men's hands, wood and stone, wherefore they have been destroyed. Now, therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand. That all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. Here was a man in the midst of spiritual warfare, physical warfare, and he took. This moment of anxiety, this moment of stress, and he laid it out before the Lord and he said, Lord, this is impugning your character, your power, your might. Do something. This is a battlefield prayer, literally and figuratively. Prayer for the midst of spiritual warfare. Are your prayers real-time prayers? Or you have a buffer that's a week long Are you behind God? Do you know what's happening in your life and the lives of those around you? Do you know how to pray in the middle Of spiritual warfare. Folks, our prayers by God's grace. Let's pray together that He helps us to have persevering prayers Prayers that are alert, watchful, prayers that include all the saints, and prayers that are strategic. Let's go to Him right now and pray about this. Let's pray together and close our service.