Anyway, he he plays with joy, right? Can't you tell? Can you see in the melodies, etc. ? That's not always the case. I mean when you're first learning to play You're what? You're just focused on the notes, making sure you you know, you you you get what's there. And then uh uh afterwards you put over here three weeks ago she was here and that was great. I could tell her last night it probably wasn't going to work out well because when she tells me in advance she's not sure she's going to make it what that really means is there's an way she's gonna make it. Just wasn't feeling uh quite right and uh just uh way overtired. But it's great to be with you And well, what a delight it was three uh weeks ago for me to be able to share with you from Hebrews chapter two that actually uh I think encapsulated the message of the incarnation of Christ. And I don't expect you to remember the uh points that made one full sentence, but just in case uh you wanted to review it. Christ became man so that by dying on the cross he might defeat Satan and deliver us, and this was the great emphasis of the message, deliver us from fear of death. Uh how often we fear things. Don't we? Reconciling us to God and helping us in time of need. So the bottom line is that if we've trusted in Christ as our Savior, then we have nothing to fear. And uh and the you know often our prayer requests, and uh believe me I fully understand it, I had an exciting night last night with three Three glucose sensors in a row failing and and beeping, and it was just an exciting night. I thought, okay, well I I I need to just uh uh uh relax, rest, and change it up again. So that's what I did. I never had three in a row, so that was like a new record uh for me. But there's no need. What's the worst thing that could happen? I die. Well, I mean, your pastor wouldn't be too happy because there wouldn't be anybody to preach this morning. I mean, I hope maybe more than that, but uh at any rate, that that's the worst. And that's, you know. I'm gonna be with the Lord. What a joy that is. So I do understand prayer requests for physical needs, etc. It's kind of hard to think. It's kind of hard to serve the Lord when you're in great pain, etc. And I understand all that, but ultimately we have nothing to fear because Christ has conquered death itself. And all of that is because of what happened when Christ became man and set everything in motion. By the way, I'm really happy also. That you still have your Christmas decorations up. I was thinking we're the only house in the block that still has our our our yeah, the outside lights still on. You know there's a star right in the uh I'm you know, I mean I mean, I I think it's a kind of a good witness, but it's probably getting close to the time of taking it down. But we still got our t our tree up with its lights and all the rest. But uh it's good to know that I'm not quite alone. And and the the point is that the incarnation is so absolutely important. important that we do celebrate it uh every uh uh every uh day and we think, well, you know, w when Christ became man, that set everything in motion. But of course it was in the mind of the Lord way long before that from uh eternity past. Not that I can fully comprehend that and if people tell you that they can, well I don't know if they can. I don't think we can. as uh humans. But we have numerous Old Testament texts, especially in that wonderful book of Isaiah and the virtually almost as wonderful book of Daniel, right? Written hundreds of years before Jesus was born, that prophesy of his coming and even his death on the cross. And guess what? I haven't forgotten our slow trek through Daniel, having covered chapter 8 back in October, in which we talked about Satan's war against God. A war that's been going on ever since uh uh the uh serpent and the Garden of Eden. Uh but Satan, as I've already said, is a defeated foe. So if we're in Christ, we know that we Need not fear him. And so that brings us to Daniel chapter 9, which contains some amazing prophecies about Christ and his battle against Satan. But it's also, and I'm s well, in a sense, I'm apologizing for scripture, so I really shouldn't do that, right? But it is one of the most challenging passages of Scripture to understand. In fact, the last four verses of this chapter, the so-called seventy-sevens of Daniel 9, 24 to 27, are notoriously difficult. And by the way, they're difficult in Hebrew translating. It's I think I know Hebrew pretty well by this time. Taught it for a a whole lot of years. But it's a tough passage. To translate. J. A. Montgomery went so far as to say the history of the exegesis of the 70 weeks is the dismal swamp of Old Testament criticism. Uh but I want to re reassure you this morning that Daniel 9 is actually an incredible chapter, not only for the challenging prophecy of the seventy-sevens, but also for the prayer that precedes it. And many people just simply skip over verses 1 to 23 to get to the heart of the thing, right? In the 77s, in the last four verses. But I think that that's a big mistake. I think you and I can learn a great deal from both Daniel's prayer in the first part of the chapter. And then second from the Lord's answer in the latter portion. So that's what we're going to look at this morning. Your pastor wisely said You're gonna do that in a one whole one message? Just one message? And I said, sure. And now I'm a little Uh I think maybe he was wiser than I was. He would have made a two-parter out of it and I probably should have also, but it's too late now. So here we go. Fasten your seatbelt. Daniel gives us the setting for the chapter in verse 1. It's the first year of Darius, the son of Ahasuerus, of the lineage of the Medes. And so the first year of Darius, the meet, or 538 B. C. , about 13 years after Daniel's vision in chapter 8. We first met Darius in the last verse of Daniel chapter 5, when the last Babylonian ruler, Belshazzar, threw that huge party. Remember a great bash? And a great crash. Daniel uh read the mysterious handwriting on the wall, and Daniel then interpreted uh to mean that his kingdom would be divided up and given over to the Medes and the Persians. Daniel 5, 30 and 31 says, in the same night Belshazzar was killed, and Darius the mead received the kingdom. And we uh mentioned uh uh quite a while ago that there are all kinds of good possibilities for the identity of Darius the Mead. I think the most likely is Isia Zerah's the second, the Median king, who was given the reign of Babylon after Cyrus. Had conquered it, Babylon in 539. But more importantly, for our understanding of this chapter and Daniel's prayer is the date It's 538 B. C. Now, if you recall, Daniel was taken captive to Babylon as a very young man in 605 B. C. And uh so that's uh that's uh you know, quite a different uh uh uh uh time period. It's a long time period. You know, sometimes I think I've been around for a while. Well uh This was six fifth yeah well sixty-seven, let me get my math straight here. Sixty-seven years later, right? Math people Yes, 67 years later. And I think that's super significant. First, because it demonstrated Daniel's faithfulness to the Lord over his entire lifetime. You know, sometimes you see people that are faithful for a little while and then they go astray. Not so Daniel. And second, it's important to know because of what Daniel was reading. At the time. And that's what we want to look at as we go forward. Because Daniel's prayer was rooted in the study of God's Word. That's in verses 1 and 2. Daniel's prayer is one of the longest prayers recorded in the scripture. And that's why it's fascinating to me that all kinds of people just skip right over it as if it's unimportant. Well, you know, it's recorded in the scripture and it's long and uh I think it provides us A tremendous example of how you and I should pray today. We've already had an emphasis on prayer this morning and actually basically the main points that I am gonna say in this first part of the message have already been said by the people that have prayed and and uh read scripture before me. So it's nice to have things reinforced. And so Dale Dale Ralph Ralph Davis calls this a tutorial in prayer, and I think he's right. The first thing I see here in verse 2 is that Daniel's prayer was rooted Rooted in the study of God's Word. He didn't just start praying whatever he felt like. His prayer began with a deep study and understanding of the Word of God. The passage in question was almost certainly Jeremiah 25, verses 11 and 12, probably also Jeremiah 29, verse 10. Jeremiah 25, 11 says, it's uh as speaks of the Lord bringing about the Babylonian captivity for seventy years. It says this whole land shall be a desolation and an astonishment. These nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. years. Then it will come to pass when seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of the Chaldeans, for the their iniquity, and I will make it a perpetual desolation. So all that is very interesting here And uh i it it it shows that, I mean, this is something that's going to happen. The prophecy is seventy years of captivity So we see in verse 2 that Daniel is carefully studying the scripture. He wasn't reading it casually. It says in the first year of his reign I Daniel understood by the books the number of the years. specified it by the word of God through Jeremiah the prophet that he would accomplish 70 years in the desolation of Jerusalem. And so he's reading very, very carefully, uh, and he understands this. And uh, you know, sometimes you and I will be Reading it casually. Now it is the beginning of a new year, and I did debate for a little while. I haven't done it since I was 13 years old. And that is to read through the Bible, the entire Bible, in a year. And I thought maybe this is the year I'm going to do it But you know why I haven't done it since and why I decided again not to do it? Um not because I don't like the idea, I think it's great But sometimes if I've got like three or four chapters to read, now don't let me stop you from your Bible uh right, your Bible reading that you started, etc. And some of you have done it multiple times, praise the Lord. But here's my problem If I'm going to read something fast, what happens? I kind of skim. I can't help it. I kind of skim. If it's four chapters. uh you know, I've got only a certain amount of time in my mind, what do I do? I I skim. Now you people are more dedicated than I am, so you are gonna read verse by verse, you know, if it takes two hours, it's not a problem. I understand, but I'm just not that dedicated. So I decided, no, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna do that because I don't want to do Just be casual about reading it. You know what I'm saying? I want to really soak it in. And so, yes, you probably figure by now hearing me says, man, does he have to go through every detail of this and I'm sorry, I think I do, but maybe I don't. At any rate, um that's what that's what why I uh You know, I have problems with that Bible in a year. Now Bible in three or four years I could you know, I I've I've done that, uh but one year Whew, that's tough. But good for you, and good for you. And just don't skim it, right? Don't skim it. Uh I mean, are we just checking off a box? Or are we actually studying it? I guess that would be uh my uh question. So we should observe also in passing that uh while critical scholars often claim that biblical uh books, oh, they were only gradually regarded uh as canonical after a long period of time, right? That it you know, the the whole community had to decide and accept it. uh scripture. You hear this stuff, you read this stuff, and I think, how in the world do you know? Were you there? You know, were you a part of the committee? Or something like that? I don't know how they know what they think they know, but this verse tells us exactly the opposite. Jeremiah had died only several decades before this time. Yet Daniel regarded Jeremiah's prophecy as the word of the Lord. To me, that's pretty significant. He understood it at the time as the word of the Lord. So Daniel studied the Word of God diligently. He accepted it, and then he applied it to himself and to his situation. It wasn't a dry, academic, purely intellectual study of the scriptures. It was a vibrant study where Daniel was appropriating the scriptures. to his own situation. And his response was to jump into action. In this case, prayer. And I think this is Surely a model approach for you and for me to follow. We need to continually make sure that we are applying the word personally to ourselves. As Jesus warns us in Matthew 7, 24 to 27, at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, we need to be doers of the word, not hearers only. And James 1 22 says the same thing, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. I think it's easy. For us to say, Oh yeah, I know the word of God and I can recite this, that, and the other thing. Okay, but how is it impacting my life? How is it impacting how I'm treating my neighbor, my spouse, my children? Uh My parents, whoever. And that's really the question, isn't it? So Daniel's prayer was rooted in the study of God's Word, and ours should be as well. Do we want to pray according to God's will? We would all say that we would want to do so. Well, then we need to study his word to find out more about his will. I think it's just It's as simple as that. Well, the next verse in Daniel 9, verse 3 tells us a second thing about Daniel's prayer Daniel's prayer was preceded by an atmosphere of humble reverence towards God. Daniel's prayer was preceded by preceded by an atmosphere of humble reverence towards God. As I said, that's already been pointed out by uh some of the folks that uh have preceded me in just making announcements and Reading scripture. But in this case, this isn't one of Daniel's normal prayers. This prayer is accompanied by fasting, sackcloth, and ashes. Fasting was done in order to focus specifically on prayer. Sackcloth and ashes were traditionally done in times of grief. In Daniel's case, these actions reveal an atmosphere of humble reverence towards God. And I think we need to have that kind of attitude when we go to our Heavenly Father. And Jesus also warns, of course, against ostentatious fasting, fasting so people will notice us. Oh, I'm fasting today. You know, I couldn't possibly do this, that, or the other thing. No. Um Matthew six, sixteen to eighteen talks about uh the hypocrites who just love to be noticed because they're fasting. And I think as in everything, the heart attitude Is the key. Next we have Daniel's prayer itself. On your outline sheets, I said that Daniel's prayer begins with confession. And indeed, uh the bulk of the prayer is taken up with confession from verses four to fifteen. And uh, of course, you have A prayer of confession every Sunday service. I think that's a wonderful thing, frankly, to do that. Daniel begins Actually the the part of that confession in verse four is actually made up as uh in praise to the Lord. That's the way it starts. It's praise to the Lord. He begins by acknowledging the character of God, his greatness, his awesomeness, his faithfulness in keeping his covenant, his loving kindness, and his mercy. Where have we seen that before? If you were paying attention to Micah seven, right? Uh that's exactly where we uh which was read already this morning, that's a emphasizing the same point. Micah seven does uh Deuteronomy uh thirty-four. Um I'm sorry, Exodus. Uh well no, Deuteronomy uh does as well. At any rate Dale Ralph Davis says, even when the main burden of prayer is confession of sin and petition, this adoration is not missing. Daniel teaches us how to adore and to rejoice over God, to do so briefly but genuinely, and this is something we can do in our prayers in spite of circumstances. or feelings simply because God is who or what he is, and that doesn't change despite, as David says, the mess I may be in. End quote. I like that quote. And then from verses 5 to 15, Daniel confesses the sin of his people. And he notes in verse 5 four aspects of sin. We have sinned, we've committed iniquity, we've acted wickedly, we've rebelled, and indeed, this is what sin really is: rebellion against God And in verse 6, Daniel acknowledges that they didn't listen to God's servants, the prophets, and he confesses that all the people of the land, from kings to common people, were involved in sin. And then in verses 7 to 10, he contrasts God's righteousness with Israel's sinful shame. God is totally righteous, but is people are full of shame. And he makes it very clear that the problem's not with God, but rather with Israel. And then finally in verses 14 to 11, he speaks of the righteousness of God's present judgment. upon Israel. He doesn't argue with God. He knows that God's judgments are just. In fact, the Lord did precisely what he said he would. And notice the reference to the law of Moses in verses 11 and 13, saying that the curse has been poured out upon us in verse 11, and all this calamity has come upon us in verse 13. And it mentions as is written in the law. Well the law here I believe is a reference to uh Deuteronomy twenty-eight and the blessings and the cursings of Deuteronomy twenty-eight. And every time I look at that chapter, I I'm is struck because the blessings, you know, are about that big, right? Uh that many verses, and the curses are That many verses. Why? Because he knows, you know, the warning they should heed, and they would need to heed the warning, because uh, of course, they were gonna disobey, and that's exactly what happened. So Daniel was steeped in knowledge of the scripture. And God is faithful in what he promises, no less in judgment than in blessing. And I think we're blind if we think otherwise. Second Peter three uh uh verses one to thirteen tells us the people didn't think, oh, you know, where's the promise of his coming? The Lord's not coming back. Uh The Lord's not going to intervene in judgment. He hasn't since the beginning of creation. And uh Peter says, um, what about the flood? That was kind of an intervention. Destroyed everybody but a few people, right? Um well they conveniently forgot that. It's very interesting what our minds remember and what they uh don't. I still remember my dear mom when she left her hometown in New York and she came down to uh live in Crofton, Maryland, you know, to her this was, you know, uh I don't know what it was, but it was not the promised land. Uh and she's, oh, you know, we were backing New York, this, that, and the other. And I would have to remind her, Mom, do you remember this This this and this well she'd forgotten them. You know, all those things because she's focusing on all those things. I hope we're not uh like that And these people who are saying, well, you know, the Lord's not coming back, we can do whatever we want, they forgot about the flaw. Well, that's kind of of a big uh gap. Verse uh fifteen here is somewhat of a bridge verse, uh completing the confession portion, but also moving On to the supplication. He reminds the Lord of his past redemption, of his people out of Egypt, but then he concludes: we have sinned, we have acted wickedly. And uh perhaps you're among those. I don't think you would last in this church all that long if you are Um where the you think the whole emphasis on confession of sin isn't really appropriate for a believer today. I do remember one person, I uh often uh I would uh pray uh publicly in our church. I was asked to pray, I would pray, and as part of that prayer, I would um be confessing our sins. And uh I still remember this man that came up to me afterwards and said, Look, Christ has forgiven all of our sins, so it's wrong for us to confess them. And I have to say, I mean, he was really adamant, you know, like I had committed a horrendous sin by confessing sin. Um and uh uh well first John one nine tells us something quite different. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And John is written to believers, not to unbelievers, 1 John. So I think that's absolutely right. I think that's one of the primary marks of a believer is that we continually mourn over our sins. Uh when we see God and His holiness and His grace and we see us and our and and how we respond, uh it's it's it's essential. uh that we put things in the proper perspective. And one uh person uh writing on this said the church is the only body on earth that confesses sin. Where the confession of sin dies out, the church is no longer church. Well I'm not sure That's true, but I think the sentiment is very close to accurate. Well, then finally, in verses 16 to 19, we get around to Daniel's supplication. I don't know about you, but with my normal prayers, I probably spend most of my time in the request mode. Um Daniel didn't. Finally, he gets to his request in verse 18. But even these are based upon the character and the promises of God. He appeals in verse 18 to God's great righteousness and his mercy, not to his own righteousness. Uh and you know, you and I, and all New Testament believers, we come on the basis of Christ's righteousness, not our own. That's why we say in Christ's name. We don't We don't just sort of tack that on, you know, to make it a Christian prayer. It means it's on the basis of all that Christ and His name represents and all that He has done for me on the cross. That's the and that's the only way. That I can stand before God and make any request. Well, Daniel had already learned this lesson quite well. He also appeals in verse 18 to God's reputation. He says, his glory is on the line. Notice it says, your city, your holy mountain, your people, your name. This request is not a selfish request at all, but Daniel was concerned about the glory of the Lord himself. I can't but help but notice the absence of self in Daniel's entire prayer He aligns himself with the sins of his people, and he makes his requests not based simply on what he wants, but rather upon God's word and upon God's glory. And so that's a very, very important thing. In verse 19, Daniel prays on behalf of the city and the people called by the Lord's name himself. The prayer that seems even more intense actually as we get towards the end. He seems capable of uttering only short phrases He says, O Lord, hear. Oh Lord, forgive. Oh Lord, listen and act. Do not delay. Why should God answer Daniel's prayer? Well, verse 19 continues, For your sake, my God, for your city and your people are called by your name. Daniel humbly and passionately makes his request before the Lord. It's a truly and amazing prayer in every respect. And uh I have to say, when I compare my prayers to Daniel's prayers, well, you know, I'm sure some of you do a lot better than I do, but I fall far short in this area Okay, now we have the Lord's response to Daniel's prayer in the final eight verses of this chapter. And his answer is even more amazing. Than Daniel's prayer. First of all, in verses 20 to 23, Gabriel visits Daniel to deliver the answer to his prayer. Gabriel visits Daniel to deliver the answer to his prayer. And he gives a personal reply to his prayer. Not only that, but verses 20 and 21 indicate that Daniel, and I love this part, don't miss it, he was still praying fervently when Gabriel interrupted him. I mean, he's going great guns. I don't know how long he would appray. Um, but it's pretty amazing. And uh I I don't know about you But again, I doubt that any of my prayers went so long that a person, or an angel for that matter, needed to interrupt me before I was done. But that's what we've got here. And just as we saw in chapter 8, which was 13 years earlier, the angel Gabriel here appears to Daniel in the form of a man to help him to understand. Now I've got a little translation issue here, and it's not essential to our understanding of the text. So if you don't agree with me, that's okay. We can, you know, we can still have fellowship together. It's just a little matter, but uh the New King James, the ESV, and the NIV, you don't usually put those three versions together, uh, and most other versions translate part of verse 21. to indicate that Gabriel was caused to fly swiftly. Okay, that's what it says. But there are actually two Two very similar Hebrew verbs, and I think the word that's used here actually indicates that Daniel was extremely weak. as the Nasvi and the uh Christian Standard Bible have it. I know that's not the normal translation, but I think it's the correct one. And you know, I can at least okay, can I I say this uh humbly, but I mean I have parsed every single verb in the Old Testament. I know my verbs pretty well, and let me say some of them are tough because you can't tell the exact root. These two are virtually in essence homonyms. Anyway, regardless, I think that's what's uh that's what it's talking about uh there. Daniel was very, very weak. Regardless, I want you to see something else about verse 21 that I had actually never seen before before studying for this message. And you're gonna say, How come you miss it? Well, because you gotta keep studying, folks. If you think you've arrived, well I'm sure I'm nowhere near arriving at a total understanding of Scripture. And I've been doing it for a while, and some of you have been doing it for longer than I have. And uh hopefully I don't think you've arrived either. Well, here's what I found out, and you're gonna say, well, of course. Daniel, you should have known. I knew that the first time I read it. Well, Daniel had been a captive in Babylon nearly all his life, right? For 67 years. And yet he was still keeping time by the sacrifices in Jerusalem that no longer existed. I never even thought about that. But that's, you know, that's what he's doing. He he's talking about uh uh uh confessing his sin, etc. , and all of that. And uh he is, it all has to do with the sacrifice. And so he is keeping time by those sacrifices. I love what Davis says here. He says that time indicator is packed with years of yearning and longing and affection for Yahweh's ordinances. Sometimes what may seem incidental reveals a soul searching after God. And so that is the amazing thing when you read And you get uh all of that from the end of verse uh uh twenty-one where it says, Reach me about the time of the evening sacrifice. See that He's still counting by temple time. Temple's long gone. Sixty-seven years ago. You see what I'm saying? He hasn't forgotten. So that's very interesting. Then in verses 22 and 23, Gabriel explains that um the purpose for his visit and and basically Gabriel was sent uh at the beginning of Daniel's prayer it says to help him to understand the Lord's reply which would be given in verse Verses 24 to 27. But there's one key phrase in verse 23, which is amazing. Gabriel says, For you are greatly beloved. The word literally means you are a precious treasure. Isn't that fantastic? Daniel was precious to God It wasn't simply Daniel's prayer. It was his character, which had been tested over his entire lifetime. As James 5. 16 says, the effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. Daniel was indeed a righteous man. And I think this was really hit the key to his prayer life as well as everything else which he did. That leads me to one. Well, what will my legacy be in the eyes of the Lord? What will your legacy be? That should be one of our, frankly, as believers, one of our most important questions Daniel was precious to the Lord. There can't be any greater legacy than that. You don't need a whole bunch of plaques. I don't really like it. I better be careful here. But you know, people that have like on the walls they've got their all their degrees and all their plaques and all their honors. I remember my seminary office, if you could find any room room for a picture, which was hard because I had so many books. I those pictures went down. And uh, you know, sorry. There's a few family pictures still on the desk, but that was it. I couldn't spare the wall space. But you know, uh you go other ones and they've got all their, you know, this and that and the other thing, and I think, I don't need that, but I want the Lord's approval. Right? I want the Lord's approval. And that's the greatest legacy. Okay. I don't know what time it is. I'm sorry. But here we go. And I this is hilarious. I did forget my clock, but that it it I I don't really pay too much attention to it anyway, so my apologies But here we go. We're now going to try to briefly summarize the essence of Gabriel's message of the 77s in verses 24 to 27. And this is usually the only part of the chapter that people talk about, and it's a very important part, but how can you miss those first twenty-three verses? The two sections are closely relate r related. Daniel received This amazing prophecy because of his fervent prayer and his godly character that's backed it up all his life on display throughout the book, but highlighted even further here. And now this is where I realized, okay, far too many details in this passage to cover adequately. in a sermon, even if I had taken your pastor's suggestion, which I probably should have, and just divided into two. Nope. Didn't do that. So uh that's why I prepared a detailed handout. Right? Yeah, that uh I like putting it on page. I'm uh one page. I'm very frugal. Yes, I'm I'm very frugal. I don't like like three, four, five pages. I like to try to get into one, but you may n need a magnifying glass to read And I apologize for that. Um I don't know that I could read it all that well without a magnifying glass. But uh so some of you uh can uh you know glance at it and then throw away, but hopefully Those who are interested can review it carefully at their leisure, and you can always email me with, and there's the email address there. uh if you've got uh questions after that. But please remember that we need to approach the interpretation of this passage In particular, really any passage of Scripture with awe and humility. Right? When pastors and Bible scholars of every persuasion say that this This is the most difficult passage in the entire Old Testament to understand. It's just possible, and the interpretations differ so wild widely. It's just possible that ours might not be the correct interpretation, right? But I would also maintain that while some of the details may not be crystal, Clear. The basic message of these four verses is clear. And the most fundamental issue in interpretation is whether this is a messianic prophecy fulfilled by Jesus Christ. That's the most fundamental issue And that was the near unanimous position of the early church fathers, and with that position, I would heartily agree. I would also say that the basic message is this. In accordance with the rest of the prophecies in the book, the message was that God was ultimately in control. He would accomplish victory over the Antichrist through the Messiah. One day Jerusalem would be restored and there'd be everlasting righteousness, but first much trouble was Was in store for the nation Israel. And that is the basic message of the book, regardless of your interpretation. But we'll look briefly at each verse. First of all, in verse 24, it gives us the duration and purpose of the entire period. It outlines the duration and purpose of the entire period in order for Israel, the sinful nation, which had been in captivity to Babylon for 70 years. to acco achieve the purposes which God intended from the beginning. The Lord then determined this new seventy times seventh uh or 490 year period, uh 490 year years was actually the length of Israel's violation of the sabbatical year. You can look at my handout for detail. So this 490-year period was determined for Israel and the holy city Jerusalem, both of which were the subjects of Daniel's prayer. Gabriel then lists six things that will be accomplished by the end of that time, all listed in verse 24 The first two to deal with a restraining of sin, uh, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins. I think it's likely referring to Satan and his emissary, the Antichrist's work on the earth finally coming to an end at the return of Christ when he ushers in the millennium. The next two things mentioned, make uh reconciliation for iniquity and bring in everlasting righteousness. Both refer to the work of the Messiah and his atoning work on the cross that would culminate in the righteous reign of the Messiah in the millennium. So that's what I think is going on there. The final two items listed to seal up prophecy and vision and to anoint a most holy place, both pertain to the establishment of kingdom worship. Since the establishment of the kingdom brings the prophecy to completion, There's no need for further revelation, and true worship would finally happen once again in the rebuilt Jerusalem temple in the millennium. So verse 24 explains that the scope of the prophecy is indeed vast, ranging from Daniel's time all the way to the establishment of Christ's millennial kingdom. Verse 25 then details what will happen in the first 69 sevenths until Messiah comes. The beginning of the period was the command to restore and build Jerusalem, probably referring to Artaxerxes' decree given to Nehemiah in 444 B. C. as recorded in Nehemiah II. There would be a total of seven sevens or forty-nine years, during which time the street and the wall would be rebuilt. or a total of 483 years until the coming of, notice, Messiah the Prince. There he is, Messiah the Prince. And even liberal scholars, critical scholars, say, yeah, that's a reference to the Messiah. They try to say he's nowhere in the Old Testament. Of course. We see him pretty much everywhere in the Old Testament, but they try to deny it. But it's hard to deny it when it says Messiah. You know, it's kinda hard to to deny it. And and and of course this is where the prophecy gets absolutely fascinating but also complicated. So my handout will help you out with the details and I'm just going to sort of give you the The conclusions, assuming a 360-day lunar year, working out the dates, Harold Honor gives us the precise end of those 483 years. to be March 30th, A. D. 33, which is the date of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem, just a few days before his crucifixion Now that is pretty amazing, and there are a bunch of assumptions here, so we can't be a hundred percent certain, but at the least this prophecy points us, uh given Given to Daniel, right, in the 500s, it points to the time of Christ's first advent. And this is a prophecy made over 500 years earlier. And if Honor's calculations are correct, it may in fact point to the very day of Christ's triumphal entry into Christ. Verse 26 then explains what will happen after the end of the 69th seven. Messiah would be cut off, that is, crucified, and uh Jerusalem and the temple. would be destroyed. And of course that's what is prophesied as well. Notice the text doesn't say in the 70th seven Messiah will be cut off. Rather, it says, after the 62 sevens, and remember in verse 25, there are two periods, the seven sevens, and then the sixty-two sevens. So the cumulative total here is 69 sevens or 483 years. So this implies a gap between the 69th and the 70th seventh. A gap which has lasted, I would say, for nearly 2,000 years. Wow, we're right up close to it. Aren't we? Two thousand years, A D thirty three. Well anyway, um I'm just thinking about that, you know. I've been teaching the book of Daniel and this prophecy since you know, mid seventies and uh now we're right uh up to it. So when we get to uh twenty thirty three, which is not seven years from now, not that far away, um, we'll be talking about an exact two thousand years. Well, that just, you know, that's I don't know. It just got me. All right. Well the the expression here, and have nothing, uh, which literally in Hebrew says, and not for him Himself may signify that the Messiah will die without any earthly glory. He wouldn't be recognized as king at that point But only later. The second part of verse 26, the people of the prince who is coming shall destroy the city in the sanctuary, may be talking about the destruction of Jerusalem. Jerusalem by the Romans under Titus in A. D. 70, but the end didn't happen with the flood. And the Prince Who is coming almost certainly refers to the Antichrist. And so it may be that this phrase is talking about the final assault upon Jerusalem in the tribulation period, which is mentioned in Zechariah 13, 8 to Zechariah 14. And also in Revelation 11, 2. By the way, the NIV is highly interpretive here, saying the end shall come like a flood. But the Hebrew says its end will be with a flood, not like a flood. And this is my big problem with the NIV, which I'm Unfortunately our church has sort of adopted. Um I don't particularly care for that, but you know, there are more important things to fight over than translations but what the NIB tries to do often is smooth out potential difficulties. That's what makes it so easy to read. They're going to smooth it out. But sometimes it sacrifices accuracy in the process. And this In this case, it's not like a flood. There's a there's a there's a cough that says like this isn't like a flood, it's with a flood. So Anyway, sorry for that little bit. We're we're right at the end, don't worry. We're we're really, really close now. So if you've hung on this long, praise the Lord, it's almost over. Your your own personal tribulation of going through this whole passage. But I really do hope that some of you will study this in its detail and look at the handout where I bring it out all the other points. And so that brings us to verse 27, which describes in detail that final seven, which we know from parallel scriptures in Daniel, Matthew, and Revelation. And by the way, I am teaching. In the Miles Bible class beginning in February. I'm teaching verse by verse through Revelation. We've only gone through chapters one to three, so if anyone wants to join, just email me. I'd be happy to put you on the Zoom list for that. Anyway, parallel scriptures in Daniel, Matthew, and Revelation, that refers to that final seven-year period. called the tribulation uh right before uh christ's glorious return. The antecedent of the he in verse 27 is the prince whose coming, that is the Antichrist. He will make a covenant for one seven-year period, but in the middle of that period, after three and a half years, he will break it. The remaining portion of that time is called inscription. The Great Tribulation by Jesus in Matthew 24, verses 15 to 21. The Antichrist will cause sacrifices and offerings to sea in the rebuilt temple, and in their place he will commit a blasphemous act, the so-called abomination of desolation, that was also mentioned in Daniel 813 and is in Daniel 1131 and Daniel 12, 11 as well. And that's what Jesus refers to in Matthew 24, 15, and most likely what Paul is referring to in 2 Thessalonians 2. But the Antichrist's horrific rule will only last three and a half years until, as the end of verse 27 says, a predetermined destruction is poured out upon him. Undoubtedly that will happen at Christ's glorious second coming. And we see that in Revelation 19, verses 19 to 17. 21, when the Antichrist is going to be cast into the lake of fire. Once all of that is accomplished, then the glorious results for Israel outlined in verse 24. Will in fact come to fruition. But oh my, for Daniel's people, Israel, there'd be a difficult path ahead prior to that final rest. So let me close with some key takeaways from this incredible chapter. And yes, Pastor Cho, you are were right. Should have taken two weeks. Okay. But we did it now. You can say I suffered through all of Daniel 9, not just 24 to 27, but 1 to 27. Okay, but four key takeaways, so I don't want you to miss these things, because again, we're not just talking about head knowledge here, we're talking about application. And that is the first point. Make sure you're studying the scripture diligently and applying it to your life. That's what Daniel was doing when he was reading Jeremiah's prophecy. Yes, diligent study of the scripture should challenge our minds, but it also needs to challenge and move our hearts. If it doesn't, then it's not doing you any good. For sure that's what we see Remember in James, he says, the demons believe and they what? They tremble. They know the facts. They just don't accept and they don't trust. It doesn't change their lives. That's the key. And that's what we see happening in Daniel in Daniel 9 2. And I think that's what needs to happen with us every time we open the script. Second, make sure that you prioritize prayer as a vital component of your Christian life. It's not optional. All we need to do, and for me to get humbled, is to study Jesus' prayer life in the Gospels. And here's the thing. Jesus was the Son of God. Why would he need to pray so much? Right? I mean he's the son of God, but he did. And it's vital for us as well. He needed to be vital And like Daniel, we need to base our prayers on the promises that God's already given us in his word. As we look at Daniel's prayer life throughout the book of Daniel, we see He was faithful in his prayer life in all seasons of life. When he was young, when he was old, in times of crisis, and in times of relative peace. And like Daniel, you and I need to be faithful to the Lord in our prayer life in whatever stage of life we find ourselves in. And third, realize that our God is abundantly merciful and gracious, far beyond what we deserve. I've often said that if I were the Lord, you've probably heard me say it, I wouldn't have given Israel chance after chance, right? I mean, after the golden calf incident, I would have said, forget it! I'm choosing somebody else. I'm just telling you, that's what I would have done. I mean I I I can't see it any other way. I mean I wanna be uh you know, I wanna be the way the Lord is But I'm saying, how why would I give you another chance? He gives Israel chance after chance and he doesn't give up on them because of disobedience. What does that tell me? Well he doesn't give up give up on us either. You know, there's some people that think, oh, I can't possibly, you know, be accepted by the Lord because of all that I have done. Oh really? You did more than what Israel was doing in the golden calf, worshiping foreign gods. You did all that? Um so he doesn't give up on them Yes, they are subject to his discipline, and God's mercy and his grace is not unlimited towards those who are disobedient, but you and I should We should never think that we have done so many wrong things that God would never accept us. Because Paul says in Romans 5:8, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And finally understand that God has a glorious plan and timetable for the future, and the heart at the heart of that plan is the work of our Savior, who died on the cross, was raised again so that you and I might have eternal life. And And also Christ is coming again to accomplish that final victory over Satan and his emissaries. Satan and the forces of evil may temporarily have the upper hand. Boy, when you read the news all the time, it feels like he's winning, doesn't it? Does to me, but he's a defeated foe. And when Christ returns, our Lord will vanquish Satan once and for all. Peace and righteousness will once again flourish when the Prince of Peace Is on the throne. So as we begin a new year, let's resolve to be people who study God's Word diligently, applying it to our hearts and lives Who pray fervently according to God's will, who rejoice in God's mercy, and we ourselves extend it to those around us, and who set our sights not on this world. Which is passing away, but on the glorious things that God's going to do in the future when Christ comes again and he's on the throne. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this amazing prophecy, Lord, for this amazing chapter and Daniel's incredible prayer. I pray, Father, that you would help us to have the humility of Daniel, Lord, in every way, and not approach you as if we deserve it. Anything because we don't. We're sinners just as Daniel was and just as his people were. But Father, I thank you that we can come to you on the basis of what Christ has done for us. Help us, Lord, not simply to be those who uh applaud who study the scriptures. And diligently study it, that's great. But help us, Lord, to apply it each day to our lives and our actions, that we would be more like Christ in every And thank you, Lord, also, for the s uh the hope, but the soon the knowledge that Christ is going to return, that this world is not all that there is, that our kingdom and our citizens. Is in heaven. Help us to remember these things each day, every part of each day. And help us, Lord, to be more patient with those around us. Because we can be a reflection of the light that Christ has given to us. We pray this in his precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.