Well, good morning. It's good to be with you. I think this was the location for my first ever sermon many years ago, uh, and it was on the face of Noah. And I look back at that sermon a little while ago and I'm thinking, that was a terrible sermon. But uh uh I'm so glad to be back with you all. I grew up here and you all know my parents, many of you. And um and uh and uh exciting to be able to be with you this week, um teaming up with our our church down in Blue Ridge, Virginia, Colonial Baptist Church. Um we've been I've been a member there for several years, but uh the youth and music pastor for for about a year and a half. And so it is great to be able to serve in different states and different places. And I'm happy to be here this morning. We will be in the book of Colossians, chapter 4, as we consider this idea of what it means for God to open up doors for us. as it is told in Colossians 4. What does that door opening imagery mean? And so let's I want to share an illustration as we uh as we begin that points us to this. Important idea in Colossians 4. Earlier this year, actually part of last fall, my wife and I were looking for a house to buy. Now, for those of you all that are knowledgeable at all about the housing market today, it is crazy. It is insane. And you know, with low interest rates and there's like no houses at all available, that means anyone that pops up is just surrounded by as if vultures were coming after you know some meat or something like that. And everybody and and so the the market is just crazy. The prices have skyrocketed. We were praying for God to provide a house for us. We would even offer above listed price you know listed offerings by thousands and got beat out several times. And uh it was uh certainly challenging. Finally, we came to this house that was right across the road from where our church is, which is a pretty ideal location for being able to live that close to where you work and where you serve. And it's everything that we could won, and then some more, and we made our highest offer possible, but we got outbid by six thousand dollars. Yet the seller accepted our offer. And there's a lot to that. There's a longer story to that, but suffice it to say that God worked out those details to literally open the door. to a new house for us. I mean there was we couldn't just go in there and storm down the house and say this is ours, take it over by force. That doesn't happen in Bottas County, Virginia. And uh and so uh we could not that that wasn't part of our capabilities, but God worked this detail out um for for certainly for something that we are extremely grateful for. But just as we think about that open door, if you will, the Bible uses this phrase of an open door when it comes to opportunities to share the gospel with others. So just like in our house search, we can't just use human effort alone in order to accomplish this task. God is the one who opens those doors for us. And at the same time, we do have individual responsibilities as well. So we look into Colossians chapter 4, we understand, we will understand These uh four biblical principles for us to follow so that we can take advantage of each opportunity that we have. for the gospel that God uh for for sharing the gospel that God would give us. So there's four ways we ought to be taking advantage of that. First it is through prayerfully preaching, and we see that there's three other concepts as well. So as we as we understand, as we seek to open up God's word, let me just open up in prayer as we ask for God's blessing in this time. Father, thank you for this morning. Thank you for your word. We are grateful for the opportunities of open doors for the gospel that you've given each one of us already in our lives. Some of us have perhaps had open doors for the gospel this past week, certainly seeds being planted as well. And we pray for this upcoming week starting today, starting right now, that we can take opportunities. to share your word, that others can see the the beauty of the gospel, that they would behold the wondrous mystery as we were singing about earlier, and that they can respond in being obedient to the gospel, being able to declare Jesus thank you. And so we thank you for this time, and we pray that you bless it in Jesus' name. Amen. So we're in Colossians chapter 4. The book of Colossians. is really all about the supremacy of Christ in all things. Christ is all and in all. Christ is glorious. We see some different things that the people of Colossae were combating. Some false doctrines that Paul here, the apostle, is warning about. We see that the strength that we find in Christ in our lives as well applies to our individual lives in chapter 3. into our Christian living. It applies to different family and other types of relationships as well in the end of chapter three into the first part of four. So we get into this, if you will, I would say is the beginning of the end of the book. as it concludes and we see chapters four or chapter four verses two through six. Now we'll I'll read through these verses and then we'll go through this Piece by piece. Colossians 4, 2 says this. Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving. Meanwhile, praying also. For us, that God would open to us a door for the Word to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time, and let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how. That you may know how you ought to answer each one. So we begin in the first section here. In Colossians 4, verses 2 and 3, we see how we ought to be prayerfully preaching. Now the term preaching not just in the pastoral setting, but the idea of proclaiming of of sharing, of speaking out the gospel. So the first part of that whole process, though, actually begins with prayer, and it continues in prayer, and it ends with prayer. Paul says, continue earnestly in prayer, to be constantly devoted to prayer. This is something that consumes you. It really exudes from you, being vigilant in it here, Paul says next. Being vigilant. Paul is saying for those in Colossae to stay alert, to be on the ready. It's like a soldier who's Consistently on watch for enemy fire. But the key point here is that your alertness really isn't about human interaction. It's not about you're going into a maybe a suspicious part of town or something like that where you're concerned about your physical surroundings. That's not really the the idea of staying alert here necessarily in the physical sense. Of course it is referring to spiritual uh warfare, the spiritual sense here of being uh attentive to your obligations as a Christian. When Jesus himself was speaking to his disciples in Mark chapter 14, verses thir verse 38, he said to them, Watch And pray lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. That word for watch in Mark chapter 14 is that same word for here, for staying alert, being on guard. So both things are necessary to watch, to be on guard spiritually in your life, but and pray is also necessary So if we're if we're constantly watching for the needs of others, but if we're not really praying for God's strength, for God to work through us, really then we're setting ourselves up for failure. In our flesh, we might be able to accomplish a ministry task. We might be able to put together some kind of VBS. You might be able to put together some kind of Sunday service or Sunday sermon, or you might be able to put together a children's ministry or any other kind of ministry. In the flesh, if God were even to be gracious enough to allow us to do that. But if it's just in our flesh, and if we're not continuing in prayer, if we're not being vigilant in prayer, then we're trusting in a misplaced Source. John 15 says Jesus says in John 15, apart from me you can do nothing. So, as we think about this, I want us to take a moment to really consider our own lives this week. So if you whether it's our our team members here from Virginia, from our church in Virginia, from you all from Faith Bible as well. What are you relying upon this week for the community week, the Faith Bible's community week to be a success? What are you relying on? Maybe you're just going to wing it. No big deal. Let's just see what happens. He said all said all? Right? Well we'll just go with whatever go with the flow. Is that really a biblical way to go forward in the Christian life? I don't believe that is that is continuing earnestly in prayer. That's not really vigilance. Imagine, for example, a soldier goes to his commander and says, Well, boss, we'll just see what happens. Now I don't think that's going to fly well. We'll just let's just go out there and hope the enemy doesn't defeat us. That's not going to happen the military. There's no plan, there's no strategy, that's a deadly plan, isn't it? Why is that not considered a deadly plan spiritually? If we're not prepared, if we're not spiritually prepared, praying vigilantly, praying earnestly And so, as we have this week before us in the midst of spiritual warfare, let's not be like the unready soldier, but let's prepare Prepared for our mission for this week, for coming weeks as well, for any week that we have. Watch and pray. But verse 2 continues, Paul says, watch and pray. Or rather, in that concept here of continuing earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it, and it says here, with thanksgiving. So our our alertness here Our alert prayers aren't just out, you know, of being a stoic, you know, of just having this dutiful feelings, uh of these duly uh this feeling of Doing your duty. Rather, it's it's more than that, that God has blessed us with this unimaginable spiritual blessings, salvation, giving us his word, giving us this Holy Spirit. Where to pray with thanksgiving or with gratefulness. There's a theologian, D. A. Carson, he notes that this kind of prayer imparts spiritual freshness to our prayer life. It's not that we're praying for God to help us this with this week because we're just simply obligated to. Although, as Christians, that's part of our Christian life. We are certainly that's a reasonable service, but it's even above that. We ought to pray with thanksgiving because of what He's already done for us and what He's already promised for us in the future as well. And those prayers, Paul, requests that as These people in Colossi are praying. He's asking them that they would be made for these gospel proclamation purposes. What does he say here? He says, meanwhile praying for also for us that God would open to us. Uh oh open us uh to us a door for the word. Opening up a door for the word. That's a very clear image, obviously, of this opening, this uh and closing, this access or being denied. Over in 1 Corinthians 16, 9, Paul actually spoke of an open door for ministry there. The reality is that God is sovereign. We don't open the doors for the gospel. He does. And so even if you know we're we're desperately dependent upon God. To even be part of God's mission. God is the one who opens a door for the gospel. But as I'm sure many of you know, that God is faithful to equip us, to send us, to open these doors. for the ministry, if we can be submissive to his will. He's not desiring that any should perish, 2 Peter 3. 9 says. There's an Irish theologian named Richard Trench who once said this prayer is not overcoming God's reluctance. It's laying hold of his willingness, right? We're not fighting with God over our prayer requests. We're participating in his mission. God desires people to come to know him. And so it's not that we're like really trying to lay hold of God and trying to please come help us with this. No, no. God is desiring. This is his mission. Jesus has sent us forth in this mission. And so we also follow him with thanksgiving. So once these doors are open for the gospel witness, Paul says here we're to speak the mystery of Christ. Now, this mystery of Christ, um, it could translate it as like a mystery that belongs to Christ. It could be the mystery about Christ. I think Colossians chapter 1 is very helpful. I'm going to turn back there briefly to Colossians chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. Colossians 1, 26 and 27 states this. The mystery Which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now has been revealed to his saints, to them, God will to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. This powerful mystery of the things uh of what God has done. Now, you know, a mystery in Scripture I isn't so much like the you know, the great cartoon of, you know, the Scooby Doo and Shaggy and the Mystery Mobile. They're trying to solve the mystery, right? They're trying to find things that are hard to locate or whatever the case might be. It's it's it's not quite that. I think it's more of like a sage And there's a curtain in front of the stage, but behind this curtain there is something glorious. And this mystery has been revealed, it's been opened up. We see we behold the glory of Christ and what he who he is, what he's done for us. One of the great parts of that in Colossians chapter 1 says that Christ is in you, not just in the and it was even for the Jews and the Gentiles. And so this mystery is this really this unveiling of the plan of God comes to what Christ is who Christ is, what he's done for us. You know, the good news about Jesus, his death, his burial, his resurrection that can That is powerful enough to cover our sins, to make us right with God. Ephesians 3. 17 even says that Christ makes a home in our hearts. This concept that Christ is in us and this a life-changing message, if you really think through it, it's so vital that to get out that Paul is even willing to go to prison for it. He says he's in chains. So we should be prayerfully preaching. We should be prair-prayerfully proclaiming the Word of God. Um so this week, prayer is absolutely vital. If we're just going to go and wing it like a soldier who's not prepared. Who's not ready spiritually? We're in a failing task. We're in a spiritually dangerous mission. We must have a plan, and that plan is to be prayerfully preaching. The second part here is also to be to be properly speaking. Chapter 4 again into verse 4. Which says this. Paul says that I may make it manifest, this mystery of Christ, as I ought to So why does Paul want his audience to pray for him? So he so he can communicate the mystery of Christ, the message of the gospel. He wants this mystery to become known to others. There are wrong ways in communicating the gospel, actually. One way would be to distort the gospel. Perhaps you could attach Some legalism to it. That's a way to distort the gospel. Extra requirements. Many did that in Paul's day. We read through the book of Galatians. That's a huge part of that. But that's a wrong way to communicate the gospel. Maybe a more contemporary problem we see quite often is being vague in your communication of the gospel. For example, the gospel is not simply that God exists. That's important. You need to have a God who exists. You have the gospel. But the gospel, the good news to others isn't that there is a God there. Now that you need to have that that stated, but it's more than that. Um you know I'm not trying to be extremely critical of this movie that came out called God's Not Dead, but in that movie, um I think it was probably more helpful to Christians than non-Christians because as it was going through this whole movie, if you've seen that, it's refuting atheism, which is kind of a big deal to talk about for sure. But as you go through the movie, the clincher is, you know, is that this uh atheist professor finally realizes that God exists. And I won't spoil what happens after that, but uh something happens to him, and But it through the through the message of that, it's never really communicated what's the distinctiveness about Christianity. What's the distinctiveness about Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection? I'm not I'm not trying to say that the movies are trying to replace evangelism. But I'm just saying, in that in that, we we don't really see the connection on why the this former Muslim becomes a Christian, why this person from An atheist from China becomes a Christian. Because it's just explaining that God exists. The gospel is more than that. The gospel is that not just that he exists, not just that God is there, but that God has done something for us. And it's the message of what Jesus has done here. The gospel is the good news that God, who exists, sent his son Jesus to this world. He lived this perfect life. He fulfilled the law of God. He was taken by men. He was crucified on a cross. He bled and died specifically for our sins. He absorbed the wrath of God that was due to us. But he also rose again and he proved that he was the victor over sin, over death. He's coming back one day. This is the this is the message of the New Testament in a in in miniature. Now you don't have to use those exact words that I did right there, but they should be synonymous. It's this idea pointing to the cross, pointing to the resurrection of Jesus. And in that message that is applied to us looking back to the cross, looking forward to a second coming, is that we can be saved. We can be saved from our sin. That we can be made right with God. So as we look forward to the community we We certainly want to pray for one another to communicate the gospel properly and clearly. We certainly want to be energetic at our children's ministry outreach. Um is the financial one going to be energetic too, I'm assuming. But certainly the we the we want the children's ministry to be energetic um and and to be an incr and be an encouragement to them and speak gospel truth to them in a powerful way. But the most important thing is to communicate the gospel clearly, full clarity. That's what we want to push towards. And so that kids and adults likewise can hear the saving message. of Christ and what he's done for us. So in addition to that, we should be, as we see in verse number five, productively living. So let me read first five. It says this. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside redeeming Really, this should be a key verse for us as we have a as we seek to live a godly testimony in front of the, if you will, the unsaved unbelievers. Our walk That's our behavior. That's what we do every day. That's how we conduct our lives. It says here that we should be walking wisely. Now, and it really emphasizes to those that are outside in particular. Those who are not believers in Jesus. Now, how to walk wisely? That's the question. Well, the book of Proverbs teaches us that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. So we get our wisdom from God Himself through having a proper knowledge of who he is and his word. Notably, though, there is a, I think there is a difference on how we interact with believers and how we interact with unbelievers. In terms of accountability. For example, in 1 Corinthians 5, 12 and 13, Paul asks, What business is it of mine to judge the outsiders? After all, he says that God will judge those that are outside, the unbelievers. Conversely, we as Christians, we hold one another accountable because we have a higher standard that we have to hold to. We are the ones that are consider we we have the testimonies that we um uh of being saved by grace through faith in Christ. And we have a lost and dying world that needs to see a true reflection of who Jesus is. And so how do we uh how how do we um how do we conduct ourselves before the unsaved? We walk wisely, it says. Now, certainly wisely before believers as well, but he's talking about unbelievers in this context. You know, there's there's a church out in the Midwest, this is a more of an extreme example of the opposite of this. called Westboro Baptist Church. And they have a website, and I'm not going to say the whole name because it's really, really offensive, but it in their website it refers to God hate. And the third word there is a pejorative term for somebody who's a homosexual. And that, I mean, think about that. That is who you're known as. That is not walking wisely. You know, th yes, the Bible is very clear on the teaching of homosexuality being outside of God's will, but our approach towards unbelievers Shouldn't be speaking of words of death to them, but how you can receive words of life. And certainly we should speak those words of the gospel to them. We shouldn't be surprised then when unbelievers act like unbelievers. Now, if a believer claims Christ and is living in this way, that's where the accountability comes in. That's where Paul says in that context of 1 Corinthians that you should hold those two accounts. But to the lost and dying world, they don't need just to be given a better morality. They need to give be given salvation. And that's what Paul, I think, is calling for us here to do today as well. We should be walking wisely in front of them. That's an extreme example with West Road Baptists. Now, it can apply to our daily decisions here as well. For example, when I was um detailing some some do's and don'ts um uh for this week for our for our team. Um our uh secretary back in Virginia put together help us put together some of these servants, uh servant leaders' guides on how to uh uh just kind of what to expect throughout the week. There's a lot of material in there, a lot of scheduling, a lot of things like that. One of the things in there though that I reminded them then is about about how to dress. Now I'm not trying to say that I'm great in modern attire, but the idea is as w is I was encouraging them to not put have any kind of clothing that would be purposely offensive Purposely political. Now why? Because I don't want them to have an additional stumbling block for the gospel's sake. That's why I encourage please I mean when you go back home and your convictions you can figure it out. But for this week, let's not have any extra roadblocks to the gospel. It's already enough of a chasm to bridge as is. Let's not put up unnecessary barriers. Now How that might play out in your life each and every day might be different. It might not be a shirt. It might be something else in your life. It might be your talk. Might be the way that you work and your work ethic, might be the way that you speak of other people. But shouldn't this be true of us all the time, that we should walk in wisdom towards those that are outside? And that's how I think we can see we can have, if you will, productive living. But the verse uh number five continues here. At the end of verse five, Paul says, Redeeming the time. Now redeem is a it's a commercial term. It's this idea of buying up. Some would maybe translate this as making the most use of your time. So you could imagine there's this empty lot of land that you just inherited, and uh you could just stand by there forever and just let it be. There it is, there's the lot. Or you could build something there, make it more valuable. I've actually said to our students before that there's a resource more valuable than money. Even the wealthiest people in all the world have a limited resource in this. And it's time. So with our time as Christians, um Many of us don't make the use of our time to try to speak gospel truth into the lives of others. We're like that empty lot where it's just there. It's not really we're not making it more valuable than it is. We're just stagnating, perhaps. But with this precious time that we're given, especially this next week together, we need to make the most use of our time. Let's redeem the time. Let's buy this time up and use it for for the sake of the gospel. And the fourth point here is that we should be power powerfully Verse 6 says this, let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. One of the most important parts of walking in wisdom in front of unbelievers would be our speech. That's what they hear from us. That's what we're communicating to them. Not just bodily communication, but verbal communication, perhaps even more so. We're to use our speech with grace. Now it says here, not just sometimes it's always with grace. Christians really not often to be thought of as harsh and and angry people. We should be demonstrating grace towards others in the words that we use that Paul uses this phrase as well. He says, to be our speech is seasoned with salt. Now there was a salt lake close to Colossae in So Paul's audience definitely has a feel for the importance of salt, the significance of that. It can be a healing effect, it can be preserving, it can be an enhancement. There's different ways you can maybe look at that But in 2018, I had the opportunity to go to Peru in South America to teach at a Bible college for a few weeks. We got to see Mount Machu Picchu, which was an incredible experience, of course. But one of our excursions is that we went to the salt mines in a town called Maris, M-A-R-A-S, Maris. And that was pretty much out in the middle of nowhere. You had to go through around a cliff just to drive there and get there. But there was this magnificent, magnificent salt mine that you would get to. Many of the products there that you would find in Peru would use this salt from the salt mines as modas. And now My wife, like probably like most women, you can tell me if I'm wrong later, this can be the the hate man later, but is she's a lover of all things chocolate. And I'm guessing that's probably true of some of you over here. Um and so I brought home this chocolate bar. From Peru that had salt in it, actually from the salt mines of Matas. And as we bit into this chocolate, we found that this was the most unbelievably enjoyable bar of chocolate. we've ever had. Bar none. That's not a pun, but uh the uh the uh but the idea is that uh I mean we were I mean I've been thinking about just flying down to Peru to go back to that. I mean It was that incredible. What was what really kind of made that the difference? I think it was the salt mines of, I think it was the salt famadas. I think it was the salt that enhanced it so incredibly. And as you think about this too, the Word of God, although it is in conflict with so much in modern society, We can remember these things that our speech can be grace filled. It can be speech that is really that the Word of God would enhance our speech, that it becomes palatable to them, at least spiritually, maybe at first. It bothers them, but it can be powerful to impact others for the sake of the gospel. And then finally we get to this this uh uh this last uh section here as well as we finish up this this passage here so that you may know how you can answer each one. We're to follow these uh these these principles here of uh uh of communication of the gospel We could look at this here and say, you may know how to answer each one. And that can be kind of overwhelming at first. You're thinking, every single person in the world I have to have an awesome answer for. And At the same time, I think we should remember this in context. That the continuation of everything here is that if our speech is already with grace, if it's seasoned with salt, Even sometimes we might have a really deep question that we've never thought about before, and we could respond and just be just dismissive. I don't think that's being seasoned as We can be respond being angry at them for not believing the gospel or something like that. That's not filled with grace. That's not really the proper response to you. How are you going to answer each person? is already explained here. In fact, uh now at the same time there is that human responsibility that we should be well prepared to have a reason for the hope that is in us. 315 reminds us, sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you for the a reason for the hope that is in you. with meekness and fear. Now once again, that spirit of defense is still graciousness, right? To be done with meekness. and fear. At the same time, we're to be equipped with that with that big biblical knowledge to answer critics as well. There's this coupling then of that you're you're prepared to speak to others the word of God, but also that you're to demonstrate kindness. In other words, your walk should match your talk. So, how then, as we conclude this message here, how should we take advantage of each open door for the gospel that God gives us? And I don't just mean if you're teaching a Bible lesson, like in a group setting, I'm talking about at the picnic tomorrow or just mingling with somebody else, even here, maybe after the service. At the Bible clubs, when um when there's a little bit of downtime beforehand, afterwards, surely when you're teaching them memory verses for some of our teens here doing that, singing our songs that we're trying to give gospel truth. True. But there are these other times as well that you might have an opportunity. And I think you'll be very it'll be very clear to you when that door is just wide open. Somebody asks you a question. Somebody says something that the Word of God has an answer to. That is your opportunity. for the gospel. And so if we're just, again, if we're just going through this week and if we're just kind of waiting around to see what God does. But we're not prayerfully preaching. I think we're missing it. Our witness begins and it continues and it ends with prayer. We're totally relying upon God for any evangelistic opportunity in the first place. This is something that God must draw men to himself. We must pray for God to do this. So are you praying for opportunities this week for the gospel to go forth? And secondly, to be properly speaking, we need to be able to clearly and concisely explain what the gospel is. Now that might even mean that you have to practice some things this week. That you have to be prepared. Let's just say, just to give this example, person comes to you and says, I don't know why I should become a Christian. Would you know how to answer them? Would you have any kind of response? Other than, well, you should. Or is there a reason for the hope that is in you that can be done seasoned with salt, filled with grace? Consider that as well. Third, to be productively living, we need to live widely before those who don't know Christ. Maybe they've never read the Bible before, but they do get a glimpse of what it means to be a Christian when they see you. At least they get that picture of what a Christian is. Is that a good picture? Is that something that is worth emulating? And then finally, to be powerfully responding, are our words again need to be full of grace, seasoned with salt? Are your words really invitational invitational to the gospel? Or are they confrontational? Are they building bridges for the gospel's sake? Or are they simply burning bridges? We ought to be letting our speech be Season we be filled with grace, seasoned with salt, so that we may know how to answer each one. So my prayer then for all of us. is to follow hard after God's principles laid out here in Colossians 4 for the sake of the gospel. Let's pray. Pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the gospel. Certainly we the only reason that we're really here today, uh this week to to share your word is because we've first been affected by um by this great truth, by this great message of Christ. I pray that we would seek prayerfully each day, each even moment of the day, to have these doors of the gospel open to us. And that we could be ready in those times that we would remember to be filled with grace, that we have a spirit and an attitude that would truly be inviting. And we're praying that you would use us in a great and powerful way this week. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.