Thought about opening my talk today, citing that Eric Carl book, The Very Hungry Caterpillar. But my search for a sermon intro this week took a dark turn. There's a weird story of a salesman named Gregor Samsa. Gregor doesn't enjoy his job. His boss is a tyrant. But as the sole breadwinner of his house, he has no choice but to stay put. He must work to pay off his father's debt and care for his mother and sister. One workday morning, Gregor oversleeps, but it gets worse. Much. He wakes up to realize that he has transformed into something like a huge insect, a monstrous vermin. He has no idea why this happened. He panics. Soon his office manager comes knocking, asking why he didn't show up for work. His family is horrified and they're worried for their future. His father injures him a few times, his mother faints, his sister at least initially cares for him. But later sees Gregor as a it, a nuisance. Gregor suffers from his wounds, he's neglected, and eventually dies of starvation. This is the 1915 novella by Franz Kacke entitled Metamorphosis. There are many interpretations of this bizarre story. Many see the main character as an extension of the author Kaka in real life didn't enjoy his job. He felt trapped. His desire to write famous books went unfulfilled. He felt unappreciated at home, especially by his father. Sure, Kapka's metamorphosis is an absurd work, but it does strike a chord with many of us. We work all day, we get no thanks for all we do, we feel like an insignificant insect. Rinse and repeat. And then one day there's catastrophe perhaps in your health. You're confined to a room. You appear useless to society. Even if you're a Christian, you might echo David's words. I am a worm and no man. A reproach of men and despised by the people. Regard to our faith, you may you understand what why the preacher said. We read earlier, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. But thankfully, the Bible doesn't just diagnose our condition, but offers a solution. Sure, as we deteriorate, we get sick and old, we feel less than human. It's as if we're turning into a worthless creature in a Kappa-esque world. But Paul reminds us, for those in Christ, there is a far, far better metamorphosis ahead of us. Our citizenships in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. That's a comforting reminder from Philippians 3, 20 to 21. Another place we may go for encouragements in 1 Corinthians 15. We resume our studies there today. We pick up from verse 35. As we continue in this chapter, which dives into the resurrection, ours in Christ, it might help to review with three W questions. First we ask, you may ask why. I say why is this important? Because the resurrections of first importance. Christ rose again according uh third day according to the scriptures. If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty and your faith is also empty. That's why it's so important. Secondly, we may ask who? That is, who will benefit from Christ's resurrection? The answer is all who are in Christ, not only we who hope in Christ, but also those who fallen asleep in Christ. Thirdly we may ask when? When will the resurrection of the saints take place. We talked about this last week. Each one in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterward those who are Christ at his coming. Today we move on from these W questions to a H question. H as in how. Paul cites someone who might raise his or her hand and ask, How are the dead raised up? The answer is surprisingly simple, but also quite profound. Let's hear from the apostle himself. Turn to 1 Corinthians 15, 35. I'm sorry, yeah, 35 to 49. But someone will say, How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come Foolish one, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies. And what you sow, you then you do not sow that body that shall be, but mere grain, perhaps wheat or some other grain. But God gives it a body as he pleases. and to each seed its own body. All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of animals, another of fish, and another of birds There are also celestial bodies and terrestrial bodies, but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. There's one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for one star differs from another star in glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power, it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body, there is a natural body, and there is a And so it is written. The first man Adam became a living being. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural, and afterward the spiritual. The first man was of the earth, made of dust. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust. And as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. As Paul taught on the vital doctrine of the resurrection, he's used various approaches throughout this chapter. He has reviewed, he has previewed, he has reasoned if then, he has demanded, now then, he has supported truths, he has dismissed lies, he has put on a philosopher's hat, he has worn a prophet's mantle. Now imagine if you will, Paul now puts on a scientist's lab coat. That's especially true in verses 35 to 41. See if you can read Paul's words in the voice of Sir David Attenborough, right? Well, maybe a more edgy version. The camera zooms into the soil of a garden, right? A time-lapse film begins, a seed germinates, right? Then we zoom out and go all over the world. We observe people in cities, animals in fields, fish and rivers, birds in skies. Finally we switched to telescopes, observing what's beyond Earth, the sun, the moon, and the stars. Such survey of the universe is enough to take your breath away, but then beyond this creation are the amazing wonders of new creation. Wait until we see the fulfillment of verses 42. to 49. Corruption, dishonor, and weakness of the natural body give way to incorruption, glory and power of the spiritual body. We part ways with the fallen man of dust. We unite with the risen man of heaven. There's much here to occupy our hearts. We'll go through it verse by verse. But first I note that today's passage is composed of two parts, verses 35 to 41 and verses 42 to 49. The question of a skeptic in verse 35 begins a new section. That's easy to see. And then down in verse 42, there's a key hinge statement. So also is the resurrection of the dead. That is, just as God has created different bodies with different properties, affinities, and destinies, so also is the case with the fate of humanity. So, based on these two parts, I'll make two observations in the science of the resurrection. First, God has programmed into creation dramatic changes in diversity. That's 35 to 41. That's general revelation found in nature, confirmed in scriptures. Secondly, God has planned in Christ supernatural changes for humanity. That's 42 to 49. That special revelation found in scriptures foreshadowed in nature. First, God has programmed into creation dramatic changes and diversity. As I said earlier, Paul starts with the question in verse thirty five, too, actually. Paul keeps the source of the question vague. Someone he says, yet con context suggests that it does not come from a healthy place spiritually speaking. This someone might be among those just mentioned in verse 33 to 34. Someone from an evil company, those who do not have the knowledge of God. So not all questions are good questions, I guess. Now even if we say this person, he or she is saved, this someone served me foolish, Paul says, right The two questions in verse 35 should be taken together. If this skeptic was alive today, he or she might have taken us to a graveyard or a morgue. Okay. Look, this someone says, people age, people die, we've cleansed lifeless corpses, buried broken bodies Are these the bodies they'll occupy when they'll rise again, as you say? Are they going to walk around as the undead, not really alive? Are we headed for something like a zombie apocalypse or something? That seems to be what a lot of people look at these days or watch these days with such our foolish thoughts. Paul would say, let's go out to your home garden. I'll show you what the resurrection really is like. Like Jesus before him, Paul uses simple insights of a general revelation as a springboard for special revelation. By the way, in our own garden, my wife's got a variety of plants. One year, before the cold season's approached, she saved some seeds for the next year. She put those seeds in an envelope. I stumbled upon this envelope and thought at first it was part of our postal mail. That's because on it was the name Mr. Stripey. I thought to myself, who is Mr. Stripey? Is there someone in our church by the name Mr. Stripey? My wife laughed and told me Mr. Stripey's a variety of heirloom tomato. But anyway, Mr. Stripe cannot stay in the envelope. He must go into the soil. The seeds must die first. This is common knowledge that Paul cites in verse 36 You don't need to be an extra expert farmer to understand this. Back to Paul in verses 37 to 38. He says, And what you sow, you do not sow that body that shall be, but mere grain, perhaps wheat or some other grain. But God gives it a body as he pleases, and to each seed its own body Paul stating the obvious what goes into the soil hardly resembles what comes forth from it, such as the transformation, metamorphosis from seed to plant. God Himself has programmed into creation such dramatic changes. Again, there's no need for agricultural or horticultural expertise here. Now Paul's argument would make good sense had he gone from verse 38 straight to 42, but there's good reason for him to include 39 to 41. He's not only saying that God programmed into creation dramatic changes, he has also programmed into creation a dramatic diversity among different bodies The diversity among different bodies implies different properties, affinities, and destinies. To support his point, Paul says all flesh is not the same flesh. He has just said that we're like the seeds of the plant world. Now he's saying we're unlike anything in the animal world. So the flesh of men and the flesh of land animals differ, right? Despite what the evolutionists tell you, the truth is humans and chimpanzees and bonobles are worlds apart. Some say humans are only forty-four percent different from certain apes, genetically speaking But this still amounts to something equivalent to approximately 12 million words or 40 large books of information. And no sum of time, no amount of years, millions, billions, and even trillions would ever close that gap. Right. Men and animals have a common creator, not a common ancestor. Moving on further from us and our flesh are fish and birds and their flesh. I don't have gills and fins to swim in the oceans. I don't have feathered wings to soar through the skies So that's how all flesh is not the same flesh. Now in verses 40 and 41, Paul's less a zoologist, more of a astronomer. He switches from the camera to the telescope. He divides between things on Earth and things in outer space. The point is this. What's up there is distinct from what's down here. But even among the celestial bodies, there are differences among them. The sun rises, shines in the day, strikes with the burning heat that withers the grass, the moon and the stars are lesser lights to rule by day. As you see in the last part of verse 41, there are even further distinctions among stars. FYI, the Bible, does not differentiate between planets and stars. Anyways. We see the different ways they shine and move. They're what we call dwarf stars and runaway stars. There are two planets in our system that spin clockwise. Ours and others go counterclockwise. Well all that to say, God has programmed into creation dramatic changes and diversity. Paul's doing all this to warm up and set up his argument for a big finish. If we can picture dramatic changes like seas turning into plants, and if we can picture dramatic diversity in flesh and body, We're ready for verse 42. So also is the resurrection of the dead. And that gets us to the second observation. In the science of the resurrection, God has planned in Christ supernatural changes for humanity. In verse 42, Paul lifts an ordinary farming activity to extraordinary levels. A small seed becomes an object lesson for grand seminal truths. A garden variety experience points to the paradise of God. Here's how Paul does it. From the middle of verse 42 to the middle of 44, Paul stitches together two words. Sown and raised, sown and in sown in corruption, raised in incorruption, sown in dishonor, raised in glory, sown in weakness, raised in power, sown a natural body, raised a spiritual body. In experience, we really like to skip that first part of each sentence. You know, the whole bit about corruption, dishonor, weakness, natural body. It's true. Everybody wants to go to heaven, nobody wants to die. But to finally get to heaven, some dramatic change is necessary. Right. Now you're going to see next week, Lord willing, that this change can happen without death, right? But irrespective of whether we're dead or alive at the rapture, Christians must say This corruptible must put on incorruption and this mortal must put on immortality. Again, more on that next week This week we're back to that juxtaposition of Adam and Christ we saw last week. Remember verses twenty-one to twenty-two, since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead, for as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. Paul continues doing something similar from verses 44 to 49. He stops to explain what he means by it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. He starts by saying, yes, there is a natural body and there is a spiritual body. What corresponds with the natural body and the spiritual body is Adam with the natural and Jesus with the spiritual. Paul supports this matching in verse 45, and so it is written, he says, as he cites a part of Genesis 2. 7. It's from the sixth day of creation. Let me read it in full. And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. The last part of the verse, man became a living being, is what Paul cites here, and he expands on it. And here's the relevant detail that's more apparent in the original language. Let's see if we got it here. Look at this slide. The noun being is suke and is connected to the adjective natural, sukikon, twice modifying body in verse 44. Paul is saying that our natural human bodies are by nature connected to the first human atom. And again, as I said lastly, we are by default and by our own fault under Adam. Romans five twelve says, Justice through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned. As long as we're connected both to Adam by lineage, we're dragged down with him, the only hope of escape is with another Adam, the last Adam. Who became a life-giving spirit. Keep in mind that Jesus, like the first man, has a body, has a spirit, has a soul. He's a living being like us. But Christ exceeds us and Adam. Jesus not only receives life from God as man, he also gives life as God-man. He's not the Holy Spirit or a disembodied spirit, he's a life-giving spirit. who also possesses a living body. So look at this next slide, as you might have guessed already, that noun spirit is pneuma and it's connected to the adjective spiritual, pneumoticon. Modifying body in verse 44. We've seen this word spiritual earlier in the letter. It refers to spiritual teachings, identity, ministries, provisions, and gifts. Here we see how Jesus gives us life now and promises life later in a spiritual body. I'll come back to verse 45 as I discuss the gospel. But first, we should let Paul finish his thoughts on the spiritual body and the natural body. The second Adam, so much greater in physical and spiritual quality. It's in God's plan to save the best for the last. The spiritual is not first, the apostle says in verse 46, but the natural and afterward the spiritual. Why must the order be like this? Well, Verse 47 helps us. Paul says, the first man was of the earth made of dust. The second man is the Lord from heaven. Focus on that phrase, Lord from heaven. Just as there was a day when Adam was revealed to be of earth, right, there's a day when Christ is revealed to be of heaven. The first man ascended from the ground, the second man descends from the skies. This fulfills Daniel 7:13 to 14, the prophecy of Christ coming in the clouds. Jesus taught this teaching multiple times while on earth. It was the first review lesson of the church after his ascension. And now Paul's teaching the same lesson here. And of course, what happens to Christ has direct implications for the church. And Paul continues in verse 48, as was the man of dust. so also are those who are made of dust. And as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. Here's a side-by-side comparison again. In Adam all go to one place, all are from the dust, and all return to dust. In Christ all go to his prepared place. The dead in Christ rise first, and then we who are alive. Paul explains further in verse 49: And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. Every coffin filled and every hospital bed. Reveal that we bear the image of Adam. But that's not the ultimate end for those in Christ. Those who have Jesus as first fruits also have the first fruits. fruits of the Spirit. Those who own the spirit of adoption eagerly await another adoption. It's a redemption of our body. It's when our lowly body will be transformed to be conformed to Christ's glorious body. We know that when he is revealed, we shall be like him, but we shall see him as he is. So the next time you look in the mirror and you don't like what you see, right? Next time you get down with an illness, say this. If the earthy house, this tent is destroyed, We have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. We are sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. The guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of his glory. That's how God has planned in Christ supernatural changes for humanity. He'll lead many sons to glory. Hope that you're among those who will be part of this amazing metamorphosis. You may not understand all the details of what will happen, but now you do need to understand and believe in the gospel, the good news of Jesus. For that purpose, let me go back up to verse 45. I want to discuss how we can receive light from Jesus. It's important that we first understand who we are in Adam apart from Christ. Here's a description just from three verses of Ephesians. We're dead in trespasses and sins, walking according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. The spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, conducting ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, by nature children of wrath, were dead men walking. Sinners by nature, sinners by conduct, we're lawbreakers, covetous, liars, committing wrong things and omitting right things. If we die in sin, that is in our unsaved condition, we cannot hope to be with God. But God did not leave us like this. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That means the Son of God came as the Son of Man. He deserved to be treated like a king, the perfect being that he is. Yet he did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. After some years in ministry, here's what Jesus said: The hour hath come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it produces much grain. Of course, he's talking about his crucifixion and burial. For the sake of the great harvest at the end of the age, he had to die. The one born as the seed of David, according to the flesh, suffered in our place at the cross. There he paid the penalty of sin that we should pay the wrath of God fell upon him. He completed his work at Calvary and he was buried in a garden. But then the seed of David was raised from the dead. He was declared to be the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. After showing many proofs that he's alive, truly alive, he ascended to heaven, and someday he'll descend as the Lord from heaven. return to judge all mankind. At the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Jesus Christ is Lord. The time to bow the knee is now. Don't wait until it's too late. Don't hang on to this empty world of rust and dust. Jesus warns, he who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. To hate one's life in this world means we leave it behind and follow Christ. Well, how do you follow Christ? You follow him by repentance and faith. Repent, turn from sin, your wicked ways and corrupt doings. Turn away even from your self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus instead. Trust in Him only for everlasting life. Heaven is a gift and the heavenly body is part of that wonderful package. So receive this wonderful offer today. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So now living by faith has so much to look forward to. Live without fear today. You can sing these words: I know that my Redeemer lives. What joy the blessed assurance gives. He lives who once was dead. He lives my ever-living head. Let's pray and sing these truths. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for the wonders of creation. Lord, despite what the world tells us, you are the creator. And Lord, you amaze us with just the cycles of seasons and what we see in the ground, what we see. Just animate animals and just all kinds of things going on around nature. And we praise you. And we know that the one who created all these things Lord, just it's going to amaze us again. When we see the glories of resurrection, no eye has seen, no ear has heard, all the wonderful things that you have prepared for those who love you. you and Lo we do look forward to that. And th we look forward to just leaving behind this tent that's breaking down, Lord, this temple that seems to have all its failures. And we're thankful for the resurrection promise. That we don't just belong to the first Adam, but we put ourselves underneath the rulership of the second Adam, the last Adam, your Son Jesus Christ. We thank you that it was through his sacrifice that we live. And through his resurrection, we have a preview of ours. It's in his name we pray. Amen.