Well, I want to thank Pastor Dan and uh uh this church uh for uh their gracious invitation, uh for the greater uh Baltimore uh Pastors Fellowship to to meet here and uh to have this uh family conference and uh I know we've been blessed our already and uh looking forward to what the the rest of the day uh will hold for us. And uh I've titled my message, Applying the Greatest Sermon to the Most Significant Relationship. Applying the Greatest Sermon to the Most significant relationship. And for those of you who are members at Baltimore Bible Church, you already know what passage I'm going to go to, Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. Matthew is the book that proclaims and defends Jesus as the anticipated Messiah and the promised king. In Matthew chapter 5 through 7, we have one of the five uh uh major teaching blocks in Matthew, uh known as the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapters five through seven. One book specifically on the Sermon on the Mount says this. It says, No sermon ever preached has been more significant to the Christian church than the Sermon on the Mount. Christian writings from the close of the New Testament up until the fourth century quote Matthew 5 more frequently and extensively than any single chapter of the Bible and quote Matthew five through seven more frequently and extensively than any other three chapters in the Bible. The sermon is not all that we need to know about Christianity, the most important message. uh is still future from from uh the point of uh Matthew chapters uh five through seven uh the the death, burial, resurrection, uh ascension of Jesus Christ is the the most significant uh message, but this is undoubtedly the greatest sermon ever preached. John Stott says it's the nearest thing to a manifesto that Jesus ever uttered, for it is his own description of what he wanted his followers to be and to do. Here is a Christian value system, ethical standard, religious devotion, attitude to money, ambition, lifestyle, and network of relationships. So this is the really the the greatest uh message, uh the greatest sermon uh ever preached. It calls us to this high standard, uh to the greatest kind of commitment. And there should be nowhere that we would desire to see this greatest message applied more consistently and carefully than in our marriages. There should be nowhere that we'd want to see that more applied than in our marriages. There's no closer human relationship than a marriage. There's no closer human relationship than than a marriage. There's no other earthly relationship where two people are considered one flesh by God. There's a lot of things that are said about other relationships, but there's no other relationship that is called by God this one-flesh union. It's even closer than the bond between parents and children. Uh for for those of you that are raising your children, you're raising your kids to to grow and go, right? It's not to grow and stay. Uh that that that kind of uh relationship that you have with your your children will one day be be terminated Uh but the the the kind of relationship that we have in in marriage is to to grow and stay. It's to to to stay united. So uh we would expect that if the principles that Jesus teaches in the Sermon on a Mount should be applied anywhere, they should be applied in our marriages, right? And if if we need some kind of disclaimer that says, you know, don't try this at home. uh then it really doesn't work, right? Uh we need to be able to apply the things that Jesus says into the most uh close relationship uh that we have which is our our marriages And uh this morning we're going to be looking at six statements that Jesus made in Matthew chapter 5, specifically looking at verses uh 21 to 48. I'll actually use the uh the New King James, I saw some New King James Bibles out here. Going to be using the New King James, Matthew chapter 5, start at verse 21. We have six times Within this section of scripture, Jesus is going to say, You've heard it said, but I say. You've heard it said, but I say, you've heard it said, but I say. And uh I want to remind you that those words from Jesus would have dropped like a bomb. Because the Jewish people already had a group of men that they looked to as the authority on the law and the prophets. And who were those men? The Pharisees, right? They would have expected it if anybody understood what the law was to mean, it would have been the scribes and Pharisees, the professional interpreters of the law. Uh but what Jesus points out is that their understanding of God's law was superficial, it was external, and it was hypocritical. And the kind of righteousness that He demands from His followers is deep, internal, and genuine. And I'm convinced that if we are able to apply this greatest sermon to our relationship that we'll witness incredible and remarkable changes in our relationships for the glory of God. So I'll list the six um statements that are made here, and we'll go ahead and uh try to apply them one by one. Number one, consider anger as murder. Number two, consider lust as adultery. Number three Consider divorce as an extreme exception. Number four, consider your word as your oath. Number five, consider vengeance as the Lord's. And number six, consider your enemy as your neighbor. Consider your enemy as your neighbor. Let's look at uh number one. Consider anger as murder. Look at uh Matthew chapter 5, starting at verse 21. Says you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment, and whoever says to his brother, Rakah Shall be in danger of the council. But whoever says, You fool, shall be in danger of hell fire. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Agree with your adversary quickly while you're on the way with them, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge hands you over to the officer and you be thrown into prison Assuredly, I say to you, you will by no means get out of there till you have paid the last penny. Let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh pray that uh you, Lord, would uh open our eyes, open our understanding to the words that we read. My Father, I pray that you would uh apply this word in each and every heart Father, it's your word and it's your uh understanding of this word that we seek. And Father, I pray that you use me as a weak instrument uh to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Number one, consider anger as murder. It's important to recognize up front that Jesus is not rejecting the law of God. He's not contradicting the law of God. He's not opposing the law of God. What he's doing is rather he's rejecting the superficial interpretation of the law of God. And each of these sections follows the same pattern. We're to avoid the unjustified perversion of the law, to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law, and to accept the unnatural practice of it. And uh we'll just go through those uh uh one one at a time through through each one of these. Uh but we're to avoid the unjustified perversion of the law. Look at verse twenty one again. Says you you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. And the problem wasn't that the religious teachers taught the wrong thing about murder. It's it's right not to murder people. Uh we we would hope that people wouldn't murder others. That was right. The problem wasn't that they they didn't teach not to uh to murder The problem is that the force of that command was blunted because they were only looking at the external expressions of it. The external expression of it. Jesus taught beyond just the external uh expression of the law. He he he went further into the heart and the intent of what this law was designed for. Because we're not only to To not murder, we're to look at what's the intent of this law that God gave. Look at verse 22. He says, But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Anger. Whoever is angry with his brother without a cause is in danger of the judgment. The word for anger, it's the Greek word or gidzo. It's a word that sees for more than just a minor frustration, irritation, it's this intense fury, a seething rage that seeks revenge. When ancient writers spoke about this word, they said that it means to long for revenge, a desire to injure the one who is thought to have caused you harm. And physical murder is the ultimate expression of that, right? the the the ultimate expression of seeking revenge, but there's a whole lot of stops on the way towards murder. And uh what what the Pharisees taught was that, you know, you haven't murdered as long as you haven't reached the final destination. Jesus says that if you're even on board this train, that you're guilty of murder. If you're even on board this train. And many of us in here are serial killers. Serial killers. And many of us in here have even murdered our spouses. What does that look like? What does that look like in practice? Look at verse 22 again. It says, and whoever says to his brother Raka shall be in danger of the council, but whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hell fire. The kinds of words that we use towards one another is an indication of our heart of murder towards each other. It's the poisonous darts that we uh we throw at at each other. And Jesus is not here just condemning words like rakah. I mean, I I don't know how many people use that one today. You know, you drive down the beltway, racca, you know what I mean? That's I don't think anybody does that today. That's that's not the the point. The point is that he's just using these as illustrations of the kinds of things that we throw out against one another. Stupid, idiot. You make me sick. I can't stand you. These are the some of the act active attacks that we have against one another. And uh, I mean spouses are known for saying some of the most wretched things to one another, aren't we? And one of the reasons why that's true is because we we really know what's gonna really get at that person, don't we? You know what's really gonna stick the knife and what's really gonna affect them. We throw out all kinds of things towards our spouses. We know what what sets them off, what presses their buttons. We know those things. But it's not only the active attacks with our words, it's also The passive attacks too. There's ways that we're passive in our anger towards one another. Look at verses 23 and 24. It says, uh, therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. And what Jesus says here is that to really apply this command of thou shalt not murder, he says it goes much further than just the surface level, much further than just the active attacks, because we might not lay a hand on our spouse. And maybe we might refrain from saying certain words against our spouse, but it wouldn't bother us a bit if we were just giving them the silent treatment. I'm not going to say anything. I'm not going to reconcile with you. And even in that, we violated the heart of this command. If we we fail to seek reconciliation, uh with our spouses. The word that's used for reconciliation in verse 24, it's an interesting word. It's uh uh the the normal word that's used for reconcile isn't what's used here It uses a specific word, uh uh dialaso, uh which is a word that assumes that both parties are wrong. Uh there's another word cadalaso which is normally used for being reconciled, uh which assumes that one party could be innocent. It uses a word that assumes that both parties are at fault. There's something that you've done to contribute to the disorder that you're finding within your home. And Christ calls you to seek reconciliation. And the the assumption here is that you have something to do with it. And this is so important that it even needs to disrupt your worship. To visit the Jewish temple, as uh it goes on to talk about here, bringing this gift before the altar. This would have been in the Jewish temple, which would have been in Jerusalem, about 60 miles away from Galilee where Jesus was giving this sermon is uh where he's talking about. There's no moment that could be more sacred to the Israel, ancient Israelite. I mean, what could possibly interrupt such a solemn occasion as this? There's thousands of people. You've traveled all this way to get to the to the temple to bring your gift to the altar. I mean, nobody's going to beg your pardon at that moment. Excuse me, I've got something I want to say to you. I mean, nobody's going to disturb you at that point. But here you are at this very point, the apex of worship. And Jesus says that if at that point you realize that somebody has something against you, drop what you're doing, go back and reconcile. Go back and reconcile. It's that important. And it's not because God thinks so little of our worship, it's because he thinks so much of our worship. I want your worship before me to be pure. How can I receive worship from you when you're not even willing to reconcile with your brothers? How can you say you love me who you haven't seen and you're not loving the people that you do see? Doesn't make sense. How would you expect me to receive worship from you? And there have been times Right before service starts, that I know I have to pull my wife aside and say, Jen, uh, we've got to talk. Can you I I I need I need to know are are we okay? Why? Because uh I I know that if I just kinda go along like every everything's okay, that God's not honored with my worship. God's not hearing me. Regard iniquity in your heart, Psalm 66, 18 says, regard iniquity in your heart. In your heart, I don't hear you. First Peter chapter 3 talks about husbands. Dwell with your wives in an understanding way. Why? So that the Lord can hear your prayers. It's not that God doesn't hear. I mean God hears everything, right? But he's saying I'm I'm I'm not paying attention to you right now. Go get that relationship right first, and then I'll then we can talk. We're to seek reconciliation. And also resolution in verses 25 and 26: agree with your adversary quickly while you're on the way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge, the judge hand you over to the officer, you be thrown into prison. Assuredly I say to you, you will by no means get out of there until you've paid the last penny. And this illustration that Christ gives here is a judicial one, another illustration that assumes some guilt on the part of the one who's addressed And uh we know the person's guilty because he expects a guilty verdict. He's responsible for paying back the last cent, the last penny. And uh the idea here is is uh watch how to defend yourself when you know that you're wrong. When you know you're wrong, and even if you think you're completely right, which uh probably isn't the case, even if you think you're completely right in 1 Corinthians 6 7 it says, why not rather be wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? Why continue to argue? Why continue to fight and bicker? Let it go. Don't be so quick to defend your rights. Number two. Consider lust as adultery. The first one was consider anger as murder. First one, consider anger as murder. The second one is uh consider lust as adultery. Look at verse 27. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. And uh the original audience for the Sermon on the Mount was a people committed to the idea of marital fidelity It was the fabric of their people. This is part of what Jesus was acknowledging when he said, You've heard it said, you shall not commit adultery. He says, You already know this. You already know you shouldn't commit adultery. Religious leaders were uh not guilty of failing to teach the people not to commit adultery. That that wasn't something that was characteristic of the Jewish people. But they weren't free from guilt just because they never followed through with the act. They're also to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law. Look at verse 28. It says, But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And God has always been after the heart, right? Always after the heart. What did Jesus identify as the greatest commandment in uh Referred back to Deuteronomy 6. 5, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. David understood that God wanted his heart in Psalm 19 verse 18 it says, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my Redeemer. And there's there's no need to talk about the statistics about pornography because we're all aware of its devastation, aren't we? Destruction that it causes in marriages is hard to quantify. There's many women that uh in particular who live with this pain of feeling undesirable by their husbands because their husbands are always online clicking on something else. So out of control in some cases, it eventually leads to physical adultery and even divorce. And not saying that there aren't ladies that are guilty of it as well, but it's particular for men, particular temptation for men. But Jesus says that even before you touch anybody, if you're just peering, if you're looking, if you're desiring within your heart that you've already committed adultery. And in this case, it's uh it's without even gaining anybody's consent, right? What what what do you call uh uh taking advantage of somebody without gaining consent? It's the same thing as rape, isn't it? Taking advantage of people for your own pleasure. We're to also accept the unnatural practice of this law. Look at verses 29 and 30. It says, if your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out Cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off. Cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you than that one of your members should perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. I read this uh uh news article in a international uh uh newspaper it says parishioners and via reggio near pizza in northern Italy could only watch as one of their number calmly stood up and carried out the horrific self-mutilation in front of them Aldo Biacini, 46, who was born in Britain, but had lived in Italy most of his life, is believed to have suffered from voices. 46 year old gouged out his own eyes during Sunday Mass at St. Andrea Church in Via Reggio. He collapsed to the floor in a pool of blood as his mother frantically tried to help him while the local priest Rush to the alert uh to alert uh emergency services. Uh doctors said that before the surgery, uh Bianchini had told them he had heard voices telling him to tear out his eyes To do something like that requires superhuman strength. We tried to operate and save his sight by reinserting the eyeballs in both sockets, but there was nothing we could do, and he will now remain blind. Trying to follow this verse literally in his case. And before anybody tries to follow his example, let me quickly let you know that uh ripping out his eyes didn't take care of his lust problem. Why? Because it's a matter of the heart. It's a matter of the heart. I remember uh uh visiting Israel and there's all these monasteries all over the place, and I remember the the um The tour guide says, you know what's wrong with a lot of these monasteries? He says, they took their worst problem in there with them. Your worst problem is you. Your worst problem is your heart. Ripping out your eyes isn't going to take care of that. But I do want to quickly add to that How violent are you really willing to be with your sins? How violent are you willing to be with your sins? If it means finding a new route to work, do you find it? If it means finding a new job, do you find it? If it means cutting off cable TV, do you do it? Disconnect the internet? I counseled uh one guy that you just need to leave your job. Just need to quit your job. Quit your job, find something else. And I I know it's uh it sounds like tough advice, but uh it sure beats the alternative, right? Calvin said, You ought rather to depart with your eyes than to depart from the commandments of God. Whatever hinders us from yielding that obedience to God which He requires ought to be cut off. In Romans chapter 13, verses 12 to 14, actually verses 13 and 14, it says, Let us behave properly as is as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality, not in strife and jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh in regards to its lust. Make no provision. Are are you like setting something aside, hoping that you know I can snack on that later? Or do you get rid of just anything that would lead you down a path to be unfaithful to your spouse? Do you get rid of anything? That's what we're called to do. That's what we're called to do. Number three, consider divorce as an extreme exception. We're to consider anger as murder, consider lust as adultery, consider divorce as an extreme exception. Look at verse 31. It says, furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce According to Deuteronomy twenty-four, the bill of divorce was a formal and legal separation which terminated the covenant uh relationship. It was uh written in a form that clearly stated uh the purpose and made it illegal. uh document. It was uh to be put in the hand of the divorced person. Uh Moses directed the spouse to be the one who served the bill. Uh there wasn't any opportunity for confusion about what was going on and The common belief was that if you were practicing the law, that you were practicing the law if you took care of the paperwork. As long as I take care of the paperwork, I'm I'm free. I'm clear from the law of God. I've I've done what I was supposed to do. I handed her this bill of divorce. And uh and we're all good. You know, I'm good, God's good, we're we're all we're all good here. But they completely ignored everything else that God said about marriage. Everything else that God said about the commitment. And to understand that this was an extreme exception to the normal practice. It was an unjustified perversion of the law. We're to avoid that, and we're to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law as we read in verse 32. It says, But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife For any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. Christ doesn't make an excuse for a hard heart. If you've been divorced or abandoned in some other form and you've been sent away from a relationship that you were faithful to, you need to know that the God doesn't recognize any excuses Uh for the person who sent you away, for the person that abandoned you. There's no excuses for that. No justification for that. You don't need to carry around this burden that, you know, if only I did this or that. Because Karst doesn't recognize any excuse for uh being put away, being sent away. And if you're in here and you're at all contemplating divorce, and I pray that's nobody in here. If you're contemplating divorce from a person who's demonstrated faithfulness to that relationship, you have no excuse to entertain that idea. No excuse to entertain that idea I was reading an article that said as people grow up, they also grow apart, and we should just expect divorce as a natural part of our evolution. You know, just a natural progression of our relationships. But uh love is not something that you you fall into and out of. It's not like a ditch, right? You know, I fell into it and I'm getting out of it. And, you know, that's not what it is. It's beyond the feelings. It's not just about a feeling. You know, I've lost that loving feeling I love how uh Jay Adams, uh biblical counselor tells the story, talks about this couple who comes in for counseling. He says after the the husband's recitation of all the ills of thirteen years of of marriage, he concludes, he says, So you see Pastor, there is just no hope for this marriage. It's over. There's no hope. Then Jay said, well I I guess the only thing left for you to do is um what Ephesians 5. 28 says you need to love your wife. He says, you you says, I don't know if you understood me. I I haven't loved her for years. There's nothing to build on for the future. We're distant. I mean we we don't even feel like we're in the same place. He says, so so what what I'm hearing from you is like you feel like your neighbors? Is that what I hear? Well the the Bible says that you need to love your neighbor. He says, but I don't love her. Don't you understand? That's what I'm trying to tell you. I don't love her. I mean I feel like she's an enemy. He says, do I sense some animosity here? The Bible says you need to love your enemy. There's no excuse. There is no excuse. The Bible does not excuse the hard heart And we're to accept the unnatural practice of the law as well as we read further and uh Again, in uh in verse 32, it says, But I say to you, whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And the implication here is that there is not to be a divorce. And Jesus makes that clear over in Matthew 19. If you want to flip over there, Matthew 19, verses 3 to 8, a parallel passage to this same teaching in Matthew 19. Starting at verse 3, he says, the Pharisees also came to him, testing him and saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And he answered and said to them, Have ye not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? And I always love how Jesus does this. Don't you guys read? Have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made the male and female? And said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. They said to him, What why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and to put her away? He said to them, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, Except for sexual immorality and marries another, commits adultery, and whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. There are only very few exceptions To this commitment in marriage. And um even when a spouse has violated the covenant, there's hope for marriage. I'd encourage you to talk to your pastor about those uh extreme uh cases that that we do have, but As one commentator observes, when Jesus said that from the beginning it was not so, Jesus insists that God did not intend hard-heartedness to be an excuse for divorce. It wasn't like that from the beginning. There weren't hard hearts in the beginning. And in the age of New Covenant Christianity, we can no longer appeal to the hard heart as our excuse for dissolving our marriages. If you're a Christian. If you're a Christian, your heart of stone has been replaced with a heart of flesh, right? You've got a new heart. And the entire direction of the whole Sermon on the Mount would urge us to persevere in marriage. We're encouraged by the Sermon on the Mount not to clutch our rights but to lay them down. We have the divine example of God Himself who urges us to persevere in our marriages. The book of Hosea uses the same word for unchastee or adultery to Speak of the spiritual condition of Israel. In passages like Hosea 1:2, Hosea 3. 1, Jeremiah 31, God's bride is pictured as an adulterous and unfaithful wife that God takes back. That God commits loyalty to. And the reality that marriage represents urges perseverance in our marriages because our our marriages are really an illustration of the reality of what? Christ in the church. And the question is, is when has Christ ever cast us off? When has Christ ever said, I'm done with you? You know, that was the last straw, and there's there's no more. We don't have that. We have a Lord that's committed himself to us in faithfulness, and we we we love that truth, don't we? That we're secure in Jesus Christ. We need to consider anger as murder, lust is adultery, divorce is an extreme exception. Number four, consider your word as your oath. Consider your word as your oath. Look at uh verse 33 back in Matthew uh chapter five. Says again, you've heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. And that sounds great, doesn't it? You know, fulfill your promise to the Lord. On the surface it seems innocent, but you need to understand that that teaching was perverted. Again, it was an unjustified perversion of the law. The Jewish leaders attempted to leave themselves a loophole. to escape condemnation and still declare themselves innocent. They they wanted to to get off on technicalities. When they made an oath, the Jewish person didn't swear by the Lord because they knew that if their their oaths were made to the Lord they'd have to keep them. So what they did is they provided a substitute for the Lord. I swear to you by heaven that I'll do such and such. I swear to you by the earth that I'll do such and such. I swear to you by my head Because they know if they say, I swear to you by God, it's like I've got to keep that one. So they made up all these other kind of substitutes for making promises to one another Which meant that you could really break your word anytime you chose to without feeling that you really violated this command. So we're to reject that and where to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law. Look at verses 34 to 36. Says, but I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you swear by your head because you cannot make one hair white or black. As I mentioned, uh according to the rabbinic ruling, uh first century, none of the formulas that Jesus mentioned were really binding. You know, the earth, heaven, our heads, it it just didn't matter to them. They could they could swear by those things and still be be free. There was a teacher who said that an oath made by Jerusalem was not binding, but an oath made toward Jerusalem was. So you could swear by Jerusalem, but as long as you're not facing Jerusalem, you're okay. Many similar kinds of of ruins. And you could say, you know, hey I I just I wasn't facing the right way when I said that to you. You know Just let me go. And Jesus is just saying, do away with the whole system. Don't even swear like that. Just leave it alone. Verse 37 he says, but let your yes be yes and your no be no, for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. And this is the unnatural practice of the law, and what he's asking for here is just honesty. Keep your word, be loyal to what you say you're going to do. And what Jesus is saying is that the kind of righteousness that characterizes my followers is honesty, loyalty. Flip over to Psalm 15. Psalm 15. Just to consider this idea of uh being loyal And honest. Look at verse 1 of uh Psalm 15, because David understood this. Verse 1 it says, Lord, who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell on your holy hill? That's the question. Listen to the answer. Verse 2. He who walks uprightly and works righteousness and speaks the truth in his heart. Again, it's it's this kind of heart-level honesty. And we understand that there's extenuating circumstances in in some cases and things that you have no control over. Uh but the the question is, is when you say that you'll do something, do you actually do it? When you speak to your spouse and you say, This is what I'm going to do, do you actually fulfill that? Look at the end of verse 4. It says, He swears to his own hurt and does not change. And the question is, do you honor your word when it comes to your communication with one another? When you tell your spouse, hey, you know, I'll take out the trash. Do you actually do it? I'll take care of the dishes. Hey, we're going out on a date night. Hey, I got the kids tonight. Don't worry about that. I mean, do you actually follow through with your word? Do you actually honor your spouse enough to say, I'm going to do exactly what I say I'm going to do? Can your spouse trust in you? Without anything added? Don't have to promise by anything, they just know that he's a person of integrity. She's a person of integrity. She's going to follow through with with her word. He's going to follow through with his word. That's the kind of people that we need to be in our marriages. So we're to uh consider anger is murder, lust is adultery, divorce is an extreme exception, consider your word as your oath. Number five, consider vengeance as the Lord's. Look at verses 38 to 42. Start at verse 38. It says, You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. And and here again is the unwarranted perversion of the law. Jesus is not saying that, you know, that whole eye for an eye thing that the Old Testament talks about, that was a really bad idea. You know, I'm not sure how that kind of sneaked into the inspiration of scripture. But, you know, let's just kind of do away with that thing. That's not what Jesus is saying here, okay? He's not saying that this is a bad idea. What Jesus is doing here is he's saying that the way that it's being interpreted is wrong. The way that it's being applied is wrong. And what Jesus is doing here is consistent with the rest of the sermon, correcting a misunderstanding. That the common understanding of what an eye for an eye meant is that it gave individuals the right for personal revenge. A justification for individual retaliation, an excuse to get even with somebody who offended them. And like much of what we saw in Baltimore, you know, this past week where people took the law into their own hands. I'm offended. I'm upset. I'll take the law into my own hands. Be my own judge and jury. But that was never the intent of the law. Never the intent. To take out anger on somebody that you believe offended you. We're to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law. Look at verse 39. It says, But I tell you not to resist an evil person. Don't resist. The Greek word is anathysteme. It means to set oneself against, to withstand, to stand against, to oppose. It was often used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament for military opposition. In Numbers chapter 10, verse 9, it says, When you go to war in your land against the adversary who attacks you, then you shall sound the alarm with the trumpets. It's a word that talks about this kind of strong military action. And that's not how we're to deal with people who offend us. We're not to see ourselves as an army of one declaring war without our commander-in-chief. And you say, you know, can people get that way in your marriage? You better believe people do. All the time. How many grudges have you held against your spouse only waiting for the opportunity to bring it back up again? You know, I'm just going to store that one away because you're going to pay for that. You're going to pay for that one. It's a violation of this command. Our closest companions can be our greatest combatants. And it's so sad, isn't it? I I remember uh I mean my wife and I used to tell each other all the time, you know, I'm not your enemy. I'm not your enemy. Because sometimes we treated each other like that. Treat each other like enemies. That's not the way it's supposed to work. The unnatural practice of the laws in verses 39 down to 42. But I say to you not to resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to see you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. Whoever compels you to go one mile, go with them too. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. And basically to summarize what Jesus is saying here is is we should be willing to to lay our our rights down, willing to lay our weapons down as it relates to our relationships with one another. Vengeance does not belong to us. That's not our role, right? You need to be willing to lose. I hate losing. I hate losing. But when it comes to my relationship with my spouse, I need to be willing to lose Just lose. Verse 39, there was a loss of dignity with this strike on the cheek. Scholars point out that the slap that Jesus identifies is most The most degrading kind of slap, it was actually done with the backside of the hand. To strike on the the right cheek was actually done by the right hand and it would have been a back slap. Most degrading form of uh Of an insult, lowest kind of insult that you could give a person. Be willing to lose dignity. Willing to lose property? In verse 40, it talks about that Somebody who wants to see you, give your uh see you for your tunic, let them have your cloak also, be willing to give your property away. And in marriage, nothing belongs to you anyway, right? Because you're one. Nothing belongs to you by yourself. That includes the bank account, right? Loss of liberty, the idea of being impressed in the service in verse 41, you know, whoever compels you to go one mile This idea of being impressed in the service was a humiliating experience for the Jewish people. It reminded them that Rome was in charge and they weren't. We want them to lose liberty. Be willing to lose charity in verse 42. Give to him who asks you. From him who wants to borrow from you, don't turn away. Knowing that that charity is never going to come back your way. Knowing that that expression of love might not come back your way. Just be willing to lose it. Be willing to lose it. Be commanded, you're commanded here to lose. And in God's economy, you win when you lose. You win when you lose. Lose the argument. It's okay. Lose the argument. I hate losing an argument. Just lose it. Lose the argument. You don't always have to prove your point. And anytime you violate the Lord's clear instruction on how to handle conflict and you take your own personal revenge, what you're really saying is: you know what uh what Christ has provided is not enough. I've got to handle this my own way. Gotta add my own recipe for personal justice and revenge. Robert Jones in his book Uprooting Anger He lets us know what we're doing when we seek after revenge. Listen to this. It says, number one, you're forgetting the size of the massive sin debt for which God forgave you. In Ephesians 4. 32, it says, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ Jesus has forgiven you. You're forgetting the kind of sin debt that you were forgiven for. Number two, you're declaring that you do not need God's forgiveness in your life. Because Matthew 6 says, forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors. You're saying, I really don't have anything to be forgiven us. Why should I forgive anybody else? You're declaring that you do not need God's mercy on the day of judgment. Matthew 5:7 says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. We need mercy. We need mercy from God. Also says you're assuming God's role as judge. James 4:12 says there's only one lawgiver and judge, the one who's able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? You think you have to take out your own personal who's made you the judge? There's only one judge, one lawgiver. And also you're forgetting the fact that you as a sinner are capable of the same sin and that the same root of sin already resides within you. In Proverbs 16, 18, it says, Pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before stumbling. You're being proud and thinking that there's something that that person is doing against me that I'm not capable of doing myself. And here's the last one. Consider your enemy as your neighbor. We're to consider anger is murder, lust is adultery, divorce is an extreme exception. Our word is an oath, vengeance as the Lord's, and our enemy is our neighbor. Look at verse 43. It says, You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. And this is the final of the six. Statements in the Sermon on the Mount, the last but I say to you statement. There was a popular or dominant view about love that suggested that you were only required to love those who you perceive to be your neighbor There's a popular rabbinic view that said that love was to be restricted and redefined only by those that belong to your community. And the place to focus on who they were to love rather than on how they were to love. You know, the the command is love your neighbor as yourself. They kind of dropped off the as yourself part and just said love your neighbor. You know, the command wasn't about who to love, but about how to love. And they also added this line about hating your enemies, which wasn't included in the Old Testament at all. That was the unjustified perversion of the law. And there's an unfamiliar principle of the law that's also put forth in verse 44. But I say to you, love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Do good to those who hate you. Pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. In contrast to the The teaching of the rabbis and the Pharisees, Jesus says we're to seek to do good for our enemies. We're to sacrifice for the benefit and welfare of our enemies. That's the standard of That's the kind of love that he asks us to to give. And then there's the standard of prayer. We're to carry our enemies even on our hearts before the the Lord. And if we're to apply this to our marriages. You you don't wait until your spouse treats you right before you treat them right. You know, I'm not gonna wait until, you know, I'll wait for you to get your act together and then we'll do whatever I told you we're gonna do. And you know, date night is canceled. Take out your own trash. You know, I mean with all kinds of stuff that we do to try to get back at people. Like until you do what you're supposed to do, I'm not doing what what I'm supposed to do. I'm not going to commit any kind of love towards you That's not the kind of love that Christ wants us to have. And what he talks about is a difficult love that requires grace. I mean everything that he's talking about here requires grace. This is unnatural. It's an unnatural practice to treat somebody with love and care that's not treating you with love and care. But that's exactly what God does, right? That's exactly what God does. Look again at verse 45. That you may be sons of your Father in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and the good, sons reign on the just and the unjust. One commentator observed that uh ancient peoples associated rain and sun with divine blessing. Before irrigation and electric pumps, farmers depended on the The rain from heaven to water their crops, because without the rain the crops would wither and die, and so would the people. And what God does is he actively, deliberately, purposefully, repeatedly, and graciously chooses to send rain and sun on wicked people. I love this quote. It says that the greatest miracle in the world is God's patience and bounty to an ungrateful world. If a prince had an enemy get into one of his towns, he does not send them provision. You don't feed the enemy while he's trying to attack you. But you lay a close siege to the place and do whatever you can to starve them. But the great God that could wink all his enemies into destruction bears with them and is at daily cost to maintain them. Well may he command us to bless them that curse us, who himself does good to the evil and to the unthankful. There's nothing unnatural about loving people that love you back. That's not unnatural. Anybody can do that. You don't need grace for that. Tax collectors. One source called tax collectors licensed robbers. They're known for charging much more than they're due, robbing their own people. Jesus often placed tax collection next to prostitution, just to give you an idea of uh what kind of trade this was. The Babylonian Talmud. Talks about tax collectors in this way. It says the mere entrance of a tax collector into a Jewish home leaves the entire home in a state of uncleanliness. Anything they touched was deemed defiled. Jewish law said that a Jew could not handle money from a tax collector's chest, and the law even forbade a beggar to accept money from a tax collector. If you're a beggar, you I mean, better to stay poor than accept money from a tax collector. To be told that you're on the same level as a tax collector would have been a severe insult, but that's exactly what Jesus said. You're no better than a tax collector if you only love people that love you back. Gentiles, basically a synonym for a pagan unbeliever, often placed in the same list as tax collectors. Gentiles and tax collectors, often together. The religious activity was worthless. They were known for being harsh and loving. You avoided them. You don't eat with them. You don't go to their homes. You don't send them greeting. But Jesus observes that even Gentiles know how to greet one another. They love people that love them back. What better are you than a tax collector or a gentile? If you only treat people well that treat you well? Is there anything extraordinary about your love? And the the question is: as people observe your love, even for your spouse, is there anything extraordinary about it? As you think about the love that you give to one another, is there anything extraordinary about your love? That I'm willing to extend myself to love, to care? To seek the benefit of my spouse, even if I'm not receiving that in return. That's the kind of love of God that we're talking about. This is the kind of love we're to imitate When the Bible says in Ephesians 5, husbands, love your wives as Christ loves the church, do you think you're always lovable? Do you think you're always lovable? But Christ doesn't withhold his love from you. Our standard for for love is not a deficient and perfect low quality imitation. It's the absolute perfect love of God. And that's what is pointed out in verse 48. Therefore you shall be perfect just as your Father in heaven. is perfect. This sermon is calling us to the highest standard and the greatest commitment. And the truth is that if you believe you can achieve this kind of life, Uh based on your own ability to keep the Sermon on the Mount, you have damned yourself. Because you have you have no ability to live this kind of life, right? There's no hope of eternal life based on our obedience to the law, based on our obedience to the Sermon on the Mount The only hope of eternal life that we have is that we trust in the only one who could fulfill this law perfectly, and that was Jesus. Jesus fulfilled this law. Jesus fulfilled and lived Of the Sermon on the Mount. And it's only after we trust in him that we're now prepared to follow after him. Because it's still the standard. The standard doesn't change. The standard for our love is still the love of God. But uh what we are in in uh reality is uh we're we're two sinners that have said I do. Two centers that have said I do. And what we actually provide is a great opportunity. What we actually have is this great opportunity to present before the world what the grace of God looks like in our marriages. Because you're going to sin against one another. It's obvious. You probably sinned against each other before you came here this morning. But what you what you have is this great opportunity to display the love of God, to display the grace of God. By the way that you treat people when they don't treat you in the way that they should. How do you treat people that are unloving, unkind, ungracious? Your demonstration of that will actually put God's grace on display. This is the greatest sermon ever preached, and there is nowhere that we should do that. Consider anger as murder, lust as adultery, divorce is an extreme exception. might even be your wife or your husband. And I'm convinced that if we can apply these uh six great principles to our marriages that uh that will witness incredible and remarkable uh change for the glory of God. Amen. Let's pray.