I decided to combine two scriptures today, one from Philippians chapter four, if you've been sort of Following month by month, we've been working our way through Philippians, but combining that with uh just a wonderful passage From Matthew 6. And I doubt that either of these passages are new to you, but hopefully they'll be a great reminder. Unless you've been in hibernation somewhere the past uh uh few years haven't per been particularly great ones uh in America. We're still bogged down with uh various uh um uh vestiges of uh foreign failed foreign policies abroad, with our uh positive influence around the world waning At home, the economy is somewhat getting better for some, but not for all in our country as a whole, because many are still out of work. And for sure we see the rapid uh decline, and this to me is the most grievous of everything, uh, rapid decline of morality and ethics uh in our country, uh evidenced by the increasing lack of church attendance in America at 2000 17 study put the number of people attending weekly at 23 percent. Which is an all-time low, with 52% never or seldom attending. And of course, by the increase in the acceptance of all kinds of deviant sexual behavior, especially homosexuality Do you realize that as recently as 15 years ago there were still laws against sodomy in most of our states? And in 1996, just over 20 years ago, Congress overwhelmingly passed, and President Clinton signed, the Defense of Marriage Act Which defined marriage. I know this sounds really crazy and archaic, but uh marriage was defined as the union of one man and one woman. But in just the past 15 years alone, public opinion has gone from only 37% supporting gay marriage in 2000 To about the reverse, 62% supporting it today. Well, that massive shift in public opinion over such a short period of time. indicates in a very stark way the decline of biblical morality in America. So I would ask, are you concerned about many of these issues in America and around the world today? I would be lying if I said that I wasn't. So whether it's some of these global issues or some personal issues, financial or uh health or uh relationship issues, all of these things. can be a cause for us to worry a great deal. But the Bible clearly tells you and tells me that we are not to worry And so that's what we want to talk about this morning. And I would, as I said, like to use primarily two passages of Scripture that to me uh dovetail together nicely. Matthew 6, 19 to 34, which was read this morning, and Philippians 4, 4-9. So I have two main points. Again, this is not a very difficult message to follow in terms of following an outline, but it is a more difficult message, I think, to put into practice. Our first point, don't worry about your life. And second, rejoice in the Lord and in his work. And I think they do indeed go together First of all, don't worry. The Greek word used for worry is meremnao. This word occurs 19 times in the New Testament. with four neutral usages, two positive usages to be properly concerned about. and 13 negative usages that is to be unduly concerned or anxious about. So, yes, there are certainly some legitimate times and concerns that you and I may have. 1 Corinthians 12, 25 speaks about members of the body of Christ having the same care or concern for one another. That's one of the positive usages. And in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 20, Paul explains that he has no one like Timothy who is sincerely concerned for their welfare. So there are some positive usages of this word indicating proper concern. But most of the occurrences are negative, with six coming in our first text, Matthew 6. 25 to 34, and another three in the parallel passage in Luke 12, and then one in our second text, Philippians 4, 6 And specifically, the negative command, do not worry, is used once in Jesus' statement to the disciples not to worry about what they will say when they're brought before the authorities in Matthew 10, 19. And other than that instance, it's only found in our two texts, Matthew 6, 25 to 34, and it's parallel in Luke 12, and then in Philippians 4. 6. Jesus says three times in the Sermon on the Mount, don't worry. And Paul says in Philippians 4 6, don't worry about anything. I want to begin with Jesus' statement in Matthew 6, 25 to 34, and look at the three reasons that Jesus gives there for us not to worry. The first thing he says is don't worry about your life, Matthew 6, 19 to 34 and also in Philippians 4, 6. Look at the immediate context of Matthew 6. 25. And they might as well have been written directly to you and to me. In our various times and our economic uh upturns and downturns, Jesus says, don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. And We might add, where the value of your retirement fund or whatever fund you may have can quickly go down to nothing. He says in Matthew 6. 24 that you can't serve God and money. So the therefore in verse 25 is directly related to the context. Jesus says, therefore, since riches are uncertain, don't worry about these things Jesus says, don't worry about your life, meaning your earthly life. Don't worry about food or clothes. Well, why shouldn't we worry? Jesus gives three reasons. In these verses. First of all, Jesus says in Matthew 6, 27 that worrying doesn't work. It doesn't do any good If you are short and you want to be taller, worrying about it won't add any inches to your height. Some people actually think, some commentaries think that the reference in verse 27 is metaphorical and really means adding a short bit of time to your lifespan. Uh Lensky, uh a Lutheran commentator, uh has a rather humorous comment. He says, here we have no reason to think of stature. which produces a ridiculous thought. Who except a dwarf or a child could uh would want to be a half a yard taller, he asks Well, I don't know, but it very well could be literal. We've had several uh students uh from China and Korea who have lived in our home who definitely wanted to be taller. And some even stood on their tiptoes or used a small s stool in a group picture uh just to appear that way. Uh but uh so I I think no hit well could be literal depending on who you are But I guess Lensky never had any a any occasion to have some folks uh do that. Uh I always fun found it really funny when I found out later, because I was usually the one taking the picture that you know some folks were doing this sort of thing in order to appear just a little bit uh taller. Well either way, worrying about it won't add anything to it. In fact, worrying alone will shorten. Your lifespan, not lengthen it. I've had uh students who were so worried about a particular writing project that they never started started it And I tell them, you can imagine what I tell them, stop worrying and start writing. You see, worrying doesn't work. It doesn't produce anything but ulcers and maybe bad disposition. Well, second, Jesus says in verses 26 to 30 that worrying displays a lack of trust in God. Worrying displays a lack of trust in God. We don't usually think of it this way, but it's true. Jesus gives two illustrations from nature to emphasize emp uh um to emphasize his point. First of all, in verse twenty six He talks about the birds of the air. I love listening to the birds, I guess, because we probably don't put as many chemicals on our lawn as we should. We have a few dandelions in our lawn and other things that are not sociable uh socially acceptable, but we get lots of birds and they just l I love listening to them uh chirp and hum and sing and do all the things that they do. Well, even though they don't sow or reap or gather into barns like the industrious farmer, God still feeds them. And notice that Jesus beautifully portrays God as your heavenly Father. God is not simply some impersonal being way up there somewhere. He is your heavenly father, and he cares for you. He's my heavenly father, and he cares for me. That's different, by the way, from all the religions of the world. And we, as Christians, as those who believe these things, we need to proclaim them because it is very, very different. So if God feeds the birds, won't He take care of you and me, who are of far more value than they are? In verses 28 to 30, Jesus gives a second illustration, the flower of the field. These field flowers are clothed magnificently without any effort in picking out the material. or spinning the thread as a seamstress would do. Notice that in verse 26, the example is that of a man's occupation generally a farmer. And here in verse 28 the example is of a woman's occupation generally a seamstress. And yet, even King Solomon, the richest king in Israel's history, arrayed in his finest Splendor, Jesus says, didn't compare to one of these common field flowers. In verse 30, Jesus says that such grasses or flowers were only here on earth for a short period, and then they were thrown into the oven for burning. So if he clothes them in such a fine style, how much more will he take care of us? And the issue becomes clear in the last part of verse 30 as Jesus adds this little phrase, O you of little faith. Oh, how foolish it is that you and I can be sometimes. It seems so obvious when Jesus puts it that way, doesn't it? It does to me. Are we worrying about our money or are we trusting in the Lord who owns the universe? As Jesus said quite plainly in verse 24, we can't serve God. And money. I like reminding myself of that from time to time. I need to remind myself of that from time to time Do you prefer trusting in your bank account or in the Lord? Worrying displays a lack of trust in God. And when we put it that way, I don't want to be a person that is worrying because that indicates my lack of faith in God. As one commentator succinctly puts it, worrying is practical atheism and an affront to God. Maybe that's a little strong, but I think it's accurate. Third, Jesus says in verse 32 that worrying makes us just like unbelievers. Worrying makes us just like unbelievers. It should be no surprise that the world is all upset over all kinds of things. At the height of uh our uh last economic uh crisis, not really that many years back, the Washington Post looked at the headlines in the world's major newspapers. And it came up with 92 instances of crisis, 21 fear, 15 meltdown, followed by the words. Plunge, gloom, worry, woe, plummet, chaos, battered, collapse, and avalanche. Now, you, thankfully, maybe if you're like me, because your memory isn't all that good anyway, you may not even remember that, but that was less than ten years ago. Well, the world worries about all sorts of things because for them, this world is their home. But for the believer, as if you remember our text from uh last month's message in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 20 that we looked at. Our citizenship is in heaven. We have eternal life with our Lord. We know that when we die, we can't take our money with us anyway. 1 Timothy 6. 7 reminds us of that. And God isn't about to forget us. So why should we act the same way as the unbeliever? You and I should have a different perspective, a heavenly perspective. Are we not the light of the world and the salt of the earth? And how can you and I be lights in the world if we're mired in the darkness ourselves? The world should know that you and I are different. That we have a different hope, a different perspective, a heavenly perspective that by the way that we act, by the way that we respond, to news, whether good or whether bad. Do we have that kind of testimony to them, or do we act just like them? As those who have no hope except for what we can see, or what money can buy My next day m next uh door neighbor, he's worried about all sorts of things. Um he decided last month we have Some increase in, shall I say, uh teenage, late teenage activity in our our area, uh resulting in some uh um vandalism and other things, in fact the car. That I'm driving this morning, if you wanna just go outside, you can see, not right now, please. A little later, you can see. see the result of that exciting vandalism as part of my bumper was uh they decided it would be a fun thing to do to uh just mm you know uh take the the the uh uh A house across the street has a driveway that slopes a little bit. They thought, well, gee, we could take our car. I don't understand why this is fun. And just knock off the back part of my bumper. And they did a nice successful job of that. Well, I mean, I don't quite get that. Well he uh and and and it didn't even happen to him But as the basis of some of these things that have been going on, he put a little sign in his yard, house for sale. The only thing is that's not the first time he's done this. And then, you know, he thinks better of it, and his wife, who I assume is co-owner of the house, uh reminds him that This is probably not a good thing to do. And you know, he takes the sign down. Well, I hope that I'm not going to be so quickly reactive. of things that when something happens, the first thing we do is say, aha, we've got to do something. Um, you know It's interesting. Some uh uh charitable organizations are worried, and I do understand this, that with the new tax law, which uh in many ways is uh quite positive. But in some ways, for uh giving for those with a what I call a normal income, the increase in the automatic deduction is going to be so great that giving is not going necessarily to be profitable from a tax point of view. beginning in 2018, this year and next. Now I suspect that people aren't paying much attention to these things. And though, you know, just having paid their taxes, they may be thinking about a little bit, but it'll be next year, because they don't think about it. So it'll be 2019 when they say, huh You know, all that money that I was giving to faith Bible Church and when I was giving to various missionaries doesn't make a bit of difference in my taxes. Well I hope you're not saying it like that, because you're saying, remember, I I I think somebody just prayed this uh very recently. I may have heard it, the Lord loves a what? Cheerful giver. We give not grudgingly, nor of necessity. God loves a cheerful giver, whether or not you're getting a tax break for it. Well anyway, we could as an organization or whatever, we could worry about these things. But no, we are going to be assuming As believers in Christ, that our giving is motivated by more than just what our tax code does or doesn't do. You and I shouldn't worry about our life. It doesn't work. It shows a lack of trust in God, and it makes us just like unbelievers hurting our testimony before them. Instead, my second main point is that instead of worrying, we should rejoice in the Lord and in his Matthew 6, 3 33, and Philippians chapter 4 and verses 4 through 9. How can we rejoice in the Lord instead of worrying? Well, there's four things that you and I can do. First of all, we need to get our focus on God. We need to get our focus on God. Matthew 6. 33 And Philippians 4, 1 and verse 4. Worrying is caused by focusing on the wrong things instead of focusing on God. So we need to focus on Him and His kingdom. That's what Matthew 6. 33 says. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things that you worry about. will be added unto you. Don't focus, Jesus says, on money or housing or clothing or even food. Focus on the Lord. And that's exactly what Philippians 4 says as well, where we will direct our attention for the second portion of our message. Paul says in Philippians 4, verse 1, stand fast in the Lord. And then in verse 4, he says, Rejoice in the Lord. It's not not just some kind of crazy kind of rejoicing or a temporary joy rooted in alcohol or sex or winning the lottery, or maybe the Redskins or the Ravens, or if you're a Philadelphia fan, even the Eagles winning the Super Bowl, as uh unlikely as that might be, or my Orioles winning the World Series, which becomes less of a hope or a realistic hope each day, but it's still possible. I'm a true fan. No, it's not in those kinds of temporary rejoicing and temporary joys. It's rejoicing in the Lord. The focus is on the Lord. When we focus on Kim, our problems and our worries seem very small in comparison. And that's exactly as it should be. Now you may say, well, it's easy for you to stand up there and tell me to rejoice in the Lord and get my focus on God, but you don't know my life and my problems. And that's certainly true. I don't. But I do know Paul's life and Paul's problems as he wrote, Rejoice in the Lord. And as I've pointed out, in some of my earlier messages on Philippians, when Paul wrote Philippians, he was in a Roman jail cell awaiting trial for his crime of preaching the gospel. And yet yet it's from this prison cell that he writes this wonderful book in and which the the verb rejoice occurs nine times in six different passages throughout the book of Philippians. Over and over again, the word rejoice comes out of Paul's lips. He rejoices in the preaching of the gospel. in Philippians 1. 18. Even when some people, and this is the part that always gets me, when some people were preaching Christ from the wrong motive. He says, fine, Christ is preached, and in that I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice. He rejoices in Philippians 2. 17 and 18, even in all of his sufferings, even if he ends up dying for the cause of Christ. He tells the Philippian believers to rejoice in Philippians 3:1 even though there are evil workers and deceivers all around. And he rejoices in Philippians 4. 10 because of the Philippians' kindness to him. even though he had been in great need earlier. The key to Paul's rejoicing is not in his circumstances, because often they were pretty bleak. Just like ours. If you don't think that's true, well, let me just uh um refresh your memory a little bit, as uh Paul does in 2 Corinthians 11. Verse uh twenty-three to twenty-eight, he says, Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool, I am more, in labors more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, in deaths often. From the Jews, five times I received forty stripes minus one. I don't know about you, but I've never been beaten for the cause of Christ. Paul was. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I've been in the deep in journeys offering in perils of water, imperils of robbers, imperils of my own countrymen. Imperils of the Gentiles, imperils of the city, imperils in the wilderness, imperils in the sea, imperils among false brethren, in weariness and toil, in sleeplessness, often in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness, besides the other things which come upon me daily, my deep concern for all the churches And that's not hyperbole. Paul isn't exaggerating here. You know, now I didn't happen to have a great night last night for For some reason my blood sugar went way sky high. I never like it uh to go to sleep when the blood sugar is sky high. Well it went over 400. It was way too low before that. So it's one of those roller coaster days. That's these days happen. It's just one of those days, so I just waited until it got to a mere 293. I think it was, and I said, Okay, it's on the right track. I can go to sleep. But that's one little teeny tiny thing. Paul's been shipwrecked, beaten, all of the rest of this this and what is his key. The key is that Paul's focus was on the Lord and on his work. And that's why Paul says in Philippians 4. 4 that you and I are to rejoice always. It's a rejoicing that can happen always because it doesn't depend upon circumstances. Excuse me, which can change, but it depends on the Lord who does not change. Like Paul, you and I must set our focus on the Lord. Second, in order to be rejoicing instead of worrying, we need to give our worries over to God Philippians 4, 6 and 7. Philippians 4, 6, and I am probably ashamed to say, but I'm going to say it nonetheless, is probably my most used verse in the Bible. Why? Well, because I tend to worry. And actually I come from a family of worriers actually on my mother's side. My dad didn't worry about much of anything. My mother would worry about everything. And I remember quoting to her many times as I would talk to her on the phone, usually late at night. 'cause I get another m bad habit from her. I could call her at one o'clock in the morning and she would be oh she's in in her eighties and she would I would know she'd be wide awake, not even trying to get to sleep yet. Anyway, yes, I know, we're a little crazy. But uh, and what would I tell her? I'd tell her, mom, Philippians 4, 6, what does it say? And we would repeat it together and reminder. And guess what I have to do myself, I have to do the same thing. Here in Philippians 4, 6 is our word worry again, just as we saw it in Matthew 6. But Paul doesn't just tell us not to worry. In fact, if we say, don't worry, don't worry, don't worry, over and over again, what does it do? It increases our tendency to worry. Probably if you were one that tended towards high blood pressure, it'd be would would do what? It'd probably raise your blood pressure if you keep saying don't worry a thousand times. Paul says, don't worry, but then he tells us to pray to the Lord in everything. It's all a part of focusing on the Lord. God knows us. He made us. We don't need to hide anything from him because he knows it already. What we need to do is to pour out our hearts before Him. We are not to worry about anything, but we are to pray about everything. Do you think that you should only bring the important things to God in prayer? Well, in God's eyes, probably most of our important things Aren't all that important. But God says that the very hairs of our head are numbered. I always find that fascinating. think that well really? And if something is important for us to worry about, then for sure it's important enough for us to pray about. Since God cares about us, there is no worry that is too small. Peter says the same thing in 1 Peter 5 and verse 8. 7. He says, therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting All your worries, it's the noun of the same word we've been talking about, upon him, for he cares for you. Notice that our prayers are to be given with thanksgiving to God, and Paul says here in Philippians for all that he has done, not demanding but in gratitude coming to our Heavenly Father who loves us and so graciously gave his Son to die for our sins. And this kind of prayer, by the way, is only for believers, for those who have access to God we have boldness through his blood to enter into his presence. Hebrews 10, 19 says that. And so if there's someone here this morning that's never trusted in Christ as their Savior, well, you need to take that Essential key step first to trust in Christ who died for your sins and for my sins as our representative on the cross and then rose again. And if we trust in Him as our Savior, we have eternal life and forgiveness of sins. And then we have this access uh that we uh speak about. And when we pray, and we usually attach at the end, and it's not a sin if we don't, although I always feel like a prayer is incomplete. complete unless I say in Jesus' name. Now I don't have to say that, but what does it remind me of? It reminds me that everything that I have just prayed about, I pray because I have uh access to God, I have boldness to enter into the Holy of Holies Right? With an unveiled face, and I'm using a lot of metaphors here, but you understand what I'm saying, I can just go direct. Remember Moses? Put a veil on his face and all the rest. No, we can go right there. We don't have to pray. Some uh uh churches and and a religion say, well, you know, you've got to go through saints You've got to go through so-and-so. No, you just got to go through Christ. You see. We have that boldness. We have that access. What a privilege we have. And then what do we do? Well, that's not important enough to take to the Lord, is it? And yet it's important enough for you and me to worry about it. Well guess what? If it's important enough for us to worry about, it's for sure important. enough for us to take to our Heavenly Father. You know, we can see this in our children, can't we? You know, I remember when my children were uh young. I remember one time in particular, because my daughter, who had a stubborn streak, which you would never believe now, uh seeing her today, but she had a pretty stubborn streak And I could tell for weeks she was holding something back. And uh and it was pretty funny actually. She had this habit Of actually borrowing money from her fellow classmates, and she could go to the little school store, and she loved erasers. So she bought all these different types of erasers. And uh so when this eventually came out, she then I asked her to give me all the erasers. Well, she gave me what I thought was all the erasers. But guess what? She had held a few of her precious favorites back, and that's what was bothering her. Now You know, when she finally confessed several weeks later, and she was a miserable child for those weeks, you know, I mean, I had all I could do to take this seriously. I mean I was pretty much I'm thinking it's a huge issue and it's about a couple of erasers it probably cost about a nickel or a dime apiece, maybe thirty cents Didn't matter, you see. That's probably what our worries, right, are like to our Heavenly Father. But what does he want us to do? He wants us to be open and trust him and confess what's on our mind and confess our sins, which he already knows. So that we can have a right relationship with Him. We have that wonderful freedom to go to our Heavenly Father. And let's not think that we have to Save it up for a some kind of a special uh uh situation because if it bothers us, it's important enough to bring together The glorious result is given in verse 7 of Philippians 4, then we will have peace with God. That peace that passes all understanding, that doesn't mean that our requests will be answered in precisely the way that you and I wanted. But it means that we'll have peace because we know that the matter is in God's more than capable, omniscient, omnipotent hands, so you and I don't need to worry about. God's peace will replace our worry. Well, a third thing that we need to do to rejoice rather than worry is given in verse 8. We need to think on the things that God wants us to think about. Philippians 4. 8. Our thoughts are a key to worrying or rejoicing. Remember Martha when she and Mary had Jesus uh over to dinner in Luke 10, 38 to 42. And I just have to laugh about this whole scene. Mary was listening to Jesus' words. But Martha, it says in verse 40 of Luke 10, was distracted with much serving. Have you ever been there? I've been there. We sometimes hosted a large group of uh used to and be uh m mostly uh current students. Now it's sometimes uh some students, but alumni, etc. , and others. And uh when we do that, there's a lot of uh A lot of planning, a lot of things that go into mind. But Martha was so distracted she told Jesus to tell Mary to help her. She had her priorities out of whack. Instead of listening to Jesus and preparing possibly a simpler meal, she wanted to go all out. But then she was burdened by the whole thing. Jesus had to remind her uh uh to to think about the right things. He said, Martha, Martha, you're so worried and troubled about many things But one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. Here in Philippians 4. 8, Paul is reminding us to think about the things that God wants us to think about. The things that are true, that are noble, that are just, that are pure. that are lovely, that are of good report, virtuous and praiseworthy things. Now how many of those things are shown on TV or in the internet or in the newspapers? The TV news tells us about every crime happening in our area, but it rarely tells us of good things. I'm always excited if it does. Well, wrong thinking leads to wrong actions, and right thinking leads to right actions. Proverbs 23, 7 says, as a man thinks in his heart, so is he. Elsewhere, Paul tells us that we should be bringing into captivity, I always love this phrase, every thought to the obedience of Christ. That's in 2 Corinthians What do you and I spend our time reading or thinking about? Do we meditate on the Word of God? Do we sit at the foot of Jesus as Mary did, meditating on his word? Or are we busy thinking and looking at other less noble things? I read a uh uh a sermon recently by Alexander McLaren, who was preaching over a hundred years ago, uh, and here's what he says on this passage. Uh you kind of laugh at the anachronisms, but you can get them up to date. There are plenty of occasions, he says, round about you to force uh to force the opposite upon your notice. And unless you shut your door fast and double lock it, they'll be sure to come in. Popular literature, the scrappy trivialities that are put in some periodicals, think about what they are now, what they call realistic fiction. Modern art, which has come to be largely the servant of sense, the stage, which has come, and more is the pity, for their enormous possibilities of good in it. I like this too. Away from the restraints of home where you think nobody can see you sowing your wild oats have gotten entangled with them. I beseech you, cast out all this filth and this meanness and pettiness from your habitual thinkings. And let the august and the lovely and the pure and the true come in instead. You have the cup in your hand. You can either press into it clusters of ripe grapes, and make mellow wine, or you can squeeze into it wormwood and gall and hemlock and poison berries, and as you brew, you have to drink. I I don't know. I that really just got me. I thought that is great. Uh our focus needs to be on God and on his righteousness and his kingdom. And uh Not on the latest tweet from our president or somebody else. I'm sorry, but that's just what I think. I mean I I usually scan the headlines of either the paper or the online paper and anything that has uh uh the the president's name in it, I skip This is what I do. I'm much happier for it. You should try it. And maybe that's not a wise thing. I'm not putting my head entirely in the sand. Don't worry. I know what is going on and news events, but it's something we can do, and especially when one tweet says something and then another tweet says something different, I'm just not worried about, you know, all of these things And maybe you think that's a very foolish thing to do and not to worry about, but that's what I I'm trying to cope just as you are in this information overload age when we're filled with stuff that can what cause us to worry. You know, let's uh I have some Bible apps that give me uh verses of meditation every day, by the way. So, you know, you can use these uh um modern technology for a lot of good instead of a lot of harm, our focus needs to be on God and His Word and His kingdom and not on the world and the its sordidness. Philippians 4. 9. Obviously we can devote many messages to this topic, so I'll just mention it briefly. Paul says in verse 9 The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me. You remember our message last month, our apostolic ad example, and certainly Paul was. The things which you learned, received, heard, saw in me, these do, and the God of peace will be with you. In other words, not only do we need to think on the right things, we need to do the right things. Paul not only taught the word of God to the Philippian believers, he lived it. There was not a discrepancy between what he believed and taught and how he lived. And so that's what Paul urges us to do as well. If we're living in sin, then we do have plenty of worries. I think sometimes, you know, there are apparently some husbands that have multiple wives and multiple families. And I think How in the world could they keep all that straight? I have enough difficulty with one wife and you know several children keeping everything in line and straight. How could they possibly do this? You know, so if you're a a if you're a person that uh has a habitually lying lifestyle, I think I think that's a real source of stress. You know, the truth is the truth. There's only one. You know, if you're going to go off under the lying world, you've got some problems. You've got to keep them all straight. I don't know how a person does that, frankly. I, you know, I'm I'm in enough trouble as it is. I don't need to add to that. Well, anyway Notice in in verse 7, when we pray to the Lord, we have the peace of God. And in verses 8 and 9, when we think and do what God wants us to do, the God of peace. Will be with us. Being surrounded by God's peace is the opposite of worry, and it's the most blessed thing in all the world. So I would ask, are you, or am I all caught up in the worries of the world? I'd love to say that never happens to me, but I've already told you that my most used verse in the Bible Is this one in Philippians 4 6? Remember the parable of the soils in Matthew 13 and Luke 8. Some of the seed, it says uh Jesus says, fell on thorns. They were the ones who heard the word, but the cares or worries, that's the same word. that's used uh uh uh uh as the one we've discussed. The wor the cares or worries of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the pleasures of life choke the word. So that it became unfruitful. That's what worry will do to our Christian lives and our fruitfulness for the Lord if we let it Don't worry, it doesn't help anyway. It shows a lack of trust in the Lord, and it's a terrible testimony. To unbelievers. Instead, rejoice in the Lord, fixing our focus upon Him, casting our burdens upon Him in prayer and thinking and acting. The way that He wants you to do. Then instead of worry, you will experience His marvelous peace, peace that passes all human understanding, even in the midst of uncertainty. In a chaotic world. Let's pray