Who needs theology? That's a question J. I. Packer addresses at the beginning of his classic Knowing God. He detects the latent skepticism, as many doubt whether studying God's nature and character is relevant or practical. He answers, quote, knowing about God is crucially important for the living of our lives, as it would be cruel to an Amazonian tribesman to fly him to London put him down without explanation at Trafalgar Square, and leave him, as one would one who knew nothing of English or England, to fend for himself So we are cruel to ourselves if we try to live in this world without knowing about the God whose world it is and who runs it. The world becomes a strange, mad, painful place, and life in it a disappointing and unpleasant business for those who do not know about God. Disregard the study of God, and you sentence yourself to stumble and blunder through life blindfolded, as it were, with no sense of direction and no understanding of what surrounds you. This way you can waste your life and lose your soul. No doubt the Philistines in 1 Samuel felt like that Amazonian tribesman in busy London. They did not know, truly know the true God, the God of Israel. They have suffered much because of this ignorance. We need not suffer as they did. You don't need to be Indiana Jones to know that studying the Bible can be helpful. And let's learn about who God is in this confusing and complex world. And we're going to read 1 Samuel chapter 6. Now the ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of the Lord? Tell us how we should send it to its place. So they said, if you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty, but by all means return it to him with the trespass offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand is not removed from you. Then they said, What is the trespass offering which we shall return to him They answered, Five golden tumors and five golden rats, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for the same plague was on all of you and on your lords Therefore, you shall make images of your tumors and images of your rats that ravaged the land, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand from you, from your gods and from your land. Why then do you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh harden their hearts? When he did mighty things among them, did they not let the people go, that they might depart? Now therefore make a new cart, take two milk cows which have never been yoked, and hitch the cows to the cart, and take their calves home away from them. Then take the ark of the Lord and set it on the cart, and put the articles of gold which you are returning to him as a trespass offering in a chest by its side. Then send it away and let it go. And watch, if it goes up the road to its own territory to Beth Shemesh, then he has done us this great evil. But if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that struck us. It happened to us by chance. Then the men did so, so they um they took two milk cows and hitched them to the cart and shut up their calves at home. And they set the ark of the Lord on the court, and the chest with the gold rafts and the images of their tumors. Then the cows headed straight for the road to Beth Shemesh, and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and did not turn aside to the right hand or the left. And the lords of the Philistines went after them to the border of Beth Shemesh. Now the people of Bethshemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in this valley, and they lifted their eyes and saw the ark and rejoiced to see it. Then the cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh and stood there. A large stone was there. So they split the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. The Levites took down the ark of the Lord, and the chest that was with it, in which were the articles of gold, and put them on the large stone. Then the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings and made sacrifices the same day to the Lord. So when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekran the same day. These are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned as a trespass offering to the Lord. One for Ashtod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron. And the golden rats, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities and country villages. Even as far as the large stone of Abel on which they set the ark of the Lord, which stone remains to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh? Then he struck the men of Beth Shemesh because they had looked into the ark of the Lord. He struck fifty thousand and seventy men of the people, and the people lamented because the Lord had struck the people. with the great slaughter. And the men of Hashemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? And to whom shall it go up from us? So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjath, Jirem, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of the Lord. Come down and take it up with you. I believe there are three lessons about God from this passage. One, God is glorified in spite of stubbornness, verses one to nine. 2. God is sovereign over improbability, verses 10 to 16. 3. God is holy while we are sinful, verses 17 to 21. First, God is glorified in spite of stubbornness. I'm gonna spend the most time in this point As we saw in chapter 5, and as we see in the first verse here, only after widespread suffering, spanning five cities, and prolonged pain of seven months Did the Philistines say, enough is enough? The rulers did not want to admit defeat. Of course, but all signs clearly pointed to sending the ark back once it came. The question wasn't what to do, but how to do it. So in verse 2, they summon the more religious-minded leaders. The instruction in the next verse is that they should return the ark with accompanying gifts. As you can see, the Israelites were not the only ones with the sacrificial system. The Philistines too had a priesthood and a trespass offering. But the extent of parallels between them and the levitical priesthood is hard to confirm As for divination, it is severely censured in passages like Deuteronomy 18, 10-14, so there is scarcity of details and mechanics of foreign practices All we need to know is that even these pagans understood that their repentance must have costly and palpable expressions. With the proper recompense, they expected to be healed from the tumors. The people pressed for more details in verse 4, wanting to know exactly how to prepare the trespass offering. The priests and the diviners reply, Five golden tumors and five golden wraps, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for the same plague was on all of all of you and on your lords. We've already discussed the emphasis on the number five and the correspondences between the images, the lords, and the cities. Just as a quick refresher, some think that the only connection between the mouse and the boils is the appearance, while others think that the mice transmitted the plague causing the painful boils. More important than the shape is the material. Because they were made of precious gold, they will be appropriate gifts to deity. Their theory in verse 5 is that with this offering they will bring glory to the God of Israel. Then the weight of his heavy hand upon them and their gods and their land would lighten They learn from history how Yahweh has treated the Egyptians who also oppressed Israel centuries ago. See that in verse 6. The Pharaoh, his servants, and the people hardened their hearts to keep the Israelites enslaved. Even after devastating plagues, they went foolishly into their own watery graves. Why? Because their hearts were hardened. And because of their foolishness, the Egyptians were plundered. God predicted this in Exodus 3, 20-22. I'll just read it real quick. I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in his midst, and after that he will let you go. And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall be when you go that you shall not go empty-handed. But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, namely of her who dwells near her house, articles of silver, articles of gold, and clothing, and you shall put them on your sons and on your daughters, so you shall plunder the Egyptians. And then see what happens at their departure from the land in chapter 12, 35 to 36. Now the children of Israel had done according to the word of Moses, and they had asked from the Egyptians. Articles of silver, articles of gold, and clothing. And the Lord had given the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they granted them what they requested. Thus they plundered the Egyptians. The Philistines too were plundered. They thought they robbed the ark, Israel's greatest treasure. Yet they are about to return it unscathed with heavy interest and dividends. They need not need to wait for nine more plays to come upon them to wrap up the gift and put it in the mail In birthday, they placed the ark on the cart. Perhaps they thought about placing the gold inside the ark rather than in the separate chest by its side. Yet the Philistines had enough sense to keep the lid closed, unlike the foolish men of Beth Shemesh. But verses 7 to 9 show there's at least a little doubt among the Philistines about whether all this really came about from the hand of Yahweh. Employing a pair of milk cows as a carriers of the arc is not that unusual. But two details. About the animals are revealing. First, these animals have never been yoked, which means that they are not trained or disciplined to follow a determined route. Secondly, their calves are taken home westward, away from their mothers, away from the land of Israel. That means that these cows' maternal instinct will lead them away from where the ark should go. The test is simple. If the cows lead the cart eastward to Beth Shemesh, then they will know that the God of Israel caused all the recent trouble. If literally the cows come home, then all the catastrophe was by chance. The odds are stacked against Yahweh. We'll see next how God deals with this improbability. But let's dwell on the first point. God is glorified in spite of stubbornness. What does it mean to harden your heart? Well, in several passages, the sin of hardening the heart is related with stiffening the neck. And or refusing to listen. For example, we read that in response to God's people. I'm sorry, response to God's call, his people would not hear but stiffen their necks, like the necks of their fathers who did not believe in the Lord their God. That's in Second Kings seventeen, and we know that the Israelites constantly had this problem of hardening their hearts. Which means to stiffen the neck. Refuse to listen. When I think about stiffening the neck and refusing to listen, I think of times when I take my dog Molly for a walk. It usually starts off okay, but then she catches a scent or detects a squirrel Her body stiffens. She converts into a hunt dog. Her one paw raised mid-air. It's over. Her mindless will be talking to a wall. My beckons go one ear out the other. I jerk and pull on her leash. Her neck is stiff. She refuses to listen. She's been getting better recently, but it takes patience. Our God is so patient as He gives us time to repent from stubbornness. But time will expire, and it could happen suddenly. In Proverbs 21, 29, verse 1, he warns: He who is often rebuked And hardens his neck will suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. Similar warnings against stubbornness are found in the New Testament. Stubbornness is in every location. In every vocation. Even the closest followers of Jesus And even churchgoers are not immune to stubbornness. Thankfully, the same Bible that repeats such warnings also provides a solution. Proverbs 2814 contrasts the happy man who is always reverent with the man who hardens his heart. And falls into calamity. So reverence for the Lord is the key. But since our hearts are deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Since every intent of the thoughts of our heart is only evil continually, since the human heart condition resembles a hard, inflexible stone. We need a supernatural heart transformation. Every sinner needs a circumcision of the heart by the Spirit, not in the letter of the law. Only then can we love God with undivided devotion It is only through Jesus we have this radical heart change. Paul reminds believers in his letter to the Colossians. chapter 2 verse 11 to 14 that only by the work of Jesus can this heart transplant take place. Sin is so close to our heart and identity. That we need Jesus to do heart surgery. But interestingly, this operation requires Christ to go under. That is, Jesus, though the sin problem is not his issue, though he has never broken God's commandments, though he is morally perfect as God and man. He died on the cross in our place for our sins. He was buried and on the third day he rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. The benefits of his death, burial, and resurrections are yours through faith alone, by grace alone. You can have a new heart and identity apart from your old self. Repent from your works and self-reliance. Trust in Jesus alone for salvation. Though God is glorified in spite of stubbornness, he would be more pleased to be glorified through your willful obedience by the power of the Spirit. As you pray for the unsaved among you, know that God is in the business of doing the impossible in the hearts of sinners. That leads to the next point. God is sovereign over improbability. Verses ten and eleven show us the compliance of the Philistines to the instructions of their priests and diviners. The test begins in verse 12. Remember, if the cows lead the cart eastward to Beth Shemesh, then they would know that the God of Israel caused all the recent trouble. If literally the cows came home, then all the catastrophe was by chance. The test begins. They made a beeline to Beth Shemish, moving and perhaps exhorting us to eat more chicken. I don't know what they're saying, but they're loan. The Philistine lords followed them after them across the border. They saw the ark travel amidst the happy, happy weak reapers of the valley. Until it stopped at the field of a man named Joshua. From the second half of verse 14 to the end of verse 15, we read details concerning the sacrifice. The large stone where the Levites carefully laid the ark, the chest, and the articles of gold, was later called Abel. A bell is just etymologically related to the word for lamentation, and we will see why soon enough, why it's called that. As for the performance of the sacrifice, all of its provisions have been made by the Philistines, the transporting cows as the meat, and the wood from the cart as firewood. So the men of Beth Shemitz were able to lift up their offerings and sacrifice the same day. So we see in verse 16 that the five lords of the Philistines did not need to stay long. They saw indeed That the God of Israel has caused all this evil upon them, and it was his hand that struck them. None of this happened by chance Did they truly believe this in their hearts? Well, nothing here, recorded here, indicates any radical national conversion. In fact, in the very next chapter, the Philistines are still oppressing the Israelites and lining up for battle against them. This is foolish denial of truth. Philistines were forced to admit defeat, but they did not conclude that Yahweh is greater than all the gods. Their hearts were still hardened and their necks still stiff. So they kick against the goats against all probability. Matthew Poole observes, quote, Wicked men will sooner believe the most uncertain and ridiculous things. Than own the visible demonstrations of God's power and providence. It's not just Dagon worshippers who ignore the truth of God's sovereignty. This foolish denial of truth existed in Jesus' time. What is the chance that all the prophecies of old came together in this Nazarene performing miracles and speaking the truth? The odds were stacked against his resurrection, but God is sovereign over improbability. The chief priests and the Pharisees received permission from Pilate to seal the tomb, secure the stone, and set up sentinels. See, they rather not believe. They rather spread the lie that the soldiers of the mightiest army at that time dozed off and let a bunch of his followers remove the stone and steal the body This foolish denial of truth exists in our time. Religion of today may not be the religion of antiquity, but we humans just cannot get away from religion. Emil Durkheim, one of the principal architects of modern social science, admits this: quote: We know today that a religion does not necessarily imply symbols and rites, properly speaking, or temples and priests Essentially, it is nothing other than a body of collective beliefs and practices endowed with a certain authority. See, by the world's own definition, even atheism is a religion. They collectively promote beliefs of evolutionary origins of the universe. On Sundays, some even practice worship, gathering at churches like the one in London, and they sing Stevie Wonder and Queen songs as hymns. They have their authorities like Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens. Their good news is that time plus chance plus natural selection explains life. The odds are stacked against this explanation. But our God is sovereign. He's sovereign over improbability. I don't have enough faith for such a false religion as these atheists. I do have faith in the God of Israel, who is glorified and sovereign. The Philistines had to learn these truths the hard way. But as we see near the end of this chapter, God's people also learn the hard way, truths about their God. And that leads to the third lesson. God is holy while we are sinful. Verses seventeen to eighteen summarize the events that stretch from chapter five to this point The people of Bethshemesh have done well thus far, but we observe in verse 19 their fatal mistake. They looked into the ark of the Lord, something even the Philistines did not dare to do. Technically speaking, both the Philistines and Israelites here break the law. Yet the former did so out of ignorance, while the latter should have known better, because they had the law of Moses. Charles Ellicott thinks that they were, quote, after the festive rejoicings which accompany the sacrificial feast celebrating the Ark's joyful return, they were heated with wine, lost their sense of reverence. Inko Sober or not, they were irreverent and forgot that God's reputation is to be set apart, which is the simple definition of holy. to be set apart. As punishment, God struck down 50,700 men. There's some discussion about how such a large number suffered as Beth Shemesh could not support such a large population. But one commentator points out how it doesn't say fifty thousand seven hundred men of Ashemesh died, just the men of the people in general. So surrounding cities must have also suffered, just as the Philistines suffered all throughout their region Beth Shemesh was the epicenter, so the men of the city lament and ask in verse 20, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? Like the citizens of Ashtod, Gath, and Ekron, the men of Beth Shemesh wanted the ark out of their town. They decide to ask the inhabitants of Kirjak Jrem to come down and take the ark to their place. The hard lesson is learned. God is holy, but we are sinful. How does that truth resonate with you? Does God's holiness inspire you to joyful worship? We sang earlier, holy, holy, holy, though the darkness hide thee. Though the eye of sinful man thy glory may not see. Only thou art holy. There is none beside thee. Perfect in power, in love and purity. Does God's holiness lead you to personal humility? The late R. C. Sprohl reminded us in his book, Holiness of God, quote, The clearest sensation that a human being has when he experiences the holy is an overpowering and overwhelming sense of creaturliness. That is, when we are in the presence of God, we are humbled, and we become most aware of ourselves as creatures. This is the opposite of Satan's original temptation. You shall be as God's. Does God's holiness remind you of the good news of Jesus? Here's Sprohl again, quote: When we understand the character of God, when we grasp something of His holiness, Then we begin to understand the radical character of our sin and hopelessness. Helpless sinners can survive only by grace. Our strength is futile in itself. We are spiritually impotent without the assistance of a merciful God. We may dislike giving our attention to God's wrath and justice. But until we incline ourselves to these aspects of God's nature, we will never appreciate what has been wrought for us by grace. Even Edward's sermon on sinners in God's hands was not designed to stress the planes of hell. The resounding accent falls not on the fiery pit, but on the hands of the God who holds us and rescues us from it. The hands of God are gracious hands. They alone have the power to rescue us from certain destruction. Does God's holiness lead you to the Lord's table where we remember these truths? We are helpless sinners. We look to God's gracious hands. The nail-pierced hands of His Son. His body broken in weakness for us. His blood with the cleansing power to save us from God's wrath. As we remember these truths. Let's glorify our sovereign holy God through the Holy Communion. Let's pray. Lord, for some of us here, we've heard these words for a long time, just that you are glorious. You are holy. You are sovereign. But Lord, at times we don't quite understand what that means in our lives or how that changes us. Or sometimes we just know things, but we don't live them out. And we walk through this world in this busy, chaotic confusing world and we don't know what to do. May we stay close to your word because through your word you have revealed yourself That you are different from us. That you are in control. You are holy. And Lord, you will bring glory to yourself. Now and forever, as you have done in the past. Lord, may we not be like the men of Beth Shemesh or the Philistines But may we revere your name, your glory. May we be thankful just as we think about the cross. And what your son has accomplished for us. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.