Good morning everyone. Good morning. He is risen. He is risen indeed. Amen. That's the reason why I'm here. I'm here to help you think through what happened during the days when Jesus was on earth. I am McDevis. I am one of the seventy, the Sanhedrin. And the San Hebrew was a group of normally rich men who ruled over the nation of Israel. We had charge of everything Religious, civil, social, we were in charge. And we were under the watchful eye of Grove. Grove actually ruled We were their helpers. And I am a teacher in Israel. I am a Pharisee. I don't know if all of you Gentiles understand what it means to be a Pharisee. Um I am of the order that is the strictest in terms of obeying the law. I am completely committed to obeying every single part of the law. I want nothing to do with people who live outside the law The notion that I have heard that says do your own thing is trash talk to my ears. I am going to do every single thing right. I don't know if you've ever noticed that beautiful picture in Isaiah. About the servant of the Lord. It appears at least four times in Isaiah. He talks about the servant of the Lord. And in Isaiah chapter 42, he makes this beautiful. Statement about the servant of the Lord. He said, Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth. My soul delighted. I have put my spirit upon him. He shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. He's going to be quiet A bruised reed shall be not break, and the smoking flax shall be not quenched. He shall bring forth judgment unto truth. He shall not fail nor be discouraged till he have set judgment in the earth. And the aisle shall wait for his call. To hear God the Father talk this way To hear God the Father say, I am a special servant, and he makes my heart delighted. And I am excited to introduce him to you. Makes me ask the question, who is this? Who is this servant? What is he like? What is he going to do? The striking thing in this passage is that he says the servant is going to establish judgment in the earth. Judgment is something that everybody in the world is looking for. Judgment is fairness, equality. It means everybody gets treated right. 99. 9% of the people on the face of the earth are looking for judgment. And it says that the servant of the Lord is going to establish judgment. How in the world is that possible? How can that be done? So I thought for years about this, and I watched when Jesus appeared. In our country, thinking in terms of perhaps this is the servant of the Lord. Perhaps this is the one that Isaiah described Perhaps he's going to establish judgment. I got all excited when he first appeared in Jerusalem. This is one of the first times he came down from Galilee. And he appeared in Herod's beautiful temple. And he appeared with a whip in his hand. Of women. It is in. And you walk in and you started swinging that thing and you knocked over the tables of the money changers and there was money going all over the place and he knocked over the cages for the doves and he knocked over these merchant tables And said to these people, get out of here, don't turn my father's house into a house of merchandise. And he virtually took over the company. I don't know if you realize how large that is. The temple area was 600 feet by 600 feet. It was a huge area. And they had turned it into a flea market. And he took over that area. When I heard that story, I thought, that's justice. That's the sermon of war. Excited. The problem was it didn't last very long Three days later, they were coming back, and in a week the flea market was back humming as normal. And I thought, what's the problem here? Is this really the servant of the Lord? If this is the servant of the Lord, why is he not Doing what it looks like the servant of the Lord ought to do. But in the last couple of weeks, the last couple of weeks, amazing things have happened. So let me back up a bit and let me give you this thing in order. Okay? Let me talk about in order what happened. As Jesus was on earth. I've got five sections. Number one, we as the as leaders, we did not get along with Jesus. Okay? The Sanhedrin, the chief priest, the scribes could not get along with Jesus. I think there are three basic reasons. Reason number one, he did not Connect with our system. Okay? He didn't go to our schools. He did not drive away from our seminary. He started his ministry way up there in Galilee, three days' journey away from headquarters in Jerusalem, and he didn't come to us asking permission, did not check out his theological system, he just started preaching. Now that's really not the way to do it. Okay. People didn't normally do it that way. Secondly, he made impossible claims. He made impossible claims. It was obvious that he had an amazing power. And he was using his power to make statements about who he was And we weren't sure about those. For example, one day early on he was teaching in a house that was jam-packed. And the roof opened up and four guys up on the roof let down their friend, a stretcher, who was paralytic. And Jesus looked at the man and said, Your sins are forgiven. And We were sitting I was there. We were sitting there saying to ourselves, Your sins are forgiven? Isn't this a little stretch? What do you mean your sins are forgiven? Nobody can forgive sins except God. Jesus looked at us and said, I heard what you said. I heard what you're thinking. Let me help you think. Through that, which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or get up, take with your bed to walk Well, to us, both of them are impossible. Neither one is in any way doable for human. Jesus said So that you might know that I have authority, that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He said to the man, get up. Pick up your stretcher and go home. And the man did. I mean he had come in as limited as can be and all of a sudden he picked it up and walked back The people were all applauding, excited, and we, the leadership, were saying, is this a setup? You know what what's going on here? You know? Where did this power come from? Where did this ability come from? Did he get this ability from Satan? Is he trying to tell us that he is from God? So we had difficulty with these claims that he made. And then the third thing that happened, not only didn't Gregory from our seminary, not only he made these impossible claims, but the third thing was that he Would talk against us. Most people um flattered us Spoke to us very kindly. After all, we were the law. After all, we were the money Jesus talked about us as if we were untrustworthy, as if we were liars, and as if we needed to humble ourselves and repent. That didn't go over very well. He said things like: unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Think about that statement. That statement says that the righteousness of a person needs to exceed our righteousness. Did he understand the fact that we were more serious about righteousness than any of the people? Why would he make us an example of people going to hell? You see the problem? Didn't sit very long Then when he got more specific It began to get clearer to me. He said, you have heard that it has been said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemies. Let me tell you, that's not what the law says. The law says, love your enemies. And I realized that as the teacher in Israel, I had taught that. Love your neighbor, hate your enemy. It was convenient. He said, you've also heard that in it it was said that you shall not murder But they we taught it, the the Pharisees taught it in such a way that you shall not harder means you can hate And you shall not commit adultery means you can lost while we don't commit adultery. And I began to realize that what he was saying was absolutely true. And that we were leaders Who did not have the righteousness that we taught. We were obeying what we were telling people to obey. And I began to realize the fact that we were indeed blind guides. Blind guides. So after interacting with him, I began to realize that what he said was true, even though his statements were directed against us. But most of my co-workers were completely infuriated by what he said. They wanted nothing to do with his state. He called people to repent. They had no interest in repenting. Their interest was getting rid of people. And so the decision among the 70 was he's got to go. In fact, our leader, Caiaphas, the high priest, made a statement Probably three months ago now, one man's got to die for the nation, protect the nation. And there he is It wasn't hard. It wasn't easy to arrest somebody so popular. I mean you had to do it in a quiet area, you had to do it in an area where you wouldn't cause a riot So we looked for opportunities to arrest him, but they were few. But the break in our situation came when one of his followers double-crossed him This was a very interesting guy. He was brilliant. He was a college grad, he was a CPA, he apparently was the treasurer of a band, and he came to us and said, You want him? You want him in a quiet place? 30 shekels of silver. Now that really was a cheap price. That's the price of a slave. And the Sanhedrin was willing to go three times that much. So we considered a bargain. It was a Thursday night at 8 o'clock when he appeared and said he needed a SWAT team of soldiers to go help him pick up the person. About two hours later they came back with the person. Sort of a surgical strike, you know. No muss, no fuss, no blood. Actually, there was a little bluff. One of his followers decided to take a whack at Malchus, Caiaphas's chief. Serpent took a whack at him and took his ear off. And uh that could have been a disaster But Jesus bent down and picked up the ear and blew the thing off and stuck it back on and scolded his follower and said, put your sword away Do you not know that if I need I can have six legions, five legions of angels? So he came in and we we put him through three trials as Jewish leaders. I actually wasn't there to begin with. He went to Annas, who was the old high priest, who had been the high priest before, and Anis interrogated him. Then he went to Caiaphas. The present high priest and Caiopus interrogated him. And then all of us were called in about four in the morning for trial of Jesus. We had to have a vote. The trial was basically how can we come up with something that we can charge him with so that we can go to the Roman rulers and have them execute him. We did not have authority to execute a person. We had no authority for capital punishment. So what we were looking for were charges. What can we charge him with? Pretty difficult to find charges against Jesus. And we had witnesses come in worthless. You know. This is the man who claimed he could destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days and you And other strange things they said, and none of them agreed, none of them said it right, and so we had no charges. And finally, almost in desperation Caiaphas looked at Jesus and said, I adjure you by the living God to tell us that you are the Christ, the Son of God. Up to this time Jesus had said nothing. And he said, It is as you say. Then he said, Nevertheless, you will see the Son of Man coming at the right hand of the power. Coming into clouds, sitting at the right hand of the power, coming into clouds. And Kyle, the torch, I mean, Ciah, his door's closed and said, That is blasphemy! That is enough to kill him. He deserves to die. And everybody agreed. We're going to execute a man on the basis of his testimony. So with that, after we had messed him up quite a bit. We took him to Pilot. We got pilot up early in the morning. He hardly had time for his coffee, and he is out there trying to act as an official. His first question was, so why do you bring this friend to meet? The response of the leadership was, if he wasn't an evildoer, we wouldn't bring him. Can you imagine that statement? Pilate said, it sounds like it's a religious charge, you go deal with it And the leadership does that no, we cannot deal with it because he needs capital punishment. We need your permission for capital punishment. So, Jesus was subjected to three trials by the Romans. After three trials by us, three Romans trials. And Pilate interrogated him and said, I find no fault with a man. He's innocent. Then Pilate sent him to Herod Because Herod was with Ella. And Herod found no call again and sent him back. Third time, Pilate Interrogates him and says, I find no fault with a man. So three times the Roman government declared that Jesus was innocent. What happened? Where well there was this storm of public protest stirred up by us, the leadership, that demanded Cursefixion. It was an unbelievable, sad example of failure of justice. Here's the one that I thought was going to bring justice. Here he is in front of the Roman government, which is known for law and order. And there was no justice. The Roman government could not even protect a man who was absolutely innocent, more innocent than anybody else had ever been. And not protect him. And so Pilate gave him over to be crucified. We were there. We watched the crucifixion. For six hours. Nine in the morning, three in the afternoon. You know one of the striking things about the crucifixion? What he did not say Jesus made seven statements. Seven statements with 41 words. I counted 41 words. Those seven statements took less than a word. Two minutes. So for five hours and fifty-eight minutes on the cross, Jesus Christ was silent Never been seen before. Never. No crucified criminal was ever sighted. They cursed, they swore, they screamed, they yelled. Silent. And I thought as I saw that, what a perfect picture of the surface Here's the way Isaiah describes it. He was oppressed, he was afflicted, and yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb before the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb. So he opened not his mouth. Absolutely. It was striking. As I watched the death, I thought, how is it possible that the servant of the Lord could be connected with this? Tragedy. How can you associate the servant of the Lord and crucifixion? How can you link? How can you put in the same category the awfulness The dirtiness, the filtiness, the criminal, the criminal part of it with wonderful counseling. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Christ and Peace. And I remember the night that I went and talked to him And he said to me, you know, it's like Moses back in the wilderness where the people were bitten by the snakes. And God said to Moses, put a serpent up on a pole. That whoever looks at the serpent will live And he said, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so the Son of Man must be lifted up, so that whoever believes on him should not perish. Everlasting life. And I remembered that as I looked up there. I remembered that he had promised that he would be lifted up for my benefits. I realized that the one who was on the cross was God Himself, the servant of the Lord, and that he was there for me. As Isaiah said, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. And it struck me as I watched that awful death. It struck me that he was there as my substitute. Absolutely unbelievable that God would be my substitute. Dying for me on that ultimate course So we as leaders not only watched them die, we as leaders bury them. Joseph Arimathea, who was also on the San Hebrew, Joseph got permission from Pilate to take the body down, and Joseph and I Wrapped the body. I had collected 75 pounds of myrrh and aloes and spices, and we wrapped the body. We had only two hours to get it into the tomb because So Passover began at 6 o'clock that night. So we were in a hurry. And it so happened that there was a tomb right near the Christian spot for Joseph's tomb. Joseph had ordered the tomb to be created only six or eight months beforehand. Joseph and I have talked about the servant of the Lord, and have talked about the fact that Isaiah talks in terms of the servant of the Lord dying. And when Joseph had that tomb ordered back six or eight months ago, I really didn't think that he was having the tomb built, for instance. I think he believed something. But we put the body in the tube, we wrapped the body up, put it in the tube, rolled the stone on, and then left. And it was Israel. You know? Silence, nothing happened The next day, Saturday was Passover. We were celebrating Passover, and we were remembering with joy the day when God rescued our nation. from the land of Egypt, but I couldn't remember with any joy. First of all, I really couldn't celebrate the Passover because I was unclean I touched a dead body and I was not supposed to participate and I didn't want to anyway. I was discouraged, I was Depressed, I was in deep thought about the servant of the Lord dead But that came Sunday morning. Sunday morning I got a call, actually servant came to get me out of bed at 5 a. m. Sunday morning because there was a problem with the garbage So I'm called into headquarters to talk to the guards. Now the guards were had only been appointed the day before And we as leaders have talked to Pilate about getting guards there at that tomb because Jesus I prophesied that he would rise from the dead in three days, and we wanted to make sure that that didn't happen. We actually were worried about the fact that the disciples might steal the body and claim that he rose from the dead. So we had an official Roman guard at the two. So I'm traveling over to headquarters thinking that I'm I'm going to hear about some kind of problem. With two guards, and we're going to have to solve some kind of problem. I walk into the room, and there are all 16 guards. And they looked weird. Pasty faced looked like they had just been shell shopped I mean, to see 250-pound guys that are built of total muscle looking like bees. It was strange. Really, it was strange. And then they told his story. And the story was that. Four or five in the morning they were guarding as normal and all of a sudden this earthquake hit and the ground was rolling and the ground was opening up and they were afraid they were going to be swallowed up and Then it would close up and open up again, and then this huge mighty angel came down that was brighter than anything they'd ever seen, rolled the stone away, sat upon the stone, and looked fierce. And stared at them. And they all passed out for fear. When they came, they ran to come at these times. And they're they're telling the story of God this house. Well, of course, the story excited me completely. Unbelievable. That is awesome. But what did it do to the rest of the Sanhedrin? Their immediate question was, how do we cover this up? So the guards The guards were fearful for their lives in the earthquake. And then when they came to Caiaphas and stood before us, they knew that the normal thing to happen was to be executed. You know, if the guard did not do his job, he was executed. So they expected some kind of punishment. And what we decided, what we decided was to pay them off to tell the story That the disciples had come and stole the body, got away while we were sleeping, you know, and so on. And so, of course, they happily took the money and split it. You know, they had the choice. You want to die or you want money. It wasn't really a hard choice So here I am in the middle of this group of men that are contemplating suicide, and I am all excited. It up. Here is the event that verifies everything that Jesus said. He said he would be raised in three days. He said that he was God. He said. And so it verified everything he said. It verified everything he did And I was on Cloud 9 excitement. In the middle of this group of guys. So Here it is, a month waiver, but I'm so excited. And I conclude from this That this is obviously God's work in sending his servant, the servant of the Lord, to come and die for our sins. Realizing that this is God's work is not rocket science. It doesn't take a PhD to add everything up and realize what went on. There are four basic things that happened. Number one, a Jewish man appeared with unusual powers and enormous claims. And we as leaders watched him. We examined him. We watched what he was doing We had trouble adding up who he is, why he is here What I first went to him, I went to him to say, no one can do these miracles unless God is with them. That was clear. I actually didn't state it the right way. Now I look on it. I should have said no one can do these miracles unless you've got. But I wasn't at that stage back then. So a Jewish man showed up with enormous power, with enormous power and unusual claims. Number two, he died. I would imagine that someday in the future there will be people around who will say he didn't really die. You know? Loss of blood He swooned when he got in the tomb, he revived, and so on. Those people will speak only because they do not understand the Romans Okay, the Roman guards were professionals at killing, professionals at torture, professionals at crucifixion. And they knew if the criminal had died. In fact, according to Roman law, if the executioner allows the criminal to get away, meaning he misses Saying he's dead, but he's really not dead. The executioner is execution. So they were very careful. They knew he was dead In addition to that, we were there. Why do you think we were there? We wanted in death. In fact, we had asked Pilate to break the legs. And hurry the death along. And we knew he was dead. In addition, Joseph and I took the body off the cross. We wrapped the body. There was nothing beating. There was no blood flowing. He was dead. So a Jewish man appeared with unusual power in enormous length. Nothing too a Jewish man, that Jewish man Number three, that Jeh's man was buried. What's important about burial is where he was buried. He was buried by the San Hebrew. He was buried by the leadership. It was the leadership that saw through it that he was executed. It was the leadership that buried him. He was not buried in some remote location. The Roman soldiers did not throw the body away. It was two leaders had the body buried. And they buried it in the tomb of a leader. Everybody knew where Joseph's tomb was. If they didn't know where Joseph's tomb was, they could easily have. Google it. So there was no question as to where Joseph's tomb was. In addition to that, in addition to that, we made sure that there was a guard at the tomb. So a Jewish man showed with a mutual power and enormous flames, a Jewish man died. The Jewish man was buried in a location that everybody knew and was guarded in that location. Number four. The body mystic. Body Mr. Everything that happened on that Sunday All the wild things that happened, all the stories that flew around, you know, all happened because the body disappeared. That is the amazing statement of the servant of the Lord. Body disappeared. The soldier said, his disciples came and stole the body while we slept. Do you know what that statement says? That statement says the body is gone. It's not either. That statement also is a lie. Everybody knows it's a lie. Why would Roman guards be sleeping? If they were sleeping, how would they know who came? If they were sleeping and disciples came and stole the body, why would they still be telling the story? They should have been executed. If the disciples really did come and steal the body, why didn't they go get the disciples? You know? They had access to every house. They could go into every house. They could get the disciples. They could torture the disciples. They could waterboard the disciples. They could find out where the body was. You know what happened? Nobody was looking. Nobody was looking. Everybody knew. Jesus had been resurrected. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the heart of Christianity. If Jesus had not been raised from the dead, it wouldn't be Christianity with a lousy hand. It wouldn't be Christianity at all. Because Jesus would be a fraud. Is he God? Not if he promised he would rise in three days and didn't. So everything comes down to this one essential question: Is Jesus alive or is Jesus dead? If Jesus Christ is alive, you would be foolish not to trust in him as your Savior. If Jesus Christ is dead, you would be foolish to trust in him as you'll say. It's all for nothing. There's no in-between place. He's either alive and he is your Savior and he died to save you from your sin, or he is dead, and he is a boss I came to realize the fact that he not only is the servant of the Lord, he not only is our Messiah. But he is God. And I early on in his ministry invited him into my heart and life to rescue and save me from sin. And he can do the same thing to you today. He can do the same thing in your heart. It's a matter of acknowledging who he is. He is God. He died to pay for my sin. Secondly, it's acknowledging who you are You are not God. You are a sinner. You are a sinner who points God to go to hell. Thirdly, it's acknowledging the fact that he paid for your sin, that that death on the cross was his payment as your substitution. And fourthly is receiving it, opening your arms, inviting it to come into your heart and life. That makes all the difference in the world. And you've done that. You can do that today.