So happy new year, and um I'm glad you can join us this first Sunday of the calendar year. Um I think I caught something, so I may sound a little bit nasally, so bear with me. I hope you enjoy the last few days of 24 and the first few days of 25. And um So for me, in the last few hours of twenty-four, I decided to watch a movie while the kids were sleeping. I don't get to do that often. So I keep a short list of classic movies that I want to watch. The best of the best, right? Since I've only seen a few clips and excerpts of that film, It's a Wonderful Life. I thought this would be a good time as any to watch it in full. So I haven't seen a movie this old, I think it's in the 40s, since Casablanca, right? So it felt like a bit of an educational experience. And within the film there's like these flashbacks. So you learn about the American life in the 20s and 30s as well So really even some of us older ones can learn a thing or two. Now I didn't watch it expecting much in terms of spiritual lessons. But since the movie begins with prayers uh spoken and ends with prayers answered, it got me thinking. Not thinking overly deep, it's just no, but thinking at least little bit. To be clear, I'm not saying the film's a Christian movie or anything. I mean there are talks of angels, Father in heaven, Merry Christmas and all that, but and there's a part of that hymn, Heart the Hair with Angels Sing. I mean, but the movie is not like presenting the gospel clearly or anything like that. There are, however, some key Christian themes and values Right? The dignity of human life, family loyalty, duty, responsibility, the importance of friendships. Perhaps that's why it's a classic. So just appreciate it for what it is, right? Maybe use it as a conversation starter or a sermon, right? Now, I'm recalling the last parts of the movie in particular. There's that scene where George, the main character, is down and depressed, and he admits that he's not a praying man, but he prays anyway. When he's back up and happy again, he's running through Bedford Falls proclaiming Merry Christmas. He ends up at home celebrating with family and friends who truly care for him. for him. They care enough to get him out of some serious financial trouble. So it's a happy ending We'd agree you should not throw away your life. It's good to be alive. It's a wonderful life. We should help others and care for those in trouble. But we know as Christians though there's something even better than all that. Through Jesus, we truly pass from death to life. Through him we have life and we have it more abundantly. I'm kind of getting ahead of myself. What this film teases would hints I think the Bible explores fully and clearly. And even in just a few verses of Psalm 40, we find that David has much to say about two things that I found very important from David. that movie, community and prayer. Community and prayer. We learn how much we need to congregate together and supplicate for one another. So if you feel the same sort of despair that Mr. Gower, George, or Uncle Billy felt, you can do something far better than seek the kindness of man or even Cardian angels. You need more than somebody or odd body. You need the body of Christ. You need the good news of Christ, who is so much better than the angels. So let's keep calm and read Psalms and we continue and we'll read Psalm forty verses nine to twelve. So just four verses, Psalm forty nine to twelve I have proclaimed the good news of righteousness in the great assembly. Indeed, I do not restrain my lips, O Lord. You yourself know. I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly. Do not withhold your tender mercies from me, O Lord. Lord, let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me. For innumerable evils have surrounded me, my iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. Therefore my heart fails me. The division of this passage is fairly simple. First take a look at verses 9 to 10. See if we can locate the repetitions that bind them together. The two words for righteousness are very close to the same in the original language. They're essentially the same in meaning, anyways. The twice-used phrase, the great assembly, is that is identical. Also, in the original, you'd see three verbs, all starting with the Hebrew letter kaf, which sounds like the English K, and they all relate to David's refusal to keep silent. In the second half of verse 9, we see, I do not restrain colour of my lips. In the first line of verse 10, we see, I have not hidden kasa, your righteousness. Later in the same verse, we see, I have not concealed kakad, your loving kindness. All of these features tie verse 9 to 10 as a unit. Secondly, verses eleven and twelve stand in contrast to nine to ten, even while they're related. As a sort of a hinge, verse 11 repeats some of the words from 9 to 10. The word withhold is the same as restrain in verse 9 in the original language. Then there's the obvious repetition of O Lord or O Yahweh. There's also the repetition of the phrase your loving kindness and your truth. But despite these overlaps, the tone of 11 to 12 differs from 9 to 10. Right. It turns out David's not only a preachy man of God, he's also a needy man of God. Nothing wrong with that. We should be preaching and needy. Maybe that's could be your new year resolution. I'm gonna be preaching and needy. Okay? He needs the Lord's tender mercies Okay. He needs his continual preservation. He needs to pray for himself and others to pray for him. That's because there are innumerable evils and iniquities that beset him, and we'll talk about some of these details in a moment. But first I'll suggest two resolutions based on this two-part outline. Two new year resolutions for yourself and our church. First ones about our proclamation. Speak up for God in a gospel proclaiming community. That's nine. To 10. Speak up for God in a gospel proclaiming community. Then, secondly, concerning our preservation, speak to God through prayer, a soul-preserving ministry. And that's verses 11 to 12. First, speak up for God in the gospel proclaiming community. Again, it's worth noting the setting of verses 9 to 12. to ten. It's the great assembly. In David's situation, this is the congregation of Israel. And this is David's passion to proclaim the good news of righteousness among them. We saw something like this earlier in verse 3. We talked about that a few weeks ago. The psalmist takes his testimony of deliverance and turns it into a new song. The song has an audience in Israel, right? Those who join David in praise to our God. Of course, David wants others out there in the lost world to experience God's grace too. That's why we read in the second half of verse 3. Many will see it and fear and will trust in the Lord. But today the focus is on the great assembly of worshipers. And parallel to the Great Assembly, the nation of Israel in the Old Testament will be the local church in the New Testament. Now you might ask, why do we need to proclaim the good news in the church? Isn't evangelism out in the parks, in the malls, in the streets? Are we supposed to be sharing the gospel with those outside of these walls? I thought to fulfill the Great Commission we have to go. Well, all that's true. But two things can be true at once. I mean that the gospel is not only proclaimed among the many who are lost out there for their viewing The gospel must also be proclaimed among the many who are saved in here for our reviewing. And not only that we must consider strangers or visitors among us, the uninformed or the unbelieving We also think of the little ones under parental authority, those who are not yet ready to make a profession of faith. We want them to hear the gospel early on when they are sitting with us. For God's glory, for everyone's good, our main job as church, as we gather, is to keep the gospel at the forefront and at the center. And it's on all of us to do that. Not just me, not just the elders, not just the teachers, not just the leaders. All must speak up for God in a gospel-proclaiming community. I shared before the keen observation of David Gibson of a particular denomination, the Mennonite Brethren, that turned liberal over a few Generations. It's a warning to every church though, even ours. You know, we're beginning another year and drawing closer to 70 years of age as a church. But this is, I guess, again, a warning for all of us. One particular analysis goes like this. The first generation believed and proclaimed the gospel and thought that there were certain social entailments. The next generation assumed the gospel and advocated the entailments. The third generation denied the gospel, and all that were left were the entailments. Not that social entailments are bad in themselves, right? We help people who come to our doors and need like financial assistance through helping hand. And other means. But there is a real danger if we fail to proclaim the gospel. Make it the center. The main thing is to keep the main thing, the main thing. Right? You heard that before and I'm sure you heard it in different contexts, but for the church it's about the gospel, right? We must do that vigorously and vigilantly That's because, frankly, it doesn't have to take three generations to lose sight of the good news. Remember, Paul marveled at how the Galatians were turning away so soon from the gospel. We're talking about just within a few years. They stray from God who called them in the grace of Christ to a different gospel And the apostle doesn't berate just the elders or the deacons. He confronts all of them, all of the Galatian churches, for their failure to defend the gospel. To prevent such a disaster, resolve to do this. Speak up for God in a gospel proclaiming community. So now back to Psalm forty, uh where David sets himself as an example of an ideal Proclaimer. You'll see that much of verses 9 to 10 simply restating the first part of verse 9. Take a look at the second half of verse 9. To proclaim obviously means David does not restrain his lips. But then we get to see how deeply personal is his relationship with God as he says, O Lord, you yourself know. As God has his witness, David loves to proclaim God because he loves God and he's known by him intimately. And the same idea continues in verse 10. I do not restrain, I have not hidden, I have not concealed, all mean the same as I have proclaimed, I have declared. Right? We get the same basic idea here that we must speak up for God. Now what's more interesting to me are all the ways David unpacks the contents of his message the good news of righteousness look at all the N-E-S-S words the next suffixed words here righteousness faithfulness loving kindness Note also salvation and truth. Note how all of them belong to the Lord as his attributes. They're all proclaimed through the gospel. Uniquely and magnificently, there's no news like the gospel of God that shows up who God is in his attributes. You've heard many good news in your lifetime. You may hear more this year. He's graduating. She's got that job. So-and-so's getting married. That family bought a new house. Did you hear they're having a child? I'm a grandparent now. Congrats on retiring. And without dampening such news or being a Debbie Downer, I just want to emphasize that we're gathered to celebrate something far, far greater than that. The good news that we proclaim is the gospel of Christ Jesus. It reveals God's righteousness. And David understood this to a certain extent through the Old Testament. But we know it comprehensively to the entirety of scriptures. Right, this good news. So like David, but even better than him, let's unpack this good news of righteousness. Like him that speak up for God in a gospel-proclaiming community. With the benefit of hindsight, we see that the gospel, in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. Scattering up some passages that talk about the righteousness. It's not that we're morally pure in ourselves. The Bible is clear. No one is righteous. Not even one. We can't be good enough through law keeping. Again, it says no one will be declared righteous in God's sight by the works of the law. Rather, through the law we become conscious of our sin. Still in Romans, right? Romans 1 and 3. We realize we're covetous, we're blasphemous, lying, adulterous at heart in heart. We deserve a guilty sentence before the Holy Judge. Left to ourselves, there's only the bad news of our unrighteousness. But God did not leave us like this. He sent his son, Jesus, God and man in one person. He was and is perfect and lived a perfect life. Yet he was set forth as propitiation to make atonement, that is, to pay for sin and satisfy the wrath of God against us. The cost was his blood, which he shed when he went to the cross to die in our place. After finishing his work of redemption, he breathed his last. He was buried. But he rose from the grave on the third day. He presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs. He was seen by many during 40 days, and he spoke of things pertaining to the kingdom of God. He ascended to sit at the right hand of the Father. Someday he'll judge all mankind and establish his rule. So this is the good news, right? It not only demonstrates God's love for sinners, it demonstrates his righteousness. He is proved to be just and justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Jesus. The Father made his son who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And that leads to our response to this good news. You must claim it by faith before you proclaim it. And don't claim it by establishing your own righteousness. You claim it by repenting, turning from self-righteousness, submitting to God's righteousness. Trust in Jesus alone for entrance into heaven. In him is life, the abundance of grace, and the gift of righteousness. Since righteousness is plainly a gift, it cannot be earned or deserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So that's the gospel, it's the good news of God's righteousness Now let's also talk about the other attributes of God mentioned in Psalm 40, verse 10. See that the good news of righteousness also shows up God's faithfulness. We're talking about God making and keeping promises. He who calls you into the fellowship of his son, Christ our Lord, is faithful. All of God's promises in Jesus are yes and in. Him. Amen. I could go on and on, but this is just a sampling. The gospel also reveals that salvation belongs to the Lord. We talk about salvation as forgiveness or remission of sins. The message of the cross is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes. Same with his loving kindness or mercy as we see it often translated. We're talking about not getting what we deserve. That's what mercy is, not the wrath of God. In the gospel, we see that the Father of mercies, rich in mercies, made us vessels of mercy. He has begotten us to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, according to his abundant mercy. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. Finally, we proclaim the gospel, God's word of truth. We're talking about what's absolute, what's unchanging. So we just celebrated last few weeks and really all year round. The word became flesh, dwelt among us, and we beheld its glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Through him, we know the truth, and we're set free by the truth. Because we share in this knowledge, truth abides in us and will be with us forever. So we can go on and on. What it means to unpack the gospel, right? Proclaim it in the congregation. in the great assembly. So that's verses 9 to 10. And we have the first resolution. Speak up for God in a gospel proclaiming community. Now let's move on to the second half of today's passage. It's not only imperative that we speak to one another about that, we must speak to God Himself So here's the second resolution based on Psalm 40, 11 to 12. Speak to God through prayer, a soul-preserving ministry. Yeah, I don't think the setting has changed suddenly. We're still in the same great assembly, and the same psalmist who has just confidently proclaimed the good news of righteousness now urgently turns to God for help Verse 11 contains the prayer, while verse 12 supports his rationale. Let me reread verse 11. Do not withhold your tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve you. In Hebrew poetry, as we see here, there's often one idea stated in two ways. So looking at verse 11 as a whole, we can say that Lord's tender mercies are synonymous. with his loving kindness and truth. If God would hold withhold his tender mercies, God's loving, kindness, and truth would not preserve David continually. It's the same loving kindness and truth that the patriarchs like Abraham experienced. It's the same loving kindness and truth that Moses heard proclaimed. It's the same loving kindness and truth that David has just declared in verse ten. He now clings to them in verse eleven. We as saints in the New Testament era also enjoy God's tender mercies, loving kindness, and truth. We enjoy them not only in the moment of justification, but also in our continual sanctification. We enjoy them as we come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And we need help a lot and often. So be sure to speak to God through prayer, a soul-preserving ministry. Now, moving on to Psalm 40, verse 12, we see dramatically why we need prayer. Let me reread it. For innumerable evils have surrounded me, my iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. Therefore, my heart fails me. Psalmist is overwhelmed, overpowered, outmatched, and outnumbered. Countless evils have encircled him, besieged them, hemmed them in on every side. Untold numbers of his iniquities have pursued him and have caught up with him As a result, he's bowed down, discouraged, downcast, crestfallen. His heart is failing. That's why he needs prayer. That's why he needs the Lord's tender mercies, loving kindness, and truth. I mentioned a few weeks ago that since David's life's filled with hardships, it's hard to point or pinpoint what exactly he's talking about here. So identifying the specific situation might be an exercise in futility. More helpful is the comparison and contrast between the innumerable evils and the myriads of David's iniquities I think they're not only parallel, but it covers together, evil and iniquities, all of the choices and consequences of sin. Even if all suffering can be traced back to the fall, which is true, there there are all kinds of sufferings. Right. Some are evils we face in a general sense, ranging from dangerous wild beasts to natural disaster or calamity, maybe a bad snowstorm coming, I don't know. Then there are troubles we face because we specifically commit iniquities. We commit them even after we've been saved. Right. They require our father's loving discipline. But thank God that we never face the eternal consequences of sin, even if we must learn from you know temporal consequences through tough lessons. And thank God that whether it's general evil or specific iniquity we committed, we can speak to God through prayer, a soul-preserving ministry. We can turn to him in prayers of lament and supplication and evil times. We can pray prayers of confession and be assured of pardon when we commit our iniquities. We can do that alone, all together and in small groups. How precious is prayer! This means grace brings us. This means the grace brings us to the throne of grace. Now I'm probably not saying anything new. Maybe you already have a strict regimen of prayer. Perhaps you're thinking the pastor just wants me to attend prayer meetings. Well of course I want better attendance at prayers. But that's for your good and the good of the entire church. So why not promote it now? Don't mind if I do. So last Wednesday, um we looked at the first few pages of this book. Okay? It's entitled Prayer, How Praying Together Shapes the Church by John Unwuchequa. Sorry, I'm just going to call him John O. After the introduction, chapter one addresses the problem of prayerlessness. The title's interesting. Breathe again. We're scheduled to cover this chapter on Wednesday, but here's a bit of a preview, assuming we're not all snowed in and we'll meet. Throughout the first chapter, the author repeatedly compares prayer to breeding. We often pray sparsely and sporadically. We come out to pray intermittently or and fervently. If there's some major scare or crisis We treat prayer like a prescription medicine, and once the infection's gone, we so is the desire to pray. This hardly resembles Paul's command to pray without ceasing. John O goes on to admit that he's he's not the prayer warrior or expert that he should be even as he's writing this book. And you know he he remembers fondly his parents, his mother who prayed w as soon as she got home from work in her room, or the father who was who created a culture of prayer at his church. And the sad thing is that sometimes we do need an emergency or tragedy to bring us to our knees, right? That's just the way we are as stubborn people. So when John O's brother suddenly and mysteriously died at age 32, they couldn't figure out why, just dropped dead He described it as a turning point. He felt like he had the wind knocked out of him. Like a like a diver whose oxygen tank was depleted. He needs to come up to get air and breathe again. That was a good illustration of prayer. And that was the pivotal point. In his prayer life. We need to pray. The lesson for John Owen for all of us is the same. Prayer is vital and necessary to spiritual life. Prayer is like breathing. Prayer is not merely a program or scheduled meeting. It's not merely one of those things we need to check off on our to-do list, not just something we do before we eat or before we start worship or close the service. It's more than that. We're inhaling the Lord's tender mercies, loving kindness, and truth. So resolve to speak to God through prayer, a soul-preserving ministry. So I hope that you're convinced now that assembly is required, prayer included. Resolve to speak up for God in a gospel-proclaiming community. Resolve to speak to God through prayer, a soul-preserving ministry. As simple as that sounds, we do fail in these matters. We might go for days without prayer. Though we sing and it's true that we we need these Every hour, right? We go for days without it. Instead of praying without ceasing, we cease to pray. Instead of crying out to the Lord, we scheme, gossip, or squirrel, right? If it wasn't for the intercession of God's Son and the Spirit, where would where would our weak, prayerless life lead us? And then we might go for weeks or months without church, right? We forsake the assembling of ourselves together. We do not consider and exhort one another. Exactly, many today think that church is about me, me, me, my convenience, my favorite ministries, and what I get out of it instead of proclaiming the gospel, proclaiming who God is, his loving kindness, truth. If you feel like that's where you are, or such ideas start creeping into your mind, repent and ask the Lord to help with these resolutions. We can enjoy a wonderful life as God sees it if we commit to assembling and praying. Despite the innumerable evils and iniquities that haunt us Together we can proclaim the good news of righteousness and seek the Lord's tender mercies. Today we can do that at the Lord's table. There we observe one of two ordinances. Jesus has established. There we pray and there we proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. So let's close and observe this supper. Lord, there are many reasons for us to gather. The world sees reasons such as a team that we may all root for or a business that we may start together or a city that we collectively live in. But Lord, we gather for something even greater than that it's the gospel and it's the gospel that shows off who you are. There's nothing more worthy Of getting us out of bed, getting us out of the house, together together, and we proclaim you, and it's all about you. And even in heaven, as we look forward to that. That place. It will always be all about you. Until then, as we live in a fallen world, may we turn to you in prayer. We ask for your tender mercies, your loving kindness, and your truth. That you sustain us. Even as you made a promise, we ask that you keep your promise. Because that is who you are. You are who you are, and we as fallen men with grateful hearts, with regenerated hearts, worship you. Proclaim your excellencies here and outside of these walls. Christ's name we pray. Amen.