So some of the best marriage advice I received came from singles. So in the Bible I'm actually thinking of Jesus. Then there's Paul, though some guess that he was married earlier but got widowed closer to our time. Maybe there's people in your life that You know, even though they're single, they give you good advice on marriage. Maybe they've seen good models from their parents or grandparents. Right now I want to talk about this guy named Dietrich Bonhoeffer. And he wrote a wedding sermon for his niece and her fiance. Here are some excerpts. In your love, you see only your two selves in the world, but in marriage you are a link in the chain of the generations which God causes to come and to pass away to his glory. And calls into his kingdom. In your love, you see only the heaven of your own happiness. But in marriage, you are placed at a post of responsibility towards the world and mankind. Your love is your private possession, but marriage is more than something personal. It is a status, an office. Just as it is the crown and not merely the will-to-rule that makes the king, so it is marriage and not merely your love for each other that joins you together in the sight of God and man. As you first gave the ring to one another, and have now received it a second time from the hand of the pastor, so love comes from you. But marriage from above, from God. It is not your love that sustains the marriage, but from now on, the marriage that sustains your love. So, where did Bonhoeff get such insights about marriage? Well, it's not experienced. He was engaged to Maria Weller, but they never married because he was in prison. and executed by the Nazis before they tie the knot. He got his wisdom from the Bible, right? I mean, he got his ideas from his earliest chapters And that's where we need to go as well, if we want wisdom for marriage and all relationships. So last time we explored a large portion of Genesis 2, we saw that verse 4 begins a new section of the book. Moses took us back to day six when God created humans and placed them in the central position. Adam enjoys a special status above all other creatures. It was created for ordinary work to till the ground and to tend and keep the garden. But while working, he must be mindful of his moral obligation to obey God. So now a lot has already happened in verses 4 to 17 on day 6. But we're not done with Friday. The rest of chapter 2 will show us what happened next. The parallel here with the previous passage is that God identifies a need and then he fills that need. The ground and the garden needed a worker, so God created the man. The lonely man needs help, so God creates the woman. So let's read now. Genesis 2, 18-25. And that's just two eighteen to twenty-five. And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. Out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field. And every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called each living creature, that was his thing. So Adam gave names to all cattle, to the birds of the air, and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper comparable to him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man he made into a woman, and he brought her to the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman Because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. I think it's helpful to see verses 18 to 20 as one unit and verses 21 to 25 as another First, God's determined to make Adam a helper comparable to him. Notice the repetition of that phrase in verse 18 and verse 20. Sandwich in between are the various animals who applied for that role of man's helper, but ultimately the position remained vacant and unfilled. So Yahweh Elohim, Lord God, intervenes in verses 21 to 25. God Himself will make the helper, not from scratch, but from a cut. After performing surgery to remove one of Adam's ribs, he makes the female image bearer. Then the Lord makes matchmak, he plays matchmaker and brings her to the man. So literally, what's missing inside Adam is now standing before him. And that's how the first marriage began, a pattern for all future ones. So, based on this division in the sermon passage, are two I will call relational aspects of mankind. First, humans are designed to receive personal human help. That's 18 to 20. Secondly, humans are destined for intimate human union. That's 21 to 25. First, I'll go by one by one. First, humans are designed to receive personal human help. I see people these days posting pictures of their dogs over the years, right? Maybe those are the last few things online that are purely wholesome. I guess cats are cute. to but I'm a more of a dog guy, but anyway. But then even those can be spoiled, right? So like there's this I don't know, it's a theme or something, but a woman might juxtapose two photos, right? One of herself with her pet dog and her ex-boyfriend Uh the other, a more recent one with just the doll, or it could be I guess a guy with uh with his uh ex-girlfriend with the dog and then the other one just with the dog. Either way, the caption reads something like, the only one that has stuck with me over the years. Right? Or people come and go, but your dog stays with you. Something along that line. Now I love my dog, Molly, and many of you know firsthand the joy of owning a cute furry friend. But if you value your pet more than humans Not issues, I think. We're meant to enjoy human connections. I think it's a desire that the COVID lockdown has really stirred profoundly in all of us We learn painfully that humans are designed to receive human help, personal human help. God knows this better than we do. And he said in verse 18, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. Remember that in four out of five days, God saw what he made, and it was good It was the same with the si sixth day when he created the land creatures. He ended the day, as he ended that day, he six God saw everything he had made and indeed It was very good. But earlier that sixth day, he saw some lack, and it was not good. The man is in need of a helper Now that might sound difficult, as we know that it's the woman, but some people find this offensive, right? Women might ask, are you saying that at the core of our identity we're helpers? Doesn't that make us inferior to men? So don't have time to go through all of the arguments here, but main counter-argument I have is that God Himself is described as our helper. We've been saying about it earlier. Abraham had a servant named Eliezer, and Moses had a son by the same name. Eliezer means my God is help. Before passing, Jacob assured Joseph that he is God the Almighty would help him, bless him. The psalmist do not shy away from saying God Himself is our help, not just the source of help, but our help. Psalm 33, 70, 115. So if we don't have hang-ups about this word, helper, if we see that it does not imply inferiority, we'll get the bigger point. And needs help. And it turns out that he needs not just any helper, he needs one comparable to him. That phrase comparable to him is a unique combination of two prepositions and a suffix pronoun. If that sounds complex, it is. And you can see the translators trying their best to like in their in the English translations And some samples. The KJV says a helper meet for him. ESV fit for him. NIV suitable for him. Some other translations. Corresponding or corresponds to him. It's sort of a struggle here. Respected commentator Alan Ross simplifies matters. He just says basically what was Said about Adam in Genesis 2. 7 must also be true of her, right? True of his helper. Well so hopefully that kind of simplifies things and easy enough to understand. Man needs help and he needs human help. But as much as knowing that's important, feeling it is also important. I believe that's why we have verses 19 to 20, and we don't just skip to verse 21 after verse 18. God knew in advance that bringing all these creatures to Adam to name them would not satisfy his longing for companionship. But this work did accomplish two things. Increase his sense of dominance, right? And his awareness of his loneliness So the very act of naming these creatures of land and sky proved mankind to be superior to them. Now that sounds like a lot to count and categorize within one day, but recall How the animal kinds discussed in Genesis 1 are closer to genus, right? Not species. So, as an example, the burst man didn't name every single specific bear. the brown bear, the grizzly bear, the black bear, Bernstein bear, you know um he didn't name all the bears, right? Um he only had to name their common ancestor, probably called it something like Dove based on, you know the Hebrew but Ota taxonomists um today call Ursus, right? of kinds as genus would bring the number down significantly. We're probably talking around a thousand creatures, similar to the number that entered Noah's Ark. I mentioned last week a Bible study book is Genesis History, and in it, the author imagines what busy what that busy Friday looked like. So, say at the crack of dawn. Um God creates all the land creatures. Right? By seven Adam was created. The first human um Would have watched God wondrously create the Garden of Eden by eight. Manny's breakfast. He gets to work naming all of the animals God brings him. So if we go like let's say four animals per minute he'd be done around noon, right? So that's four to five maybe So after lunch and a review of his work, Adam would have taken an afternoon nap. The first siesta in history, it was also the first surgery in history. After the successful operation, God brings the woman to man around. 3 p. m. They marry, spend the late afternoon together with God, have dinner, and gaze into the starry night. So that blessed arrangement. I'm not gonna try that. But anyway, so there's some speculation here, but that's probably how the day went. So but I got ahead of myself there, okay, outlining the whole day, so I should back up to about the midday. At this point Adam's tired from all the mental exercise, perhaps a bit emotionally tired too. Feeling what God said earlier, it is not good for man to be alone. After hours of searching for Adam, there was not found a helper comparable to him. He's learning by experience that humans are designed to receive personal human help. He still hasn't found what he's looking for, right? So Adam will get that help very soon. He's about to get something better than what he's ever imagined. It's better than the beautiful garden he saw rising out of the ground. It's better than the most meaningful career or the productive day of work. It's better than the majestic creatures of land and sky. As we get to the rest of Genesis 2, we get the second important human relational aspect. Humans are destined for intimate human union. So you see in Genesis 2. 21 that Yahweh Elohim caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam. Deep sleep, quickly, is one word in Hebrew. Tardema is the same word used. In Genesis fifteen, when in a dream vision, God made a covenant with Abraham. In first Samuel twenty-six, God sent deep sleep upon Saul and his men to hinder their pursuit of David. But unlike Saul, obviously Adam would wake up to delight, not dismay. While the man slept, the Lord took one of his ribs. Based on verse 23, I think it's safe to assume God removed both the fleshy part and the bony part. Then God seals up the man. He takes what's taken out of man to make a woman in verse 22. Okay. That word for make is built, right? Oh so made, right? So yes, as young folks like to say, she's built different, right? She's built different from all other creatures because she's a fellow image bearer with Adam. So she's also built different from male in function. That's why when she's brought to the man, it's unlike anything he's ever experienced. Adam realizes right then he's destined for intimate human union. In verse 23, we have the first Recorded words of Adam. Of course, he spoke earlier as he named the creatures. But here's where the animal scientist becomes the romantic poet. Discerning features of Hebrew poetry here, like if you look at your Pew Bibles and most other translations, man's words are cited with space before and after them. Okay, the editors want to point out that these words stand out from others. And they stand out not because of rhyme and meter as an English poetry, the important feature of Hebrew poetry is Parallelism, that's when two lines often restate or explain each other. So you can take Adam's words presented in four lines and group them into two pairs. See how bone of my bones in line one is symmetrical to the flesh of my flesh in line two, same idea. Line three, the name of the female woman is explained in line four, she was taken out of man. The man is basically saying, you belong to me because you came out of me, right? We share in humanity, but you're built different from me. I suppose it's easy to say that these two were meant for each other. It's like they're playing out that hypothetical question like if I'm the only woman alive on earth, would you want me? If I'm the only man left on this planet, would you marry me? I mean, if that isn't obvious enough, Lord God Himself plays matchmaker. So he addresses directly man's loneliness But we shouldn't make Genesis 2. 23 so logical and miss the passion behind Adam's words here. That adverb now and this is now bone of my bones might be better translated as at last. Right? At last, this is the bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh. At last, after all my searching and longing this day, at last my love has come along with Eda James voice. The two marry. And Adam can say to his descendants later, This is how I met your mother. The day I met her is the same day I married her, right? Pretty crazy love story, right? Simple as that. So this idea of marriage is God's gift to mankind. Right. It's what theologians call common grace. I mean nothing common about marriage, but it's great. But I'm just saying it's called common grace because it's given to all. It's not a sacrament or ordinance as the Catholics like to say So we Protestants say it's given to all mankind, it's given to all humanity as a lasting bond between man and woman until death. So and as we know, often good gifts come with important instruction manuals. In this case, we see them in the commentary of Moses. So we look at verse 24. Moses explains how a man and a woman become Mr. and Mrs. husband and wife. See how marriage has its proper context? It marriage has a biblical context. It's what we make it's not what we make of it, but how God defines it Right. Marriage has a family context. We leave our parents to cleave to our spouse. Marriage has an intimate context. There follows the consummation of marriage and the sexual union. The traditional Christian wedding ceremony drama dramatizes and plays out each step symbolically, right? So God's word hopefully is read and sung and taught in a sort of a worship service at the wedding ceremony. The father of the bride gives his daughter away. Mothers are on both sides are shedding tears. That's basically how our wedding went. Um the groom comes to take the bride, they make vows and seal them with you know rings which are visible signs. They share a kiss, which is a public symbol of their private consummation later. So Now, for sure, some like different cultures have different ways of celebrating the beginning of marriage. But if we want to get to the centrality of marriage, we must come back here to the Bible. We must get to the same page, the same page of the Bible. The essence of the holy matrimonies right here in Genesis two The chapter uh ends with verse 25, a note of their happiness in Eden. They have all that they need in provision and family. There's no sin, and so there's no shame. None of it in any part of their being, none of it in internal or external. They have nothing to hide and no one to hide from. They're one with God, they're one with each other. They demonstrate how humans are destined for intimate human union. Now here are some clarification and application. First I want to clarify that when I say destin, I don't mean that everyone will get married or even should get married Obviously Adam and Eve play a very important representative role as the first humans. Okay. So we went through it this in 1 Corinthians. Chapter 7, that marriage is in fact not meant for all. Various factors to consider. A faithful Christian, now this is from 2 Corinthians, but might have trouble finding a fellow believer. It's also talked about in 1 Corinthians 7, but or a Christian might be abandoned by an unbelieving spouse, right? An older widow or a widower may find it better to remain single. after after the uh departure there. So So in what sense are we all destined for intimate humanity Well remember from our scripture reading that Stephen read earlier in the service, Ephesians 5, 22 to 33. You might think that the union between Christ and his church is an illustration of marriage, but that would be backwards. It's better to say that in light of eternity to come, marriage is an illustration of the union between the world. between Christ and his church. When Ira and I started dating, we read this book by John Piper entitled This Momentary Marriage. A parable of permanence. The title and the subtitle say a lot. Marriage is a momentary thing pointing to something permanent. It's an earthly sign pointing to a heavenly reality. And some quotes, I don't have it up but so I'll just read it. basic stuff. Most foundationally, marriage is the doing of God, and ultimately marriage is the display of God. The highest meaning and the most ultimate purpose of marriage is to put the covenant relationship of Christ and his church on display. That is why marriage exists. If you are married, that is why you are married. If you hope to be, that should be your dream. Now I'd like to add that even if you don't get married, we must protect that institution of marriage, right? Help those who are married, right, and flee sexual immorality as a single person. Hebrews thirteen four, marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. First Corinthians six, fifteen to twenty Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. Or do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her? For the two, he says, shall become one flesh But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him, flee sexual immorality. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you are from God and you are not your own? For you are bought at a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. I mean the message to Christians is obvious, but then what do we do about unbelievers who very often take marriage out of context? They may have the order of things wrong, or they may not even care what the Bible says. Well again I say that marriage is a gift to all mankind, like the sunshine and rain, right? Given to the wicked and the good, the just and the unjust. So personally I would attend and participate in any Christian wedding, I'm non-Christian wedding, as long as there's no like obvious things like I don't know, is there idol worship there? Then I'm not going. But if it's a non-Christian getting married in a traditional marriage, I would go, but there are certain limits, okay So over a year ago, the beloved popular preacher, Alistair Begg, advised a grandmother to attend her grandson's wedding to a transgender person. Begg not only told her to go, but also bring a gift. Right. Now I disagree with Beck's counsel and so did many others. The disagreement here, just want to be clear, doesn't does not discredit all the good that Beck has done, Alistair Beck has done, is doing, and I'm sure will do. Okay? But it's sort of like a teaching moment for many of us. What would you do in the same situation? What if you get an invite to such a wedding? For me I can't in good conscience celebrate an LGBTQ plus wedding, right? Even if all I'm doing is attending, I'm playing a role. I'm doing a lot, right? Showing support and informally serving as a witness To me, it's clear such events directly contradict the meaning of marriage. This doesn't fall under disputable for non-essential matters. The Bible is clear: marriage is between male and female. Right. And the different simple unions are vile against nature, shameful and erroneous, as Romans 1 tells us. I don't expect the world to know all that uh all that God says about marriage, like we just talked about how it points to Christ and the church. But all weddings should celebrate the union of male and female. So what's the alternative? I would politely decline, right? Maintain the relationship if possible, I guess, and be a witness of the gospel. I can say how it was God who first knew that it's not good for man to be alone. I can say marriage is our creator's idea between male and female. And then hopefully I have the opportunity to point my hearers to something even better than the bliss of marital union. Many romances end with a familiar closing line, and they live happily ever after. But even that comes to an end. Inevitably, someday death will do us part. Tragically, many marriages end in divorce or abandonment. Regrettably, sexual immorality, pornography, infidelity, abuse, plague our society and destroy bonds of trust Sin and consequences of sin ruin even the best relationships. But if we follow that sign of marriage, which is ephemeral, to where it leads, we'll see the beauty of the gospel. Again, we look back to the writings of Paul. Christ is the head of the church. He deserves this title because he is the image of the invisible God. He pre-exists before all things, and he is pre-eminent in all things. And he became the Savior of the body. God the Son became Son of Man in the person of Jesus In his infinite grace, immense mercy, and amazing love, he left his father's throne above. He lived a perfect life. When he entered public ministry, John the Baptist came along, rejoicing like the friend of the groom, like the best man of a wedding. He understood that Jesus came to claim his bride, his people, his church. This is the most intimate and holy of human unions. But this union came at a cost. To receive his bride, Jesus gave himself for her. He went to the cross for sinners, sinners who lust, cheat, and covet. Sanctify and cleanse his bride to present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing. He paid the price, the price of redemption. Christ had rumcated with his own precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And he paid it in full, though he never sinned. He laid down his life, he became our substitute, he paid the penalty of sin that we should pay, the wrath of God for our sins. After completing his work, he breathed. His last and died. He was buried, but on the third day he rose from the grave. He presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs. He was seen by his disciples for forty days, and then he ascended to sit at the Father's right hand, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. The good news of Jesus calls for a response. Repent and believe. Repent, that is, turn from sin and self-righteousness. Believe, turn to Christ and trust in Him only for salvation. You cannot earn it or be good enough. God saves us by grace alone, through faith I'll close with a T V quote and two Christian quotes. Right. I remember watching a tr mystery drama show. I won't reveal the name so that I don't spoil anything. But in it, a husband discovers his wife's dark, violent past. She comes clean and even offers to show him all the details, all the dirt, but the husband refuses to see it and says, The problems of your past are your business, the problems of your future are my privilege. It's like one of the most poignant lines I've ever heard on TV. Sounds very romantic, right? Okay. But there's something more beautiful in the gospel. Jesus doesn't say your past is yours, your present and future are mine. No, he takes all of you. All that you were, all that you are, and all that you will be. There is Martin Luther who compares our saving faith to a wedding ring. Faith unites the soul to Christ, as the wife to the husband, by which mystery, as the apostle teaches. Christ and the soul are made one flesh. Jesus, by the wedding ring of faith, takes a share in the sins, death, and hell of his wife. Nay, makes them his own, and deals with them no otherwise than as if they were his, and as if he himself had sinned. When he suffers, dies, and that he may overcome all things. Since sin, death, and hell cannot swallow him up, they must needs be swallowed up by him It's by faith we enjoy this glorious union with Christ, as mysterious as it is. God's holy servant owns for himself unworthy sinners like you and me. He whose eyes are too pure to behold evil cleanses and accept us as a chaste virgin. So in our marriages, especially as Christians, we have a chance to display this good news. Here's the last quote. Tim Keller writes on the meaning of marriage in a book by the same title. The gospel is this: we are more sinful and flawed in ourselves than we ever dare believe. Yet at the very same time we are more loved and accepted in Jesus Christ than we ever dared hope The single that love now see from his head, his hands, his feet. Sorrow and love flow mingled down. Did ere such love and sorrow me, or thorns composed so rich a crown? Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Let's pray So we thank you for marriage. Thank you for Just how important it is in our society and just um through the marriages of our parents, grandparents, Lord the human race continues and Lord we see we go back to the very origins to Genesis and see what it was meant to be, how and we lament how things have just um turned to so much perversions and disappointments. We see that one to blame is sin and really no one else to blame but ourselves who are sinners. But Lord, we thank you that just as the image in us contain Or the ideal of marriage is maintained in the Bible. And we can see it as a sign. Signpost that points to your son sacrificing himself for the bride, his body, the church. And Lord, for us who are saved, we thank you for this. And Lord, we look forward to that Mary Supper of the Lamb. Lord, as we are living as betrothed in this world, looking forward to that just that um that meeting in the future, we pray that you would help us To live pure lives, live lives of resisting sin, being faithful to you, forsaking our idols, and turning to you. Say, All I have is Christ. So we thank you and we pray that we would uh just determine to live our lives and an expression of gratitude to love our spouses and and and as singles to pursue purity and to s and as uh children to pray for our um the marriages of our parents and our grandparents. Lord just help us to do that each and every day. Again, because we know that we are destined for union with your Son Jesus Christ. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.