So again, as I said last week, good to be back. Besides the VVS, I think I'm mostly back to my routine. And just sort of reflecting and looking back, I don't know if I'm getting old, but I'm starting to like the more the the slower paced vacations. I mean touring the city's fun, but I enjoy more like the calm beaches. or a rural landscape. Like to spend less time moving around and more time sitting, relaxing, reading. You know, exciting thing about vacations, I get to maybe catch up on some leisurely reading some grab some good books. Like think about when the last time maybe you picked up one of those gripping titles, those that you can't put down, right? Those that you maybe you finish mit within a matter of days, at most a week. Well, hopefully, first of all, it's the Bible that you can't put down, but maybe there are other books, right? It's okay. And one on my to read list is a book published last year. And I think the whole title and the the contents of it got me interested. It's by Annie Jacobson, entitled Nuclear War: A Scenario. It's a read that defies genres, right? Some call it nonfiction. Jacobson is, after all, a respected investigative journalist. She has meticulously researched the protocols, the systems, the retaliatory measures in place in case of nuclear war. But still it's fiction in that it's nuclear war a scenario. Like what would happen if like multiple countries started bombing each other? I mean sure it's realistic, but it hasn't happened. And that and yet many readers are fascinated, even while they're terrified of what might happen. Why? Because they think it could happen or it might happen. And if sales and reviews mean anything, people are interested, very interested in how this world might end. I'm here about this book everywhere, you know, podcasts, blogs. Got me excited about reading it. And then I realized something. Okay, so there's already a catastrophe that ended almost every life. There was already a cataclysmic global event that changed world history. It's in the Bible, in the early chapters. Long ago the world that then existed perished, being flooded with water. We read that earlier in 2 Peter 3. So last time I preached, we began a new section of Genesis. The headings found in chapter 6, verse 9. This is the genealogy of Noah. From there to the end of chapter 9, the narrator focuses on this man of faith. Like Abel before him, Noah by faith was righteous before God. Like Enoch before him, Noah walked with God. And if he walked by faith and not by sight, he was divinely warned of things not yet seen. He got busy. He got moving with godly fear He prepared an ark for the saving of his household. He heard his orders, and Genesis 6:22 says, Thus Noah did according to all that God commanded him, so he did. So his hands were not idle, and his lips were not idle either. In the world of unrighteousness, he was a preacher of righteousness. So Noah prepared and preached for decades. And as we begin chapter 7, we fast forward to a week before the flood. Let's read from Verse one to sixteen. Genesis seven, one to sixteen. And the Lord said to Noah, Come into the ark, you and all your household, because I have seen that you are righteous before me in this generation. You shall take with you seven each of every clean animal, a male and his female, two each of animals that are unclean, a male and his female, and seven each of birds of the air, male and female, to keep the species alive on the face of all. the earth. For after seven more days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will destroy from the face of the earth all living things that I have made. And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him Noah was six hundred years old when the flood waters were on the earth. So Noah with his w sons, his wife, and his sons' wives went into the ark because of the waters of the flood. Of clean animals, of animals that are unclean, of birds, and of everything that creeps on the earth, two by two they went into the ark to Noah, male and female, as God had commanded Noah. And it came to pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were on the earth. In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month. On that day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened. And the rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights. On the very same day Noah and Noah's sons, Shem, Ham and Jephet, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them enter the ark, they and every beast after its kind, all cattle after their kind, every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind, and every bird up after its kind, every bird of every sort. And they went into the ark to Noah, two by two, of all flesh, in which is the breath of life. Those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him, and the Lord shut them in. Days, weeks, months, years, and decades have passed since God spoke to Noah about the ark and the flood in the last ten verses. of chapter 6. The Lord breaks the silence in chapter 7, verse 1. Again, that's a week before the flood waters arrive. And then you skip down to verse 10. There's another time marker. See what happens after those seven days. And we'll look at more details, but for now we can easily divide up today's passage into two parts. Verse. Verses 1 to 9 and 10 to 16. To reinforce this outline, observe how verses 9 and 16 both end with this key phrase went in as God had commanded. Went in as God had commanded. What did God command? The answer is simple. It's in verse 1, which reads, Then the Lord said to Noah, Come into the ark. In one sense, it doesn't get easier than this. God predicted the flood, the flood came to be. He said to enter, Noah and others entered. Let's put more meat on that. As Noah departed for this unforgettable getaway, we have today two takeaways. These are vital as the final countdown for judgment reaches zero. The sand in the hourglass trickles down as when divine long-suffering ways no longer I could just call them principles, but for fans of traveling like my wife, I call these two principles last boarding instructions. You know, instructions like arrive on time, have your ID with you, find your seat. Except Noah and his family were not merely headed for a pleasant vacation. Their final destinations. a new world. When they disembark, the former world they once knew will be no more. There's of course a parallel with us as well. We too patiently wait for the judgment of God, but this time by fire. There will be a new heaven and new earth afterwards. The two last wording instructions are as follows. One, first, enter into divine salvation to worship and obey God. Secondly, rest in divine judgment as the remnant of God. Enter and rest. First morning instruction: Enter into divine salvation to worship and obey God. Look at verse 1 again. How is Noah righteous before God? This is a question I began with last time, and I have to begin again, and we have to talk about Noah's faith. His is a saving fee. It got him a ticket into the ark. It's a genuine fee, granted graciously by the Lord. It's an imitable faith shared by his wife, sons, and daughters in law. It's a commendable faith that led God to say to him, I have seen that you are righteous before me in this generation. You have to be sure to have this faith in yourselves as well. But realize first and foremost that we cannot be righteous in and of ourselves. The Lord created us and loved us, but we rebelled and turned against him. Left to ourselves, we are corrupt. We're filled with violence. Within us are murder and hatred, guilty of idolatry, blasphemy, and lust. The sentence we deserve is the same with us as as at all times in human history. There's none righteous, no not one. There's none who understands. There's none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. Together become unprofitable. There's none who does good. No, not one. God is perfectly just to punish us and send us to hell for our sins. But the Lord did not leave us as we are. He sent his son, Christ Jesus, God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life. Unlike us, he's righteous in and of himself. He gave many proofs of his divine authority. So this righteous one should have been worshipped, but he was not. He was rejected by a wicked and adulterous generation. Jesus was betrayed and arrested by authorities. Even that was part of God's plan of redemption, though. Those crucified in weakness for our sakes, endure the wrath of God in our place to pay the penalty of our sins. He gave his life as a ransom for many. He declared his work finished at the cross, he was buried. But on the third day he rose from the grave. To the apostles, his followers, earliest followers, he presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs. Being seen by them for forty days, then he ascended to heaven and now sits at the right hand of the Father. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind Again by fire. That day is a day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. So now is the time to repent and believe in the gospel to be saved Something all of us need to know and tell others that tomorrow is not guaranteed. You could face eternity without Christ. It could be next hour, next minute, next second, who knows when. To turn from the crooked ways and forsake self-righteousness, turn to Jesus, who invites you to enter heaven through him. The door is open now. He said, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. These are the words of Jesus. Inviting. All may enter now, but a day is coming when none may enter. Someday the door will close permanently. As was the case with Noah's Ark, the Lord Himself was shut it. I compel you and all who are listening to come in while there's still time. There's plenty of room on board, but no room for pride, no space for works righteousness. Life in Jesus is a gift, undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. And as we enter into divine salvation, we're transformed. The Lord gives us new desires and purposes. One of those purposes is worship. I derived this idea from verses 2 to 3. I'll reread them, but this time from the New American Standard Bible translation. I think the Nazbi translates the original more accurately, and easier to see what's going on here. You shall take with you seven pairs of every clean animal, a male and his female. And two of the animals that are not clean, a male and is female. Also of the birds of the sky, seven pairs, male and female, to keep their offspring alive. on the face of all the earth. I just have two comments on this translation. The first is the easy one. The word behind species in our Pew Bible, NKJ Is better translated as offspring. Actually, seed in the KJV, the older KJV King James Version is better too. That's because in modern English, the word species is a specific and techno technical taxonomical term. It does not correspond and align with the category of creatures that enter Noah's Ark. Now for the harder translation issue, in the original there's this phrase where the word seven is repeated. Verse 2 literally says You shall take with you seven seven of every clean animal. Verse 3 literally says, also seven seven of birds of the air. So two and three have the Race 7-7. And I'll spare you up further details, but I think the repetition of seven conveys pairs, as we see in the NASV Just know if all this is starting to make your eyes heavy, right? That God's one God wants in the ark extra numbers of clean animals and flying creatures. Why don't you just say that at the beginning? Anyway, now you might say there are two group reservations booked in Noah's Floating Hotel. Okay, that's one way to put it. There's a block of rooms for clean animals, the ancestors of cow and sheep. There's another block for various flying types like turtle doves and owls. Okay, so but why have these extras on board? What's with their preferential treatment? Well the clean animals are clean because they can be offered to God, as we'll see later. Look ahead to chapter 8, verse 20. And you'll see why more of them were needed. As Noah worships the Lord after the flood, he'll offer on an altar some of the clean creatures like goats, you know, the usual what we see later in the Bible. Some of the birds are also clean like pigeons. So it turns out this idea of certain creatures being acceptable to God predates the time of Moses. And besides the sacrificial use, these creatures are also vital for survival. A lot of these clean animals are easily domesticated. Sheep can be consumed as food once a meat diet's allowed. Oxen, being strong as they are, can be used for farm labor. As for the wing creatures, you know. Their survival literally has far-reaching effects in the post-flood world environment. Imagine seed-eating flyers like finches and sparrows that migrate to distant lands. It'll be vital to ecosystems all over the globe for for it to become green and verdant again. For example, here's one way they'd help. According to one scientific study, seeds that pass through a digestive system of of a bird have a 370% better survival rate than the than those that do not Right. So having extra sky creatures, swallowing seas and you know what the rest is. Um is wise, right? It's according to God's plan of preservation. So the next time you see bird poof on your car, just be thankful, right? Don't get mad. It's all part of God's plan, right? So in verses two to three, God prepares Noah for life after the flood. The world changes, but the Lord remains the same. He's always worthy of our devotion and worship and sacrifice. But first things first, Noah and everyone else must follow his boarding instruction. Enter into divine salvation to worship and obey God. So let's continue with verse 4. For after seven more days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will destroy from the face of the earth all living things that I have made. Then as we saw in chapter 6, verse 22, Noah obeys in 7, verse 5 And as he did last few decades, years, and months, he continues to do down to the last few days, hours, and seconds. Noah heard the commands of God and he did them faithfully. I borrow from the teachings of Jesus to illustrate Noah's life here. This obedient man who built the ark before the flood is like the wise man who built his house on the rock. The rain will descend, the floods will come, the winds will blow and beat on it, and it will not fall. Let me stop for a quick application. Whether it's Noah or us, often the work of obedience is dull and difficult. Long and laboring, rough and repetitive. We just flip a page and we're like, oh, we're here at the day of the judgment. Fast forward to like years of Noah's life But we've got to remember, not all of Noah's days were filled with amazing prophecies of God or the waters of the deluge. Many of his days were quiet, uneventful, unexcited. Check in, check out, right? That's often how obedience looks like day to day, day after day. In parallel, I feel this personally, even in ministry. you know, preparing sermons at my desk and sharing the gospel at the mall. The light doesn't you know flash from heaven when I pre you know prepare sermons And as many of you know all too well, the nine to five can be a grind. You know you're obeying God, but it's not easy. Your body literally creaks in the morning as you crawl out of bed for another day, another day. Right. Your mind doesn't turn off in the evening as you think about all the things you have to do. It's as if the power button on the remote control is stuck. Can't turn it off And of course, with parenting, you never get a break. I realize more and more, once you have kids, I think this my wife told me, you don't take vacations, you have family trips. And trust me, there's a difference. On a more serious and positive note, you know, this is another thing I talked about with my wife. Parenting is hard only if you want to be a good parent. If you want to be a bad parent, it's pretty easy A good parent who wants to train up children in the way they should go, right? As Proverbs twenty-two says And more generally speaking, to be good followers of Christ, we accept this truth. Not every year looks like Noah's year six hundred. Not every month looks like month number two. Not every day looks like day seventeen. But surely there's a reward ahead for all the saints who remain faithful daily. Because Noah lived an ordinary life of obedience, he witnessed extra obedience. Ordinary things. There's a payoff in verse 6. And joining him in faith are seven others, as we see in verse 7. Finally joining the eight humans are all the creatures of verses eight and nine. Remember Noah and his family didn't have to go hunt and trap them with cages, snares, lassos, and Leashes, whatever they used back then. As chapter six, verse twenty says, they came to him. And that would have been quite a scene Creatures big and small, land and sky, lining up male and female, two by two, probably walking up some kind of gangway through the entrance. Once inside they're led into their rooms. I imagine that most of these last seven days were spent arranging, rearranging, experimenting, tweaking, checking, and double checking, etc. etc. But I'll speak a bit more about the specific animals later, but for now let's move on to the second of the two last 40 instructions, verses 1 to 9. Taught us the first to enter into divine salvation, to worship and obey God. Moving on to verse 10. Here's the second. Rest in divine judgment as the remnant of God. You know, before we had kids who of course get restless in their seat belts, my favorite part of traveling was finally plopping down on the seat. security, your luggage is still right. There's of course one more thrill, you know. If the seat next to you turns out to be vacant for the flight I know you guys all wished for it before. Now you can relax and then put your I can put my phone on airplane mode, chat with my wife, watch a movie, read some books, take a nap, on and on. Similarly, as the flood arrives, all that Noah, his family, their furry, leathery, feathery friends can do is rest in the ark. As we see in verse 10, judgment begins as predicted on an unforgettable day. Guessing was kind of like December 7, 1941. History guys, you know what that is. Pearl Harbor. It's kind of like November twenty-second, nineteen sixty-three. Kennedy assassination. It's like September 11, 2001. I remember when I where I was, I was sort of aging myself, but I was a college student at University of Maryland. My mom was working in DC at the time, so imagine my worry when I heard about the third plane. Again, unforgettable. Back to Genesis, even though Noah and his crew were not caught off guard, it was still a day they remember forever. In verse 11, the narrator, Moses gives us not only the year, but the month and the day. Whatever day was on our calendar, specifics there indicate its importance. This date is as monumental, if not more monumental, than the journeys days of Exodus. Or the holy days of the law. It was a day when all the fountains of the great deep were broken up and the windows of heaven were opened. Now some object to this and say there can't be enough water to flood the whole world. But keep in mind that most of the water came from below and not from above. I'm no geologist, but the respected Christian ones that I consulted have confirmed how this could have happened. Science helps confirm the credibility of a global flood. About 10 years ago, there was a diamond discovered in Brazil. It has rapidly risen to the surface. It was as if it was volcanically vomited from deep below. Well the thing had no value to jewellers, but it did contain in it a mineral called ringwoodite, named after an Australian geologist who first discovered it Well, here's what's interesting about this mineral. The ringwoodite has a unique crystalline structure. This structure enables it to hold relatively more water than other minerals. Now, the small discovered sample by itself wouldn't hold much, but imagine much more of this mineral beneath us, below us. Think of the colossal size of the underground zone beneath us. Dr. Andrew Snelling concludes that there could be at least as much water stored there as in all of the world's oceans. Now imagine a scenario in which there are major catastrophic plate tectonics and volcanic activity occurring everywhere at once. Then there will be enough water released to flood the whole world. Now, thanks to God's promise, we as Christians know that that won't happen again, now or in the future, but it did happen. In the past, in Noah's days. The water was gushing everywhere, rising from beneath the surface to above the surface Combine these subterranean explosions with the torrential downpour in verse 12, and we have the global flood. The rest of today's passage may sound less exciting and a bit repetitive. Verses 13 to 16 mostly summarize and restate previously known material and bring some details together. But they do help us identify the remnant of God. For example, in verse 13, Moses spells out the names of Noah's three sons. In verse 14, we're reminded that creatures of various kinds enter the ark. Recall that this word kind likely corresponds to the modern taxonomy term genus That amounts to about a thousand to thirteen hundred kinds. That's how many Adam had to name on day six. For Noah, even with the extra clean animals and the birds accounted for, we're likely talking that less than seven thousand. Inside the ark. Certainly, dinosaurs were among them. My son likes to ask if the stegosaurus, his favorite dinosaur, made it into the ark. I don't have the heart to say no, so I usually say yes, but add a disclaimer, most likely there was a you know small, tinier version or young version, whatever it was, nothing too big, right? That's because most of the creatures inside were of smaller size, like sheep. But small, medium, large, whatever the size, verse 15 tells us what they had in common. They were male and female, binary and gender. So as they walked up the gangway, maybe a large plank, they went up in pairs. They looked like newlyweds walked down the aisle on board to their honeymoons. There were couples like Mr. and Mrs. Beaver. All of them are composed of flesh in which is the breath of life, Ruakhaim, that distinguishes these creatures from plants and vegetables, grass, herbs, and trees. We wrap up today with verse 16. So these living creatures, breeding creatures, enter with their mates There's that phrase again. Went in as God has commanded. We saw it in verse 9, and we see it here. All that remains for them now is to rest in divine judgment as the remnant of God. Again, much of what we see in verses thirteen through sixteen are repetitive, but in this final verse for today, there's a very significant detail. It adds a s a f uh solemn finality to it all. It's our last phrase. And the Lord shut amen. The gospel implications here in verse 16, just as there were in verse 1, I mean that the same God who said, Come into the ark, also close the door. You and I can meditate on this phrase and the Lord shut him in and talk for hours about it. But I'll just speak of two applications. As we end. First, think about what this phrase says about our deity. Secondly, think about what this phrase says about our duty. First, remember remember that our deity, God, is righteous, just as he is kind. The same God who loves the world to send his son, to save it, judges the world, as guilty before him The one who says today, come in, enter into life. Will someday answer those knocking at the door. I do not know you. Where you are from. Jesus, who sets before you an open door no one can shut, will someday also close and shut that door of life. And no one will enter through it again. To neglect this hard truth of divine justice and eternal judgment is to be cruel and unloving to ourselves and to our neighbors and to those we love. If we leave out this teaching, we'd be proclaiming a God made in our image, not the God of the Bible. We have to skip over the key doctrines of sin, fall, and judgment. We lose our chance to magnify God's other wonderful attributes, His sovereignty, His grace, His patience. And yes, his love. As we look at this phrase, and the Lord shut him in, know what he says about our deity. Be sure to proclaim the one and only true God of the scriptures. And represent him accurately. And that is indeed our duty, to teach others about the judge of the universe. In this phrase, the Lord shut amen is the motivation, the drive, the impetus, the urgency to share the gospel. I remember one of my theology professors at seminary named James Mook. He was a large, passionate man. He looks like one of those football linemen, you know, ready to pancake you. And once you're floored, he might smack you in your face with those heavy systematic theology books from like Burkhop or Grudem or something. But and he was known for his notoriously difficult quizzes, exams, papers. His notes were like 500 pages long, especially his classes covering the doctrines of Scripture and Trinity. But there's still much I learned from him. I appreciate him. And I recall him fondly. But there's one something he said in particular, one thing he said that stays with me as I'm doing ministry. A church that does not evangelize will die. A church that does not evangelize will die. It wasn't the most profound thing, Dr. Mook said, far from it. It wasn't the most original, as others before him have expressed the same thought, but it's true. All this, the services, the Sunday schools, the council, the committees, youth group, awana won't last and amount to much if we don't evangelize and keep the gospel central to our task. If we don't tell the lost about the Lord who shuts the door, it's possible our church doors will be shut, as our lampstands removed. It's not all doom and gloom. I take comfort in this. It's the fact that it's the Lord who shuts the door. It's God who judges. Makes my job easier when I share the good news. It's like, you got a problem with what I'm saying? Take it up with God who said it. You know? I'm not the one who came up with the exclusivity claims of the gospel. I'm just a herald, an ambassador, so take it up with God. But like Noah. Or to be preachers of righteousness, this is our duty. The Lord will shut the door, right? We must say that God not only justifies, he is also just We must do this with godly love for our neighbor. Present Jesus as the one who saves us, preserves us, and shields us. Pray that the last song we sing today motivates you as it goes, for the Lord is good and faithful. He will keep us day and night. We can always run to Jesus. Jesus, strong and kind. Let's pray. Well, we thank you for your word. Thank you for a straightforward account of what happened long ago. We thank you that you are just You're clear in your word that you judge the sinners, you judge this world. And Lord, you've sovereignly placed us at this time in history Lord and there's unique circumstances and tasks that we may have, but ultimately the Great Commission continues in this church age. So help us. To teach the truth from Genesis to Revelation, that you judge this world once and you will do it again. And the time to repent is now. Today is the acceptable time. Pray that you will give us the urgency. And also, Lord, may we be grateful that you invited us in. And you cause us to be born again and that we may enter into life. Pray that not just fear, but gratitude Would motivate us to serve you and love you. And like Noah, live by faith and to do what that uh to do as you told us to do. Christ's name we pray. Amen.