Okay, sorry for uh uh not having the projector screen up. Um but you know, church has existed without projector screens for a long time and we'll be fine. You have all the information you need at the bulletin. Um hopefully you can listen here and just um yeah, this sermon title being Oh man, that's something I say with my son Say to my son a lot and but want to talk about awe as an AWE, right, and what why we should be in awe of God's creation. But before I get to that, just I hope you enjoyed good meals with good friends and family just last few days if you were to maybe Maybe um recount the conversations around the table. Maybe you could name a few topics. Um was it politics? That always gets the blood boiling, you know. Or perhaps a relatively less controversial topic like sports, you know, I feel like I'm paying the price for praising the Washington Commanders during the sermon last week. And you know now we're in the middle of a three-game losing streak. Hoping that'll change today. So politics and sports are well-trodden subjects, common talking points. But these days I find myself discussing something that just a few years ago sounded like something out of a dystopian Science fiction novel, artificial intelligence, how should I feel about it? Call up my friends who are in that field as if they have all the answers and You know, how should I feel about it? Like what am I supposed to do? You know? Is it merely a tool to make my life and work easier Or is AI a threat to my existence, my employment, you know, my religion, you know, my boss? You know? In heaven, right? But really, will a hologram or T V screen replace me up here at the pulpit? Is that the future of churches? Now human beings feeling threatened about their human self-worth, nothing new. I was recently reading a book about the biblical ethics of work. In it I came across a story that hit It's close to home. And I mean literally close to home as the story relates to Bethlehem Steel. Sparrows Point, you guys know where that is, about thirty minutes from here. Was the site of a large industrial complex owned by Bethlehem Steel. In its heyday, Bethlehem Steel employed a mechanical engineer. Named Frederick Winslow Taylor. His experiments with high-speed steel revolutionized the machining industry It was literally cutting-edge technology. But not only alloy material resources, Taylor also impacted how we think about human resources. Through what's called the scientific management. Scientific management deals with analysis and synthesis of workflows. We're talking about rationalizing production, economic efficiency, and labor productivity. Taylor's ideas made up what's called Taylorism. Now I won't bore you with more details except this one One of Taylor's case studies at Bethlehem Steel involves those shoveling coal. At first, almost 600 men each had his own shovel and method of shoveling. But Taylor studied thousands of hours of work to determine the most efficient shape of the shovel and the most efficient method of shoveling. He implemented changes and tightly monitored the workers. The result was 1A Two-thirds reduction of the need for workers and two the tripling of the daily average production of what's shoveled. The laborers, maybe you expect This is they were furious, right? They felt dehumanized. They no longer have autonomy over their work. It's all about efficiency. Because Taylor valued standardization and uniformity, the workers felt like slaves. The machines did better work than them. But it doesn't seem so different now, a uh century later, except that it's not only the factory workers and mill workers Who feel the threat. Maybe writers, programmers, drivers, and designers feel their walls closing in too. I think a famous actress, Kate Lenchin, was talking about how she felt threatened. So as Christians living in this age, do we have any answer to the increasing anxiety and uneasiness? Yes, I do think ancient scriptures have relevant answers to AI-generated philosophical debates. We should keep calm and read Psalms, as we've been saying. More specifically, open up to Psalm 8. We covered up to verse 2 last time. Today we'll go from verse 3 to the end. So let's read Psalms eight, three to nine When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? For you have made him a little lower than the angel Angels and you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth Some initial observations on the structure of the passage. I mentioned last time that the first part of verse 1 repeats in verse 9. That's a literary device called inclusio. With this repetition, there's a particular emphasis put on the repeated words. The words are thematic. And the theme here is the excellence of God's name. So I'll treat verse 9 by itself and it'll help us wrap up this psalm later. As for verses 3 to 8, we can treat 3 to 4 as one unit, 5 to 6 as another. The conjunction translated as when begins verse 3 up to verse 4. Davis wondering about his human existence in light of God's creation He's amazed that such a glorious creator would even think of him. The verses that follow explain how mankind stands above all other creatures. Four verbs bind verses five to eight together. In the second person, directly addressing God as the subject, you have done this, you have done that. Three of these verses Have the uh three of these verbs, have the third person suffix attached, indicating the human as a direct object, made him, a little lower, crown him, made him to have dominion. Our Creator has privileged humanity. David helps us grasp the first among many thoughts God has toward us. And again, we've come full circle. Knowing God's thoughts toward us, we ought to worship Him. We declare God's excellent name through all the earth. As we repeat the refrain, it hits different the second time around. What's between verses 1 and 9 provide even more motivation to praise the Lord We've seen the greatness of God as we zoom out to the vast universe. We've seen His graciousness as we zoom in to frail humanity. We appreciate God our Creator more than ever, as we remember we're His image-bearers. These are precious truths as we seek to understand our place in this technological age. So as we continue our coverage of Psalm eight, I propose three biblical principles for humanizing humans. So I'll be a little bit slower because we don't have the projection. Here, three biblical principles for humanizing humans. First, think of how the Creator thinks of us. Think of how the Creator thinks of us. That's verses three to four. And I'll repeat these points later so if you don't get them. Secondly, recall that God has privileged us. Recall that God has privileged us. That's five to eight Thirdly, praise our Lord to make him famous. Praise our Lord to make him famous. That's verse 9. Again, circling back to verse 1. Think of how the Creator thinks of us. Recall that God has privileged us. Praise our Lord to make him famous. The first way to humanize humans we see here is to think of how the Creator thinks of us. We don't know exactly when and where David was inspired to write this psalm, but here's a good guess. I imagine the psalmist out in some beautiful grassy field. He's meditating on the great name and glory of the Lord. He's heard from distance sounds of children playing and thought about how God even uses these little ones to ordain strength Because late in the day, David looks up to see the night sky lit up by the moon and the stars. He knew that God simply spoke these in to existence but he compares that act to the skilled work of artisans, painters and potters Have you ever done what David does here? Have you looked up to the brightness and the immensity of celestial bodies? They look down at the dullness and the triviality of our fleshly bodies. Have you done what Ideah has done, consider the one who sits above the circle of the earth, stretches out the heavens like a curtain, spreads them out like a tent to dwell While we the inhabitants of earth are like grasshoppers, as he says in Isaiah forty twenty-two Perhaps it happened on a vacation or a road trip. Maybe a mindful stargazing will stop your mindless navel gazing. You might even start to think of how the creator thinks of you. Me. Now I recall many years ago, going on a week-long summer mission trip to Flagstadt, Arizona. The missionary gave us uh two unforgettable experiences: one at night, the other during day. First, one evening he led us up some hill through pitch black darkness, guiding us only with his voice. At some point he told us to lie down flat on our backs, and there it was the most beautiful summer sky. I've ever witnessed, I felt as if I could reach up and touch the stars. What a treat that was. Then later, after our weeks worth of work, we're he headed to the ground. Grand Canyon. That was that was a wonderful experience as well. I never felt so small and yet so full of wonder at the same time Now I say all this with the assumption that it's a good feeling to feel powerless and little. Why should that be? We want to feel big, right? Well I'm betraying a conviction I share with David, the creator of all things, who literally literally has bigger things going on in faraway galaxies. You know, superclusters and supernovas, you know, cares for you and me. There's reportedly 200 billion trillion stars in the universe or 2006 million. I didn't even know that was Surely he has better things to do that than to count the number of hairs on your head. But he does. Really, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the Son of Man that you visit him? The question reveals David's amazement that work for Man Enosh depicts mankind in its weakness. It might even help to paraphrase, what is this mortal? Yeah, there's us that God cares for. As Robert Grant reminds us in his hymn, We children of dust are feeble and frail. Yet we occupy the mind of the King of Glorious Above, the ancient of days. billion in splendor and girded with praise. It's to little old poor me that he displays his bountiful care. Mercies tender And firm. Love unchanging. He's mindful of us, David says. The verb is literally remember, which sounds strange, applied to the omniscient All-knowing God. The other verb, visit, also sounds strange, apply to the omnipresent, everywhere present existent God But a commentary by the influential scholar Gerald Wilson's helpful. He wrote a commentary called NIV application commentary. And I'll just read the quote here. Creatures are instructive. The first comes from the Hebrew root zakar, which indicates remembering, calling to mind. It is the way I recall and remember my son living in another city. state. The distance recedes as my mind calls him up and dwells in care on him. The second is from the root takad, which can mean something like hunt of, seek out, long for, take care of. It is as if God's calling to mind his human creature. Creatures spark such a longing for them that he must seek them out and lavish care on them. What an incredible image of divine care and love. So the next time you're tempted to despair, cheer up, think of how the Creator thinks of us. There may be creatures stronger than the strongest man. Artificial intelligence brighter than the human intelligence But nothing in this present or the future, nothing already created through all ages or will be created in the cyber age can replace us as the object of God's love in Christ. More on how we can experience God's love through Christ later. But first let's finish David's thought and look at the second biblical principle for humanizing humans. Recall that God has privileged us. We go on with David's thoughts here. And please know that David's thoughts here are nothing like the pantheistic nature meditation. He doesn't just empty his mind, simply feel all or feel inspired in the abstract. His heart and mind land and stand upon the concrete, firm foundation of God's Word. So it should not be difficult for us to trace his meditations back to the early parts of the Bible to be specific. David's taking us all the way back to the sixth day of creation in Genesis 1 and 2. So you could say Psalm 8, 5 to 8 is David's theology of creationism. Perhaps you never thought about David as a theologian, but that's who he is here. This is his Holy Spirit-inspired study. I call it Davis Genesis 8. 2, day number six. Now it helps to compare day six with previous day four and day five. Mankind has affinities with the heavenly lights of day four, were created to rule. Right? rain. Mankind also has affinities with earthly creatures of sea and sky on day five were created to reproduce. Day six would have looked a lot like day five, except that God saved the best for last. Okay? This is better than the best Black Friday deal. He revealed his most prized work for the very end of the week. Genesis 1, 26-27 provide the blueprint You guys should know this, right? At least for track I think we mem had the kids memorize this. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air. And over the cattle, over all the earth, over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. Again, I like Gerald Wilson's commentary on this. Having created humans as weak and powerless creatures With one foot firmly planted in the creaturely world, they share with the other animated beasts created on the sixth day. God goes on to plant the other human foot squarely and uniquely. Uniquely in the divine realm, both by the unique gift of the divine image and by the role of responsibility and authority given only to humans. The earthly creaturely realm, one foot in the divine realm, to that image of God that they have. This is basically what David was thinking, just in modern terms, even if we don't write psalms or commentaries We too should recall that God has privileged us. Now, as for the exact definition of God's image in us, best we can do is narrow it down to a few choices. um three major views of the image of God in this nature is I'll just go through real quickly is one substantial that is there's something uniquely human about it, maybe rationality or intelligence, right? Two, it's relational, it's the way we relate to God and to each other. three it's functional it's the exalted role we have to represent the creature's rule i mean creator's rule as it's best Representative. Now it's hard to settle for one as each seems to convey at least one aspect of the image. But the functional view I favor because I think it's easiest to support from the data we see in Genesis. 1 and 2 and Psalm 8. Even if, again, it's hard to really get to down to the exact definition of the image of God. There is some archaeological evidence that offers some enlightenment here. Um is from nineteen seventy nine. A Syrian farmer dug up a life-size basalt statue of a Assyrian governor from ninth century BC BC. On it is a bilingual inscription in Aramaic and Akkadian. It contains words cognitively related to image and likeness we see in Genesis 126. It appears statues like this one were placed around the king's domain to visibly represent the king who is in effect invisible to the people. The intended effect was to have the subjects know what their ruler looked like. Feel his presence and submit to him. That seems to be the main point. of God's image in us. That we visibly represent God's rule. Now even if we can't ascertain the exact nature of it, we're safe to repeat the wording of Psalm. eight five to eight in terms of status were the highest among the earthly creatures, a little lower than the angels of heaven, yet were the crown of creation. Humanity, though we were late to the party on creation Is destined to dominate all things created before us. David jots down a sample list, sheep, oxen, beasts of the field, birds of the air. And fish of the sea. Stop for two quick reflections on our relationship with lesser creatures and work in general. Now, whatever you believe about us as a people and ethical treatment of animals or eating meat, we must let the scriptures guide us. No other created being is our creator's image bearer. No other living being is endowed and vested as you and me. No animal right will be inherently greater than human rights. Yet there are some indications that we should use our authority carefully and treat lesser forms of life with care. Proverbs 12:10 says, A righteous man regards the life of his animal. Kind treatment of pets or flocks may reflect parallel or illustrate our treatment of our neighbors. So the famous example, you shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. There's that story of Prophet Nathan that told uh King David when he was in sin. 2 Samuel 12. There's a teaching of bad and good shepherds in Ezekiel 34 and John 10. So what does this mean practically We should do our best to preserve animals from unnecessary suffering and in worst case extinction. But it's okay. I ate turkey, you know, it's okay that we eat meat Um as God has given us authority over animals. And I appreciate the work of zoologists and veterinarians and but I also appreciate butchers and animal control workers. This week I saw a red fox just sitting at the front doorsteps of a h house in Wood Valley Road, which is down the street here, just chilling there. like a cat. I don't know. So then later this week I saw this I think it's the same fox just waltzing through the backyards of various homes This sure made my walks with my son and dog interesting, but please, neighbors, don't feed wild animals. I think that's why it just fearlessly just walked Around everywhere. Anyway, there's also an application here as it relates to human work in general, not just those that deal directly with animals. I'm thinking of all kinds of work, laboratory work, field work, in the academy or industry. For-profit, non-profit, human work, even as fallen humans in a fallen world, can be a good thing. It is a privilege to work for God There's a lot to explore, probably too much for a sermon. So much that our ministry intern, David Bush, is meeting with some of his co-workers to flesh out how jobs and careers can glorify God. As expected, such discussion naturally takes us back to the early chapters of the Bible. It's there we recall that God has privileged us. So, to review, biblical principles for humanizing humans include: one, think of how the Creator thinks of us, two, recall that God has privileged us, but there's one more principle that allows us to close the loop. and close this chapter. The third principle for humanizing humans is this praise our Lord to make him famous. There's a bit of an irony there, meaning The more we focus on God, the more we praise Him, the more human we are, the more we are who we are created to be. Again, David repeats the words of verse 1 and verse 9. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth. But it's different this time around. Having meditated on God's great glory, his use of weakness. instruments to show up his mind, his gracious dealings with man to place them above all other created beings. David has even more reasons to worship than he had at the beginning. Yes, it repeats words, but mindful repetition is not the same as mindless repetitiveness. There's not even deeper appreciation of God's self-revelatory name, to repeat what I said last week. Lord in all capital letters is Yahweh, the covenant name of God. Next, Lord with only the initial capital letters Adonai, the transcendent name of God, but these two names are to be seen as one name. So we praise God as both covenantal and transcendental, close and far, intimately near, yet highly exalted, bound to his people, yet sovereign over all. The excellent name denotes the public visible outward display of God's being. His glory cannot remain hidden. It must be proclaimed to the ends of the earth, which he created. We humans with special privilege has a special duty to praise our Lord, to make him famous. Now to bring it back to the gospel, it's quite obvious that the world's not as it should be. There's disorder. Many do not care what the Creator thinks of us. We're not thankful that he has privilege. Us. So naturally, apart from supernatural grace, none give credit to whom it's due. The last thing on our minds is to praise the Lord to make him famous. Why is the ideal man of Psalm 8 not realized today? The answer: not too long after creation, there is the fall. Sin's the problem. Human rebellion is why creation is subject of futility and bondage of corruption. We're the ones who put things out of order. Instead of humbly representing God as His image-bearer, we change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. As Roman says, and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. We idolize ourselves, money, fame, sex. We worship the gift, not the giver. We honor the human servant, the ephemeral, mortal, visible. We put ourselves above our God King, eternal, immortal. invisible. There's a sad irony here. As we deify ourselves, we dehumanize ourselves. We went against our creator's design for our lives, so now we feel less than human, less than ideal. Our best representative, Adam failed to represent God, and the Bible tells us we're no better. Because all sinned, death spread to all men, death reigned because of sin and sin. Sin reigned in death. This is all terrible news. In Adam we die, the wages of sin is death, separation from God for eternity in hell. But there is good news. The gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. At this time of the year we remember that Jesus was Jesus. Was born, how God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten Son. We remember the incarnation, how Christ is both God and man in one person He's more than God's image bearer. He's the express image of the invisible God. Because of who he is, only he can undo what we have done. Only Jesus can bring redemption. The writer of Hebrews cites from Psalm eight, five to six in chapter two. To make this point. Jesus will do for us what we cannot do because of sin, rule over all. But for that to happen, he has to be made lower than angels to suffer and taste death for everyone. On his head shall be the crown of glory and honor, but he was crowned with thorns. The earth is his footstool, but a nail pierced his feet All this had a saving purpose. He died in our place, facing the wrath of God we deserve, having finished his work on the cross. He breeded his last, he was buried. But that was not the end. The Father worked his mighty power in Christ, as Ephesians tells us, when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Jesus was elevated far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. Now at the Father's right hand It's already true that God's Son, Christ has authority over all things, but now it's also true we do not yet see all things put under him, as again Hebrews two Tells us. We eagerly await a day when Jesus as Son of Man executes judgment. This kind of dominions far beyond the first Adam's pay grade. The second Adam, Jesus, will put an end to all rule and authority and power, even subduing and destroying that great enemy of mankind, death itself. If you want to fulfill your full potential as human, look to Christ. No one else. Get right with God through Him. Repent from sin and turn from idolatry and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in Him only for eternal life. We cannot earn or deserve a place in heaven. It is a gift undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through Christ, through faith alone in Christ. Christ alone. So hopefully meditating on these gospel truths caused you to echo David's last words oh lord our lord how excellent is your name in all the earth so i can think of no better way to begin december and end our time together today than to observe The Lord's Supper. So let's meditate on how the Son of God became Son of Man for our sakes. Let's pray and go to his table with gratitude. Lord, we thank you for this time to think about how you think of us. Again, we are amazed. Lord, just uh we are amazed and what is man that you are mindful of him. Lord, not only that, we ask with amazement And can it be? How is it true that you love us? Not only to create us and give us this privilege, give us this authority But to save us, to not give up on us when we have turned away from you as rebels, and as we have just completely gone against our Creator It would have been perfectly just if you had crushed us the moment we sinned. Lord, you did not give up on us. In your eternal forbearance and patience, you put up with us, you sent your son, and we think about that and we meditate on that. We thank you. you that there isn't just one atom under which we suffer, under which under whom we die, but there's a second atom, your son Jesus. Jesus Christ. And that because he was made, your son was made lower than the angels. We can be seated with him in the heavenly. Places because we can be united with Him through faith in Him. We thank you for this amazing grace, and as we think about this week, uh just ahead of us, may we As believers, as true saints, are more than others, or just more than ever, have reason to worship you and give praise to you and cause your name to be known everywhere we go. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So as we continue in our worship, we're going to sing There is a fountain, and we'll find that in page 13 of your bulletin