Well, it's great to be with you again today. Uh beautiful weather. I love this time of year with the fall uh with the leaves at least uh now beginning finally to uh uh show their uh colors and some generally cooler temperatures, so we've had some uh uh warm temperatures as well. Another thing uh Excuse me, as we enter this uh fall season, one thing I'm thankful for, and that's a bit of a break from the relentless ads and campaigning of a major election year. This is a minor election year, though since I'm down closer to Virginia, I get all the ads for governor, so we're not completely ad-free. There's also, I found out yesterday from a lot of signs around Greenbelt, there's apparently some kind of local election going on there as well. Well, I'm not trying to diminish the uh political process and I'm quite thankful that in America we have a say in those excuse me who govern our country and our state and local governments as well. And for sure, it's very important for us to exercise our responsibilities if we're eligible to vote as the citizens of the United States by voting. Regardless of whether we like the candidates all that much or not. Well, you'll be happy to know that that's the end of my political remarks for uh this morning. Because while all of this is very important, Even in a what I would call a major election year, there's another kind of citizenship that is much more important than our American citizenship. And that's the kind of citizenship that Paul talks about in the passage that was read for us this morning in Philippians 1 27-2. 4 And I'd like you to turn there as I continue. Let me briefly review the content of chapter one of Philippians before we get to our text. in 127 to 24. And one of the uh drawbacks, I suppose, of me preaching uh roughly once a w a month is that you have three or four weeks to forget everything that I said in the previous uh message. But I'm going to assume that you know everything. Well not exactly. But as I mentioned the last time that I was with you Paul is writing this letter from a prison in Rome. He's in terrible circumstances, and yet this small uh epistle is uh brimming with joy. And as I mentioned last time, Philippians is actually my very favorite book of the entire Bible. And there are a lot that are in the running. Some people who have studied under me think it's got to be Isaiah. Well that's my favorite Old Testament book, but Philippians wins um and it's it's really pretty clear. It's just so wonderful the joy that Paul has. He opens the letter in chapter 1, verses 3 to 7 by thanking the Philippians for their fellowship with the gospel. And even here he prays for them. It says in verse 4, with joy. So he even prays with joy. He prays in verses 8 to 11 that their love may abound in knowledge and discernment. And then in verses 12 to 18 of chapter 1, He explains that even his imprisonment has uh actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel because he's been able to preach uh to the whole palace guard. and since the believers have become much more bold in his absence to preach the word. Some apparently weren't preaching Christ with the right motives, and that would bother me sig uh tremendously. But Paul says in verse 19 of chapter 1, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice. Notice that theme of rejoicing once again. And then in verses 19 to 26, he expresses his great desire that whether He lives or dies, Christ will be magnified in his body. Even if he dies, he says, it is great gain. Because then he will be with Christ. And as I challenged you the last time I was with you, how many times do we think that same thing? Do we think it's going to be gained because we'll be with Christ? Are we still trying to hold on? to this old body. Well, um I for one am not that excited about this body and uh maybe you've got a better model and that's great, but uh after a while even your model is gonna break down. And then you may not be so excited either. Well, we're not supposed to be all that excited about this model because there's a new model coming. And uh new resurrection body. And Paul recognizes that it's more needful right now for him, he says in verse 25. to remain and continue with you all for the progress, for your progress and joy of faith. What an attitude Paul had towards his trials And the reason is that he loves his Savior so much that to die and be with the Lord, as he says, would be a great blessing. And then, beginning in verse 27, as we look at it this morning, Paul exhorts these Philippian believers. Paul's overall point in this section from chapter one, verse twenty-seven to chapter two, verse four that we're looking at is that we are to behave worthily as good citizens of the gospel of Christ. We are to behave worthily as good citizens of the gospel of Christ. Most translations actually obscure the meaning a little bit here, and because in uh uh verse uh 27, the beginning of it. Uh the Greek word used here is polytus, which comes from polytase. which means citizen. And why in the world am I giving you Greek words this morning? It's not just to show that I know Greek. At least I still remember almost all the Greek that I learned, not quite all. But uh we get our English word politics from it, right? Uh polites, politics. Uh it means to act as a citizen. And that's what the verb means here. in verse uh twenty-seven. And so it was considered quite an honor at that time to be a Roman colony and practicing Roman law. So Paul is emphasizing that aspect as he speaks, of course, of our uh heavenly citizenship. Paul says, as proud as you are of your Roman citizenship, there's another kind of citizenship that you, as believers, have entered into And that is, of course, as I just mentioned, a heavenly uh citizenship. And just as there are certain rules and responsibilities that went along with the privileges of Roman citizenship, So also Paul is saying that there are certain responsibilities that go along with their heavenly citizenship. Paul makes the same point later on in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 20, where he says, our citizenship, using the same Greek word, only the noun, Our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's both a joy and a responsibility. What a joy to know that though as good citizens, as I said, we need to exercise our right to vote in elections and so forth. The most important citizenship that you and I have is heavenly, not earthly. Our whole future happiness is not bound up. uh thankfully in what happened in the elections of twenty sixteen or any other election for that matter. Our whole focus should be towards that heavenly citizenship. We know that whatever happens here on earth, if we have trusted in Christ as our Savior, we have a heavenly citizenship and a future destiny that is secure. And just in the I said I wouldn't talk any more politics, but just a little illusion. And nobody can what? Depart us, regardless of our status, right? We are secure in Christ. We have that heavenly citizenship. Just uh It was supposed to be humorous, not trying to make a political point. Okay. Anyway last time I tried that one. But the fact is, isn't that wonderful? There can't be any law. Satan can't say, I'm sorry, I'm changing the rules. Here's what we do now. Right? No. Can't do it. It's secure. That is fantastic. We will see the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and we will spend eternity with Him So what a tremendous blessing and joy. But with the privileges of heavenly citizenship also go the responsibilities. And that's what Paul is reminding the Philippian believers of in this passage. He says in in verse uh uh twenty-seven that believers should behave worthily as citizens of the gospel of Christ. I don't know about you, but when I uh read reports or see reports on the TV of American citizens behaving poorly in other countries, uh I feel ashamed Because they're acting in essence as representatives of our country, and if they feel like they're somehow entitled you know, or better than the rest of the inhabitants of this globe. Well, uh that's a very, very sad thing. And so sometimes their actions disgrace, in a sense, the whole country. And all of us are representatives of this country, and we dare not act in a way that would bring disgrace upon it. That's uh the way I would surely think. And I hope you do too. It's the same sense in which children of a family basically can bring great honor or disgrace to their family, their parents and their family by how they act. And similarly, you and I can either bring honor or disgrace upon our Heavenly Father, depending on how we act every day So we are his representatives on earth. And Paul says we must act that way. We must behave worthily. So there's certain things that a person who's not a citizen in heaven might feel free to do. But a citizen of heaven wouldn't dream of doing that because it would bring dishonor to the Lord. Over the years, of course, we've had hundreds of graduates of Washington Bible College and Capitol Bible Seminary scattered around the world. Even a few managed to land here at Faith Bible Church. And uh uh and serving the Lord faithfully. And it brings great joy to me and it is bring bring uh great joy, of course, to the rest of the Uh faculty when we've heard of alumni who are doing great things for the Lord on the mission field or or wherever. Uh that's a fantastic thing. But there have also been a few very sad cases, and I'm thankful uh to say that they have been few, but they have been there. Where a seminary graduate has distinguished uh himself by really uh acting in a manner not worthy of the Lord or uh the seminary in that respect uh either. And so in doing so, he gives capital and uh the Lord a bad name as well. So you and I need to make sure That in everything we do, in every decision that we make, we recognize that it should be an act that should bring glory and honor to yourself, to your family, to this church. and to your heavenly father and not shame. Well, Paul then fleshes out this idea in the following verses. And so he tells us three things. that we can do to behave worthily as citizens of Christ. First, he says still in verse 27, at the very end of verse 27 and in verse 28, That we behave worthily as citizens of Christ by standing firm in the face of opposition. By standing firm in the face of opposition. He says, stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the fruits of the Spirit, and not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which isn't to them a proof of perdition, but to you salvation, and that from God Paul says the same thing in 1 Corinthians 16, 13. He says, watch, stand fast in the faith, be brave, be strong. He says we're to b stand fast, we're to strive together for the faith uh for the uh for the sake of the gospel. And part of that uh responsibility of citizenship, of course uh in uh uh in the the in many countries, including our own, involved being willing to be drafted to serve in the military. Of course, today we have a volunteer uh Army. In my day we actually had the draft. I was in that weird transition period with a lottery, so it depended on what number you you had. I still remember my number. It was 359. And I felt like it was wasted because I was already a type one diabetic, so they weren't going to draft me anyway. But at any rate I still remember that pretty vividly, and those that had number one or two and were sent off to Vietnam, they for sure. remembered that also. But there's still actually registration for a possible draft even in this country in case there is a need for more soldiers to fight for its freedom. As believers in Christ, you and I need to recognize that there is a contest, a battle that's going on, and you and I need to hold our ground for the gospel's sake. One commentator entitles the virtue that Paul emphasizes here as tenacity. I like that. Tenacity. Standing firm for the truth of the gospel through thick and thin. The battle for inerrancy rages in our seminaries today. D. Martin Lloyd Jones in commenting on the passage in his day. speaks of the intellectual attacks, the scientific attacks, the attacks from worldliness, all kinds of attacks on the authority of the Scripture. Your position is too narrow, uh some people say. Loosen up, they say. Uh but you and I need to stand fast for what the Bible teaches uh because it is inerrant. It doesn't change from one culture to another. Biblical teaching, as I say, is being challenged in every regard. uh in our day. It's now a questionable legality to have a Bible on your desk if you're a teacher, because after all you will contaminate your students thinking. The biblical teaching on sexuality, of course, is ridiculed as well, as you very well know. But you and I are to stand up. for the Bible. It isn't always popular, but it is the right thing to do. And as a citizen of heaven, we have a responsibility to do that. Well, there's another aspect of this admonition by Paul that needs to be emphasized, but I will only mention it here because Paul develops it further in chapter 2 in verses 1 to 4. Paul doesn't simply tell us to stand fast. He tells us to stand fast with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. And the word that Paul uses for striving together here is the Greek word that is basically has the width in it, and then aphleia, which means to be an athlete. to contend in games. So we are to work together as a body, not stand fast by ourselves. In athletics, it's essential that everybody works together. You know, you can have a great quarterback, but if you've got no offensive line, that quarterback is going to be in trouble the moment the the ball is snapped. And of course, you can have the greatest pitcher in the world, but if a team has no defense, that pitcher is not going to succeed. Or if the catcher can't catch the pitch, which seemed to happen often in the playoffs, that there'd be pass balls and a run would score. And you say, Well the pitcher was pitching fine, catcher couldn't catch it. You need everybody on the same page in order to succeed. And the same is true in the Christian realm. We face a common enemy, Satan and his uh and his cohorts. We're in a battle, and as citizens of heaven, we need to work together The corollary to standing fast is given in verse 28. Not being terrified or intimidated is a good translation of this word, not being intimidated by your adversaries. Jesus said in Luke 12, verses 4 and 5, Don't be afraid of those who kill the body, but fear him who, after he is killed, has power to cast into hell. I found that many Christians are intimidated far too easily. They're afraid that if they stand up and be counted, that they will lose their jobs, maybe they'll lose their reputations or people's respect. We need Christians who will stand fast. We need Christians that recognize that we have nothing to fear from men. And even those who have authority, some kind of authority over us, who appear very pop powerful. We must always stand for the truth, for integrity, regardless of the cost. I talked about the reformation uh uh two months ago when I was uh here in August, and of course, as you well know the five hundredth anniversary. Now we have a Reformation song, which I was getting, but now I'm only in my first week. You were in the second week, so you should have really done well on that song, right? So are you gonna do it again? So possibly. So by the third week, by next week, you're all on board with that. Well at any rate, we know that the 500th anniversary is a little over a week. from now, and how fitting then to remember those words of Martin Luther that I mentioned in that message when he was asked to recant his writings. uh critical of the Catholic Church at the Diet of Worms in on April 18, 1521, and he would face certain imprisonment or death as a result That's what he thought. He said, here I stand. I can do no other. God help me. Amen. And I hope that you and I will always be willing to stand for the truth of God's word, regardless of the cost. That leads me to the second point that Paul emphasizes in verses 29 and 30. We behave worthily as citizens of Christ by being willing to suffer for Christ. by being willing to suffer for Christ. We must expect persecution and suffering. I've said this before. We should not act surprised when the Christian has to undergo suffering. That is a constant teaching of the scriptures. Paul says in verses 29 and 30, for to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake, having the same conflict which you saw in me and now here is in me. Suffering is not the exception for the Christian who is engaged in the battle. It is the norm. And of course, you know, that's often true. even in athletic contexts uh where uh where athletes uh work through injuries and all to what to can uh to continue um uh uh competing Uh and it should be the norm. It should be our lifestyle. I still remember when we were uh years ago we were interviewing uh uh uh people for a faculty position at the seminary and and I had uh applicant after applicant asked what was the salary. When they found out what the salary was They said, well, you know, I didn't used to be all that into it, but you know, I'm getting older and I need to worry about all these things. I thought, really? Huh. I thought Matthew 6 says something about that. You know, Matthew six, uh thirty-three, seek first the kingdom of God and all these things will be added unto you. But uh it was pretty amazing and I thought Where are our priorities? And of course I don't think all that much has changed. We say we're willing to sacrifice until what? until it ti comes time to do so. Christianity costs. Christianity costs everything. If we're in the battle We need to be prepared to make sacrifices. Many people, of course, going to seminary. Remember, one uh person for ten years drove one and a half hours each way to attend seminary. One and a half hours each way. Um my son right now I I mentioned that he's in seminary and that so he he quit his job. Uh well there's not a lot of income there anymore because now his His wife is home with two children, a newborn and a three-year-old. Well, that's an exciting, stretching time, to say the least. There aren't very many people, frankly, uh that do that. But we need to recognize that if we're serious about the Lord, sometimes, not all the time, but sometimes that involves some suffering and that's not a horrible thing. By the way, if your person's going to seminary, it doesn't really end there because, you know, if you're becoming a doctor or a lawyer, then eventually, right, you can Oh, you make plenty of money and you can recoup all those other uh things, but no, that's not exactly at least I hope that's not the way it is, uh, in ministry, because there's sure not uh any kind of uh uh great uh payback in terms of Financial, there's a fantastic payback in terms of ministry and serving Christ. There are too many people, in fact, I think, that are in the ministry today that are only interested in money, and I don't understand that. And I wish they'd just get out Frankly, that's the way I think. Well, Paul ends this uh chat. By the way, having said that, if you're the church Don't think, well, gee, we're going to keep our our pastor humble by what? By not paying him anything. That's not a proper attitude either, right? Um just thought I'd throw that in. Uh didn't so you didn't misunderstand me. The church has a res a responsibility, and I always tend to think that You know, whatever the normal average income of the church is should be similar to what the uh church pays the pastor. Anyway, uh just a thought in that. Well, Paul ends this chapter with a note of encouragement. You have company in your suffering. Paul was a tremendous example of suffering. for the Philippian believers, lest they thought that they were alone in their suffering. He speaks of them as engaged in the same conflict. uh conflict. And he uses again uh an uh the word for an athletic contest once again. We're fighting the same battle. We're in the same contest We may think that we're loned. Oftentimes Satan loves to get us to think that we're the only person that ever had to go through this. Well that's not true. Even even Elijah, and you know, he was pretty sharp. He's pretty far up there, at least in my estimation. I mean after all, um I don't think any of you were asked to be in the Mount of Transfiguration, were you? You know, m but but but Elijah was. But even Elijah had his moments, right? When he says, oh, I'm all alone and he's depressed at first Kings 19 and God says, now uh that's okay, Elijah, but but I got 7,000 uh also who haven't bowed their knees to bail. So even Elijah, you know, was uh subject occasionally to the old pity party. Uh but uh but no. Uh It is important to realize we're not alone, even if sometimes Satan wants us to think that we are. So we behave worthily. As citizens of Christ by standing firm in the face of opposition and by being willing to suffer for Christ. But Paul says then in chapter 2 and verses 1 to 4 that there's actually a third way that we can behave worthily as citizens of Christ, and that is through demonstrating unity. Through demonstrating unity. Unity is a special emphasis of Paul in this letter. We already saw in verse 27 that Paul exhorted the Philippians to stand fast in one spirit with one mind striving together. This is the church that Paul loves. That's very clear from what he says about them in this letter. But they seem to have a problem in this area. And Paul doesn't want it to get any worse. In chapter four and verse two, he especially singles out two women, Yodia and Syntiche, to be of the same mind in the Lord. You know, I've often thought, if if let's say this letter is delivered to your church, this is a letter from the Apostle Paul. It is read from the pulpit, and you're named. Right? Okay guys, come on, get along. I mean, I'm not encouraging also people to do that from the pulpit. I don't think it's the wisest thing. I mean the Apostle Paul, okay, he had some authority. And I think he could do that. I wouldn't recommend it if you uh want to stay uh in in the church for very long. But still he points out because they they they need to be of the same mind in the Lord because there was a problem. They weren't getting along very well, and Paul needed to tell them to work together in the Lord And here in verses in chapter 2, verses 1 to 4, Paul gives his strongest appeal to unity. Look at this elaborate way that he introduces the idea in verses 1 and 2. The whole thing in 1 to 4 is one long sentence in Greek, and the main verb is actually in verse 2, fulfill my joy. Well, who wouldn't want to bring the Apostle Paul joy? Surely this church, which loved Paul and even gave financially to support him, would want to fulfill his joy. Well, that's Paul's personal appeal. But before he gets there, in verse 1, he gives four more reasons why they should want to do what he says. They're in the form of these conditional if clauses, but really there's no doubt how he thinks that the Philippians would respond. might be similar uh to when your wife says to you, well if you really love me, you'll do this, that, or the other thing. Well, there is no real doubt as to your love. It's just a little extra incentive. shall we say? Well Paul piles on these statements one after another appealing to their common experience in Christ If there's any encouragement or comfort that being in Christ will bring, and of course there is, if any comfort of knowing God's love for you if there's any sharing together in the Holy Spirit, if there's any tenderness or mercy that God has shown to you. In other words, if you have expected Experience the blessings of salvation that God has bestowed upon you, then surely you would want to give back in return. I don't think we're supposed to analyze the theological nuances of each of these phrases. Paul is here speaking rhetorically and emotionally, pleading for them to do as he asked. Namely fulfill his joy. Make my joy full, Paul says, since you've experienced so much riches in Christ. And uh by the way, you know that to me, when people talk about Christianity as a list of do's and don'ts and all that, uh, they kind of miss uh the idea. If you truly love someone, you will want to do everything for them. And that's the reason that you and I, because we truly love Christ, because we are so thankful for all the blessings that we have in Christ, then we're of course going to want to do things that what? That cause uh great pleasure to him. And that's the same idea. It's not a do or don't list. It's a How can I uh uh uh you know show my love and appreciation? And that's the same thing Paul is talking about here. Make my joy full, Paul says, because you've experienced so much richness in Christ. And we can imagine the Philippians saying, Yes, Paul, we know of all we have in Christ. We know that of all that you have personally done for us. We'll do anything for you. How can we make your joy complete while you are there in jail for the gospel's sake? Well, I can also picture Paul replying. It's not in the text, but it's the way I see it. I'm glad you asked. And so he then proceeds uh to say, here's what you can do. He says they can demonstrate unity. How can they demonstrate unity? Well, Paul gives three ways in verses 2 to 4. First and the second part of verse 2, he says they can demonstrate unity by having the same outlook. Literally, Paul says that they are to be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Now, they have the same outlook, not because they agree on every single point, or by denying their opinions when they differ from the majority. That would be hypocrisy and a false peace or unity that Paul never intends. But they have the same outlook on the basics. They are motivated by the common truth of the gospel and the common bond of Christ's love. It's very interesting, of course, at our church we've had of various folks with various emphases and some folks their emphasis is evangelism evangelism in the area in the neighborhood others the emphasis is on missions. Others the emphasis is on Christian education and so on and so forth. And uh and and so sometimes, you know, there might be a little disagreement as we're looking at the amount of money there is and how much to spend on missions and evangelism and uh and Christian education and so forth. Uh but if we realize that a common bond is the love of Christ, uh you know, we need to to to work those things out. We may have different um emphases that God has given us and that's fine. But we need to remember that our common uh uh enemy is uh is Satan And that's the thing that we need to go against, not against one another. Sometimes we can act as if our fellow believers are the enemy, as we'll quarrel with one another and all the rest. Believers should be working together with other believers, not envying one another or being critical of one another. And what a tremendous testimony it is. when believers work together in love and harmony, regardless of different backgrounds, regardless of different races, different uh cultures, different perspectives on issues. By the same token, what a terrible testimony it is when churches split because they can't get along with one another on trivial matters. You know, that to me I I I have too many examples of that in my mind. I'm not going to share any of them, uh but uh it just is so sad when you think why in the world would you split over that? Um you know, not everybody of course can be the pastor. Um you know, uh just like ev not everybody can be the quarterback of a team. We shouldn't all try to be in a w one particular role. Each one of us has different roles and different responsibilities. And by the way, no pastor is perfect. And neither are you. Each And if you're looking for the perfect pastor, you're going to be in for a really super long search process until what? Christ comes again. 'Cause he's the only one that fills that bill. By the way, I'm not saying, hey, just you know, take the next guy that happens to apply. I'm not saying that either. You gotta be wise in these things. But uh my it's You know, in some congregations it's like a sport to pick on the pastor instead of thinking about all the different responsibilities the pastor uh cast. And the same thing for elders. That's a good sport sometimes in our church. And I I try to remind people because I'm not on the elder board now, so I feel free, but when I was for I don't know, maybe sixteen, eighteen years Uh I you know, I I didn't feel free to say this, but I say, our elders are unpaid. You know, you're criticizing these folks that are working for you for free. You know, it's a little silly sometimes. Well at any rate. We all need to work together without striving to get the glory or the credit. As citizens of Christ, as citizens of heaven, that's what we must do. We must get back to the big things and major on them, the necessity of getting the gospel to those who have never heard, and discipling believers and training them up and demonstrating the love of Christ in all that we do. Well, second, Paul says in verse 3 that the Philippian believers can demonstrate unity by being humble. By being humble. He expresses the thought first negatively and then positively. He says Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. So he says, nothing done through selfish ambition or empty pride. Paul actually uses that same word for selfish ambition. in chapter 1 in verse 17 when he spoke of those who are preaching Christ with the wrong motives. What causes most church splits. Sometimes, yes, the split is over a major doctrinal issue, but often it's because of the selfishness or the pride of the people involved. The main obstacle to unity is not the presence of legitimate differences of opinion, but self-centeredness. Instead of insisting on our own way, Paul says, we need to be humble, in lowliness of mind, esteem others as more important than himself. In the Greco-Roman world, and sadly often in our society as well, humility was considered a shortcoming and not a virtue, but the supreme example of Christ's willingness to die on our behalf, which Paul will spell out in the verses to follow, shows otherwise Now, humility is not to be confused with false modesty, saying, I'm no good. It begins with a proper understanding of myself as a sinner before God. Yet at the same time, I am made in God's image, something that is true of all of us, but true of everybody else around us as well. And Paul explains we need to have the mindset that regards others as more important than we are. I don't really like this translation, let each esteem others better. than himself because it could imply that we falsely consider others as better, even though in reality they aren't. But we can consider them as more important. Elevating them while paying less attention to ourselves. Did Christ, the perfect Son of God, consider us miserable sinners to be better than He? No, I don't think he did. I don't think he was deceived in any way. But what he did is he regarded us as more important than his own personal comfort. So he was willing to die for us rather than to insist on his own needs or his own rights. And that's what you and I need to do as well. By the way, if you've ever sometimes I've taken a picture of a group, right, and uh and and then I'll show that picture to members of the group and how do they decide which picture they think is the best. Guess who they look at first? It never fails. They look at themselves. If they're not smiling, oh no, we can't do that one. It's just hilarious. Now, if nine out of ten of the people are smiling and that other person just happens to be you, guess what? It's still not going to work. I I've just seen it. It's very funny. And we're talking about godly people here. It's just it's human nature. Uh J. Vernon McGee uh wrote, If this verse were obeyed, I believe it would solve the problems. Now I'm sorry, I don't know anything about your music department here, and I don't think we have uh that problem, but I'm just I'm just quoting him. It would solve the problems in most of the music departments in our churches. It would eliminate this attitude. Why don't they call on me to sing? I have a much better voice than so-and-so. The same could be said for problems on boards and on committees. It would eliminate the power struggles. that goes on in some churches among church officials. That's what J. Werner McKee wrote about this verse, if it were put into practice. And I think he's absolutely right. Well finally, Paul says in verse 4 that we can demonstrate unity by considering the needs of others. By considering the needs of others. That's a practical way of demonstrating true humility. Paul assumes, by the way, that we'll always look out for our own interests. That is human nature to do so. But he urges us to expand our horizons and look out for the interests of others. The word translated lookout means to pay careful attention to. We need to be paying careful attention to the needs and concerns of others. And that's takes time to do that. That takes effort to do that. It just doesn't happen by itself. And it certainly is the mark of a healthy church when we have not just the people in leadership paying careful attention, but one another paying careful attention to the needs of others. Elsewhere in Matthew 22, 39, Jesus said, the second great commandment is you must love your neighbor as yourself. Of course, that actually uh comes from Leviticus 1918, but it's absolutely uh key. Love the Lord your God, the second commandment. Love your neighbor as yourself. That kind of love and concern speaks volumes to the outside unbelieving world. Others is the key to this verse. Christ came to earth for others, not himself. We carry the gospel to the ends of the earth for the sake of others. Not ourselves. We think of others first and not ourselves. As one writer puts it, although the meaning is obvious and easy to understand, it is difficult to apply. And that for sure is true. To me, these verses are revolutionary and they're eminently practical. If we practice these things in our homes, in our families, and in our churches, and of course even in our jobs. It will make an incredible difference. Paul wants us to behave as model citizens of Christ, citizens of heaven. by standing firm in the face of opposition, not being intimidated, by being willing to suffer for the sake of Christ and by demonstrating unity, having the same basic outlook, being humble, not self-centered, and looking to the needs of others. May the Lord grant us the strength to be good citizens of heaven. In everything that we do, let's pray