There's a loaded phrase I've encountered multiple times in the past. Moralistic therapeutic deism. What's that? Like I understand each word individually, Pastor. I know what moralistic means. I know what therapeutic means, and I know a little bit about theism. What do they the three of them mean together? Well, before defining it, here's the context. Moralistic Therapeutic deism, I'm gonna call it MTD for short, comes from a book entitled Soul Searching: The Religious and Spiritual Lives of American Teenagers. A sociologist formerly surveyed and researched the religious convictions of our youth. The results were published 20 years ago. That might seem a bit outdated, but then again, maybe it's good to see where they are now. Right, now that these teenagers are in their thirties and at least some of them are taking influential places in the society So again, what is MTD? MTD consists of commonly held spiritual beliefs among the youth in early 21st century US. They go something like this under five headings. There is a God who created and orders all things and watches over us. God wants us to be nice, fair, kind to each other, as most religions teach. Our main goal in life are happiness and self-esteem. Back to God. He doesn't need to be involved in the particulars unless we need him to fix a big problem in our lives. Good people go to heaven when they die. Take a look at these five points carefully. You know, these are what many in their thirties grew up with and ended up with. And I think that's sad. Especially if that's all the churches and youth groups have taught. We should be offering something better, far better than this moralistic therapy Therapeutic deism. Our theology, biblical and systematic, is so much more than this miserable paltry doctrine The God of the Bible demands more than our moralism. He's after more than your personal self-fulfillment. He's not a genie who pops out of a lamp to say, Your wish is my command. He's so much greater than what you and I can imagine. It's true. So how do we show them who God is really? Where do we start? Well, it makes sense to start at a book that's literally entitled Origin or the Beginning. You have a good precedence in Paul in evangelizing the pagans at Athens. He returned to his most basic childhood lessons, right? How God made the world and everything in it It. He is Lord of heaven and earth. He gives to all light, breadth, and all things, as Acts 17, 24 to 25 tells us in presenting the gospel to the Romans. The apostle again goes back to Genesis. He says since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead. So with the doctrine of creation in mind, today I started a new series on Genesis, and I hope that we don't read this book just for the sake of reaching teens MTD not only poisons young minds, in addition to it, there are myriads of false isms out there that would mislead us. We must stand on the foundational truths of this foundational book. Begin with God in mind. So let's read Genesis 1. One to two. In the beginning, God created the heavens. And the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. As we begin with God in mind, I'd like for us to recognize him in two exalted roles. First, he is the creator of all, that's verse one. Second, he is the creator of order, that's verse two. Very simple truth. Hope to expand on it obviously as we go through the chapter. But today let's take these two simple but glorious truths and observe them closely. First, God is the creator of all. We get that from Genesis one one. I was reminded in another sermon by Richard Phillips how wonderful it is to read and reread Doesn't matter what your age, doesn't matter your address, how many times you've read it, a little over Over 56 years ago, on Christmas Eve 1968, three astronauts made history during the Apollo 8 mission. They were the first to orbit the moon. From that vantage point, they got to see Earth rise while on another sphere. It was a mind-blowing experience. It took their breath away. They were speechless. Astronauts were. But then one of them eventually spoke. William Anders broke the silence with the most opportune statement In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. As somebody said, dude, perfect, right? Unless Elon Musk has some special plans for select citizens, I won't be replicating that experience. But you and I can still recite Genesis 1-1 at a sunrise or a sunset at the beach or on top of a canyon. It's no less true if you say it at the pews or on your commute to work. It's a timeless truth. And it's a this timeless truth teaches us that there's a beginning in time. Okay In the beginning is one compound word in Hebrew, Bereshit. From it we get the title Genesis. There's an important lesson even here. The Bible teaches that time progresses from a definite starting point. So if we can picture history and time, it looked like a line, not a loop. It it'd be linear with the trajectory, it wouldn't be cyclical as many Eastern societies still believe today about time. Scientists would agree with us about time You know, they reasoned that since the stars and galaxies are spreading further apart from each other, there was a big bang explosion that began the grand motion They have their tomes of theoretical physics and strings of cosmological equations to back the claim. But what about the most important question? What or who caused the Big Bang? How do they answer that? What the greatest minds cannot answer by reason, we answer by faith in divine revelation. In the beginning, God was already there. Before time existed, he existed. As Moses prayed in Psalm 90, verse 2 Before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you have formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting you are God Hebrews eleven three says, By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. And this God who's about to speak is introduced as Elohim. The name of Elohim emphasizes power and majesty. It's translated as singular. But it's plural in the original. That's not because there existed some pantheon of gods. It's not even because there's some hidden Trinitarian truth here in verse 1. The plural form of Elohim simply. Points to God's greatness and the honor that He uniquely deserves. And besides the verb that modifies it is singular. The verb create, the only verb of Genesis 1:1. Reveals why God is so great and deserves honor. It appears in the second word, as the second word in the original language, actually ahead of Elohim. It's Barah. And how it's used in the Old Testament is telling. This particular verb in the particular stem form only has God as the subject The bara is a special action that only a special being can perform. Many of us can fashion, form, manipulate, combine, rearrange pre-existing stuff. Uh Steven, we know Bailey, does ornate woodwork. My wife can do DIY from foam, Ford, uh clay, fabric. I can clean up after her and take out the trash. I mean, we all have our place, you know. Just um we do a lot of good with the goods the Lord provides. But only God can create something out of nothing, and not just something, but everything and anything. Thus, creatio ex nihilo, creation out of nothing So we got the setting in the beginning, we got the subject, God Elohim, we got the verb, create bara. The rest of Genesis 1:1 reveals the direct object. There are actually two, the heavens and the earth. By saying heavens and earth, Moses is being comprehensive He's referring to all that fills the vast universe, all things created that are in heaven and earth, visible and invisible That includes the quark, the tiniest particle. That includes massive clusters of galaxies, galactial filaments, and all these words that I don't know what I'm reading when I'm reading these things. That includes angels who dwell high in heaven and creatures who dwell deep below earth. We'll get to those particular details later in Genesis one. But for now we sit back, look at verse one, and there are plenty of lessons in this verse alone. Okay. We already spoke of time. And history as linear. God was always there, our one and only majestic and powerful God. So we are monotheistic, meaning there is one God. We deny atheism, which says there is no God. We also deny pantheism, which says all is God. God must be seen totally, absolutely, ontologically separate from his creation. God is above all in a class by himself. That's all that's in Genesis 1. 1, but there's enough in this one verse to teach and preach multiple sermons, but I'll go on. See how God is not only the creator of all, but also the creator of order. Okay. So we go on from this beautiful sublime first word of scriptures to a more difficult verse. Okay, let me reread Genesis 1:2. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. Now you look at all that and wonder what's all this? How do you make sense of such empty barrenness? Okay. Why even have such description here? Why not just go on to verse 3? Well, one poor attempt to make sense of verse two is what's called the gap theory. In early 19th century, a Scottish minister named Thomas Chalmers Proposed the following. And these are his words at Genesis 1:1. Quote forms no part of the first day, but refers to a period of indefinite antiquity when God created the worlds out of nothing in quote. So it was during these millions of years in verse one described that Satan fell and creating the condition we see in verse. Verse 2. And after this indefinite period ends, the first day of creation starts with the spirit hovering over the waters. As many of you know, this view was popularized in the Schofield Study Bible Well, there are many problems with this gap theory, but the biggest problem is the grammatical one. The grammar of Genesis 1:2 does not allow for a gap in time. Now I don't expect you to learn Hebrew, but all of us know some grammar, I hope. Start with basic conjunctions like and, but, or, right? You know, you you're my age, you grew up up with songs like Conjunction Junction What's Your Function. Oh yeah, even Tien knows this. Wow. Alright, well anyway. Yeah, yeah. So in Hebrew, the common conjunction is wow, right? And anglicized is W-A-W Okay. And WoW is a grammatical workhorse. It has many functions. It can do simple stuff like coordinate two direct objects. That's what we saw in verse 1. The heavens and the earth. And the wow is connecting them. Now it gets a bit more complicated in the rest of Genesis 1. Remember remember I just said WoW can do a lot of things. Verb together indicating normal narrative sequence. In English, it's like saying what happened next, kind of like, and then this happened, and then that happened. Okay, for example, I went to the store, true story. And I found the dairy aisle, and then I grabbed eggs, and then I hurried to the produce aisle, and then I grabbed lettuce, and then I headed to the checkout line. Amazing story, right? Obviously Creation Weeks a lot more exciting and extraordinary than a trip to Trader Joe's or Costco. But grammatically speaking, we have here an abundance of ordinary WoW consecutive in Genesis one. In fact, you'll see WoW imperfect version Or fifty times. But let's say, as a narrator, you want to pause the rapid sequence of events. You want to insert some commentary or provide some background. In English we might say something like, hold up, let me back up for a moment, FYI, maybe you'll even put a parentheses around something. In Hebrew, instead of wow plus imperfect verb, you put down wow plus noun with the noun as subject. That's called a wow disjunctive. Okay, so while disjunctive is what we see in Genesis one two. I'm I'm sure you knew that Because it's in the English, right? No, I'm just telling you, hopefully that wasn't too bad, right? What I just said. Hopefully that wasn't didn't put you to sleep. So it's not that there's some passage of indefinite time Since verse one. Later, verse two is like an explanation, explanatory. It's setting the stage for the first day, and on that stage is this raw material which God created out of nothing. So, with all these things considered, we can divide up verse 2 into 3 parts, and you'll find these three parts by locating the semicolon. Alone and two periods. First, it says the earth was without form and voice. Secondly, it says, and darkness was on the face of the deep. Thirdly, it says, and the spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. First we see in verse 2, I'll call it 2a, that the earth was without form. Now it's true that both Isaiah and Jeremiah later use Tohu and Bohu to describe consequences of God's judgment in Isaiah 34. Jeremiah 4. But there's no reason to think that Moses here is describing some primordial judgment from millions of years ago. Okay? No. Formless and void are merely starting points. When the Lord is finished, there will be form, definition. Fullness and life. A good illustration I heard this week relates to something my wife and I got to see in person. I'm talking about the statue of David in Florence, Italy. The art we see today is not what it once was. It was what then? It was a huge slab of marble extracted from the quarries of Tuscany. So not the that's not the Marvel, that's Michelangelo. Um I hope he didn't look like that in his twenties. But um but that's when he was given this uh huge slab of marble. So this young sculptor named Michelangelo fashioned it into one of the most famous statues in the world. And a part of his fame stems from his the story of his creation. Right? Material thought to be unusable and poor gave an artist a chance to shine, show off his artistic skill Michelangelo gave form to it. He filled it with intricate details. If you're impressed with that, wait and see what God does. Next in Genesis one, two Let's call it one to be, it says, and darkness was on the face of the deep. This may sound vague, just like without form and void we just saw. And there's some when there is some vague vagueness, people tend to add strange ideas. The word for deep is tehom and it's been traced cognitively to a mesopot Tiamat in was this mythological mother goddess of the sea, and with her consort Apsu bears a generation of lesser deities. And you read all this in the Babylonian creation myth and Numa Elish Thank God there's no need to embellish the scriptures. We don't need to harmonize Genesis with false mythologies and religions. Darkness, to be concise, is simply the essence of God. Of light. The face of the deep is a bit more complicated, but if the rest of verse 2 gives any clue, it's a watery mass, something that is a big ball of water containing all the mass of the universe. Okay. Others think it's a layer of water covering the earth. But all we need to know is that the artist greater than Michelangelo, right, got the raw material he needs to begin his work. And if we don't have the last part of 1-2, Genesis 1-2, all we have is this big amorphous, nebulous, dark, wet mess. Well, we do have more in Genesis 1, 2. Call it C. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. This is none other than the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit. He shares divinity with the Father Elohim, whom we met in verse 1. He is distinct in person, as he's properly addressed as Ruach Elohim. Verse two. And it's very important to maintain that Ruach Elohim is a person. It is true that in both Hebrew and Greek, you know, like Ruach and Pneuma respectively can mean either. Spirit, personal, or wind or breath, impersonal. But context indicates that Ruach Elohim is no mere creature. He is Holy Spirit. He is God Himself. It could only be God Himself who could perform this grand task of creation. But it's not all power and strength and might. Look at that word hovering. It's specific Hebrew stem, it's rare in the Bible, found only in one other place in Deuteronomy thirty two, eleven. Okay, Moses poetically described the Lord's tender care for his people. Using the same word. He pictures God as an eagle which stirs up its nest and hovers over its young. In the same way, the Spirit of God hovers over the face of the world Waters, ready to create order, imposing its will over the raw material. God is indeed the creator of order. That more gloriously later. But from just two initial verses of the initial chapter of the initial book of the Bible, we learn much about God as the creator of all things and God as creator of order. We're introduced to God the Father. We're introduced to God the Spirit. But now I must introduce the other person of the Trinity. God the Son. Now you may be like Okay, Pastor, I don't see him here in these verses. Are you trying to force Jesus into the sermon? I assure you I'm not. Okay? I tell you, God the Son was not only there at the beginning. He was actively participating in creation. So understand how that is, we just need to interpret scriptures with scriptures. That is, have another inspired author confirm that truth So you see what John says in John 1 1 2 3. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God, all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In Colossians 1 16 to 17, Paul says, all things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. The writer of Hebrew teaches in one two, through him, Jesus Jesus, right, through him the Son, the Father made the worlds. So the scriptures testify that God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit, created us all things out of nothing and order the universe. And this triune God, God in three persons, even makes all things new. You may have heard a kind of talk like why do we talk about like all things new and new covenant and new all things these new this, new that. Why is that necessary? Why make all things new? Why fix them when it's not broken? Well Sally the universe is broken You're broken. I'm broken. Where did it all go wrong? It won't take long in your yearly scripture reading plan to get from creation. To the fall. We're just a few pages away if you're at Genesis 1 in your Bible. Okay, spoiler alert, it gets bad, really bad. The ground was cursed with thorns and thistles. Death and disease. Infect humans and animals. Creation was subjected to futility and bondage of corruption. It groans and labors with bird pangs. Why? What happened? Well, the problem is sin. Natural disasters, supernatural evil, physical decay, emotional pain all stem from sin. Prophet Jeremiah, speaking on behalf of God, says. Chapter four verse twenty two My people are foolish, they have not known me, they are silly children, and they have no understanding. They are wise to do evil, but to do good They have no knowledge. That's remarkable. We put men on the moon, mapped out the human genome, and have the world at our fingertips. But we are dumb when it comes to good We're very clever when it comes to doing evil. That's the problem. That's a problem because the same intelligent creator Of physical laws of the universe also revealed his holy and perfect moral laws. Break those. We have truth all around us, but we lie. God has provided for our needs, yet we covet lust and steal. The good gifts God our Lord has given, we Broken and destroyed, we really are silly children. And just as there are consequences for breaking the law of gravity, there are consequences for the for Breaking the laws of morality. Break them and you'll be broken. Be sure of it. You'll suffer body, spirit, soul, mind, and hell. An eternity apart from God God. But praise God that the story doesn't end with the fall. We go from creation. Fall to redemption. The word who was there in the beginning, the word who was with God, the word who is God, the same word we see in the Later in John 1, became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of God. Grace and truth. There none other than Jesus, whom the Spirit gives life, through whom the Spirit gives life. But as He brought us heavenly light, we who are darkness did not comprehend it. We are rightly condemned. We love darkness rather than light because our deeds Are evil, and our greatest evil is that we do not honor the Son and the Father who sent the Son. We are stubborn and we resist the Holy Spirit. That's why as Christ came to his own, his own did not receive it. Instead, they rejected him and they crucified him. That was all part of God's plan. Jesus suffered and died not because he did any wrong. At the cross, he was paying the penalty of our sins. He was a substitute, satisfying the wrath of God that we deserve. At the end of those hours of darkness that came over the land, he finished his work. We did his last. When he yielded up his spirit, the veil tore, the earthquake, the rocks were split, the graves were opened. It's as if nature itself was crying out for their creator. But that's not the final word. On the third day, Jesus rose from the grave. It was confirmation that his mission accomplished, he'd returned to the Father. But first he presented himself alive to his disciples by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days. Then he ascended to heaven. He'll return to judge mankind. And that's the gospel, the big story arc of the Bible. Seeds of which are being planted in these early chapters of Genesis But unlike many stories today, this good news of Jesus calls for our response. We must repent, turn from sin, turn to Christ, trust in them only for salvation. We cannot enter heaven by staying as we are or trying to be good enough or trying to be better. Eternal life is a gift. Undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. But make the decision today if you haven't already, tell others about this great news You might say that the Spirit of God is hovering over the mess that is your life. Ask God to work in you supernaturally. When God gets to work, it's unmistakable. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. All things have passed away. This is the power of the gospel. Let's remember these truths as we come to the Lord's table. Let's pray. Well, we thank you for this great truth of creation that you are our creator. You have claim over our lives because you formed us in our womb. You created our ancestor, Adam and Eve. You created all things Lord, to you we owe our lives, our everything, all our gratitude. But Lord, how often we fail to thank you Lord, we thank you that you've shown us grace, because left to our own, we would just rebel against our Creator for all of our lives. But we thank you for your grace. Thank you for your spirit working in our hearts so that we can be born again. Lord, we just thank you for these truths. And as we continue to read your Bible, Lord, may we never forget the foundations upon which we stand, the truth of your claim and the authority that you have over our lives because you created us and even You even recreated us in Christ Jesus. We thank you that you are making us conform to the image of your Son And it's in his name, Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen