Yes, we're combining a lot of things here this morning. We have Palm Sunday, which is the My Message. Good Friday and uh Easter, which I think you've already sung about. So we've got it all. Uh I mean this is the highlight certainly. Um so m so many times we think about Christmas as the highlight, but that was just the beginning. And for me, uh I've always uh appreciated so much uh Good Friday especially. There's no There's no commercialization for some reason of Good Friday. Because, you know, it's a death. So we don't have y you know, Easter eggs and Easter bunnies or Santa Clauses uh running around. uh because no one else uh wants to celebrate that. But as believers, uh that's the primary uh event, and that of course, and then the resurrection uh three days later. Well, at the time of Jesus' birth 2,000 years ago, there were all sorts of messianic expectations. It was not uh uh uh something that was uh uh unexpected, especially in light of the opposition uh uh uh and the oppression by the Romans Uh the Jews were looking for their promised Messiah, and most of them were looking for someone who would be an earthly ruler, such as the one prophesied in Isaiah chapter 11 and verses 1 to 10, somebody who would rule in righteousness and kill the wicked oppressors. But there were other messianic prophecies as well, such as Isaiah 53, which spoke of a suffering servant who would die on behalf of his people And still others expected a prophet, according to Deuteronomy chapter 18. You remember back in John chapter 1 in verse 21, they asked him, then, who are you? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you that prophet? He said, no, they were expecting a prophet, according to Deuteronomy 18. In the Dead Sea Scrolls, written a century before Christ's birth, we see three messianic figures. that were expected. A Messiah ben David, the earthly king, a messiah ben Aaron, a priestly Messiah, and a prophet as well. What these folks did not realize was that all of these Old Testament predictions referred to the one Messiah, not three. And in the text that we're going to look at this morning, Luke 19, verses 29 to 48, we see Jesus manifesting himself clearly as the Messiah, the prophet. priest and king that the Old Testament Scriptures had foretold. First of all, in Luke, Chapter 19, verses 29 to 40, we see that Jesus, as messianic king, demands service and worship. Jesus as messianic king demands service and worship. I'm sure you're all familiar with this uh narrative, uh, since of course uh Every Palm Sunday usually it's uh uh uh read or preached about. It's no wonder that this is called the triumphal entry of our Lord Previous to this time, Jesus had resisted attempts by the people to make him king. You can look at places such as John 6. 15 when they wanted to make him king, remember after the feeding of the 5,000, they figured this is terrific. We're not gonna have to work or earn money. We can just uh look to Jesus and he'll feed us. Uh no, but Jesus did not uh desire to be recognized as king at that time. But now boldly he proclaims it. And as king He demands that his subjects serve him and obey him. We see this both in his command to the disciples to get this cult. And then in the response that they uh give to the owners of the cult, when they ask why they are loosing it, Jesus tells them simply to say, because the Lord has need of it. And that's precisely what they say, and the owners give them the cult without further question. Now I would imagine, and I hope this would be true regardless. Of who the president uh is, but if the president of the United States, by virtue of his office, were to send his men and to tell you that he needed to borrow your car you would consider it an honor to serve him and you would gladly give it to him. Now just be you know bear with me for a moment and I hope that you would do that regardless of who is president Normally in his ministry, our Lord did not demand to be served, but instead he served others. In Matthew 20, verse 28, right before his triumphal entry, Jesus had told his disciples that they must adopt a servant. Mentality. He said, for the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. What was the difference here? Jesus was making clear at this time for all to see that he indeed was the Messiah, the King of Israel. And he was worthy of all service and worship. Everything he did here was deliberate and carefully planned. For indeed, it was no accident that he asked his disciples to get a young donkey on which to ride. Jesus was consciously fulfilling an Old Testament prophecy concerning the Messiah. The parallel count in Matthew 21, 4 and 5 makes this clear. It says, all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophets, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you lowly and sitting on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey. This amazing prophecy from Zechariah 9-9 was written 500 years earlier Around 470 BC. And Jesus fulfilled it to the letter at his triumphal entry. Now I'd like you to stop and think for a moment what an unusual combination it is for a king to be announced riding on a donkey. Most often a king would ride on a horse, a beast of war. Revelation 19, verse 11, tells us that at his second coming, our Lord would indeed be riding a white horse. as in righteousness he judges and makes war. But here, in his first triumphal entry, our Lord, in harmony with Zechariah 9:9, and his own mission came not riding a horse, a beast of war, but a donkey, a lowly beast of peace. This was not exactly the kind of king that many of the people wanted, though perhaps they did not understand the full significance here. They wanted a political king which would overthrow the rule of the Romans, not a king who would come in peace. Jesus' ministry from beginning to end was an amazing combination of regal authority, yet lowliness and humility. The king demands not only service, but worship in verses 35 to 40. The response of the people to uh Jesus as he begins that triumphal entry into Jerusalem. was that of worship and praise. We see this in two ways, their actions and their words In terms of their actions, verse 35 says that the disciples threw their clothes on the colt, and in verse 36, many people spread their clothes on the road as a royal path on which the king would ride. Matthew records that it was a very great multitude who did this in verse 8, and that they cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road as well. John 12, verse 13 says, if they were palm branches, and that's why we call this Sunday Palm Sunday. But not only did their actions reveal their worship of the king, their words revealed this as well. Luke says that they began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all of the mighty works that they had seen. And putting together Matthew and Luke here, they said, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. peace in heaven and glory, or Hosanna, in the highest. The people are praising the Lord in the words of Psalm 118 and verses 25 and 26. and Psalm 148 and verse 1. The word hosannah is the same word used in Psalm 118-25 And it means please save, or save, we pray. They are recognizing Christ as the Messiah. The King, the Savior, who was promised in the Old Testament scriptures. And they are worshiping and glorifying Him. Well, once again, by their words, they are fulfilling specific Old Testament prophecy concerning Christ And their words also bring us back to the words of the angels at Christ's birth in Luke chapter 2 and verse 14. When they said, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. What a time of triumph. and praise. The king received the service and the worship that he was due. If only our text stopped right there And in fact, often the emphasis in prom Sunday celebrations stops at this point. But that's not the whole picture presented by the Scriptures Sadly, verse 39 of our text in Luke 19 tells us that some of the Pharisees tried to get Jesus to rebuke his disciples, to shut them up. Why? Because they knew the scriptures very well, and they realized that these disciples were praising and worshiping Jesus as their king. the Messiah. And clearly these Pharisees did not believe that. They thought that these words were blasphemous. And so just as they had accused Jesus in John 10, verse 33 of blasphemy, because they recognized that Jesus was claiming to be the Son of God, Yet they thought he was only a man. Of course, they were tragically mistaken. Jesus' response to the Pharisees in verse 40 was that the very stones would cry out. If these people didn't. In other words, Scripture was being fulfilled as Jesus was proclaiming himself as the king, and nothing could possibly stop that from happening. Even if somehow the people could be silenced, the stones would cry out. Folks, God is in control of all things, not you or I And not any of the presidents or kings around this world. We may think we're in control, but we're not. God. Is in control of all things. Yes, we are responsible for our response to the Lord, but God's program will be accomplished in precisely his time. Not sooner and not later. The events of this day have been divinely predicted hundreds of years earlier, and now it was finally the time for the king to be revealed. What is our response to this king? And I like the uh the message of the choir to consider him, and that's exactly what we need to do. Either he is who he claims he is, and we must serve and worship him, or he is a blasphemer, as the Pharisees thought. And we should reject him. There is no middle ground with Jesus. Jesus claimed to be the messianic king, the savior of the world. Don't think that he was just some good teacher. The scriptures won't allow that option. And if in fact he is the king, then we have no choice but to fall down and to worship him Jesus as the messianic king demands our service and our worship. Well Jesus wasn't only executing exercising his messianic office as king on that first Palm Sunday, he was also exercising his office as prophet. Our second main point from Luke 19 in verses 41 to 44 is that Jesus, as messianic prophet, demands accountability and obedience to his word. As messianic prophet, Jesus demands accountability and obedience to his word. As Jesus drew near to Jerusalem, having descended from the Mount of Olives, he looked over the city and he wept over it. And then as a true prophet, he predicted the complete destruction of Jerusalem in verses 41 to 44. Earlier in Luke chapter 13, verses 33 to 35, Jesus said that he must journey towards Jerusalem. Then in verse 34, he laments over Jerusalem. He says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those. who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, but you were not willing. See, your house is left to you desolate, and assuredly I say to you, you shall not see me until the time comes when you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So here now, the messianic prophet, having finally come to Jerusalem in the last week of his life, once again offers a sad yet scathing Prophecy concerning the city. He says in verses 43 and 44 that Jerusalem's enemies would come, they would surround the city, and they would completely destroy it. And this was fulfilled in A. D. 70 when indeed the Romans came, they destroyed Jerusalem utterly, destroying the temple and all of the rest. You know, the mark of a true prophet is 100% accuracy. And Jesus, of course, was a true prophet, completely accurate in all that he prophesied. The Old Testament prophets spoke both of God's salvation for those who believed and his judgment upon those who did not. Too often today we do not speak about God's judgment, but it is real. The Old Testament prophets called the nation of Israel to obey the word of the Lord. If it did not Then God would bring judgment. But the prophet had no joy in pronouncing God's judgment. I think that's one of the reasons that in many churches you don't hear a word about God's wrath. or God's judgment. It's not fun to even be thinking about it. But it's part of the message. Jeremiah certainly didn't like bringing that message. That's why he's called the weeping prophet. And Jesus wept over the city as he proclaimed judgment. The sad thing is. It didn't have to be this way for Jerusalem if only they had listened to the prophets. Jesus specifically says here in verse 42, if you had known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace. And then he concludes in verse 44 by saying that destruction would happen because you did not know the time of your visitation. Now this is an amazing statement. And I believe that Jesus here was referring to the specific prophecy concerning the peace of Jerusalem. which was given to Daniel as he awaited the end of the Babylonian captivity around 539 BC. In response to Daniel's tremendous prayer in the Daniel chapter 9, his prayer for the city Daniel 9, 24 to 27 spells out in detail the future for the city. outlining a period of 77s or 490 years that would bring in everlasting righteousness for Jerusalem. Now, the beginning of that prophecy, which is a bit complex, I must admit, but the beginning of that prophecy was in 445 B. C. When Arta Xerxes authorized the rebuilding of the temple, rebuilding of the wall and the city. Nehemiah 2 talks about that. And then there would be a total of 483 years, 69 times 7, from that time until Messiah the Prince. Daniel 9, 25. And when you compute this out using a 360-day lunar year, it appears to work out to be the exact day of the triumphal entry into Jerusalem in A. D. 33. So when Jesus says here in Luke that the city did not know the time of their visitation, I believe that he meant that the devout Jew could figure out from the prophecy of Daniel the exact time of the coming of the Messiah. Not only that, Daniel 9. 26 says that after that 483-year period, Messiah would be cut off. And that's exactly what happened as Jesus was crucified less than a week after the triumphal entry and his presentation of himself as the Messiah. Now what do we get from all of this? First, once again, Jesus was fulfilling Scripture precisely He knew exactly what he was doing, and it was all happening according to God's perfect timetable, revealed over 570 years earlier to the prophet Daniel. Second, there is indeed going to be judgment for disobedience and rejection of God, just as the prophets and the Lord himself foretold. Jesus as the supreme prophet demands obedience to his word. And if there is rejection of God's word, and rejection of the supreme prophet, the Messiah, then there is going to be judgment. Just as there was judgment in Isaiah's day and in Jeremiah and Ezekiel's day with the captive with the various captivities. So to hear Jerusalem would be judged for her unbelief. And if we think for n one minute that there is not going to be any accountability if we reject Christ today, We are tragically mistaken. Hebrews 10, 31 tells us that it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Jesus the prophet is warning us how foolish if we do not heed that warning. Well finally, we see Jesus in Luke 19 in verses 45 and 46 in his third messianic office as high priest cleansing the temple. For our third main point is that Jesus, as messianic high priest, demands purity. Jesus as messianic high priest demands purity If we compare the accounts of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, especially Mark 11, 11, it seems that this incident probably actually occurred the day after the triumphal entry In any event, Jesus going into the temple and driving out those who are buying and selling in the temple is exactly what is uh mentioned there. And Matthew's account uh adds a little more detail in Matthew 21 verse 12. It says then Jesus went into the temple of God. and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold doves. According to John chapter 2, Jesus had done the same thing in the beginning of his ministry. Since people needed animals for sacrifice in the temple, why not make it convenient for them? and earn a nice profit at the same time by having them buy them right there at the temple. No doubt the priests got a nice kickback for allowing these folks to do business there. But you see, the temple was a place that was to symbolize God's presence. And what the priest should have been doing was making sure that the temple was a place of true worship. Jesus as the true high priest had to come and purify it. Once again, Jesus quotes from the Old Testament scripture two scripture passages which he actually joins together. The first one is from Isaiah 56 and verse 7, which speaks of the Gentiles as well as the Jews in the millennium coming and bringing sacrifices to the Lord's house. a house of prayer. It says, for my house will be called a house of prayer for all nations. You see, the Jews were to be the example nation for all the other nations. And the temple was to be a place not just for the Jew, but ultimately as a testimony for all peoples. Not simply the Jew. Just as we as believers should be a testimony, and our lives and the church should be a testimony not only for those of us here, but also those of us here. the uh everyone else outside. And then he quotes from Jeremiah 7, 11, where Jeremiah in his famous temple sermon blasts the hypocrisy of the religious leaders. He says, will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, burn incense to Baal, and walk after other gods whom you do not know? And then Come and stand before me in this house which is called by my name and say we are delivered to do all these abominations. Has this house which is called by my name become a den of thieves in your eyes? Behold, I even I have seen it, says the Lord. Jesus as high priest demands purity of those who will come and worship him. So let me ask you this question this morning. Do you think that God is pleased that you have come to church this morning if you live like an unbeliever for the rest of the week? You think that you are fooling him? You may be fooling us. That's easy to do. But you're not fooling him. God sees all things. He knows our hearts, and he demands that we be pure vessels that we might serve him, not a bunch of hypocrites that are simply going through the motions. He knows that we aren't perfect, so please don't misunderstand me. He knows we're not perfect. We all have sinned and fall short of God's glory. But uh it should be our goal to be more and more like him. Our salvation does not, thankfully, depend upon our perfection. It is his grace. It is by faith alone that we are saved. But what it should mean if we've truly accepted Christ as our Savior, we want to live for Him. We want to do everything for Him to worship and to serve Him And that means we will be striving for purity and holiness in all areas of our life. Well finally, Luke ends this section in verses 47 and 48 by once again highlighting the various responses to the Lord. Jesus continued teaching in the temple during this last week of his life. And we get some of the confrontation between him and the religious leaders in the following chapters in both uh Luke and Matthew's Gospels. Quite a confrontation. But basically, all they are trying to do is to trap Jesus so that they can uh s uh have some excuse to kill him Notice that it is the chief priests, the scribes, the experts in the law, I always like to say the seminary professors, but not from a good seminary, and the leaders who are all trying to get rid of him. Jesus, the true prophet, priest, and king. How ironic! Yet the people were had seemed to have more sense than these religious leaders, and they were hanging on every word of his teaching. So the leaders couldn't do anything. As a postscript, sadly, many in the crowd that followed Jesus were following him for the wrong reasons. Expecting political victory over the Romans. Maybe they were attracted by the miracles, the signs, and the wonders. And these folks were won over quite quickly by the religious leaders. For later in the week, on the day of Jesus' crucifixion, Matthew 27, verse 20, records that the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas. and to have Jesus executed. And they cried out, crucify him. That's why personally I don't trust public opinion polls very much at all. People are too easily swayed by uh emotion and slick rhetoric and the latest uh news broadcast or whatever instead of the facts. And you and I should be careful in ministry that we don't lead by public opinion alone, but by convictions that come from the Word of God. And we leave the results of our work with the Lord, not with the very fickle court of public opinion. Well, as we conclude this brief look at the Lord's triumphal entry of Jesus as prophet, priest, and king, I would like to ask you once again. What is your response to Jesus' claims on your life? There was an article in the Washington Post, Book World. a while ago and Jonathan Yardley reviewed this book which talked about the new experience of baby boomers uh coming to grips with spirituality. And this book says that the new religion relies on intuition and emotional experience rather than belief. It poses no intellectual challenge and requires no intellectual understanding. And Yardley writes, it is, and I quote, it is difficult to see how this makes religion different. from any of the other easy self-help solutions to which Americans have always been susceptible, but which now have become the civil religion. End quote. And he says that this new message, and I quote, reduces Jesus from one in the Holy Trinity to a smiling face at the end of the psychiatrist's couch. It says that faith requires nothing more than that we go with the flow, and it assures that difficult things, doubt, repentance, observance, are unnecessary in this new kingdom of endless comfort. And Yarley concludes by saying, perhaps it is unfair, but it seems to me that the present vogue for spirituality is little more than that. A passing fad indulged in for easy gratification rather than a genuine religious commitment requiring hard choices and genuine faith In the 1960s it was pot, and now it's God. Same difference. End of quote. Well, that's not exactly how The Jesus of Palm Sunday or the Jesus of the Bible. The Jesus of the Bible presents himself as a king who demands our service and worship, as a prophet who demands our accountability and obedience to his word, and as a high priest who demands purity. Not hypocrisy in our lives. And above all, he presents himself as the Messiah, our Savior, who brings eternal life to all of those who trust in him. Let's close in prayer. When we think as so often in in this day that often Christians are misunderstood by the general public, true Christians are, we realize that the same thing was true for Jesus. That he was misunderstood. The people questioned his motives. They questioned who he was. They didn't completely understand. That he was and is the prophet, priest, and king. Lord, we thank you. If we receive any kind of hostility because of our faith, we thank you as we realize that. Jesus experienced the very same thing, yet unlike us, he was without sin. Father, I pray that you would help us again this uh in this uh time as we reflect on the uh uh uh not only the triumphal entry, but the crucifixion and the resurrection, we will realize, Lord. All that you have done for us, all that the Lord Jesus has given up for us, that we might have eternal life. and forgiveness of sins if we but trust in the finished work of Christ and what he did on the cross and that he rose again, Lord. And Father, I pray if there's anyone here this morning that's never truly trusted in Christ as their Savior, that they would do it even today. Lord, you know all of our sins, you know all of our hypocrisy. You know right and you can see right through our hearts. So I would pray, Father, if there's anyone that's never truly trusted in Christ, that they would do it even this morning Lord, for the rest of us who have trusted Christ, it's a reminder again as we contemplate all that Jesus stands for. All that he did for us. It's a reminder, Lord, that we need to dedicate our lives solely to following Him. Lord, we know we're not perfect, but help us, Father, in everything we do to consider Jesus, to consider him, and what he would have us to do Help us, Lord, to live a life of obedience and purity and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ in every aspect of our lives. We pray in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.