Some of you guys know that me and my wife we like to travel. Um you would say that my wife has something called Wanderlust and she definitely um got me interested in travel. Um but I remember one in two thousand nineteen, one trip that we took It was a hot summer day. And Ira and I um we walked through the stifling heat in London through Westminster To reach our destination, Buckingham Palace. So we were not alone People from all over the world gathered at that spot just to catch, just maybe a glimpse of the royal family. Cell phones and cameras ready. A BBC writer asked once, why does the UK love the monarchy? Why does a country that has become so cynical about other institutions, parliament, the city, the press, the police, remain so loyal to the monarchy? A pair of sociologists who attended the coronation of Queen Elizabeth in nineteen fifty-three concluded the following The coronation provided, at one time and for practically the entire society, such an intensive contact with the sacred That we believe we are justified in interpreting it as a great act of national communion. An intensive contact with the sacred, great act of national communion To them, a monarch is more than a figurehead. It means touching heaven itself. It means deep connection with your fellow Brits. The language here borders on religious. The BBC writer reported that in a more recent appearance, quote, A down-to-earth no-nonsense town goes slightly mad for the Queen. Thousands lined the streets, hung out of windows, climbed lamp posts to catch a glimpse of their monarch. The Queen represents the ideals of the UK. Without the monarch, there's no monarchy. That's not merely a truism. But a deeply held conviction. If such anticipation Excitement and fervor are reserved for a human ruler. How much more should we be passionate for the God man, the King of kings, our Lord Jesus Christ? As we continue our studies of Luke, consider how we should respond to him and his coming reign. Let's read Luke 17, 20 to 37. Luke seventeen, twenty to thirty seven. Now, when he was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation, nor will they say, see here or see there, for indeed the kingdom of God is within you. Then he said to the disciples, The days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. And they will say to you, Look here or look there, do not go after them or follow them. For as the lightning that flashes out of one part under heaven shines to the other part under heaven, so also the Son of Man will be in his day. But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. And as it was in the days of Noah, so it will be also Also in the days of the Son of Man. They ate, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and the blood came and destroyed them all. Likewise, as it was also in the days of Lot. They ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built But on the day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Even so will it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed. In that day, he who is on the housetop and his goods are in the house, let him not come down to take them away, and likewise the one who is in the field let him not turn back. Remember Lot's wife. Whoever seeks to save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it. I tell you, in that night there will be two men in one bed, the one will be taken and the other will be left. Two women will be grinding together, the one will be taken out. And they answered and said to him, Where, Lord? So he said No matter how bad things get, we look into God's Word for better days ahead. And we await our king because without him, there's no kingdom. I see three responses to Christ and his rule. One, trust in Jesus who embodies God's kingdom. I get that from verses. 20 to 21. Two, anticipate Jesus, the true Son of Man, verses 22 to 30. And three, follow Jesus and forsake the world, verses thirty-one to thirty-seven. First, trust in Jesus who embodies God's kingdom. You probably know about the five W questions, who, what, when, where, and why. Concerning heaven, Pharisees were concerned about two of these. They wanted to know when. They also wanted to know where. But the question they really should have been asking is who? I mean, that instead of looking out here or there for God's kingdom, They should have looked at the face of God's son. The phrase within you at the end of verse 21 doesn't mean that we're gods and The be-all and end-all of the universe as humanity. Contextually, that doesn't make sense. Jesus is talking with Pharisees of all people, his enemies. When he says within you, Jesus is pointing to himself, who is physically and bodily within their mist. He was in the midst of Israel and her leader. This is similar to what Jesus said to the Samaritan woman when he said, Salvation is of the Jews, and declared himself to be the Messiah. Sadly, these religious leaders did not trust in Jesus. Now, to be clear, if God's kingdom could be obtained by human effort, the Pharisees would be first to get there. The noun observation there in verse 20 has a verb counterpart throughout the New Testament. A quick word study reveals that this kind of observation is the studious, rigorous kind. We saw it earlier when the Pharisees watched Jesus to see whether he'd heal on the Sabbath and break the customs. Later they observed, hoping he'd slip up in his teachings. In Acts, Jews of Damascus had their eyes on the city gate to ambush Paul. Judaizers taught Galatians to be scrupulous in observing days, months, seasons, and years. So you can imagine the furled eyebrows of an A plus student, right? That's the type of observation here. They thought scientific and critical observation would get them God's supernatural kingdom. Now, followers of Jesus should not be against science or critical thinking. But we should know their limits. A man needs eyes of faith for God's kingdom. He should not be wise in his own eyes. More than the Pharisees here, we should imitate the Samaritan in the previous passage. That foreigner was a man of faith and gratitude. He trusted in Jesus, who embodies God's kingdom. Now, before we move on from this first principle, here's an application. With the advance of medical science, there have been more accounts of resuscitated patients reporting visits to heaven. And some of these survivors have recorded their stories in best-selling books. Now, I want to be sensitive yet firm All of our subjective experiences must be brought under the test of God's objective truths. That's what it means to be Protestant. Hold to sola scriptura. To be an evangelical. Trust God's word is faithful, without error, and breeded out by Him. God has given us all that we need to know about heaven in the Bible. But when we compare what authors of the Bible say with what authors of 90 Minutes in Heaven, or Heaven is for real, say, we find some crucial differences. There's little emphasis on Christ in modern books. It's as if heaven's more about reunion with loved ones than being with Jesus. But when we study the visions of heaven in the Bible, we see that the glory of the kingdom is Christ Himself. Peter, James, and John got a preview of this at the Transfiguration. The face of Jesus shone like the sun, and his clothes became as white as the light. He received from the from God the Father honor and glory. And like what happened there, those in the future kingdom cry out: Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. To receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. Blessing and honor and glory and power be to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb forever and ever. Ever sin Revelation five. Jesus embodies God God's kingdom. Trust in Him. You know years ago when I thought of home, I would think of Tegu in South Korea. or Laurel in Maryland or False Church in Virginia. But after I married E-Ray, and now that I have Nathaniel, it's not so much about the location It does it's not about the time, it's not about where. It's about who, not when or where My home on earth is embodied in my spouse and my son. In the same way, my home in heaven is embodied in Jesus. I hope you too trust in Jesus, who embodies God's kingdom. We long for that day when he returns and we behold him face to face. When the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ. That leads us to the next point. Anticipate Jesus, the true Son of Man. From verse twenty two to the end of this chapter. Jesus turns from the Pharisees to his disciples to teach details concerning the end times Whereas the religious leaders can't get past the first and basic question: who is Jesus? The disciples can and do move on to more advanced lessons. I divide verses 22 to 37 into two sections. In verses 22 to 30, there's the constant emphasis on The day or days and the Son of Man. Verse 22 and verse 30 serve as bookends to that section In verses 31 to 37, there's a more subtle shift to our responsibilities as individuals. There's a repeated use of the third person singular. He who is on the housetop, whoever seeks to save his life, the one will be taken and the other will be left. In verses twenty-two through, we're taught to anticipate Jesus, the true Son of Man. Here's a really quick explanation of the title, Son of Man. In Daniel 7:13, the Messiah is referred to as the one like the Son of Man. Jesus is the Messiah, and so he's the one coming with the clouds of heaven. When put on trial at Jerusalem, our Lord did not back off from this claim. He left no doubt that he is the true Son of Man, Christ foretold by the ancient prophets. We anticipate Jesus, the true Son of Man. Okay, now so what about all these mention of days? The first mention of days, plural, in verse twenty-two, is speaking of the time of Jacob's trouble. To be specific, this is the second half of the future seven-year tribulation, and Jesus taught in more detail elsewhere in Matthew 24, and I'll read verses 21 to 25 for you. There will be great tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning of the world, until this time, no nor ever shall be. And unless those days were shortened, no flesh would be Saved. But for the elect's sake, those days will be shortened. And if anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ, or there, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will rise and show great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand. So, because of these false Christs and prophets, we must anticipate Jesus as the true Son of Man. Those will be days of lying wonders, unrighteous deception, and strong delusion, as Second Thessalonians 2 tells us We've been taught that when the true Christ comes, there will be obvious and great signs in heaven, just as we see the flash of lightning from a distance. When Jesus finally returns, it will be a glorious day, singular, that ends the miserable days, plural. While the days of the Son of Man, in summary, refers to the various in-time events, there is in one of those days, his day, the day when the Son of Man is revealed. So during those multiple days of anticipation, Jesus' disciples will long for that one day of revelation. So now before we move on, some of you might ask, isn't this all going to happen after I'm raptured? And if you're like me, you believe in pre-tribulation rapture, as in the Universal Church, both living and dead will be safe and sound in heaven with resurrection bodies before the seven years I affirm that's true. So what does this have to do with me since I won't even be here How is this relevant to me? And a lot of people ask that question about end-time prophecies, like, am I even gonna be here for this? The quick answer is that just as the past has relevance for the present, the future has relevance for the present. Now Paul said this. What happened to Israel in the past were examples and written for our admonition. Paul said that in 1 Corinthians. 10. Similarly, things going to happen to the saints in the future are examples and written for our admonition too. Remember how John the Apostle wrote at the beginning of Revelation? This is Revelation 1:3. Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written. in it for the time is near. So there's a blessing in reading about the future and anticipating Jesus, the true Son of Man. And to do that properly, we must know the scriptures. In verse twenty-five, we see how to identify the true Messiah. First, he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. In other places we read of how Christ is not only the King of Kings And the Lord of Lords, he's also the suffering servant. Not only is he highly lifted up and given the name above every name. He also made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant. Not only do we sing, Lo he comes with clouds descending, we say in the very next line: once for favored sinners slain Jesus is the true Son of Man because he suffered and he was rejected. He was tortured and crucified for sinners like you and me. God created us to live with him forever under his His rule. But we've all become rebels and wanted to have our own way. We've sinned in our thoughts, words, and actions by refusing his will over our lives the price for that eternal separation from God is is eternal separation from God and his dwelling Place in heaven. That's the price of sin. But the people are placed in heaven. Jesus suffered many things. And he was rejected by his generation. He went to the cross and died in our place as our substitute. He rose again from the dead on the third day and ascended To heaven, and someday he'll return to judge the living and the dead. Jesus is the true Son of Man because He suffered for us. He's not a thief, not a robber, not a wolf. He's not one of the false Christs or the prophets. He's the good shepherd and he gives his life for the sheep. That's how you how you know he's the true son. Now please don't wait too long to make a decision about Jesus. As we'll see in the next verses, if you wait too long, you'll see that the wrath of God, the eternal wrath of God, is coming. There's no return. No purgatory. Trust in Jesus now before it's too late. Turn from yourself in repentance and turn to Christ in faith God offers heaven as a free gift of grace, not a works to be earned. Receive the gift with urgency. You've been warned if you don't anticipate Jesus Jesus the true Son of Man now, if you don't make it a priority to know him, you may not want to know him later either Don't think you'll be more desperate for God as you grow older and closer to death. Don't think that as judgment draws near, you automatically panic and repent. You see in verses 26 to 30 how Jesus compares the last days of Son of Man, like the days of Noah and the days of Lot. The cataclysmic universal flood that destroyed the whole world was on the horizon. Yet the antediluvian hedens Had parties to throw, food to eat, drinks to taste, weddings to attend. Soon they were buried in a deluge. In a smaller scale, citizens of Sodom, their neighbors in Gomorrah, Adma, and Zeboim, had dinners to attend, businesses to open, vineyards to plant, houses to build. Soon they were entombed in fire and brimstone. Peter must have been listening carefully to Jesus here. He reflected on Noah and Loth later in second. Peter, the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptations and to reserve the unjust under punishment for the day of judgment Jude also issued a similar warning. These warnings are for people of every age. And circumstance. We respond to by becoming the disciples of Jesus. And that leads to the next point. Third point follow Jesus and forsake the world. Following Jesus requires forsaking all. I mention often how repentance is turning from yourself. Well, if God demands such abandon of the self, how much more the abandon of goods? The main idea of verse 31 is precisely that. Whether it's the Antichrist in the future or anything that opposes Christ now, we must flee from the simple dangers of this world. We must not go back home to pack up our prized belongings. The urgency to run away from abominable judgment is that great. We must not be like Lot's wife, who looked back behind him and became a pillar of salt. Jesus says something similar to verse 33 back in Luke 9, 23 to 25. I'll just Read it. If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? Like the preacher of Ecclesiastes, we must say to this world: Vanity of vanities, all is vanity Like the Christian in Pilgrim's Progress, we must follow Jesus towards the celestial city, crying life, life, eternity. Eternal life. Like Jim Elliott, we must say, he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Follow Jesus and forsake the world. And for those who follow Jesus during the tribulation, their trouble will end when the Son of Man returns. I believe verses 34 to 37 dramatically describe that day. By the way, there's some dispute concerning verse 36, whether it belongs here. There's no dispute that Jesus said these words at least once in Matthew 24, verse 40. It's just a matter of determining whether he said these words twice. I'm not going to get too much into that. Either way, we know Jesus spoke the words of verse 36 in the context of end-time prophecies. I'll just leave it at that. There are three scenarios concerning the end times there, and then corresponding to three verses in 34, 35, and 36. A quick note about verse 34. Some have used this verse to justify homosexuality. This is exactly what Peter warned us of. In 2 Peter 3 16. Untaught and unstable people twist the scriptures to their own destruction. They're saying you know these People with twist the scriptures are saying that the two men in bed together means they have an erotic relationship. This interpretation ignores the clear passages that speak of God's judgment of homosexuality. It ignores how travelers of that time might share a bed to survive cold nights. We kind of read about that in Ecclesiastes 4:11. Jesus is simply painting for us realistic life scenarios and the suddenness of judgment. You see how verses thirty-four to thirty-six all end with the same refrain, the one will be taken and the other will be left. Now the question is who is taken and who's left. Some believe that these verses are talking about the rapture. I actually don't think that Jesus spoke of the rapture. Paul did in First Thessalonians 4. It's important to know the difference between Paul and Jesus here Whereas Paul speaks of the time before the seven-year tribulation in First Thessalonians, Jesus speaks of the end of the seven-year tribulation. Whereas Paul speaks of believers taken and the unbelievers left behind, Jesus speaks of unbelievers going away and the believers staying. Jesus is saying that at the end of those seven years, those who follow him will inherit the earth. Those who reject him will be cast out to outer darkness. The unrighteous goats will go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous sheep into everything. Our Lord makes it clear that those taken are taken to judgment, their bodies are left as food and for the birds, food for the birds. Lest you end up like this. Trust Jesus for eternal life. Follow him and forsake the world. Like I said before, we don't know when all these things are going to happen. But all that we really need to know is this. Now our salvation is nearer than we first believed. Even if we don't know all the details of end times, we can bank on that. We're closer to Jesus' return today Than yesterday. And that's all we need to know to put some perk in our steps as we follow Jesus and forsake the world. Of course, we aren't always great at this or good at this. Following diseases can be tough. If you faltered this week, if you're not doing well spiritually, and the finish line looks so distant. It'll help to remember your beginning. Before you think about what you can do for Jesus, think about what Jesus has done for you. That's what we'll do at the Lord's table next. Let's prepare our hearts for that now. Let's pray. No, we're thankful that Your kingdom is real. And Lord, that you have shown us what that kingdom is all about through your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, we are to represent your kingdom. And we do look forward to that day. Lord, until that day, help us to be faithful Help us to be vigilant. Help us to be faithful to you and just stay in your word. To be your ambassadors, to trust in you daily, to follow you daily, and to anticipate that day, the future Thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.