I think a good conversationalist or apologist not only have answers ready, but they have good questions ready too. One question that I've had in my pocket, and I hope to use, and I had it for a while, is this one. Have you ever felt really thankful but had no one to thank? Again, have you ever felt really thankful but had no one to thank? The question is based on a quote by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It goes, the worst moment for the atheist is when he is really thankful and has nobody to thank. Now this question isn't just a gotcha question meant to baffle enemies of faith. It's not only for the Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris's of the world. It's a question for all sinners. At one point all of us were guilty of not giving God things he rightfully deserves. As Paul says in Romans 1, though our Creator has revealed Himself clearly in this world, in this universe, though we knew God, we did not glorify Him as God, nor were we thankful. We became futile in our thoughts, our and our foolish hearts were darkened. But praise God, He saves us in Jesus We're transformed from ungrateful sinners to grateful saints. And if we're truly God's children, with the eyes of our understanding enlightened, With new hearts and new spirits yielding new affections, we be thankful. We count our blessings and then turn to the Father to give him glory As we're continuing the story of Noah today, we come to a scene that illustrates gratitude. It's found in the last few verses of Genesis 8. Noah, his family, and all of their friends on earth and sky have just exited the ark, and many flew off, crawled off, hopped off, pranced off, however way they went about. But what distinguishes Noah from the rest is the imperative of worship. Let's see what he does and how God reacts in Genesis 8, 20 to 22. And Noah built an altar to the Lord and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And the Lord smelled a soothing aroma. And the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground for man's sake, although the imagination of man's heart is evil from his sake. His youth, nor will I again destroy every living thing as I have done, while the earth remains, sea time and harvest, cold and heat, winter and summer, and day and night shall not cease. So in the last time looking at Noah's faithful obedience to God's commands. Obedience got him into the ark in the first place. Obedience got him out of the ark. That should not surprise us. After all, Noah's a man of faith who found grace in the eyes of the Lord. He walked with God. He was just and perfect in his generations. But besides submission to God, or rather in line with his submission to God, here's something else saints do. They worship God. Believers are not only survivors of God's judgment, they're worshipers of God and His mercy. The scheme of worship is not new. Back in Genesis 4, we saw Cain and Abel offering their sacrifices, the fruit of the ground, and the firstborn of the flock, respectively. But trouble was brewing. Here was the original worship war, but the point of the conflict wasn't music styles. There were struggles of faith and sin. And even though Abel was martyred, he's actually the winner in the end. And then in the same chapter, besides the individual worship of Abel, there is the corporate worship of the Sethites. From the line of Seth, the last word of Genesis four is that men began to call on the name of the Lord. So from the earliest stages of history and the earliest pages of the Bible, faithful men are lifting up their offerings and lifting up their voices to God. Worship predates Noah. He's not pioneering or inventing worship or continuing it. But there are some unique aspects of his worship that calls for our attention. For example, in chapter 8, verse 20 of Genesis, for the first time in the scriptures we read of someone building an altar. Now I'm not ruling out that men before Noah did this, I just have no definite proof. Also for the first time we see in the same verse how Noah sacrificed burnt offerings That sets the precedence for Abraham later in Genesis, and of course the Israelites in Exodus and beyond. There are many more details to consider, even in these very few verses. Now we'll slow down and focus on three verses. Genesis 8:20 to 22. As we do it, keep in mind two urgent worship priorities. First, honor God who deserves all of our worship. That's verse twenty to the first part of twenty-one. Secondly, own up as sinners who deserve none of his mercy. That's the second part of 21 to verse 22. First honor God who deserves all of our worship The previous four verses, 15 to 19, depict scenes of freedom. God gave his command to leave behind the confines of the ark. Go, be fruitful, multiply, he said What a sight to behold as birds flap their wings to take flight, critters scurry away and hide, great beasts return to their wild habitats. No doubt the humans were excited too. For over a year now, Noah's sons lived in a floating zoo. They literally shared a mobile home. Now each can spread out, map out the new terrain, build their own homes. They have no zoning regulations to navigate. They are their own real estate agents. The world is their oyster. They want the greatest shopping spree ever. I'm sure they're eager to get out there. Now granted we don't know exactly what went through the minds of Noah and his family as they exited the ark. But if actions speak louder than words, at least one man understood what John MacArthur called the ultimate priority. Worship That's what we see in verse twenty before the first comma, before building a house, before building a vineyard, a garden or an orchard, Noah wanted to build an altar. to glorify the Lord. Then look at the middle of verse 20. On the altar are portions of clean land animals and birds. When we say clean, we're speaking of those creatures acceptable to God in sacrifice. Talk about herbivores, not scavengers, clean and unclean. also pertain to diet of Israel, God's chosen people, but that's a discussion for another day. Staying here In the sacrifice of Noah, we should note that Noah didn't offer every single one of the clean creatures. I think the New American Standard Bible translation accurately translates that he took some of every clean kind of clean animal and some of every clean bird, and I think that's right. Still, it's good that Noah had plenty of them. Recall from chapter 7 how God had instructed him to bring extra of these on board to the ark. Now with the clean birds and animals prepared, we see how they're sacrificed in the last part of verse 20. No offered, burnt offering. offerings on the altar. Besides the obvious, what do we know about these burnt offerings? The word for burnt offering is Olah in Hebrew It comes from the verb meaning go up, bring up, ascend, climb, etc. You get the idea. Combine flames with the sacrifice, and you get the idea. You don't have to be a chemist to know that solid melts into liquid, liquid evaporates into gas, and gas goes up in the air. You don't have to be a grill master to know that the smell of cooked barbecue spreads everywhere. Whet your appetite. To get to lunch after this, right? Along the same lines, in worship settings, Olah or burnt offering literally goes up in smoke. When I say go up in smoke, I'm not saying it's a waste, as it says in verse 21. It's a soothing aroma to the Lord. That's anthropomorphism right there. God is spiritual in essence, but he reveals himself as if he had physical body like us. He's accommodating for us in figures of speech John Calvin compares the practice to nurses lisping for infants. The Lord Almighty is talking at our level. So we can understand. That's why elsewhere God is said to have said to work with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. We read about his eyes, ears, and even nostrils. So in this way. We're told no one's sacrifice was pleasing to the Lord. As I said earlier, this sacrifice of Noah sets the precedence for later worshipers. Abraham also built altars and knew about the burnt offering. So did Isaac. The burnt offerings foundational for the worship life of Israel is so important that Leviticus starts with specific instructions concerning it. Now you find there that the use of fire is not unique to this specific offering. Other sacrifices require the use of flames. What's salient or unique about the burnt offering in particular is how all of it belonged to God. Except the blood, the skin, and the crops of the bird. Everything went up in flames. That's why sometimes we see in the sacrifice further specified as a whole burnt offering. I mean that also meant a lot of work for the priests, those who prepare the sacrifice, kill the victim, butcher into parts with his head and his fat. The entrails and the legs have to be washed with water before going. Up in flames, going into the flames. I don't know if that kind of ruins the appetite, but add to that the fire had to be kept burning all night, ashes had to be disposed with special care and special clothing. It's probable that Noah's burnt offering isn't exactly the same as the Levitical burnt offering, but I tend to think there were a lot of things that were parallel. Knowing Noah, he would have painstakingly selected the healthiest and the liveliest, the best of the best. Since it's not until next chapter that Noah's permitted to eat. Meat, all the parts were placed on the altar. So with the burnt offering I arrive at just three conclusions expressed in superlatives The burnt offering is one of the oldest sacrifices in antiquity, if not the oldest. The burnt offering demands the most in quantity, as none of the meat is eaten. It also requires the best in quality, as those offered on the altar are to be without blemish. And so Noah's burnt offerings, a wonderful illustration of the total surrender of Lyston worship We see here this urgent priority. Honor God who deserves all of our worship. The priority for all times and all places, from all people and all dispensations. So whether you're Noah the son of Lamech or Noah the son of Steve Conrad, know that the Lord is worthy of all. Now of course there are some nuances and differences as New Testament believers. A key passage for application is Romans 12, 1 to 2, which we read earlier. And I'll read it again. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies. a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. That's what Paul is trying to say here. He's speaking with fellow believers in the church age like you and me. He's motivating them to worship. He's pointing them to God's mercies found in Jesus who died for our sins. So we see the answers to the who question and the why question. God who is who deserves worship. Why? Because He's been good to us in Jesus. In terms of what we offer, here's where New Testament worship differs from the old. We don't carve up and lift up bodies of lambs, goats, or calves. We bring our own bodies as a living sacrifice, our very self. We don't distance ourselves from the rest of the world physically as the nation of Israel did. We're in the world, but not of it, and we refuse to conform to it. We're in pursuit of something greater than the what the world is after. We're after the will of God. So I'm glad we don't have to bring a calf or lamb every week to our gatherings. That would be a funny story. sight to see, but still that doesn't mean it's any easier for us New Testament believers. Whether it's The old whole burnt offering or our whole live offering, whatever you want to call it, God wants all of us. He never wanted to own a mere part of your life, a share of it. He always desires and demands to have all of it. It might be easier to write a check or present a gift than to offer your entire being, but we must give our all. It's a hard thing to do because of our flesh, right? The great evangelist Dwight L. Moody once said, the problem with the living sacrifice is that it keeps crawling off the altar. Can you relate? Because I definitely can. But we must learn to mean what we sing every Sunday, right? Like we sang earlier, take my life and let it be. Okay? Maybe deep inside of us, we really mean to say, take only some parts of my life. Let it be consecrative. Maybe we rather say, let me be. Let my Sundays and other days be separated. No God wants at all. All of your relationships, all of your calendars, all of your possessions, all of your heart. Giving to to God the entirety of our lives a challenge, right? It's impossible for unregenerate sinners. So when talking to a non-Christian, before you demand the ultimate sacrifice from them, back up a few steps. Before you push them to give because of God's great word, remind them of their need for grace and their lack of word. I believe the rest of today's passage help us to communicate that. From the second sentence of verse 21 to the end of 22, we see another priority of worship. Own up as sinners who deserve none of his mercy. Kicking up from the middle of twenty-one We see that as Noah offered his sacrifice in genuine faith, he pleased God, and then in response, the Lord spoke. It's interesting that he didn't directly address Noah here, he spoke to himself. It says, then the Lord sat in his heart There's something solemn and powerful going on here. And as we go on, we have access to what God actually said. Now, before we get to the contents, think about the word never. In my experience, I've learned to follow the axiom: never say never. Just don't do it. When it comes to your speech, be absolute about not being absolute. Why? Because you often find yourself with your foot in your mouth, right? Walking back your statement, retracting or resending, qualifying with except when or unless. Be careful when you promise things like never gonna give you up, never gonna let you down, never gonna run around and desert you. Don't just be careful with the word never. But here's God in verse twenty-one, saying never or never again, not once, but twice. First, never again will he curse the ground as he did back in Genesis 3:17. Remember, this curse was the punishment for Adam who fell into transgression. It's because of this curse that we work the ground drenched in sweat, dripping down our brows. It's why thorns and thistles rise out of earth to prick and pierce our hands. But the Lord will never again pronounce another curse on the ground. That holds true. Even if all of human race degenerates far worse than ever in the past. Now we saw something very close to the phrase, the imagination of man's heart, back in Genesis 6. 5. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. So we picture a scenario in which our performance of evil sets a new world record. Somehow sin stack up like a tower reaches new heights. Imagine if sinful humans get so bad that the corruption in our hearts starts from the earliest stage of life Regrettably, this is not just a hypothetical situation, it's a reality. It's a doctrine of our original sin. As David wrote, he and all of us were brought brought forth in iniquity and conceived in sin. Original sin is evidenced, confirmed, compounded by our actual sins. That's why we should own up as sinners who deserve none of his mercy. But even as it goes from bad to worse to worst, never again will God destroy every living thing as before. There's that second never again in verse 21, although uh it's translated as nor will I again, with the same constructions There. Also important in this verse is that is that phrase, as I have done. This means the Lord is determined to never flood the entire world again, like he did. Of course, that doesn't mean there won't be local fluff. If that's the case, God would have broken his promise many times over. Another thing about this promise is this. God is not denying the coming of the future judgment, the future day of the Lord. But in contrast to the flood, many more than eight souls will be saved in the end times of tribulation. A remnant of Israel and entire nation with this in various trials will be spared. And then there's the great resurrection too, right? As believers wait to eternal life. Until then we see in verse 22 that the earth continues on. It does so while adhering to its ordained patterns. These are normal patterns of the year and seasonality. By the way, some people hold to this theory that before the flood, a canopy existed covering the earth, creating a greenhouse effect, maintaining stable temperatures. Throughout the year. As the canopy collapsed in the heavy rain of the deluge, extreme seasons were introduced to the world. That's the uh explanation for the hot summers and cold winters today. I thought about this. I don't think that Genesis 822 necessarily supports this canopy idea, but I'm not going to argue against it now. As we continue in Genesis, we'll have more opportunities to discuss Noah's new world and Whatever was the climate before the flood, I think God speaks here for Noah's assurance Just you David stuck for three hundred seventy plus days, you know, just cloudy skies, rain, flood waters. He and his family might have wondered Is this like our new world, our new experience? What's next, right? How do we make a living in this world, right? Even as the world w water went down. Well the Lord assures them that they can follow agricultural patterns to raise crops, feed themselves, they know what to expect. As they till or break a fallow ground, select seeds, fertilize, and water them, just a typical farming life. But all this is a testimony of God's goodness. The Bible tells us he makes the sunrise, gives us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. That's why we exalt our Creator in songs like Greatest Thy Faithfulness, Summer and Winter, and Springtime and Harvest, Sun, Moon, and Stars in their courses above Join with all nature in manifold witness to thy great faithfulness, mercy, and love. That's how it continued for thousands of years since. And while it's um while all this time has passed And God remains constant, what do we make of human history? Now it's true that we progressed a lot in uh um you know technology. Just this week I looked at all the great inventions. I went back like two hundred years. Uh eighteen hundreds, right? Electric light, automobile, telephone, radio, gas powered tractor. Anesthesia, right? 1900s, airplane, television, computer, first quarter of I guess 2000s, we got the iPhone, Facebook, Tesla cars. But even with all of our modern world advances, nothing can be done about our sin problem. What's written in the middle of verse 21 in chapter 8 of Genesis is true of all of us. The imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. The rest of the Bible agrees with this negative assessment. Later, a prophet named Jeremiah wrote: The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Jesus also said that it's not what goes into our mouths that make us unclean. Matthew 15, but those things which proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and they defile a man. For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. After that, there's no creature hidden from God's sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him to whom we must give account. He sees beyond the surface. He sees beyond our Sunday best. At the root of murder is our hatred. Infidelity starts with our lustful looks The greatest profanity is when we take God's name in vain. We've broken all of God's commands, inwardly and outwardly, so we deserve nothing but wrath from Him. And what Isaiah said of his nation is true of us in our depravity, where the whole head is sick and the whole heart faints. From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores, they have not been closed or bound up or suited with ointment Now, how can we think to approach God and his altar? How can we offer our sin-laden and simple selves as a sacrifice? If a guest comes over, we would not serve moldy bread, spoiled milk, or maggoty meat. Yet that's what we do with God. Our sins taint and ruin us from inside out. Apart from grace, it'd be best for us to be tossed, discarded, separated from the holy, perfect God in hell. The best thing we can do is own up as sinners who deserve none of his mercy. But praise God that he didn't leave us like this. He sent his son, Jesus, fully God, fully man, in one person. From youth, he was the perfect son of God. He was about to bother his business, always doing those things that please him Unlike us, he never once failed to obey. He was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. And shockingly, though he deserves all the honor belonging to the Father, he was rejected, he was betrayed. But even that was part of God's grand plan of salvation. God was tired of the corrupt sacrifices of his people. He wanted and deserved something much better. He had desired a sacrifice that would solve the human sin problem. So Christ Jesus was set forth as a propitiation, which means to satisfy God's holy wrath against sin, to appease him. That's why when Jesus came into the world, he said of d he said this as he dedicated himself to the Father. Sacrifice an offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin. Sin, you had no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the volume of the book, it is written of me to do your will, O God. Jesus gave himself body and all to pay the penalty of sin. He suffered in our place. He was crucified. At Calvary he shed his precious blood as of a lamb without blemish, without spot. Because he offered his body, sinners can be sanctified, made holy once for all. Because Jesus fulfilled the will of God, we can live to fulfill God. his will. He finished his work in on the cross, gave his life as a ransom to obtain eternal redemption. And because Christ died, rose again from the dead, and ascended to heaven, there's now a way for us to approach God's throne and enter his presence. Jesus now sits at the right hand of the Father and intercedes for believers. The question for unbelievers now is whether you will turn from your ways and surrender to God. Repent, forsake evil, stop leaning on your self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus, place your hope of heaven in Him Only Him. Eternal life is given as a gift, not gained by our good works, we cannot deserve it. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone. in Christ alone. So I encourage all those who might be listening, you know Not saved to think through this carefully but urgently. As the flood has proven, the Lord will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. It has seen in Noah's life, God is good, ready to forgive, abundant in mercy to all those who call upon him. God is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But there is a day when your chances to enter life will run out and the door will close. As we sang earlier, this is an invitation. Come to the Father to Jesus the Son. Give him the glory. Great things he hath done. And the saints will be giving glory to God forever, honoring God, who deserves all of our worship. There's no end to our praise for his great mercy. No, as we sang earlier, Jesus paid him paid it all. All to him I owe. And then as we sing too close Let's express our gratitude while all our hearts and all our songs join to admire the feast. Each of us cry with thankful tongues, Lord, why was I a guest? Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for a reminder of just how it is important to give you worship. Lord, you create all these things. You are who you are. But Lord, as we align our lives to you, as we are conformed to the image of your Son As we sacrifice, as we die to ourselves and live for your glory, pray that we would make it a priority to give all of ourselves to you. May we withhold nothing. Lord, we also pray that we'll understand that even as we worship you, it's not that we're so great. It's not that you need our amazing worship, but we are sinners. If the world could see all that goes inside of us. We'd be full of shame. Yet in your mercy, you saved us and you accept our worship. And we pray that just that we'll be humbled and we'll be amazed. We'll be humbled by our sinfulness and we'll be amazed at your grace. That would just um motivate us to worship, to give our bodies as a living sacrifice, not just this morning, not just this afternoon. But each and every day we thank you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.