In Luke chapter 6, verse 12, it says, Now it came to pass in those days that he went out to the mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. Last time I preached, before I went on vacation, we looked at the Gospel of Luke and a summary of all Luke said about the prayer life of Jesus Christ. It is one of the themes of the Gospel of Luke. Luke mentions prayer as it relates to Jesus more than any other gospel. From this data, we learn that Jesus prayed frequently. Before busy ministry, after busy ministry. Before important important decisions, such as who to choose to be the apostles, which is the context here in Luke 6 to rejoicing after the 70 return and are excited about the success they've had in ministry He preached in the garden. He prayed in the garden. He prayed on the cross. He prayed as he went. Jesus Christ was a man of prayer. You would think the opposite, because he is the Son of God, why would it be necessary for him to pray so much? And yet He prayed frequently. And so we should, we would do well to imitate the prayer life of Jesus What kind of men does Jesus choose? Well, in Luke chapter 6, if you remember, in verse 13, he called his disciples to himself, and from them he chose twelve. We've already been introduced in the Gospel of Luke to some of these. We have seen Peter and James and John. And really there's nothing in Levi, there's nothing spectacular about them. They are not great men of influence and wealth and authority. They are rather common fishermen and despise a despised tax collector. They are people that are willing to follow, that have come to be committed enough to Christ at this point. That they will leave everything and follow him, that they will throw a big dinner in their house like Matthew did to invite all their friends to hear the message of Jesus. They are submissive like Peter who would go out into the deep. And fish again, even though he had been toiling all night. They had a certain amount of trust in Jesus from Nazareth. That others did not. Perhaps this is one of the reasons they were chosen. They weren't chosen for their rank and wisdom and genius. They were ordinary men chosen for the extraordinary task of being apostles. Today, we enter into some of the meat of the teaching of Jesus. So far in the Gospel of Luke, Jesus has self-identified himself In Luke chapter 4, verse 18, when he quotes from Isaiah, saying, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He is the anointed one from the Father, from the Lord. He is the Messiah. He is the one who can forgive sins He is the bridegroom. He is the one that others should rejoice to be in his presence and fast when he is gone. He is the Lord of the Sabbath And certainly that places him at the same level as the Lord Jehovah. He is saying that he is deity when he makes such a pronouncement. And he is understood. Because the Pharisees and the religious leaders go from a simple curiosity all the way to a burning animosity and hatred in which they are willing to go out and scheme and find a way to kill Jesus of Nazareth because He does claim to be God and he is a troublemaker, a rabble rouser, someone we don't want around. But today We get to see the Beatitudes. Let's read this together. Look down at your Bibles at Luke chapter 6, verse 20, and we'll just read to verse 26. It says, then he lifted up his eyes toward his disciples and said, Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who hunger now, for you shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. Blessed are you when men hate you and when they exclude you and revile you and cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for indeed your reward is great in heaven, for in like manner their fathers did to the prophets. But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are full. For you shall hunger. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when all men speak well of you. For so did their fathers to the false prophets. First thing I want you to see is probably something you already noticed, is that is the similarity between what is being Said here and Matthew 5 in the Sermon on the Mount. Many believe that this is the Sermon on the Mount and just presented a little bit differently. The differences between the Sermon on the Mount and this presentation by Dr. Luke can be accounted for for a couple of reasons. First It is probable that Jesus preached in Aramaic. And so when the gospel writers translated and recorded it, there were differences in their translation of the Sermon on the Mount In addition to that, Jesus was a preacher who said the same thing in different settings a little bit differently. Variations on a theme. I'll give you an example. I have preached the same sermon in different locations And changed it just a little bit because the audience before me required a little bit different presentation. It was the same message, but I changed it a little bit So there is the possibility here that this is another, a totally different sermon that he preached with the same theme, a variation on. A theme. But most believe that this is Luke presenting, translating and presenting to us. the Sermon on the Mount, not in exactly the same way that Matthew did. He left out, for example, Dr. Luke did, the emphasis on the law of God, because the Gospel of Luke is probably primarily written for Gentiles. And they wouldn't understand all of that stuff about the Old Testament law as well as Jews. You see here at the beginning with the Beatitudes that there are blessings pronounced on certain people. Blessed are the poor, the hungry, the sad, the persecuted, reviled, hated, excluded, cast out. And then there are woes pronounced on certain people, and the woes are for the rich, those who have food, those who are laughing. For certain reasons. The woes and the blessings. What's a blessing? Well, if I said you are really blessed, you would know that I'm talking about the fact that you are benefited by something, that there is something which is good happening to you or potentially could happen to you. I mean if you won the lottery and somebody came up to meet you and said, you are blessed, you would understand that. And I'm not encouraging you to go buy lottery tickets. You may as well just go home, dig a hole, and bury your money in the backyard. Well, actually, that would be probably better than buying lottery tickets because it'll still be there next week, maybe. But what I'm saying is if you have a a giant amount of money given to you by someone, I don't know, an ant that you didn't know you had, or or you narrowly miss an accident and someone says, you are blessed. I mean, you can kind of see the connection there. There's a benefit and something good that's happened in your life. And that is similar to what the Lord is saying here, but it has to do more in this context and the way that the Hebrew people use this expression is more than just blessedness as You're receiving a material possession, and that is blessed. It has to do even with your attitude. Like you are happy. You are blessed. You can exult because of this. So there's this something that's taken place in your life, or this potential something, and it's the result is that you are receiving in yourself this joy and this happiness, this blessing for you. Woe is like a curse. It's something you cringe from. There is this horrible result Woe to you. And when it comes from the mouth of Jesus Christ, we know that it's true. We know that it's real. This is not from the mouth of Dare I say a politician that is unworthy and untrustworthy. This is from the mouth of Jesus. So what does he say here? Well Look at the first section, and let's just pull out the kind of people that will be blessed. There's the poor, the hungry, and those who weep, or the sad. Now, in Matthew, it says, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, and those who are poor in spirit. In Matthew, The presentation is definitely very obviously spiritual in nature. In Luke, we don't see the spiritual side at the beginning. But it's definitely here because of the context of the whole sermon here that he's giving. In other words, there are two levels we can see this on. There's a poor person, and he's he is destitute, he lacks material goods. But then there's also a poor person who's poor in spirit who recognizes that it when it comes to his relationship with God He lacks certain things to have such a relationship. It affects his spirit. He knows who he is before God And those who hunger now, that's obvious. You don't have food, so you're hungry. There's the physical level, but then there's also the spiritual level. Those who who want to be like God to fulfill his righteous obligations their righteous obligation to him. And so they have this hunger for righteousness. They want to fulfill God's commands. So let's take first sort of the physical level. None of us in this room probably know what it's like to be truly poor. How many of you have traveled overseas and seen true poverty overseas? I remember reading a story about someone who went to India, and he was in the capital there, and the city escapes me right now. He was driving in a taxi and he looked over at an intersection and there was a man and his hands were up like this. He was begging and there was a bowl in his lap and he was like a skeleton. He was starving. And they went by and he had he was had his hands like this, asking for someone to throw something into his bowl. And the guy went through his busy day. He got in a taxi. He came back by the same road. And on the way home, the same man was there, but he was dead. And his hands were like this, his head was in his bowl, he had died of starvation. While that man was busy about his routine, the other man had died from hunger In America, we see people standing on the street side, and certainly that's poverty. Those are people who are in need. And we might go to the rescue mission. But when I go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission, I is have you noticed, and this is good, I'm not criticizing the mission, but they're getting some good food. They're well fed at that point, anyway. But there are people that are poor and hungry and sad in this world, and they are everywhere. And what consolation can you possibly give those people? When I was in the South Sudan last year and talking and watching, and I taught I told you this. I talked to the one brother and he said, next year we'll probably starve because we have no farming. This year, because of the drought. And you've read recently what's happened in the South Sudan, and so many who have died. What consolation can I give that man? Well, there's this consolation. It's like this: for yours is the kingdom of God. There will come a day when you will be filled. There will come a day when you will laugh. There will come a day. Because of for you, for you, of yours is the kingdom of God. Now, here's the difference. The man in India, who was probably, I don't know, a Hindu. He died without hope. But to my brother in the South Sudan, who's telling me they're not going to have enough food next year, we both know. And the and the the the The age of death, the average age of death in the South Sudan is like in the mid-40s. But he knows and I know this is not the end. There will come a day when we when he is full. And that is the kingdom because he is a part of the kingdom of God He knows Christ as his personal Savior, and death is not the end. And so if we look at this, the Beatitude simply on that level, simply on the level of They don't have enough food. They're sad. There's hope. There is consolation for them because life is not. It doesn't end at death. It goes on forever and ever when you are a part of the kingdom of God. But then there's also a blessing for The spiritual, that's when it comes to the second level, and that the spirit, the spiritual level. If you look at your Bible at verse 20 again, and you just think the way Matthew wrote this, blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. What is that a reference to? And I can go back to my friend from the South Sudan and I can talk to him and I'll start to hear things coming out of his mouth. That indicates that he is like this. He knows, for example, that he needs help with how to live his life. That wisdom is not in him. That he needs to look outwardly to God to figure out how to have a family life and to run his life. There's a certain poverty to the wisdom that he has. And so he'll come to church and he'll open up his Bible, translated into his language, and he'll pray and say, Lord, help me. But even before that, he knows, someone who's poor in spirit, they know that they're born a sinner. Not a righteous person, that they are in effect born as a beggar who lacks the righteousness required to stand before a holy and perfect God. I mean we said in the blessing time, we met was mentioned the EE question, when you stand before God and he says, why should I let you into heaven? What will you tell him? People that are poor in spirit know, or at least they're beginning to understand, I I don't know. I have nothing to say. What can I tell the holy and righteous God? I mean, I don't even think I don't think I'm good enough to get into heaven. And that's when they really start to understand and conviction of sin. So my South Sudanese friend, poor in spirit, he knows He doesn't have the righteousness required to get into heaven. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death. He's in trouble. And those who are in the kingdom of God, they have put their faith and trust in the King, and that's Jesus. And they believe that that cross that Jesus hung on is the cross, the way to have righteousness before God. They put their trust in the cross, and and so there's there's then this hunger for righteousness. You know, I was working with a friend uh years ago, and uh we were at we were at a job, and he turned to me and he just said, Dan, you are the weirdest person I have ever met. And he wasn't a Christian. And I had been working for him for a couple months. And it wasn't because I'm weird in weird ways. It was because I was a Christian. And I would say things to him that he just couldn't comprehend and he he saw in me, and I'm not saying this because I'm a perfect example of of this, but what I'm what I'm trying to draw out here is he saw in me a hunger for righteousness. And a desire to please God. And he didn't had never seen that before. I'm looking at people who want to please God. Do you know what that looks like? Oh, turn, flip back a few pages to Psalm. Well, not a few pages. Turn back to Psalm 119. What does the heart of a man who hungers and thirsts after righteousness after he's become a Christian, what does this heart look like Look at Psalm 119, verse 9. Let me just read a few verses, then we'll jump back to Luke. Psalm 119, verse 9. How can a young man cleanse his way by taking heed according to your word? With my whole heart I have sought you. Oh, let me not wander from your commandments. Your word I've hidden, I've treasured in my heart, so that I might not sin against you. Blessed are you, O Lord. Teach me your statutes. With my lips I have declared all the judgments of your mouth. I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies as much as in all riches. I will meditate on your precepts and contemplate your ways. I will delight myself in your statutes. I will not forget your word. That is the heart of someone who is hungering and thirsting for righteousness. Whose heart just reaches out for it. Turn back quickly now to Luke chapter 6. Here is the dilemma for someone who is a part of the kingdom of God. Now, does that mean they're perfect? No. But it means that they have been transformed, born again, they're part of this kingdom of God. I'm kind of throwing in other New Testament terms here, and not just sticking with the Gospel of Luke to kind of fool give this a more of a give you more understanding here. But what's the problem? The problem is those kinds of people do suffer in this world. And that's why he has to pronounce them blessed. They are poor, they are hungry. And then, if you look at your Bible at verses 22 and 23, they're persecuted. Men hate them. Men will exclude them, revile them, and cast out their name as evil for the Son of Man's sake. The picture here is not of a criminal who commits a crime and is labeled as evil. The picture here is of someone who is associating with the Son of Man, Jesus. And his life is close to him, and he wants to be like him, and so others have this hatred of them They want to exclude them from life and activities that they might have and just revile their name as evil. Wow, you know that person. He is such a I don't know what to call him, but he's such a fool. Look at his priorities. Look at what he does with his life. He keeps talking about Jesus all the time. I'm just sick of this. I don't need to hear this. I don't even like him. Why do we even hang out with this guy? Let's not invite him to our next whatever it is. Let's just stay away. Now, not everyone treats Christians like that. But the world system, which is composed of the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life, it is organized in such a way that it hates those who are part of the kingdom of God. What is the blessing here? Now, having said that, look at your Bible and look at what Jesus is telling these people to do in verse 23. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy. Okay, I'm thinking, Jesus, are you crazy? I lack certain things because I'm associating with you, because I'm calling myself a Christian. I put my faith in you, and I'm having all these problems in life. And you're telling me to leap for joy. Why? Look at verse 23 and look, let's just read the whole thing. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy. For indeed your reward is great in heaven. Now, I don't know what your estimation of heaven is. Maybe you think that heaven is a place where they have harps. And everybody gets little white wings and sits on puffy sort of cottony clouds. Of course, that is not what the scriptures teach. Most of us in this room know that. Well, what is heaven? Well, let me just give you a few passages to think about. Try to walk with me through this. Luke does write about heaven more in his gospel if you turn a few pages to Luke 10, verse 20. In this context, it's the return of the 70 after their ministry, and they're all pumped up because they could cast out demons. Imagine. In the name of Jesus, leave him. And this invisible force of control that it lives inside that individual. Leaves. They are very excited. But Jesus says, nevertheless, this is verse 20: Do not rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you But rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. They might think, what does that mean? Well, well, before we look at other passages, just meditate on this. If you had the power to cast out demons, if you had supernatural power, it pales into consideration when it comes to whether your name is written in heaven or not. Your name in heaven is worth more rejoicing from you than if you possessed a supernatural ability. It must be pretty important then, right? You turn a few more pages and you look at chapter 12, verse 33. Sell, and this is Jesus talking about kingdom priorities. We'll pick it up at verse 32, just to catch a little more context. Do not fear, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell what you have and give alms. Provide yourself money bags which do not grow old, a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches, nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Now he's telling them to live a sacrificial life because they'll be rewarded in heaven with a particular kind of treasure. Look at it again. A treasure in the heavens that does not fail. What does that mean? Well, there no thief approaches, nor moth destroys. Now, I don't know what you know about thieves and moths. I think they're both very annoying, although I enjoy looking at moths and at the variety of them. I saw a hummingbird moth, I think they're called yesterday. uh getting nectar from a flower. Amazing creatures. But when it comes to your clothing, they destroy it. And thieves, they take what does not belong to them. I remember when Paul and I were living in Anderson, South Carolina, my mom had just made this, or given us, or made us this quilt for Christian, and we made the mistake of leaving it on the clothesline while we went to church. to dry. When we came back, it was gone. Somebody had just walked in, stolen it right off the clothing line, and it was gone. Have you ever had anything stolen? Well, just wait. Eventually someone will take something from you. But the point here is not just thieves and moths, it's permanence The things you and I have down here are kind of up for grabs. And then there's the whole issue of when you die and your kids clean out your stuff. It's not yours anymore. No one ever hooked a U-Haul onto their casket as they were buried. It doesn't work. But heavenly treasures are yours forever. No thieves. No malls. And Jesus is saying the stuff in heaven stays. And so think of this. You get to heaven and you see your treasure, and you will always see your treasure. Forever, it will be yours. In heaven, it's really important for your name to be there, more important even than supernatural gifts. And in heaven, when you put treasure there, it's yours forever. Turn to one other passage in Luke 15, a few more chapters over. There are priorities in heaven, and there's emotion in heaven. Luke 15, verse 7. It's the parable of the lost sheep. Jesus is talking about one that runs away, and the shepherd goes and brings that sheep back. He calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. Verse 7. I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in heaven. over one sinner who repents than over 99 just persons who need no repentance. There's joy in heaven. And if there's joy, there have to be people Because it's people that are joyful. The shepherd brings back the lost sheep, and all of his shepherd friends go, yes, great! You got the sheep. But in heaven, one sinner that repents, the angels and God rejoice over that. Now, folks, Luke sort of br opens up some of the theology of heaven when he talks about priorities and treasure and joy, but we know there's a lot more in the Bible than what is just in Luke, right? What happens if you take the gospel? Well, let's sort of fast forward. Okay, imagine for a second that you're watching something, you're going to fast forward past the Gospels, and now you're in the book of Acts. And Jesus has died, He's been buried, He rose from the grave, He ascended to heaven, and now the church is born and on the earth. And it's expanding and growing there in the Mediterranean world. It's just growing all over the place. And there's this guy named Saul. He hates Christ, but then he becomes a Christian. And he becomes one of the greatest proponents of Christianity. And he is going out everywhere preaching the gospel. And he believes in heaven. And he thinks about it a lot. And when it comes to his ministry and what he does and how dangerous it is and how he could die, He writes to people and he tells them how he thinks about that and how he thinks about leaving and dying. And if you want to hear what he says, you go to Philippians 1, to one of these passages. Turn there quickly. Philippians chapter 1. And this this is what he says, verse 19 Now he's in danger. For I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed. Look at verse 21. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. For if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor, yet what I shall choose I cannot tell. For I am hard pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. He's hard pressed between two things. On the one hand, there's all this hard work and ministry, and it will result in what he calls fruit. That is uh that is a it'll have good results. But on the other hand, did you catch what he said? To die is gain. To be with Christ is far better. To live is Christ, to die is gain. I mean, here's this missionary guy out there planning churches and suffering, and he's saying, you know what? I got a lot of work to do in this world, but when it comes to being with Christ, I have such a strong desire to just step over on the other side and be with him. To be with Christ is so much better. And you know, when Paul thinks about ministry and even how his body is aging or dying, the outward man But the inward man is renewed day by day. You don't have to turn there. You can just listen as I read 2 Corinthians 4 verse 16. He says, he wants to encourage people, the Christians that he ministers to, so he says, therefore we do not lose heart Even though our outward man is perishing, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment. Is working for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we do not look at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And then he starts talking about His earthly house, his tent. He's talking about his body is destroyed. We have a building, something else that's coming that's far greater. This this is imagine a scale. Paul's saying, here's a scale. Light affliction, but for a moment. Doesn't weigh a whole lot. Eternal weight of glory. This is what he's drawing for us. When it comes to living 60, 70, 80, 90 years on this earth, And this kind of sufferings that we go through, blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are those. Who are reviled for the Son of Man's sake, whose names are cast out and hated. Blessed are them, for great is your reward in heaven! Eternal weight of glory is the way Paul thinks about it. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord, to live is Christ, to die is gain. I have a strong desire for this I mean, we have this great missionary, and he finds amazing motivation when he roots himself in something like the Beatitudes say, I am blessed. Yes, I'm suffering in this way right now. Yes, these people are trying to kill me, but I've got heaven to look forward to. It's coming. But it only gets better, folks, and you have to stay with me. Who's in heaven? You go there, well, we already know Christ is there, and wow, you could preach a million sermons on him. But there are angels there. And in Ezekiel chapter 1 and in Revelation, we have a picture of what these angels look like and they are magnificent. If the Ezekiel chapter one is is a portrait of a representative of what an angel would look like, it is It is look like flashes of lightning. It's glowing like molten metal. It has a body that with four head, four faces, I should say, on the top, and wings, and it's it's like nothing we've ever seen And the Bible says in Hebrews chapter 12, verses 22 to 24, that we are, rather than Sinai and the law and condemnation, we are now as Christians approaching Zion, the holy city of Jerusalem, this heavenly Jerusalem, with angels and the spirits of just men made perfect. And so you and I are going to walk the streets of heaven. If you're a Christian here today, And this being beside you, that if you saw it right now, you would fall over like you were dead. And it's not God, it's not Christ, it's a created being. They will walk with you. And you will talk with them. If you want to look up a portrait of one of those, you look at Ezekiel chapter 1 and you look at Hebrews chapter 12, which just mentions the angels. But if you're walking with these angels in heaven, and we already mentioned Jesus is there, and I'm going back to Luke to get to him, and you've got your friends that are Christians there. What happens if you walk right into the throne room of this place? What does that look like? And here I want you to turn to this and see it for yourself in Revelation 4. Look at Revelation 4. Here's the throne room. Verse one After these things I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice which I heard was like a trumpet speaking with me, saying, Come up here, and I will show you things which must take place after this. Immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne set in heaven, and one sat on the throne And he who sat there was like a jasper and a Sardis stone in appearance. And there was a rainbow around the throne in appearance like an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and on the thrones I saw twenty-four elders sitting, clothed in white robes. They had crowns of gold on their heads, and from the throne proceeded lightnings, thunderings, voices. Seven lamps of fire were burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. Before the throne there was a sea of glass like crystal, and in the midst of the throne, and around the throne, were four living creatures, full of eyes in front and in back. The first living creature was like a lion, the second living creature like a calf, and the third living creature had a face like a man, and the fourth living creature was like a flying eagle. The Apostle John is writing about his experience in this vision, and he can't be specific because he's seen things that he's never seen before, so he's saying the first one was like what I know on this earth. It was like an eagle. It was like This, these living creatures. Verse 8. The four living creatures each having six wings and are full of eyes around and within, and they do not rest day or night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. What's the architecture look like? You turn to Revelation 21. You don't have to do that You've got the new Jerusalem coming out of heaven, and its streets and its walls are made out of this some kind of transparent gold with twelve gates and all these beautiful precious stones. And there's no night there. And that's where we'll live in the new heavens and the new earth, which is a mysterious thing which theologians often ponder exactly what that will be. Folks, turn back to Luke now, Luke 6. You know what's such a blessing when you go someplace and you see real poverty face to face? Is that you can look at your friend like I could look at my South Sudanese friend. And his hope is in heaven. And he knows if he dies at the age of 42 or 43, whatever the that the average age of death in South Sudan is. This is what he gets. And so at the very moment, think of this, at the very moment of a Christian being persecuted, A Christian being poor in spirit or having few material things, a Christian hungering and thirsting for what is more, at that very moment they can experience the blessing of the Beatitude. Because great is their reward in heaven. And so whatever they have, wherever they are. The eternal weight of glory far exceeds any suffering that you and I can go through on this earth. And that is why Jesus said: blessed, blessed, blessed. Over and over again. But he also said, whoa, and I have to quickly go through this. Because there are people on this earth who are not part of the kingdom of God. They've rejected the Christ of God, the Messiah of God. And this is how it works, folks. They don't think they have any need for spiritual wealth. They don't think they have any need for spiritual food And they laugh at the thought of it. And it's these people who persecuted the prophets in the Old Testament. And it's these people who loved the false prophets. Look at your Bible, verse 26. Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for so did their fathers. To the false prophets. Folks, did you know in the lifetime of Jeremiah, he had to deal frequently with false prophets during the span of his ministry? In Jeremiah chapter 23, you might want to write that down. We have an example of the Lord indicting the false prophets, and he says things like this, they do not speak in my name, because they say, peace, peace, when there is no peace. And they say prosperity when there's not going to be prosperity. One of the key, the key, remember this folks, qualifications or characteristics of a false prophet. is he promises prosperity when there's not going to be any, and peace when there's not going to be any. They're feel good health and wealth individuals. Who think that if you are right with God, everything should be right in your life. And if you have problems, you know what? It's possible that God doesn't love you anymore. And so the false prophets during the days of Jeremiah resisted the message of doom that Jeremiah frequently had to preach and tried to replace it with the message of prosperity. Don't listen to Jeremiah. He's just a fool. He's just a warmonger. He's just this guy who's always dreary and depressing. Why do we even have him here in the court? Let's throw him in a well. I'm really tired of this guy. Listen to what we have to say. And what was the characteristic that Jesus is pulling out here in verse 26? Well All men speak well of you. There's this group of people, woe to you, because everyone loves you and they love the false prophets too. Why is that? Because they have this prosperity message. Woe to you. You've got your food now, you've got your wealth now, but you don't think you need God now. It's not a sin to be wealthy. It's not a sin not to be hungry. But to reject the Messiah of God. And they see no need for it. Hey, why should I be poor in spirit? I'm not such a bad person. I don't need the righteousness of God. I'm pretty good compared to that guy or that group or my dad and mom. Pick something. Hey, I I why you know what I don't even feel a hunger for righteousness. I don't feel my need. I've got it going. I've got my religion. I've got my rituals. I'm okay. And I really love the message of that guy because he's saying what I like to hear. Everything is fine. You're good. Life down here, your best life now. That's what this is all about. Have it your way. It's almost like a McDonald's commercial, these false prophets. And so Jesus, and this is not the first time and not The only time he hammers this. Woe to you, woe to you, woe to you. And think of what the nature of this woe. Look at your Bible, verse 24. If you're like this, you've already received your consolation. This is the best it's going to get. If you're like this, verse 25: the day will come when you will hunger. The day will come, verse 25, when you will mourn and weep. And you know what this recalls to my memory, and it should to yours too, is the parable of Lazarus and the rich man. They both die. And the poor man is getting scraps when he's alive. And then he dies and he's in heaven, what the Jews called Abraham's bosom there. It's a strange way to say it, but it's talking about heaven. And then you have the rich man, and he's in torments. He's hungry, he's thirsty, he's suffering. The poor man is comforted. And that is what Jesus is warning us about. Folks, it's eternal life, so there's hell and it never ends. And there's heaven and it never ends. For some people, and you've said this and it's true, this is as good as it will ever get. And you know what? For Americans, that's pretty good. We've got a lot. But this is it's not as good as heaven, is it? Is it as good as those things we looked at? Not even close But for some people, there's a real sense in which this is as bad as it will ever get. Once you step over to the other side, it's all finished. You will receive your rest. This is as bad as it will ever get. It won't get worse when you die. It's all uphill from there. I mean, it's all good from there. And so Jesus has this series of blessings and woes, and I believe it was part of his repertoire of sermons. This is something he preached everywhere. When it came to the kingdom of God, heaven, you had to listen to what he had to say. So where are you this morning? Where are you heading? Are you part of the kingdom of God? Do you know that your sins are forgiven through Jesus Christ? Have you found him as your Savior? Now I didn't ask you if you went to church, if you gave money to a ministry, if you're a good person. I didn't ask you if you were better than the guy sitting next to you. I asked you, do you know Christ as your personal Savior? Have you ever come to that place? Where you confess that you're in need and that you have to find that need somewhere else, and that that need is met in Jesus dying on the cross for your sins and then rising from the dead. Have you ever put your trust in that? If you have, then you're saved. You're part of the kingdom of God. But if you haven't, dear friend, the woes are for you I hate to be blunt, but I must. Those woes are for you. Take heed to them because The answer is not to harden your heart against the authority of Jesus Christ. The answer is to embrace it, to own it, and say, you know what? You're right. And to also know. That God loves you, that he made a way of escape through Christ. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, his one and only unique Son. He loved the world so much that he was willing to give the most precious one. To redeem the world, to be a propitiation for your sins and mine. He loves you. It doesn't matter how bad you are. Yeah, you might be pretty bad. You might be worse than the guy sitting next to you. I don't know. But God still loves you. And He sent Christ to die for you. Isn't that amazing? It doesn't matter if you're a drunkard or sexually immoral or having all kinds of problems in your life. Yes, they're serious, but Jesus died for those. He died on the cross to pay the penalty for those things that you've done. And you could be saved this moment by just looking away from all your self-effort and saying, I can't do it, but Christ did it. And putting your trust in what he did. When you do that, you move from the woe column to the blessing column. And that's the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together this morning. Will you pray with me?