So statistics do not tell the whole story, but I think it does tell a part of the story. I like to say numbers aren't everything, but there's something. So at times I looked at some of the figures released by the Pew Research Center, and this week I was curious to see how churchgoers or those who identify themselves as Christians Perceived sexual immorality. A few years ago there was this specific survey question: Is casual sex between two consenting adults acceptable? Seventy-one percent of those who identify themselves as atheists said is always acceptable. High number, but that's probably not surprising to us, right? Among the Catholics, 26% agreed. A smaller percentage, 12% of Protestant evangelicals, also said it's always okay. I guess so compared to our atheist and Catholic neighbors, we're not so bad. But then you go on to find that 24% of the evangelicals said sometimes casual sex is fine. Right? If you add up the numbers, that's thirty-six percent, or roughly one out of every three evangelicals who said sex outside of marriage is permitted in all or some circumstances. Just to get the full picture, 17% said it's rarely acceptable, and 47% say it's never acceptable. That's still less than half of the evangelicals absolutely determined to be pure. So, I mean, that's just the way it is. Like, what do we do about that? How do we get that number up? Is it a failure of pastors like me? Is it do we need to step up and talk more about this matter as teachers, Bible teachers? Or is it the fault of the parents? Is it because we're bombarded by false teachings about our about our bodies everywhere, whether it's music, TV shows, or books, etc. Now to answer all of these questions thoroughly is above my pay grade. All I can do is on all we can do is faithfully read, study, and teach the scriptures. As we do, we'll find that the Bible does not skip over or minimize sensitive topics like this. On the contrary, we have clear instructions and we're called to have honest conversations. Today's passage is no exception. So this morning we conclude 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and wrap up the second major section of the epistle. Here's a quick review. Paul began the letter with usual formalities and thanksgiving in chapter 1, verses 1 to 9. And the body of the letter begins in verse 10 there. He straightaway confronted the issue of division in the congregation. As their apostolic messenger, church planter, wise master builder, and spiritual father, he was compelled to correct them and plead for unity. That was part one of the epistle from chapter one, verse ten, to the end of chapter four. We go on and see disunity was not the only issue. In the second section, where we see how arrogance has led to their sinful tolerance of sin, incest, as it's spelled out there. And instead of judging sin and expelling the unrepentant sinner, the proud Corinthians have relegated their duties to unregenerate courts. Paul tells them they are better than that and they can do better than that. He reminds them of truths to combat deceptions that they fell into. And I think now he's about to expose and analyze those lies in more detail in chapter 6, verse 12 to 20. So let's read those verses now. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Twelve twenty All things are lawful for me, but all things are not helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Foods for the stomach and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body And God both raised up the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. Or do you not know that he who is joined to harlot is one body with her? For the two, he says, shall become one flesh. But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him Flee sexual immorality. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? But you are bought at a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. So in every verse, save 1, verse 12, Paul speaks of either the body, the Lord, or both to make case for holy purity. So, how we treat our physical being impacts our spirituality. Now, the nine verses that form this passage as a unit can be divided further, I think, into three parts, formed by three verses. The first trio of verses, twelve to fourteen, is Paul's response to some major misunderstandings. I'll get into more details in a moment. For now, observe how the apostle presents a piti axiom or dictum, then immediately qualifies it and comments on it. Move on to the second middle trio of verses, fifteen to seventeen. Here Paul again expresses Um his frustrations with this tube, do you not know that questions? Ask for the fourth and fifth time in this chapter alone. You'll see one more later, right? And these rhetorical questions frame the discussion here as the apostle states obvious truths. And we need that sometimes, right? These obvious truths. We need to rehearse our certainties and our certainly not Finally, there's a third and last trio of verses, 18 to 20. What marks out this cluster are two commands, one at the beginning, the other at the end. Flee, Paul says in verse 18, run away. But our purpose is not only avoiding and departing, it's also about pursuing and aiming That's why there's another imperative in verse twenty. Glorify God. In between these bracketing demands are the arguments for their support. So now that we have a semblance of an outline, we can discuss the corresponding principles. You might call them three body exercises for spiritual growth. And if we follow God's program and regimen, present our bodies a living sacrifice, we'll be trained in righteousness, we'll flourish in sanctification. Here they are, one. Realign your thought patterns after the judgment of God. So realign your thought patterns after the judgment of God. That's 12 to 14. And I'll be sure to repeat these points later. Secondly, know that lustful participation disrupts unity with Christ. Right. Know that lustful participation disrupts unity with Christ. That's fifteen to seventeen 3. Flee degrading promiscuity and live for the glory of God. Flee degrading promiscuity and live for the glory of God. So we could even reduce all of this down to a few words. We're going to talk about thoughtful patterns. Um thought patterns, sorry And we're gonna talk about lustful participation, we're gonna talk about degrading promiscuity. So, first realign your thought patterns after the judgment of God. As mentioned earlier, Paul takes some axioms, dictums, or adages and adds to them. We do this all the time because of the dangers of taking things out of context. While we like short memorable sayings, we must not misapply them. Now imagine some kids playing youth basketball. He's not very coachable. He refuses to pass, nearly dribbles the ball off his foot, shoots over five defenders, airballs it. On defense, he knocks down opponents and shouts at the referees. He then punches a teammate. The coach calls timeout and asks the player, What in the world are you doing? The boy responds, starts ranting and shouting quotes, Carpet Diem, seize the bag. You only live once. Nike, just do it. The Corinthians are like this kid, at least in this instance, right? So Paul, as their light coach, needs to pull him aside, bench him, and tell him Seize the day, but what about the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord? You only live once. True, it's appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment Right. Just do it. No, whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. So while we're all for passion and energy, we're not against bicep proverbs. We have to be careful how we apply those proverbs or axioms or dictums or adages. It's likely that some of the Corinthians have taken Paul's own words out of context. The best way to figure out what's going on is to employ quotation marks. You can do this with your pen or pencil if you like. In verse 12, place quotation marks around the statement, all things are lawful for me. Which and that occurs twice there. Then in verse 13, mark the entire first sentence, which reads, Foods for the stomach and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both it and them. Now we have some idea of what Paul said originally. These are big puzzle pieces that we can link together. So I surmise that Paul said these things while teaching on Christian freedom, especially as it relates to our diet, food, and drink. Imagine the apostle explaining our Lord's teaching from Matthew 15 or Mark 7, how true defilement comes out of the heart, not foods that enter the stomach. Maybe Paul concluded something similar to Colossians 2, 16 to 17, let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival. or a new moon or Sabbath, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. My best support for this theory is this later in 1 Corinthians 10. 23. You know, Lord willing, we'll get to that. Paul again quotes: all things are lawful for me. Right. Twice in one verse as he does here in chapter six, verse twelve. There as here he clarifies what all things are not helpful. But then here's the clincher, I think. He goes on to instructions about Eating what's sold in the meat market. So these Corinthians took pause points out of their original dietary context and they twisted them to satisfy their selfish lusts. So Paul said, all things are lawful for me, but now adds All things are not helpful that is not helpful to others. We're never free to ignore others Again, look at what Paul will say towards the end of chapter 10 concerning personal profit versus the prophet of many. chapter 10 verse 31 to 33. I'll just read it for you. Therefore whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Great. But he goes on: give no offense either to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the church of God. Just as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the prophet of many. That they may be saved. Christian liberty must join Christian charity As Paul wrote in Galatians 5:13, you brethren have been called to liberty. Only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. We sang of this gospel freedom earlier. Free from every plan of darkness, free to live and free to love. So don't just help yourself, help others in love. Let's go on to the second half of verse 12. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Any as in anything, I think here, and not any one So in the first half of this verse, we're told to be gentle and considerate of people. But now here in the second half, we're told to be ruthless, cold, and exact with sin. Right? Our hearts would deceive us to believe the lie that to enjoy sin is to be free. You can manage sin, you can coexist with sin. But our Lord Himself taught in John 8:34. Most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. Here's Paul and some excerpts from Romans six. Sixteen through eighteen. I'll read it. Do you not know that to whom you present yourself slaves to obey? You are not one slaves whom you obey, whether of sin leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness. But God we thank that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obey from the heart that form of doctrine to which you were delivered. And having been set free from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. So it's already given that we should not be mastered by sin. But don't be satisfied with that only. Shed anything that weighs us down. Paul sets a great example for us. Like an athlete, he learned to be temperate in all things. He disciplined his body, brought it into subjection, as we see. He has learned in whatever state he is to be content. To imitate Paul, we must realign our thought patterns after the judgment of God. Now moving on to verse 13, Paul again cites himself: Foods for the stomach, and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both it and them. Again, in the context of dietary restrictions, the apostles correcting a misunderstanding. I think he's reinforcing something similar to Ecclesiastes 5. 18. You know, here's what I've been seen to be good and fitting to eat, to drink, and enjoy oneself in all one's labor in which he toils under the sun during the few years of his life which God has given him, for this is his reward. But the Corinthians false reasoning goes like this. Okay, so our God created food, created our stomachs, created the craving to unite them. There's no need to refrain from fulfilling these built-in desires. Can't you say the same about our other basic desires like sex? No, there are proper limits. Jesus fed the hungry. He didn't push for glovy. We can drink, but we can't get drunk. You can admire what belongs to your neighbor, but don't covet what belongs to your neighbor. In a similar way, God has specific boundaries when it comes to sexuality. He has a specific purpose for us. The body must be used for Lord Jesus, not for sexual immorality. We have died to sin, now we live for God. And I find it interesting that in the second half of verse 13, not only is The body for the Lord, the Lord is for the body. There's a lot out there these days about body image How there are multiple aspects of body image, how it's related to self-esteem and behavior. How others view you does matter. Social media does affect us profoundly. And I'm not here to argue about those things. But above and beyond those things, please account for how God is pro-body, right? As we see in verses 13 and 14. We'll get to again, Lord willing, more detail later in chapter 15, but it's self-evident that the doctrine of resurrection proves God is pro-body. Jesus didn't return from the dead as a disembodied spirit. His body was not discarded or disregarded. He had a resurrected, glorified, empowered spiritual body. The same will be the case with us in the future. So whatever wrong ideas you have about your body, repent and consider the Lord's promises. Future bodies, future judgment. Be renewed in your mind as you wait for your new body. Realign your thought patterns after the judgment of God. So that's the first body exercise for spiritual growth I'll be quicker with the rest. Let's move on to the second. Know that lustful participation disrupts unity with Christ. So again, here's another pair of do you not know that in verses 15 to 16? I think I'll use that later in parenting. Do you not know that? Like, you know, but um I I don't know, maybe you guys already used it in parenting. So after these questions are implications and explications. In verse 15, Paul builds on the premise that we belong to Christ. That's obvious. So then, don't belong to a prostitute who sells herself for profit. That's preposterous. Paul puts it another way in verses 16 and 17. And counts of times you see the word one, right? There's a bond created by sex that we must not ignore. And don't take my word for it, the apostle goes all the way back to Genesis 2, to the very foundation of holy matrimony. The union of Adam and Eve is not just some sweet love story from the past. It's a paradigm for all marriages henceforth. In the process of marriage, you first leave your parents and then cleave with your spouse in that order From the very beginning, the Lord intended sex to be the powerful consummation of marriage, not some recreation outside of marriage Our opinion does not change that. Our laissez-faire attitude does not change that. The word of the Lord is settled in heaven and stands forever. In response, we should say, Amen. God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Here's another oneness principle to consider in verse 17. To be one body and one flesh with strangers not only cheats our spouses, defrauds our neighbors, and ruins societies, it offends Jesus. That's because we are one spirit with him. When we engage in sexual sins, we bring Christ's name through the mire. Well, we drag it through the mire. We become the joint that connects the unclean with the clean, impure with the pure, unholy with the holy. It's time to sever such simple relationships. Know that lustful participation disrupts unity with Christ. Now, all of these arguments sound backward in today's hookup culture. In the West, the Pandora's box of sexual revolution is open. Our society has been deceived to think that liberation means licentiousness, freedom to sin. Stay true to the scriptures. Just because an act is consensual, it doesn't mean the Lord condones it. We must not tolerate it. In fact, we see the next clear command is to run away from sexual immorality. Run away like Joseph from Potiphar's wife, right? From Genesis 39. And that leads us to the next body exercise. Flee degrading promiscuity and live for the glory of God. There's a great parallel passage on this topic. It's 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 to 8. I encourage you to read it this week. And share with others. When people ask you, what do you think is God's will for my life? Well, there's places in the scripture where it's very clear, right? For now, I'll just read the first few verses of 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 to 4. There. For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you should abstain from sexual immorality. That each of you should know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor. Stop there for a second. And it's notable, while warning against sexual immorality, Paul's Paul speaks of one's relationship to self. Similarly, here in 1 Corinthians 6. 18, he's saying When we don't possess our bodies in sanctification and honor, we sin against ourselves. So that got me thinking, what exactly is it about sexual immorality? That's self-damaging. Is this about sexually transmitted diseases? No, he's talking about how promiscuity does not deliver on its promises. It doesn't liberate us. It disappoints us. It degrades us. We give away the most valuable and intimate part of ourselves to those who don't deserve it, don't cherish it. To use the image of Proverbs 5, our gift of intimate love meant for our spouse becomes like valuable water spilled on the ground, wasted, never to be recovered. It's meant to be contained within the stable well of a marriage covenant. And here's an illustration from the author Tim Chester. Quote: Giving yourself in sex is not done in the context of lifelong commitment, the result is deep pain. It messes with you in a profound way. PVA glue is stronger than wood. If you glue two bits of wood together and then pull them apart, it's not the glue that breaks, but the wood. It splinters. And that's what happens when you have sex outside of marriage. You splinter your soul. But when that physical oneness goes together with the whole person and whole life oneness, the result is deep wholeness and fulfillment. It's a beautiful and wonderful thing. It's an amazing gift from God. In verse 19, Paul speaks of something else that's beautiful, wonderful, and amazing. All of us, saved or unsaved, first of all, already have dignity as image-bearers of God. But there's even more dignity for those conformed to the image of God's Son. We're not merely reservoirs of knowledge or receptacles of matter. Were temples indwelt by the Holy Spirit? Recall that Paul has already made this argument back in chapter 3, verse 16 to 17. But there he spoke of the church as a collective whole. Here it's about the individual Christian. Each of us are made temples of the Holy Spirit, and together we're built as a temple of the Holy Spirit. Both are true. So we're meant for much more than degrading promiscuity. So we don't own ourselves. God has bought us and God dwells in us. As we talk about the price paid for this transaction, As we move on to verse 20 there, I'd be remiss if I don't stop to talk about the gospel. Then we start with the bad news, right? Though God created us to glorify him with our bodies, we've done the complete opposite. Instead of fleeing, we pursued sexual immorality. We've sinned against God and ourselves, lusted after others, committing adultery in our hearts. That's not all. We've been enslaved under all other kinds of sin. No wonder there's a day of judgment for sinners. The day of the Lord is at hand, it will come as a destruction from the Almighty. On that day, fornicators and adulterers, He will judge. We rightly deserve God's punishment, eternal separation from Him in hell, because of God's perfect standard. But good news is that our Creator did not leave us in this pitiful state. There's a great payment for our evil lust that we cannot pay on our own. As that one song goes, we stood underneath the death we could never afford. But praise God, though our sins they are many, his mercy is more. Our Father is rich in mercy, lavish in his grace. He sent his son, God and man at the same time to live the perfect life. Instead of giving up his body for dishonor, he offered it for the love of his bride, for our sanctification. He became our dying sacrifice to appease God, so that we might become living sacrifice to honor God. This is only possible because at the mount of crucifixion Christ paid the penalty of sin that we should pay. He suffered the pains of hell itself. He satisfied the wrath of God and bleeded his last. But that's not the end of the story. Jesus had said before he went to the cross, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And that's what happened with his body, right? As he predicted he rose from the grave, he ascended to heaven, someday he'll return and he'll reign. So until then, we must repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus for salvation, trust in Him. Cannot buy your way into heaven. It's a gift of God. Your work is excluded. The Lord did all the work and paid the entire price As 1 Peter 1:18-19 tells us, we are redeemed not with corruptible things like silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. With this payment, we are ransomed from the power of the grave, redeemed from death. The Lord saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And because of the gospel, with grateful hearts we can sing, My worth is not in what I own, not in the strength of flesh and bone, but in the costly wounds of love at the cross. So to wrap it up here, the one who gives us word is worthy to be praised with our entire being, body, spirit, and soul. So again, flee degrading promiscuity. Live for the glory of God. Present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. So let's make the final song our prayer. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord to thee. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you purchased us. And Lord, that you cherished us. Lord, from the beginning of time, when you made us, made mankind on the sixth day of creation, you made us to be your special creation. Lord, that you've given us dignity and worth. And Lord, we want to, we ought to give ourselves to you And Lord, um, just we lament the times that we didn't. Lord, we think about some of us were saved a little bit later in our lives, and we sometimes it's just hard to forget the way we live, not for your glory, but for ourselves. But Lord, we thank you for the forgiveness and the mercy and grace. And Lord, we want to use all the time we have left that you grant us here on earth to present ourselves to you. To teach others to flee from sexual immorality, to live for your glory. Lord, pray for our friends and our neighbors who are just running after the wrong things. Lord who live as they please, not realizing there's a great day of judgment. Lord, we ask that you would have mercy on them as you have mercy on us. And Lord, we know that It will take us in our good witness to them and clear presentation of the gospel. As we look for those opportunities, we first now we want to present ourselves to you, a living sacrifice. Pray that our praise will not end here this morning or this afternoon. Lord, continue all the days of our life. We ask that you be glorified. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.