Hope you're enjoying your springtime, baseball season maybe. Just wanna tell you that I don't think the Orioles are winning the World Series this year. Or the pennant or the division or getting into the playoffs wild card spot. But it's early, so maybe we can go on a few winning streaks and make up for lost ground. I don't know, but I'm not the best person to ask because I'm one of those fair weather fans and the weather's not looking so good. Um And I don't know the roster inside out like Todd Beal. Of course, I know of big legendary names. Uh grew up watching Kel Ripkin. I recall him being a model of consistency. And he's become like a local hero of sorts. And then outside of Oreos, I know some big notorious names, famous names. So, like last week, I'll begin with the name of a disgraced athlete, maybe not to the extent of O. J. Simpson, but maybe you guys know a guy named Pete Rose. Sounds like a cool name. But he's more than that. Attached to his name are the following. Over 4,000 hits, hundred or more runs and ten seasons six division titles, two World Series, rookie of the year, most valuable player, and wow, that sounds like a Hall of Fame career Except he's not in the Hall of Fame. That's because Rose had a problem. A gambling problem. And not just any gambling problem, but gambling on baseball games problem. That led him to face a lifetime ban from anything related to baseball, which he served until his death last year. So now about eight months removed from his passing. Questions about his place in baseball history linger. Some say he did his time, remove his the van, let the man in the Hall of Fame. Others say nothing can reverse the crimes he committed The counter is like, but but look at his amazing numbers, right? And just consider how much gambling is accepted now these days. Counter to counter, rules are rules, he must not get in. I bring this up because evaluating legends like Pete Rose can be tricky. Not just athletes, but presidents, war heroes, even our parents and grandparents. How will we judge their lives? How do we celebrate and honor them without overlooking their flaws and sins? I think of my own father, you know, who I You know, who wasn't exactly the family man, but he brought, you know, my mom and me here in the States did a lot of good stuff. But he didn't follow Christ. So how do we evaluate things like that? These are good questions to ask while we finish up Genesis 4 today, as we continue from verse 16 onward. We'll see pioneers and inventors, and we owe a great debt to them for their accomplishments. But then we as Christians cannot overlook their sins against God. So how do we read these passages that are so real about both their strengths and weaknesses? Well, the short answer is that we do it with the lens of the gospel, which help us look at all people in history. Let's do that together now. We'll go to Genesis 4:16 to 26. And this is four, sixteen to twenty six. Then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden. And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built the city and called the name of the city after his the name of his son Enoch. To Enoch was born Erod and Erod begot Mehujael and Mehuja El begot Medusha El and Medusha El begot Lamech. The Lamech took for himself two wives. The name of one was Ada, and the name of the second was Zilah. And Ada bore Jabel. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. His brother's name was Jubel. He was the father of all those who play the harp and flute. And as for Zila, she also bore to Bel Cain an instructor of every craftsman in bronze and iron And the sister of Tubal Kane was Na'amah, then Lamech said to his wives, Ada and Zila, hear my voice. Wise of Lamech, listen to my speech, for I have killed a man for wounding me. me, even a young man for hurting me. If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy sevenfold. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son, and named him Seth. For God has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel. whom Cain killed. And as for Seth, to him also a son was born, and he named them Enosh, then men began to call on the name of the Lord. Today's passage begins and ends with the mention of the Lord. In verse 16, one man departs from the Lord's presence, and the same can be said about his family. This line. In verse 26, we hear a man calling on the Lord's name, those in Seth's generation and family. Now you might expect Cain's ungodly line to get what they deserve, be materially poor, be primitive in culture. In contrast, you might expect Seth's godly line to be materially rich and resplendent in beauty. But that's not what we see here. More complicated than that on this side of eternity. While no doubt there's special grace for the redeemed, common grace is exactly what it sounds like. Common to all. God makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. So the picture is kind of gray, not black and white. He stands rain on the just and on the unjust. So the matter's muddy, our perceptions cloudy. That's why we need to work through today's passage carefully. What is clear is that Moses, as narrator here, focuses on three families and their legacies. In verses 16 to 18, we take one last close look at Cain in Genesis. After his murder of Abel, his curse and mark, he moves on to build a family and a city. We learn of his son, grandson, great grandson, on and on. And then we slow down in verses 19-24. As expected, we observe advances in technology and arts in early history. But even as human civilizations rise scientifically, they decline morally speaking. So while Lamech's sons achieve greatness, Lamech himself gives into decadence. There are reasons to feel secure, yet there's more insecurity as sin abounds. So the solution to our sin problem isn't getting more things or having more people, no, the solution is to turn to God. In verses twenty-five to twenty-six, we learn about another family line that does just that. After the death of Abel, Adam and Eve have another son named Seth. He in turn has a son named Enosh. It was after his birth that we hear sounds of corporate worship. The final word of this chapter is that men began to call upon, call on the name of the Lord. So again, we have three families and three legacies. We ought to avoid the first two examples and follow the third. But first, don't flee God's presence to pursue your own destiny and community. That's verses 16 to 18. Secondly, don't neglect God's command to live in sensuality and cruelty. Thirdly, cling to God's promise and worship corporately and urgently. First, don't leave God's presence to pursue your own destiny and community. Here's verse 16 again. We locate Cain first in the land of Nod. As I mentioned earlier in the series, I imagine that Cain and Abel Previously brought their gifts as close as they can to the garden. As they drew close in worship. Maybe they saw the cherubim and the flaming sword. Maybe they even got a glimpse of the way to the tree of life. But after his failures and sins, Cain's forced to go under off. Yet his movements to and fro not only indicate changes in his His physical address, there's also Cain's spiritual departure from the Lord. So last time there's no remorse or regret about his murder, there's no evidence of true repentance. In the previous verses. In fact, verse sixteen indicates that Cain got worse. When it says he went out from the Lord's presence, now I was reminded of Jonah, right? Just to see say that we can be like Cain in a different way, right? We can be like Jonah who's and if you look at the book of Jonah, it begins with the prophet fleeing from his destiny to preach against Nineveh, right? Now, in the first few verses, I'm not going to turn there, but two and three in particular, we see that phrase from the presence of the Lord. It says, But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish. From the presence of the Lord. He went down to Jaffa and found the ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare, went down into it to go with them to Tarshish. From where? The presence of the Lord. So again, it I was like, I'm not like Cain, but maybe you're like Jonah. Both try to flee from God's presence. So just as Jonah sailing to Tarshish reveals his disobedience, Cain settling in Nod reveals reveals his rebellion. His very act of settling there. Expresses this expresses it. Behind that verb dwelt is the normal common word for permanent residence. No, Cain's basically talking with his actions. God, I know I'm cursed to be a fugitive and vagabond on the earth. But I refuse to accept that sentence. I'm done moving all over, all over the place. All the time. In fact, I'm so defiant that I'm going to live in this land that I think he named it Nod, which means wandering, by the way, Nod. See Lord, I'm technically and wandering. Get it? A visit to the principal's office. No, good old spanking at home. Well, unlike the way he pursued Jonah, the Lord allows Cain to go his own way and do his own thing. You may think, oh that's great, isn't it? Like simple man does whatever he wants, but that's gotta be the scariest thing for me We're seeing in effect Romans 1 being played out in Genesis 4. God gives the sinful man up to uncleanness, vile passions, debased mind. That's the difference between Jonah and and um Cain. So I warn all who hear this: don't flee God's presence to pursue your own destiny. Now, even as man rejects God, the giver of gifts, man still desires those good gifts from him. He still enjoys grace, that's common to all, like I said, common grace. And one of those gifts from the Lord belonging to all of humanity's marriage. That's why I have no qualms about attending a wedding of two unbelievers, as long as they're male and female, I guess I have to ask these things. And um as long as they're not like sacrificing a cow during the service or whatever, our RSVP. So even Cain's allowed to get married, I think it's safe to assume that he was married before his murder of Abram. But it's not until later he has a kid. That's what we see in the first half of verse 17 A quick interpretive word about Cain's wife. I'm going to talk about talk like Hen Ham for a second. So uh Apparently um This is one of David Bush's legacies. Yeah. Um Ken Ham wonders if this unnamed lady And I also wonder, like might be the most discussed woman in history. That's because many bring her up to discredit the reliability of the scriptures. We're talking about lawyers like Clarence Darrell, right? Scientists and authors like Carl Sagan. The thrust of their argument is this, so bear with me here. Uh Cain's wife must have originated, they say, from another race of humans, unrelated to Adam and Eve. Otherwise, Cain would be marrying his own sister or close relative at best. But that's impossible, they say. That's incest condemned by the law of Moses. Therefore, they assert the Bible presents an inconsistent and self-contradictory account of man's origins. It must not be trusted. So, how do we answer these objections to our belief in inerrancy? Well, in July, we'll be at the hundred-year mark since the Scopes trial. The best way we remember that landmark event is this, don't follow the example of William James Jennings Bryan. You're gonna have to do a lot better than him if a skeptic questions you. So this is a real picture. There's actually a movie based on this as well. But here's a ex a real excerpt from the trial. with uh exchange between Daryl and Brian. Daryl stars. Did you ever discover where Kane got his wife? Brian says, no sir, I leave the agnostics to hunt for her. You have never found out? I have never tried to find. You have never tried to find? No. The Bible says he got one, doesn't it? Were there other people on the earth at that time? I cannot say. You cannot say. Did that ever enter your consideration? Never bothered me. There were no others recorded, but Cain got a wife. That is what the Bible says. Where she came from, you do not know. Sort of an embarrassing moment for conservative Christians there, right? The last thing we want to do is to fail to apply 1 Peter 3. 15. We've got to be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks us a reason for So the defense I give is the following. It's a two-fold defense based on origins and dispensations. First, concerning origins, it's clear that God our Creator has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth. That's in Acts 1726. So it's true that we're all related as sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. Our simple and genetic disposition can be traced back to the first man, as Romans 5. 12 says. But besides origins, we must also consider dispensations. So we expect unusual features. at the onset of pivotal stages of history. We see that just in normal history. For example, conquests and revolutions mark the beginning of nations. An abundance of, back to the Bible, an abundance of apostolic signs characterize the early church. Similarly, what's exceptional uh in Genesis 4 is this. It was called the age of conscience, they call it that. Just after the fall, at least in the first few generations, marriages between close relationships Were allowed, right? We're still far from the time of Moses when law explicitly condemned such wedlock. The Lord wisely introduced such laws later in history. That's so that humanity can be fruitful and multiply at this earliest stage. Now what about all the biological deformities that might occur? Experts explain that closer the parents are genetically, more mistakes they have in common. The further they are genetically, less mistakes they have in common. So you want to marry someone far from you genetically so that you're less likely to pass along genetic mistakes to your children. But Adam and Eve were exceptional, genetically speaking Of course they were sinners, spiritually dead like you and me. Yet the biological effects of sin have not corrupted them to the extent we see today. That's partly why they live so long. Genetic mistakes have not spread widely yet. So at least for the first few generations, Adam's children can marry each other without worrying about deformities in their destination. descendants. Okay, so that's a lot of information I've squeezed into a few minutes, right? And I can discuss with you more after service. But for now, let's return to the sermon point, Cain's legacy. Don't flee God's presence to pursue your own destiny and community. So again, as Cain defies God's plan for his life, he rejects the nomadic life for the urban life. That's what we see in the second half of verse 17. Cain is making a name for himself and his son. And on the surface, that's not bad. He's got a family, he's got a home. But we know better that his relationship with the Lord's not resolved. Meanwhile, humanity continues through marriage and parenting generation after generation. I won't reread verse 18, but that's what we see. And Moses continues the narrative monotonously for a while, but then he pauses at the seventh generation from Adam through Cain. Slowing down, we get to see how this ungodly line is doing. It's like a progress report. It turns out, spiritually speaking, how it's going is not better than how it started. So we learn in verse nineteen to twenty-four about another family legacy. We learn that we shouldn't neglect God's command to live in sensuality and cruelty. So looking at verse 19. Not much can be known about Lamex 2's besides their names. Ada can mean adorman, zila, shade. So no matter besides the main point here is that Lamech refuses to be husband of one wife. Just as Cain defied God's plan for his destiny, Lamech defies God's plan for marriage. He rejects the Creator's design established from the beginning how a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. From the line of the first murderer comes the first polygamist. Once again there's common grace. Even in ungodly families like Lamex, the Lord's goodness is present. His children are God's image bearers, gifted and talented. They make great contributions to human civilization. They make any father proud. One commentator, Alistair Payne, compares verses twenty to twenty-two to those Christmas letters we send to friends and relatives. They often include family updates. And not infrequently, we admit, there's some subtle boastings in there Maybe you'll write in December something like this. 2025 was full of joys. My daughter got promoted in January. My son graduated in May. My grandchild got married in October. Something like that. I'm sure Lamech could report something similar. Look at verse 20. Now shepherding's been around since Able, but improvements are being made. Layman can brag about a real pioneer in his family. Oh did I tell you about my about Jabel, my firstborn. You know, he developed the art of tent making. See the tent's like the first mobile home. It's ideal for shepherds as they go from place to place. Then there's the second son, whose name sounds similar to Jabel We see in verse 21, his brother's name is Jubel. Lamech my brat. Let me tell you about my other boy I had with my first wife, Ada. He got a gifted ear and skilled hands. No, he and not only does he know music, he invented new instruments of strings and woodwind. Lame can go on and he does go on. Look at verse twenty-two. With the second wife, Lamak had two other kids. The son, named like their ancestor, is said to be the most skilled in refining metal. Tubel Kane's evidently a master of this craft, a respected expert in the field. When Moses says he's an instructor, it literally says he sharpens every craftsman. There's not much said about Tubal Cain said Sister Nahama, but the fact that she's mentioned here suggests that she lived up to her name, which means pleasant, delightful, lovely. As they say these days, she's the moment, right? And altogether now, Lamex children are powerful, smart, attractive. They're influencers, movers, shakers. They grace the covers of magazines Fortune and Time, GQ and Vogue, right? They're the top of the world. Now let me pause to say that there's nothing innately wrong with being proud of our children for their accomplishments. I'm not condemning the use of Christmas letters and family updates. By all means, continue in those things. But beware of a specific kind of hubris. We should know as delivers that it might hide in our hearts, boasting in arrogance, confidence in the flesh, pride of life. Right. There is a real danger with that and that's I think what we see in Lamech. And it's kinda obvious as we go on with the verses here So that even as mankind progressed in seven generations, it has regressed much in morality. So you take a look at verses twenty-three to twenty-four and I'll explain the coloring in a minute, but just to and the arrangement there. But in your Bibles They should stand out literally, right? The indentation indicates in your Bibles, right? This is poetry And what a contrast is this from the first man's man's poem in the garden. Right? Remember, Adam was a romantic poet when he spoke of Eve back in chapter 2. Verse 23, this is now the bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Well the seven from Adam through Cain wasn't romantic, even though he was talking to his wives. So seriously look at this. It the verses sound like a hook from like a nineties gangster like rap song. But if Adam's like Shakespeare, Lamex like Tupac Shakur, like Adam's parallels like the love song of Solomon, right? Lamex like a diss tract from Eminem. Or like maybe for the older folks, I can't help but picture uh you know Lamech like Clint Eastwood, like Dirty Harry, you know, go ahead, make my day, you know. Do you feel lucky, you know, kind of thing? Just kind of see him as this rugged guy beating up people. Now to analyze what Lamech actually said. You can see the parallelisms at play. That's why I got the color there. The first pair of statements, right? Top one there with green. One idea stated twice with slightly Then in the second pair he boasts of his killings. He claimed as victims two men, one closer to his age. it seems, the other younger than him. Now young man probably just refers to someone in his twenties and or thirties, not a teenager or someone younger than a teenager But regardless, this wasn't objective justice. It's simple vengeance. There's no forgiveness, just violence here. The third and final pair of statements saves the worst for last. As you can see, Lamech recalls God's word, but only for his selfish purposes. Remember, it was God who said earlier in the chapter, back in verse 15: Whoever kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. See, God was going to take that vengeance for Cain. Right? It was his initiative, but now Cain's descendant is playing God. Instead of leaving it up to God, saying vengeance is the Lord's or In considering forgiveness, Lamex taking matters into his own hands. So see how the man's going from bad to worse. At least Adam's first son only had one wife. This one has two. You know, Cain murdered one while Lamex a repeat offender. Cain was granted optimal protection from the Lord. Lamech tries to secure greater security for himself. So again we see that as mankind progressed in technology and arts, it also regressed in iniquity. Not so different today, is it? We follow in Lamech's legacy. We neglect God's command and we live in sensuality and cruelty I mean sure it was bad back then, but so um there's even now the greater potential for evil. For example, you think polygamy is bad, right? Now there's a global pornography market that makes more than a hundred billion dollars annually. There are you think about violence, but there are more than twelve thousand nuclear warheads and with eight billion simple humans we're in big trouble So what's the solution? How do God's children live without fault and shine as lights in this world? How do we stand out in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation? As we see in Philippians. 2. Well, we hold fast the word of life. Keep doing what we're supposed to be doing. And the last two verses of verse Genesis 4 tell us at least a few of those essential to-do tasks. There we have one more family legacy. And this one we should emulate. We should cling to God's promise and worship corporately and urgently. In some ways, verses 25 and 26 are anticlimactic, right? Lamech makes this ungodly boast with all his gusto and brobado. You might expect an equally forceful reaction from one of God's faithful remnants. It'd be great if we had like a David and Goliath type of showdown here or You know, Elijah with the prophets of Baal. But there's nothing like that here. Just gentle saints who live ordinary lives, trusting an extraordinary God. First, there's an ordinary family in verse 25. In the first half of it, we're back to Adam and Eve. Though there's much we don't know about our first parents, many of us can delay with them as parents ourselves, even with 6,000 years between us You gotta think about where Eve was. You know, Eve now understands what every grieving mother feels after losing a child. Adam felt what many dads feel on Memorial Day as they missed their faithful sons who paid the ultimate price. For the first time in history, a father and a mother felt this despair to put into words, no parent should have to bury their child. Sometime later Adam and his wife hoped again and bore another son. We see this whole in the naming. Recall Eve named Cain in verse one saying, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Now she names Seth here in the second half of verse 25, saying, For God has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel, whom Cain. killed. There's not only an acknowledgement of the tragedy, it has to be there, but there's also the acknowledgement of God's promise of the seed. She remembers that word from back in Genesis 3:15, the proto-evangelium, the first gospel, how the seed of the woman will bruise the head of the serpent. So as this mother once again holds a son in her arms, she clings to God's promise and renews her faith. We get the sense that all who did not go in the way of Cain also shared in this hope. And it was more than individual personal piety or even private family worship. We see it in the final verse of the chapter, verse 26. Moving on to the third generation, different groups begin to worship together. But in this brave young world, saints from all over gather, they strive to speak the same thing, to be perfectly joined together in the same mind and the same judgment as we do today Maybe they even recited things together. Kind of like the way we recited the Apostles' Creed. Except we can go back further to the earliest times for people confessing. Now we don't have the exact contents of what they said. They certainly have less than us in terms of revelation. But they had enough, enough to call upon the Lord's name. So they worshiped not only individually, but also corporately. I'm not going to get into exactly how much they knew about Yahweh, which is the covenant name of God. We know that a full disclosure of that name was reserved for Israel after the age of the patriarchs so we're far from that. But I just I do want to focus on that act of calling on the name of the Lord. What does that mean? Well here's what it's not. Often the way we call people today is casual and friendly. Hey, it's been a minute. We haven't connected forever. It's been months. Call me. You know, we'll catch up. You might minimize the seriousness of calling by saying, just calling to say hi. I'm sure you said that. It's just a phone call, nothing serious. But there is definitely a kind of calling with greater weight. In the book of Acts, sensing danger from his persecutors, Paul exercised his Roman rights. He appealed to Caesar, that is, call on Caesar. for a you know protection and you know rifle um procedures. Closer to our time in back in nineteenth century, a young man might call upon a young woman, right? It was a part of a formal courtship process in society under the supervision of the family. Today we understand the seriousness of calling the police or calling the doctor Right? All of these are high-stakes situations involving authorities who can help you do something for you. That's the same basic idea here. In Genesis 426. Over the next few chapters we know, right? The world will grow corrupt, so corrupt and violent that God will send a flood. Same thing today. There's a lot of we're headed towards a destruction of by fire. Meanwhile, the answer to this problem of evil isn't mankind trying harder and you know getting better? They and and also we, we have to look beyond ourselves, outside of ourselves, and back then they had to call upon the name of the Lord urgently. And to truly grasp the gospel, right, the good news, we must do the same today. Apart from grace, we're like Cain and his ungodly line. We flee God's presence to pursue our own destiny and community. Like Lamech, we neglect God's command to live in sensuality and cruelty. We take vengeance seventy, sevenfold like him. We do not obey Jesus, who told us to forgive 70 times 7. We read about that earlier from Matthew 18. So, like Cain and Lamech, we deserve condemnation. We're destined for eternity apart from God in hell. Praise the Lord, he did not leave us like this. He sent us His son Jesus. Though he's God, he came to us as the seed of the woman. He should have been celebrated and worshipped as he lived a perfect life. But he wasn't. That didn't bother him though. He didn't come to this world to be loved by the world. Even the popularity he had was temporary. He was despised and rejected by men. Remember, he's the man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. He built no great city or name for himself. He had no place to rest his head. As a Samuel Crossman's song goes, In life no house, no home my Lord on earth might have. But it was through his rejection that he would establish something more glorious: the church. That's why he went to the cross. There he suffered in the place of sinners. He prayed that his persecutors be forgiven, not that he be avenged. He paid the price of sin that we should pay. He endured a just penalty of sin as God's wrath fell upon him. And having finished his work of redemption, he breathed his last. He was buried. But as we know, on the third day, as death could no longer hold him, Christ rose from the grave. Because he obeyed even to the point of death. God the Father highly exalted him. He gave him the name above every name. And now there's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. I urge you, be safe before it's too late, before your last day on earth, the final day of judgment. To be saved, repent. Trust in Jesus. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Christ with sincere faith. If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's all you need to do. You cannot earn a place in heaven by your good works. It's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone and Christ alone. Will you do that? Cling to God's promise today. Make the decision by yourself individually first, but after you do, join us in corporate worship. As we urgently pray together, come Lord Jesus, come quickly. And until He returns, we as church have much work to do. We face a task unfinished, the Great Commission, and we're guaranteed, even in a world of perversions and violence, that we can overcome by faith. We're going to declare this truth in our final song. The power of the gospel shall prevail, for we know in Christ all things are possible for all who call upon his name. Right. It's the hope of the gospel, even from the earliest pages of the Bible, even from the earliest stages of history. That people thousands of years ago are doing what we're doing today, gathering for worship. Of course, obviously things were different in different ways uh that they worship the languages or but we know that they worship you and they call upon your name. And Lord, just throughout the scriptures we see See that all who turn from themselves and refuse to call on the rocks and mountains and call upon each other, Lord, they see the hopelessness of this world, the fallen nature of it, fallen nature within ourselves, and they turn to you. And to call upon your name. And Lord we're thankful that you've revealed yourself. Not just your name, but your abundant works and your your deeds and your attributes. We see it progressively revealed throughout the scriptures. He gave us all that we need. First to be saved. That the scriptures make us wise for salvation. But Lord, we're also thankful that it gives us all that we need to live in this world, to shine the light of Christ. And we thank you that we can call upon you for help. Day and night, each and every day, week by week, months by months, years by years. We just thank you that you hear us And that we need pray that you would increase our faith. And for those who do not have it, we pray that you would grant that they would believe you and trust in you. We just thank you That your name is glorious. Your name is worthy. We praise you. We're privileged to bear the name of Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.