As I was reflecting on the closing events of Jesus' earthly ministry, I thought about the burial of Jesus. The Bible does speak of Jesus' burial, and each of the four gospel writers records the event. Paul delivered to the Corinthians what he himself received. As good news, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. For much of church history, believers recited creeds and confessions. You may recall this line of the Apostles' Creed. He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. And not only were the earliest church members taught verbally that Jesus was buried, they learned of it by association with immersion baptism Paul reminds believers, even congregations he has not met yet, that they were buried with Jesus through baptism into death. But even if the scriptures teach us about Jesus' burial, we probably give it less attention than other events. It's like the middle child, sandwiched between Jesus' death and resurrection. And yes, I must say it, his burial is buried in the middle. Yet, there is something valuable in this doctrine of Christ's burial. So tonight let's unearth this treasure as we consider what Jesus did for us. First, Jesus was buried openly by men who had followed secretly. The man who took the initiative in giving Jesus a proper resting place was Joseph from Arimathea, a city of the Jews. Here's all we know. According to Matthew 27, he's rich and could afford to have his own tomb. More on this later. According to Mark 15, 43 and Luke 23, 50, he was a prominent council member, that is, a member of the Sanhedrin. Which is like the first century Jewish Supreme Court of Religion. They were the ones ultimately responsible for the crucifixion of Jesus and the later persecution of the early church. That's why it took courage for Joseph to bury Jesus. He was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for the fear of Jews. Yet somewhere along the way he grew brave. He did not consent to the decision and the deed of the Sanhedrin, which unjustly condemned and killed Jesus. Mark tells us in chapter 15, verse 43, that coming and taking courage, he asked Pilate for the body of Jesus. Where does such courage come from? It was his faith in Jesus growing over time. That faith made him a good and just man. Luke says Joseph was good, the same description used for Barnabas in Acts 11, 24. Again, because of his faith, Luke also says Joseph was a just man. He was just, like his namesake, Joseph, the husband of Mary. So then, a righteous Joseph was there when Jesus came out of the womb as a helpless babe, and another righteous Joseph was there to bury him in the tomb as a helpless corpse. Joseph also resembles Simeon in Luke 2, who was waiting for the consolation of Israel Like Simeon, Joseph was himself waiting for the kingdom of God. We know considerably less about the fate of Nicodemus. We have to infer from his actions As John tells us in chapter 19, verse 39, he at first came to Jesus by night. And that takes us back to chapter 3, where he's introduced as a man of the Pharisees, a ruler of the Jews. Yet he had much to learn about God's kingdom, rebirth, Christ's mission, and the condemnation of the world. Next, we see him towards the end of chapter 7. We see him among the unbelieving leaders of Jerusalem, the Sanhedrin who wanted to arrest Jesus during the Feast of the Tabernacles. Even unlawfully. In response, Nicodemus speaks up in protest in verse 50. There, does our law judge a man before it hears him and knows what he is doing? And now back to John 19. The final word on Nicodemus is that he's at the burial of Jesus Because he brought an abundance of myrrh and aloes, he too was rich, like Joseph. Again, more on this later. But for now, let's focus on the fact that every time we hear of Nicodemus, we're reminded that he visited Jesus by night. Like Joseph, his ally, he was a secret disciple. What we learn about Joseph and Nicodemus together is that they should have and could have been bolder in their faith before this crucifixion. Both could have followed Jesus in full daylight, not in fearful darkness, but that opportunity was lost. Yet they did not lose this opportunity to display their affection publicly at last. Joseph uses his privileged position to secure the body of Jesus. It was a position he most likely lost eventually. That's because the narrative implies that these two buried Jesus themselves instead of paying hired hands to do it. I guess they could have because they were rich. That means they were secret disciples no more. It would have been difficult to approach Pilate secretly. They could not have buried Jesus without crowds of pilgrims and citizens noticing two rich prominent Jews of the Sanhedrin. I'm quite confident that Joseph was a believer, and I'm pretty sure Nicodemus was one too. Their faith is on display before all. That's something to imitate. But let's return to their weakness. Do you ever feel regret for following Jesus later than you should have? So I knew the gospel from an early age. So I could have given myself to Christ completely as a teenager. It was not until late in my high school years that I devoted myself fully to the Lord. I also consider how I could have been more vocal and open about my faith in my twenties and thirties. Like Joseph and Nicodemus, I was often a secret believer in the cover of darkness. Do we not fail like them? Do we not lament our fear of men? What I would do to go back and give more of myself to my Savior Yes, better late than never, but even better early than late. Perhaps you sympathize with Augustine, who came to faith later in life and mourned in his confessions. Late have I loved you, beauty so old and so new, late have I loved you And see you were within, and I was in the external world and sought you there. And in my unlovely state, I plunged into those lovely created things which you have made. You were with me, and I was not with you. The lovely things kept me far from you. So if they did not have their existence in you, they had no existence at all. You called and cried out loud and shattered my deafness. You were radiant and resplendent. You put to flight my blindness. You are fragrant, and I drew in my breath, and now pant after you. I tasted you, and I feel but hunger and thirst for you. You touch me, and I am set on fire to attain the peace which is yours. There's nothing Joseph could do, Nicodemus could do, Augustine could do, and we can do to take back the time lost. But what we see in the two men of Sanhedrin is how to move forward with devotion to Christ, even if it's late. And through their devotion, we see our second precious truth. Jesus was buried with wealth, since he lived without guilt. Consider how these men who squandered their opportunity to give their time to Christ now seize the opportunity to give their riches to Him. Providence brought this together. Let's think about time. Joseph donated his tomb to Jesus not only because he could afford to, but also because it was preparation day. And the Sabbath was fast approaching, they couldn't secure a place of burial far away, but Joseph's own tomb was close by They hurriedly but carefully placed Jesus' body there. During the day, Christ has done his part. He redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. At twilight, these men do their part. They redeem the course from the decay of death, having preserved Jesus' body for God. For it is written in Deuteronomy 21, 23, His body shall not remain overnight on the tree, but you shall surely bury him that day. Let's think about the dignity of Jesus' body. The strips of linen, the spices, and the stones to seal the tomb all played a part. Nicodemus's lavish gift of myrrh and aloes would preserve the body until the resurrection. God allowed these rich men to care for that holy body, to fulfill their piety. That way, God would not allow his holy one to see corruption, to fulfill his prophecy. In Psalm sixteen. Let's also think about the honor due to Jesus. In Isaiah 53, verse 9, we read concerning the suffering servant, and they made his grave with the wicked, but with the rich at his death, because He had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. Christ's resting place in Joseph's tomb Was a sign to the world that God's servant has done no wrong and spoke no wrong. On one hand, Jesus died on the cruel cross like a hated criminal On the other hand, Jesus was buried in the rich tomb like a beloved champion. Contrast this with the fate of Judas Iscariot. Judas took his own life with the wages of iniquity. Jesus gave his life a ransom for many. Judas saw the labor of his hands and died dissatisfied. Jesus sees the labor of his soul and is satisfied. Judas did not care about the poor and took money during life so that he through Jesus might become rich. Jesus, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that we through his poverty might become rich. The body of Judas was left on the tree exposed to the elements, decaying in the open field. The body of Jesus was taken from the tree, protected from the elements, preserved in the closed space. The honorable burial of Jesus would be one of the major signs of what's to come on the third day. He descends to earth now, but he will ascend above it later. That leads to the third truth. Jesus was buried as a single grain for our great gain. In John 1941, we're given some details concerning Joseph's tomb, which became Jesus' tomb. Let me read it again. Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. We didn't know about the garden from other gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke. This word for garden is surprisingly rare, only found five times total in the New Testament. Once in Luke, Jesus speaks of a garden in the parable of the mustard seed. Twice John tells us in chapter eighteen that Gethsemane is a garden, the only gospel writer to do so. Now twice in chapter 19, and even twice in one verse for emphasis, we learn that Jesus was buried in a garden. What's the significance? Here's what I believe. Just as Jesus was buried with the rich to signal the integrity of his sinless life. He was buried in the garden to signal the vitality of his endless life Matthew Henry has some good devotional insights concerning this quote, That in a sepulchre in a garden, Christ's body was laid. In the Garden of Eden, death and grave first received their power, and now in a garden they are conquered, disarmed, and triumphed over. In a garden Christ began his passion, and from a garden he would rise and begin his exaltation. Christ fell to the ground as a corn of wheat, and therefore was sown in a garden among the seeds, for his dew is as the dew of herbs. He is the fountain of gardens. I find Henry's reference to John 12, 24 interesting. Let me read it. These are words of Jesus. Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it produces much grain. Just perhaps to stress this truth, God arranged for Jesus' burial in the garden. And see how great is the result. If there is no sorrowful sowing of the single grain, there is no joyous weeping of the many harvest Christ must sleep the sleep of death as wheat and become the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. See how from one came many, as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners So also by one man's obedience, many will be made righteous. The only begotten Son was brought into shame So that he might bring many sons into glory. Tonight we remember that one act of obedience, Look at the cross. Christ Himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness, by whose stripes you were healed. Look at the grave. Our Lord proved that the weakness of God is stronger than men. Because He was buried in the grave to ransom us from the power of the grave. Look at the empty tomb. Jesus was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father. So we also should walk in the newness of life. Let's remember now during the Lord's Suffer, what great price was paid by our Lord and Savior Jesus And let us respond to his sacrifice as the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. Let us devote our lives to Christ, our time, energy, wealth, to bring him glory. Crown him with many crowns, the lamb upon his throne. Crown him the Lord of life, who triumph over the grave. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you and want to make this our prayer. Were the whole realm of nature mine, That were a present far too small, love so amazing, so divine, Demands my soul, my life, my all. For you accepted us. You gave this great treasure, the gospel, the most precious gift of your Son Jesus Christ. Die on the cross for us, for our sins. We who are so undeserving of this grace. And now we come to you with hearts of gratitude. We want to offer you our lives. And even if we were to give everything, the whole realm of universe, it would be too small in comparison to what you have done for us. The gift that you've given us through your Son Jesus Christ. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.