So, there are those who believe that a golden age for humanity, the very best thing that could happen to all of us, would be for us to become atheists. That we would be released from our preoccupation with the existence of God. This is in fact one of the I don't know if I would call it a thesis, but it's one of the underlying premises or hopes or conclusions of the book The God Delusion written by Richard Dawkins some years ago. In his mind, a perfect world would have no none of the fantasy in his words or in his thoughts of a God. In one of the chapters of his book, he tries to figure out why people are religious. He wants to try to look at it from an evolutionary standpoint, from a Darwinian standpoint. I mean, can we explain why people are Muslims or Hebrews or Protestants or or Catholics and he lumps everybody together and he wonders why. And so he puts forward some ideas. He says, well Religion is a possible placebo which prolongs life by reducing stress. So here's one of his ideas. Well, if you have faith, you might feel better. If you pray, you might actually be healed in a sense of a minor disease. So there is sort of a direct advantage to religion in Richard Dawkins' mind because it it makes you feel better. It reduces stress. So maybe Throughout the aeons of time, as humanity was evolving, we began to see this advantage, and that preserved our propensity to be religious. Another idea he had is that there is sort of a survival value in religion. It helps our children to learn and grow. He says this, quote, natural selection builds brains with a tendency to believe whatever their parents and tribal leaders tell them. Such trusting obedience is valuable for survival. But the flip side of trusting obedience is slavish gullibility. What he's saying here is that when children grow up, it's really helpful for them to just accept what their parents tell them as truth. Instead of learning it the hard way. So when a parent says, don't go swimming, and those are crocodile infested waters, the child doesn't have to lose a leg. before he realizes the truth of his parents' words. But Dawkins, of course, throws in everything else, religious. Don't swim in the river that's infested with crocodiles versus We must also sacrifice this goat in order to appease our deity so that we can have crops. Dawkins says that religiously we are we're sort of psychologically primed to be religious. This is all what he says in his book, God Delusion. He's trying to grasp. With the whole reason as to why people are so religious. How does that compare with Romans 1, 18 to 23? Look at your Bible. Romans 1. Verse 18. Here's what Paul wrote to the Christians in Rome and his explanation of all the world religions, apart from the true knowledge of the one and only God. He says, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because what may be known of God is manifest in them or to them, for God has shown it to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even as his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because, although they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened Professing to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and birds And four-footed animals and creeping things. Now here's the logic of this passage. There is mankind looking at creation, and he should respond to the knowledge that there is a God of eternal power. There is a God, capital G, a unique and only. true God. But rather than doing that, there is the rejection and the suppression of truth, not with atheism. But with religion, idolatry. The word here that's translated in verse 23 in the New King James Version change could also be translated exchanged. They exchanged or they replaced the glory of the incorruptible God. They replaced it with an image made like corruptible man, birds, four-footed animals. And creeping things. And so, as you remember from last week, God gave them over. God gave them over. God gave them over to their desires. You know what's really happening here? How many of you are familiar with C. S. Lewis's book, The Screw Tape Letters? Are you familiar with that? Well, there have been a number of books written by other men as sequels to that book. One of them is called Screwtape writes again. And in this book, the devil is giving advice to a demon on how to ensnare and entrap humanity. And he and in in their paradigm, in the demonic world, everything's an opposite to Christ and God and the truth. So they're they're always saying lies are number one, this is how we do things. And it's always opposite to the way God does things. This is what Screwtape says to Wormwood in this book. If you can obscure these facts And the facts would be the Christ, the Holy Spirit, you know, the the the heavenly view. If you can obscure these facts, there's a good chance they will embrace what hell considers to the to be the perfect Synonym for true religion, churchianity. In this marvelous imitation of the enemy's church, everything looks and sounds right and good, but the enemy's spirit is conspicuously absent. You must arrange to make him a devout Methodist or Anglican or Baptist or Presbyterian or what have you. Make him that. He must come to accept the church as a type of religious social club where people congregate. Nothing more. In a word, Wormwood, help him to become more religious. But we don't want them to become a Christian. Do you kind of see now in this example, in this book, he speaks in terms of denominations and making people More religious in a denomination that doesn't preach the gospel. But the same thing works in the world at large, whether it's Islam or Catholicism or Mormonism. It's okay in the devil's book if you're a very devout Mormon. We just don't want you to become a truly born-again Christian. All of these religions, all of them, are the suppression of the truth. And as I mentioned last week, the golden age is we don't have to wait for it Richard Dawkins has his golden age. We're living it right now. Mankind is rejecting the truth of the one true God. But rather than replacing it with atheism, they're replacing it with their false religion. And you see, and I'm reminding you in Romans 1, we have God's response. And look at verse 24. Therefore, God also gave them up. God gave them up. Verse 26, verse 28. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind. Paul then takes his argument to magnifying the judgment of God in chapter two. Do you remember the last verse of chapter one in verse? chapter one verse thirty-two people who are involved in all these sins that are listed in verses twenty-nine and thirty know the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things Are deserving of death. Here is the judgment of God, that those who do those things are deserving of death. And then in chapter 2, Paul begins to speak about the righteous. judgment of God. And here it is, folks. If you want to live by God's judgment and somehow work your way to heaven, you must by patient continuance obey always. Inwardly and outwardly. Has anyone done that? No, no one has done that And so he wants to address the issue of Gentile and Jew. Look at your Bible in chapter 2, verse 17. Indeed, you are called a Jew and rest on the law And make your boast in God and know his will and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law. So There are those who think they're in a different category, the Hebrews, because it was their job to receive the scriptures, the great Isaiah, the book of Isaiah, and there's a copy of it out there on the wall for you to look at in Hebrew. And so they had the law of God, the law of Moses. Does this put them in a different category? No, because it's not the hearers of the law that are justified, but the doers. So There's this high standard of perfect obedience. Did they do the law perfectly? And the answer again is no. So from in chapter one, there's the downward spiral. Reject and replace God, and God gives them over. In chapter two, there's the elevation of the perfect judgment of God and how Jew and Gentile cannot meet his perfect standard. And the point is arriving all the way, look at your Bible at chapter 3, verse 10, where he gives this list of Old Testament quotations to make his point that there is no one righteous, not one. There's none who understands. There's none who seeks after God. They've all turned aside. Why does he do this? He tells you why he does it in verse 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped. And all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight, because no one can obey the law perfectly or chooses to. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. And this is where we really have sort of the first section of Romans come to a close, right there. It doesn't really come to a close at the end of a chapter. Sorry, that can be a little confusing. The chapters in our English Bibles, obviously, you know, they're not inspired of God. They're what someone did to try to organize the paragraphs in the Greek text. His conclusion, everyone's under sin. Everyone's mouth has to be stopped. No one can say, but but me, me, I, I, I, I, I was I oh, oh yeah, yeah, I I did wrong there. Oh yeah, I sinned there. Oh yeah, I okay. There's nothing I can say So that leaves us then, before I say anything else, don't answer this out loud. Is it possible that there's someone in here whose mouth is still open? Even after all of that data in Romans? Where's your heart? Do you find yourself still making excuses like you're in a special category? There's all these bad people. And then there's me. I'm in a separate category. Now's the time, as we've journeyed through, as we hike through Romans, to put that idea aside because it's not what God says. Folks, you realize there are times you sinned. There are times when I sinned and I didn't even know it. There were times when I thought thoughts I shouldn't have thought, or I was angry or prideful or bitter. And it never even crossed my mind that I sinned. It's not the other people's judgment of your sin, and so your mom thinks you're a great person, and so God does too. Your mom sees you at Christmas time. God sees you every day of the week. He sees the expressions on your face. And also the intentions of your heart. He hears the words from your mouth, but he also hears the desires of your heart, the imaginations Thereof. The knowledge of God is omniscient. It's without limitations. So according to God's judgment Does he see sin in your words, your actions, your attitudes, or deeds? I mean, is there someone here today that could actually think? That you're in a different category than the rest of humanity. I hope not. I hope you come to accept this first section in Romans and to truly believe what it says right there in Romans 3 verse 10, there's none righteous, no Not one. As I mentioned last week, this includes the Pope. This includes the head of every religion in this world. This includes the council of the Jehovah's Witnesses. that's I think in New York City or New York State. This includes the the council that of elders that's in charge of the Mormon Church This includes the most righteous and good person you've ever met, whether it's your aunt or your grandma, your dad, your mom, or you. No one is righteous. No, not one. The major hinge that sort of the next section of Romans swings on is in Romans 3, 21, all the way through the Let's see, to 31. Here is where Paul introduces this idea of faith. Faith. Look at it. Look at it. Verse 25 There's the word faith. Verse 27. There's the word faith. Verse 28. Faith. Verse 20. Verse 30. Faith. Two times in our English translation. Verse 31. Faith. So we've moved away from this idea of trying to meet a standard that we can't meet and being under the judgment of God to the possibility of getting out from under that. And that's what he says here in verse 21. Look at it. The righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and prophets, even the righteousness of God which is through faith. In Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe. And if you recall from last week, just like all have sinned and we're all in the same boat there, So now all can be justified. There can be no justification if there's no admission of guilt and sin. If if you want to be in the boat of salvation, you must admit that you're in the boat. of sin and under the just condemnation of God. So what happens? Well verse 24, we are justified freely by his grace Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood. Now We need to talk for a few minutes this morning about that word propitiation. It has the basic idea of the sacrifice given so that the one who it is given to is satisfied completely with what has been done. Have you ever met someone who could never be satisfied? No matter what you did, don't raise your hand, don't call out their name, but it seemed like they were never, ever satisfied. I have to be careful in the way I talk to my own kids because sometimes I give them the impression that, yes, you did this, this, and this right, but You didn't do this right. I mean it seems like as a parent I struggle sometimes with always wanting to disciple and correct even when I'm praising them, always giving the impression that I'm not satisfied, even when there are those moments when I am Really proud of the things that they're doing. But have you ever met someone who, no matter what you did, they weren't satisfied? In this case, here's what this is teaching. Look at your Bible. God set forth. And the idea there is publicly and openly Jesus hung above the ground in public view on a cross. It was faithfully recorded in the Gospels. He's been set forth so the world can see. He was been, I'm sorry, verse 25, set forth as a propitiation by his blood. So there is this fact that he died. A death of blood, and that propitiated or satisfied the wrath of God. Can I get you to turn to two other passages to help clear this up? Turn to Colossians 2 first. Colossians 2. We're going to look at verses eleven to fourteen and just There's a lot there. Try to narrow down on on the ending of it, okay? It says in him, and it's a capital H in this translation, the New King James, because it's referring to Jesus. In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. Buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. And you, being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh. He made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. Now, how is that possible? How can a just God say, alright, I'm not I'm just gonna forgive? I'm just gonna wipe those out Well, verse 14, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us, And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. What did they put above the person's head when they were crucified? You all know this, right? They would put a list of the person's crimes. From God's perspective, when Jesus was nailed on that cross, whose crimes were listed above his head? His crimes? Now we know that Pilate wrote King of the Jews, and that physically and visibly to all present, that was what they considered his crime, which was not a crime, because he was the King of the Jews. But in this passage, it's like an illustration. Above his head are all the times you lied, and all the times you were unfaithful and or angry without cause. Or abusive to someone. And not just the ones you remember, all the ones you don't remember, all the sins that you and I have done, because we could not meet the requirements. Of God. They were all placed there, and He died. And we know that he was a propitiation that was successful because the response of the Father, verse 13, look at it again, he made us alive, having forgiven all the trespasses. So when the father saw his son die, taking upon himself the punishment that we justly deserve, because his response was forgiveness, life. The propitiation of Christ was 100% accepted by God. There's no need for any other one. Let's get a clearer verse. Let me ask you to turn back to Isaiah 53 and look at verse 11. It was predicted in the Old Testament. Isaiah 53, verse eleven. This is a little clearer in the satisfying part. He, the Lord, this is refer the he here is referring to the Lord in verse 10, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. The him is Christ, as he fulfilled his mission in the New Testament. He, that's the Lord, versus verse 11, shall see the labor of his, that's Christ, soul, and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. This is saying that when the father saw his son, he's finished with the wrath from you and I who've placed our faith in Christ. There's no wrath for us. Go back to Romans quickly. Romans. Propitiation is in part the satisfaction of the wrath of God. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, the blood of Christ. Now that, folks Sometimes I just kick myself that I don't think about this enough. Have you ever had the sense during a week that God is just not satisfied? With you. Sort of this backdrop of your life. Now, let me be careful how I say this. If you're living in open sin, okay, you're rebelling against God, you're Jonah, and you're running away from your mission. Okay, yes, God is not not pleased with your actions, and he might send a fish to come swallow you and take you to where you need to go. But generally speaking, if you're you're trying to serve Christ and You're not perfect. You sin. And so you have to do 1 John 1 9. Confess your sins. He's faithful and just to forgive. But you have this sense that God is just You know, I just feel like God is never satisfied with the things that I do. Like I have to somehow reach a new level or look at this from a different perspective. That God just is angry at me all the time. And by the way, that is, and folks, I'm not trying to beat on Catholicism today, but that is what the Catholic Church wants you to think. They want you to think that God is not satisfied, propitiated by the sacrifice of Christ. They want you to feel perpetually guilty in that sense. Why not remind yourself of this? Why not just praise God for the fact that when Jesus died, he died once? And that the Father was completely satisfied with that. And that you don't have, there's nothing you can do to add to the propitiation of the cross. It's not like God says, okay, Christ, he get he gets to heaven, and the Lord the Father says to Christ, that was pretty good, but but you know Mm. There's just this five percent. I just I'm just not quite satisfied. A little more blood or a little more you know, a pain and I would have been uh that would have done it for me. So, so, you know, when you have all these followers, I'm gonna just take it from them. Folks, do you realize how ridiculous that is? And yet, is it possible that sometimes we live that way? Sort of the static of our life, the noise that we hear is sort of this. dissatisfaction from the Father. Why are the good works of Bill Gates not satisf not received? By God. Why are they considered filthy rags? They're pretty good. Bill Gates does a lot of good things You know what he does? As a foundation, he's trying to stamp out AIDS in Africa. He's I think he's dealing with malaria. He does all these good things, probably more good things than I've done with my corner of the money I have from God. But why doesn't God say why does the scripture say that even the plowing of the wicked is sin? Plowing, if the guy's taking care of his family, what's wrong with that? He's trying to survive. Do you realize, folks, that it's not really the nature of the good things they do that places them in the guilty category or the unacceptable, I should say, category? It's the fact that they are outside of Christ. They are not united with Christ. They haven't been justified. They haven't had their sins forgiven. And God's wrath toward them has not been satisfied through the sacrifice of Christ. So everything they do Is seen through this irreconciled status. They are enemies, they are weak, they are against God, they are outside of salvation. That is why even very good things that lost people do cannot be accepted by God, and it's all filthy. But you and I, you and I are in Christ. If you're here today, Romans 6, you've been baptized into Christ, his death, burial, and resurrection, your sins are forgiven He's satisfied with what Christ did. You are now his child. Your heart cries out, Abba Father. And when he sees your life, you don't have to redo what Jesus already did. You can look at him and say, Father, I really blew it yesterday. And I really want to do better. But not to satisfy your wrath, because I know Christ already did that. But I love you and you love me as your child. It's totally different. And so even The crayon drawings that you do as a child of God, they you you tell the father it's a house and it's like a square With a pink crayon and a little yellow roof. And you know what? It really, frankly, it's not done very well. But that's your father, and he's going to take that and he's going to put it on his refrigerator. Even your attempts that are so weak and so faltering, God is saying, go, yeah. He's not waiting to condemn, dissatisfied. Well, Jesus did 99. 9%, but man, you're 0. 01% on a ticket. You got to take care of the rest of that. Look at your Bibles again at Romans 3. Read it again, verse 23. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood through faith Faith, verse 27. Faith, verse 28. Let's just read verse 20. Let's read verses 27 to 31. Where is boasting then? Is it is excluded by what law? Of works? No, but by the law of faith. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law. Or is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also, since there is one God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then make void the law through faith? Certainly not. On the contrary, we establish the law. Now what is this establishment of the law? We're talking about the law of Moses and the rules, the clean and unclean rules, like we've looked at Leviticus and Deuteronomy and Numbers and all that. On Sunday nights, are we talking about not wearing certain fabrics? Is that established through our faith in Christ? No. But the righteousness of the law is. Don't commit adultery. Don't steal. Worship the one true God. Don't make idols and worship them. The righteousness of the law of God that is seen sort of in the law of Moses, but it's it's more broadly seen in his entire relationship with God. With the Jews in the Old Testament. That is established. Folks, this is how it works. Before you're saved, you want to love your spouse. And when it comes to the horizontal relationship, you do it because you want them to love you. You might have feelings for them, and so you love them. But you can't present that to God to appease his wrath. So when it comes to God, when a lost person is presented with the fact that there's none righteous, they go back and they want they they resist that. And so what happens is a relationship without God, it cannot truly bloom into the beauty that requires the Holy Spirit and the Word of God. Only someone who loves God is indwelt with their spirit can potentially have an indwelling Incredible marriage that goes far beyond even the lost folks you know from who went through World War II, came back, got married, they're still married, if they're still around, a few of them. Even those folks. A godless marriage is a godless marriage. It's kind of like this. You know, in the Old Testament, you had Pharaoh and Moses and the magicians, they could do some things, right? They cast down their rods and they became snakes. But there was a limit to what they could do. And what did they finally say to Pharaoh? Do you remember? They said, oh, oh, oh, this must be God. We can't do anymore. In relationships, in jobs, in life down here, there comes a point when a lost person just can't do it. He can't fulfill the righteousness of the law. He can only go so far. But someone who is indwelt with the Spirit of God, who loves the law of God, their whole attitude and position toward God has changed. They will embrace it. They will eat the law. They'll meditate on the righteousness of God day and night. They'll be like a tree planted by rivers of living water that brings forth its fruit in its season and out. They'll be amazing if they follow Christ. They'll love their enemies. They'll do good to those who do evil to them. They'll far exceed. And that is where the establishment, if you look at your Bible again at verse 31. We establish the law. And later in Romans, he's going to talk about this again when he talks about the Spirit of God. And so on. So where does that leave us? All right, if you're trying to memorize the chapter content of Romans, generally speaking, the argument, the logic. You could think of Romans 1 and all the way through to chapter 2, I'm sorry, chapter 3, verse 20, as the downward death spiral. Replacing God with idols. God rejecting, God rejecting, God rejecting guilty and condemned. The first section of Romans, boom. Then you could think of this section if you look at your Bible again. At Romans 3 verses 21 to 31, as sort of a hinge that begins to swing the next section. It's sort of a big change because now faith is introduced and righteousness apart from the law. And then we get to chapter 4, and Paul has to sort of back up from his general argument and deal with the Hebrews in In particular. Alright, we're gonna just go a few more minutes with this and we'll stop. In chapter 4, he brings up two Old Testament characters. The first, look at your Bible, in chapter 4, verse 1, is Abraham. And the second, if you look down at verse 6, is David, King David, two very important people in the history of the Jews, people that they would look up to. But of course, Abraham first, because he was circumcised and he received a covenant from God and and he believed in God. So someone might suddenly say, Well, what about Abraham, Paul? Because, you know, he He was received a covenant from God and he had this relationship with God. I thought it was because he wanted to obey God. And he debunks that idea if you look at your Bible at verse 2, chapter 4. He says, if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt And then in speaking of David, look at verse 6. Just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. So, in the rest of chapter 4, after bringing up Abraham and David, Paul continues on to just magnify faith. And the necessity of faith, and the fact that Abraham believed, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. If you look at your Bible again, and I'm not going to read all chapter four, you'll see the word faith in verse eleven. And that fact that he might be the father of all who believe, in verse 11. You see in verse 13, the righteousness of faith, or the righteousness that comes as a result of having faith. You see in verse 14, faith mentioned again. Verse 16, faith and grace is mentioned. Look at verse 16. Therefore it is of faith that it might be according to grace. Faith is mentioned again in verse 16. Believed is a word used in verse 17. And you have verse 22, it was accounted to him for righteousness, and in verse 23. Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him, but also for us. It shall be imputed to us who believe in him who raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead. Who was delivered up because of our offenses and was raised because of our justification. Now at this point, there's supposed to be a response. The reader is supposed to really think about this and go, wow, this is amazing. Have you ever gotten a Christmas present that you never thought you would get? Anybody ever get a car for Christmas? Nobody, I never have. My parents were wanted me to work for the things I got. Anybody ever get a diamond ring for Christmas? Anybody ever get something good for Christmas they didn't think they were going to get? Alright. Once somebody is under conviction of sin and they realize they deserve hell and the death and the condemnation of God, There's a part of them that never thinks they're going to get anything from God. There's a realization that It's hopeless. It's over. I've got nowhere to run. And that's the exact right response. The mouth is stuck. And then they hear, whoa, I can be saved? Like the Philippian jailer, what must I do to be saved? I can, like John the Baptist said, look, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And the person has to realize, well, I don't earn this. I just believe. I just have faith in the cross of Christ. And yes, that's the answer. That's the answer. And then there has to be this Exaltation in salvation in justification. This this heart response that just says I never want to get over this, that salvation is a free gift from God, that I didn't earn it, that it was bought with the blood of the Son of God, that I've been declared righteous, even though I'm not. Put in a different category from the category of guilt. All my accounts are settled. I'm redeemed. I've been ransomed. I've been justified. I don't want to forget this. And so Paul magnifies the exaltation in chapter 5. Look at your Bible, where he says there Therefore, having been justified by faith, and it's sort of his conclusion of the first four chapters, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And then he says in verse. In verse 2, at the end there he says that we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And in verse 3, He says, but we also glory. And he says in verse 11, and not only that, but we also rejoice. And all three times it's the exact same Greek term. And probably the better translation would be rejoice, because it's not just an inner feeling of joy, but it comes out of us on our lips and in our words and in our songs. We rejoice, we rejoice, we rejoice. It's something that we can't help do. And the context of all of these is something we're going to have to leave for next Sunday. But I want to conclude this way. One hundred and twenty-five thousand, two hundred and sixty two Centuries from now, you will be alive. Think about that And if you're here today and you're born again, you will have access to the glory of the throne mentioned at the end of Revelation. And you will see God. And you will walk with Christ. And you will talk to angels who have never sinned. And not once will anyone ever say, What right do you have to be here? Because you will be justified by the sacrifice advice of another. And it will never, ever, ever be undone. Doesn't that give us something to be thankful for this year as we go into the Christmas season? Isn't that something worth filling our hearts over?