So yeah, we are missionaries. That's what we are. And uh God called us to that, and we've been doing it for 26 years overseas And uh that's that's great. And we are really um yeah, we love being missionaries. It doesn't uh mean that there aren't uh the challenges that there aren't the difficulties, the difficult times, the challenges, the things that uh we think sometimes, wow, uh why am I here? You know, why, why, why uh these people don't seem to be interested and why why did I come here? Why did I leave my country? Why why? You know? There have been those times too over these past uh you know Years. And and yet God always brings us back to that He's got us there for a reason, He's called us, and uh And so we we continue on, and uh he does bless uh faithfulness too and perseverance, and God has done some some really neat things. But okay, we're missionaries, and uh so I don't want to talk so much, although I might make some reference this morning as far as uh what we do in ministry and how we do it But I want to uh bring it back to take it back to like, okay, you all. Okay. So you support us as missionaries, and that's great, and you support many other missionaries and it's wonderful. But what about us? Okay, not just us as the missionaries, but us as a group of God's called-out ones. being the church. What about us? What has God called us to do as in all of us, all of us as believers? And I only have a few minutes to share some things from God's Word this morning, very short time. uh to encourage us, all of us, to be a part of this great process of of God as far as Bringing the love of Christ to a world around us that needs him desperately. That needs him desperately And so I think it's kind of like preaching to the choir to you as far as that goes, because, you know, uh you know, as a believer in Christ. That it's not only about the message for you, but that message needs to go out. Not only in Spain, it needs to go out in Elk Ridge, it needs to go out in Ellicate City, it needs to go out in Baltimore, it needs to it needs to go out there. And and this morning I just want to say a few words about How should it go out? How should it go out? And we could spend days and seminars and that uh talking about that. But I'm just going to use a few passages from the the Gospel of Mark and we're going to use um We're going to use the some examples of Jesus' ministry to talk about some principles of being lights. Of being God's ambassadors, as you all are, if you know Christ. You are his ambassadors. You're representing Christ in this world until he comes again to take us to be with himself. But we are his ambassadors. We are his representatives to those in a dark world. And by his grace, he's called us. By his grace, he's saved us. He's brought us to the point where we are reconciled to God. How do we get that to those who are still lost? dying without Christ and without God in this world. So a few principles. Okay? And let's go to Mark first, Mark chapter 2 And I'm just going to read starting verse 13 to verse 17. Then he went out again by the sea, and all the multitude came to him, and he taught them. As he passed by, He saw Levi, the son of Alphea, sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, Follow me. So he arose and followed him. Now it happened, as he was dining in Levi's house, that many tax collectors and sinners also sat together with Jesus and his disciples For there were many, and they followed him. And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eating with the tax collectors and sinners, they said to his disciples, How is it that he eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. So the first principle I want to encourage us all this morning is that in order to call sinners to repentance, We have to be where they are. We have to be where they are. Where was Jesus in this context? He was in the home of Levi, the tax collector, and lunked in with sinners, right? Tax collectors and sinners. Jesus did not shy away from being with people that society thought were to be shunned, should be shunned, or avoided. Or yeah, not even, you know, go don't go near them. Don't go don't touch them with the ten-foot pole. Jesus did not shy away from that. In fact, he made it a part of his ministry. Now, of course, his call or his desire was to call them to repentance. to get them to realize their need for a savior, that they were sinners and they needed a savior, that being himself And to be reconciled to God. That was his ultimate goal and desire that they be restored to God through himself, through Jesus. But how did he go about that? Did he just sit around and expect everybody to come to him all the time? No. No, he went to where they were. So our first principle this morning is if we want to reach people with the gospel and we want to call them to repentance, we need to go where they are. We need to be in their lives. We need to go out where they are. Because most of the time probably they are not going to come and visit a church. Maybe there are some who will if God's doing a work in their lives and they want to come and they visit and they hear the gospel through through the the you know a church. They might, but many will never come to church. Never. Until we go to where they are, we rub shoulders with them. And they listen to us and they see us care about them and talk to them and love them to Jesus. With acts of kindness, meeting their needs where they're at. And that's what Jesus did. Okay, many times he obviously taught the Word of God to them. And his goal was to see them come to Christ and be restored to God. But not at all his miracles. Not during all his miracles did he necessarily preach the gospel. Many times he healed, and people were blessed that way. But some of them probably never repented. Some of them probably never came to the point where they placed their faith in Christ. But he still healed. He still healed. He went out there and he blessed them. And he used what God gave him and as the Son of God Himself. To bless others, to touch others, to be in their lives, to restore their sight, to care for them. So the first challenge I have this morning for all of us, for all of us. Don't be afraid to go where sinners are. To love them. To talk with them. To be Jesus to them. Because that's what Jesus did. And if we say, well, no, no, I can't get close to that person. I can't do that. Look at Jesus' example. He sat around the table with tax collectors and sinners. So never can we say, oh no, no, that's going to corrupt me. We should not say that. We say we're going to shine the light where people are. Obviously, that's what we do as Christians. We're seeking to shine the light. But if we're not with sinners, if we're not with people out there that need Jesus, that are dying without him Will probably never have any effect on them to be able to share the love of Christ with them. So that's the first thing. To call sinners to repentance We have to be with them. We have to be with them. Take inventory right now of your life Of the way you go about your life as far as those who are unsaved, those who do not know Christ yet. How do you go about fomenting, rubbing shoulders with them? Thinking, how can I be in their lives? How can I help them? How can I minister to them? How can I, you know? Maybe share the gospel with them. Maybe you can, maybe you'll get an opportunity. But maybe at first, maybe you won't Maybe it's going to take some time to invest in their lives to do something else so that you can sit with them, so that you can be with them, so they can see that you care about them as people, as people that God created. Do people sense that you love them? Do those who don't know Christ yet sense, and they really sense that you care about them? You love them as people. Do they sense that? Or do they feel like they're a target Or do they feel like we're making them a target? How many people can we put in our list of? Uh, got that done. Uh, shared the gospel with them. Oh, gave the Spirit. No, these are not wrong things to do, but what I'm saying is our motivation How do we go about seeing people? How do we view people? As Christ did, where we sat around, we ate with them. He ate with them. He cared. He talked with them. Okay, with sinners, and we know that. We don't I don't have to go into all the different examples that he did that in the scripture. How about you? How about me? Do we do that And Jesus said to the to those who were around him that the Pharisees who's saying, Oh my goodness, how can Jesus do this? How can he do this? He's eating with the sinners. Self-righteous. Self-righteous. Saying, oh, you know. We have this high ground up here, right? We have this high ground up here. We, you know, we don't think Jesus should do that. So he's wrong in doing this. We won't go into what the Pharisees were like and what their hearts were like and the falsity of their pretensions. But Jesus said, I didn't come to save people that don't think they need me. I came people, I came to save people, to call them to repentance. The one that we're saving sick, the ones that were needy. So the the people that need and really are trying to find out something more than that they have And that's what Jesus' answer was. How about us? How about you? Where are you at as far as how you see sinners Do you see them as people that really need love and care and and and you're going out of your way to make it happen? Or, well, I you know I I hope sometime that you know, without actually getting into their lives, without actually being a part of them, doing things with them, common ground. Okay, let's go to chapter six. Mark chapter six. And uh We're going to go to verse 56, the very last verse. And just just one verse, but it says a lot. It says, wherever he, Jesus, entered. Into villages, cities, or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and begged him. That they might just touch the hem of his garment, and as many as touched him were made well. What's the principle here? That you all should get robes and uh have people touch the hem of the robe that you wear? And uh maybe they'll you know be healed? No, that's that's not what I'm saying here. It's what happened with Jesus, obviously, the Son of God. But what principle can we see from this verse? First of all, he entered. When he entered, the scripture says, or wherever he entered. The point is, Jesus went. He went. Towns, cities, the country. He went where people were Wherever he entered, and he entered many places during his three years of ministry. The question for us this morning is, are we entering to minister to people? Wherever are we going? Are we entering those places to minister? And the other question is for us is Because people sense the love that you have for them, the love of Christ that you show to them, and the compassion that you show to them, not knowing Christ yet. Do they appreciate that? Do they care about that? And do they, like they did here in Jesus' time, where They brought the sick and the deaf and the lame, and they begged him, as it says here. They begged him That he might just touch the hem of his garment. Are you getting people saying, well, that compassion, the love That you have for me. I don't understand it, but please continue to do it It's Bane as we're ministering to people, caring about them, mostly. Neighbors, meeting their felt needs, meeting needs they have. People tell us, I sense such a peace here with you guys. You guys have such a peace. I wish I had that. You guys care so much about us. Man, it's so good to be here because everything you do, you're just like you're helping us and you're you want, you know, to to to help us in so many ways. Please continue. And yeah, maybe they don't beg as they did here for Jesus But they're asking please continue because you're doing so you know such a great work here. Continue, please, please continue to to move forward with this project and what you're doing here. And we appreciate it so much. Do you get comments like that? Do you do you hear people, non-believers, saying, thank you? For helping me. Thank you for caring about me. Thank you for being in my life. Thank you for getting involved in my life. And being there when I need people, when I need help. Or thank you for uh inviting me to participate in a sports event or you know, going to me with uh going with me to a ball game and and caring about me. Do you get people saying, wow, I appreciate that. Thank you so much for doing that. They were begging Jesus to just let them touch the hem of his garment. Now, maybe they're not going to beg you for touching your the hem of your garment. But if you're ministering to them, if you're caring about them, they will respond. They will. I'm not saying that they're going to drop on their knees right away and get saved. But God can use what you're doing in their lives to open so many doors you can't imagine. Doors of opportunity to give reason of your faith and the hope that's in you and tell them about the Savior That's why you're doing it. That's why you're doing it. You're doing it because the love of Christ constrains you, compels you to reach out to those people. They need Jesus really badly. But sometimes we need to invest time in their personal lives, in their lives, what's happening in them, before we can say. Now let me show you what Jesus is. Let me show you who Jesus is. This is Jesus. Loving, caring, going out of your way to reach out to their men to their to their needs. Inconvenient? Yeah, sometimes. Sometimes it's really inconvenient. Time consuming? Yeah. Time consuming. Sacrificing? Yeah, sacrificing. Takes time to sacrifice, to be in people's lives, to care about them, to love them, to reach out to them, to go to see whatever way you can to help them. Yeah. Sometimes it's uh difficult to do that. But you know, if you see one of them come to you and say, thank you for doing that, thank you for helping, you know I'm really interested. I want to know more about this Jesus you serve. It's all worth it. It's all worth it then. So wherever Jesus went, the principle here is he brought healing. He brought healing. Whether he brought healing physically to the body or whether he brought healing to the soul and to the person. He offered healing. By offering them the truth of his own message, of his own message of the cross. So the principle from here is, do I bring healing when I'm trying to reach out to people, to minister to people that don't know him yet? Am I trying to bring healing? Or when I'm done with somebody, with a target or something, do they say, oh boy, I felt like, well, all they cared about was just getting a number? Or do they really, wow. The presence of Christ was so evident here because of the compassion, the love, the caring, the healing that your presence, that your presence can bring in somebody's life. Because you care about so much about And then uh the last verses I want to read are from Mark 10. Mark, chapter ten. Verses twenty three to twenty seven Then Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples were astonished at his words. He had just talked to the rich young ruler who said, yeah, I've kept all the commandments, all those commandments, and Jesus said, well, go sell all you have and give to the money of the poor and come and follow me. And Jesus said, how hard it is, right? How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answered again and said to them, Children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of an eel than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Sometimes it's so easy to uh, yeah, to obviously Jesus said it, and that's true, but How easy it is to just use that, oh, people are so materialistic that they'll never come to Jesus or they don't care. They don't really they're not trying to to look for for God. They're not trying. They don't care about God and and and and in a relationship with Jesus, they don't care because they're just too much into money, too much into things, and there probably some truth to that. But Jesus doesn't stop there. Jesus doesn't stop with these words. He continues. And what does he say? And they were greatly astonished, verse 26, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved? Who then can be saved? You know, uh we live in a country that is quite well off, okay, and some of us Maybe are more well off than others, but in general, compared to the rest of the world, m much of the rest of the world, we're we're pretty prosperous in America. We have quite a lot of things, material possessions and things that that uh God has blessed this country with. And uh that can definitely be a deterrent to people seeking after God. Because when we get real comfortable with things, get real comfortable with our possessions and we start loving things and money instead of God. then we run into a lot of problems and and I think that's probably true of uh many people. But verse 20 says, but Jesus looked at them and said, With men, it is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible. All things are possible. So, we've been working in Spain for 26 years. We've seen God do some great things. The last nine years or so we've been working, maybe eight, nine years, we've been working with a project that's taken a long time to begin from the time that We've started planning it to uh the end results of a of uh a school to reach people for Christ. Uh uh K to eight or uh zero to to twelfth grade and and so it's a it's a huge process. It takes time and now we're in the first phase we're gonna talk about more about that tonight. uh second phase actually, but uh we finally got a building and and now we're m having students come in. We're able to share the gospel with them that God opens doors for for us to do. But that many times over these years we felt like, oh, this is impossible, human humanly impossible, for us to do this big project. And yet God tells us. Even where it seems to you that's impossible, God can break through a heart. God can break through. So the people that you are out there Ministering to you, caring for, taking opportunities to tell the gospel when God opens the door to share the good news of who Christ is for you and what he can be for them. God touches hearts. God can break through. And even though we've been working with people in this project, And now we've established with our neighbors a relationship and a friendship with them for these last four years. And slowly They are moving towards more openness towards these things. In Spain it takes An average of about 14 years from the studies that were made. From the time a first time a person hears of the gospel of Christ to the time they decide, I will follow Christ with my life. This is a change. I will do this and I'm going to be a follower now. 14 years. From the time they first start hearing. And they start considering and they hear it and then they hear it again or hear it fourteen years. And it's probably similar to that here nowadays. know, but we're out there sowing. And I think the greatest thing that we have to remember is we are not responsible for the harvest. We're not responsible for the harvest. Who brings the increase? God brings the increase. We plant. And we water. We plant more and we water. And we plant more and we water. We plant. Will we never bring the increase? We cannot. That's God's work. So how freeing is that, right? Many times the temptation is we have to bring the increase, right? That's the temptation that we have. And I've had that temptation. And if I dwell on that, if I dwell on that temptation, I'm telling you, it depresses me. And I can't dwell on it. Why? Because I'm not the one that can convince a person. I may plant the seed. I may seek to get them to see the truth and trust that they make a decision for God and Christ. But I can't change a heart. And you can't change a heart. Only God can bring them to that point. And He brings the increase. With God. Nothing is impossible. And he does it. A friend of mine that I met like eight, nine years ago in the house that we were in previously in Spain. I'd started to become friends with him and found out that he was um agnostic, mostly agnostic, maybe even close to atheist. And uh started doing some sports with them and had a you know this good friendship with him. I had a good friendship going with him. And he knew where I was at as far as spiritually and what what I believed. And he said, took me aside one day out in front of his house on the sidewalk. He said, Carrie, I want you to know something. If you ever try to shove your your religion down my throat, that's the end of our friendship. Okay. So it's like, well, okay. What what what am I gonna say? You know, what what am I gonna say to him? It's like, okay, well I'll try not to. I'm just kinda like, okay God, you're gonna have to work in this guy, you know? And uh not too long afterwards He had a major, major accident where he was using a power tool and on this uh wall of this uh around his house And uh it accidentally got caught while it was still going in his pant in his pants, and so it tore into the back of his leg big time. And he could have bled to death like really quickly if they'd gone any deeper. It was a major, major uh crisis and and uh you know, near-death experience. And so we were able to come into that situation right away, and uh God used that I was able to go to the hospital and uh he even let me pray for him, which was a big thing because he basically didn't even believe that God existed or if he did he didn't care. So he let me pray for him there. And so I prayed very openly and very freely of uh just asking God to to see why and God had a reason for him here, why he spared his life and and that he would seek him. And uh in subsequent years now, when I'm with him, he'll say things like, I really thank God that So it's a moving, he hasn't made a profession of faith yet. But it's a moving thing, and I'm thinking, whoa, this is God. This nothing is impossible with God. Yeah. My friend and neighbor said, don't you try to ram your your beliefs down my throat, or else that's the end of our friendship. We're never even But my friends, yes, are we going out caring? Are we going out bringing healing? Are we going out where they are, caring about them, loving them to Jesus? And then seeing him change their lives. Takes time, takes effort, takes sacrifice. It takes a life of sacrifice to do that. But if we really want to do it like Jesus did, we've got to be there with them. We've got to go out there where they are, because they're probably not going to come where we are. Okay, so we've got to get out there and remember With us it's impossible. We're very frail. We make mistakes. And that's another thing. As you go out trying to reach people, Be re be uh don't be afraid to make mistakes. Because we're not Jesus, okay Okay. Jesus was perfect. He didn't make any mistakes. But we do. And people have to see us as, oh, you know. Yeah, they they're not perfect either. Because if people see us as somehow, Like a Pharisee or something, which they weren't perfect either. They were far from perfect. But they came across as they were. They came across as they were. We can't come across like that to people. We have to realize that, hey, you know, we have We have things too. But we're we're following hard after God. We're following hard after Jesus. And so yeah, we make mistakes too. But they a lot of times that people see that and think, oh wow, well maybe I can Maybe this is something I can because I'm not yeah, I can't do things either. So remember, with God, all things are possible Not even impossible for him. Just remember that as we go out into a world that needs Jesus desperately.