So I uh probably sound worse than I really am. Just still keeping a little bit of a distance from people, just make sure I don't you know maybe I'm gonna sh shake your hand or dab you on your way out, but uh Thank you for praying for uh for those who know that we've been sick, but uh I think I'm on the mend too. Um And it's sort of apropos because I finished a book about the human body recently and it's by Bill Bryson. And this author has a reputation for Making science accessible for readers, so I picked it up. I figured it'd be better than you know E-Ray's old anatomy textbook. So And also I want to see if I can mine any sermon illustrations for the church, because we know that the church is the body of Christ. Now the last few chapters of the book were somewhat depressing. It was about how the body can go wrong. With one chapter on cancer. And I gotta say reading about cancer is quite a harrowing experience and just reading about it is bad. I just I know that some of us uh have lost loved ones to it. It pains to even think about it. But it helped me to understand this great scourge that ruins lives. Cancer in layman terms is the body turning on itself. Cancer divide without limit? Grow without regard for anything else, trick the body into helping them, uh disregard signals to stop, fails to self-terminate, and spread to other parts of the body. As the author says Cancer is suicide without permission. Again, I bring this up for illustration purposes and Maybe a little traumatic, but often we fear viruses and parasites, communicable diseases that invade us from outside. Yeah, I'm feeling that right now, but And that's understandable. You know, we just came out of COVID, and maybe we're not completely out of it yet, but as a parallel to church life, we fear the stain and lure of the world. But there's there's also those within the church that frankly resemble cancer. And one extreme are false teachers mentioned in one of Paul's last letters in 2 Timothy 2, 17, whose talk spread like cancer. And then Jude talks about how there are spots at our love feasts. But we can also act cancerous in less dramatic ways without being false teachers. Just look out for your own interests. Fail to discern the Lord's body and communion. Be vainly puffed up in fleshly mind and lose connection with the head as Colossians talks about that. And even in our use of spiritual gifts, we lose sight of love and at times act like cancer to the body. And again, I'm not trying to put a guilt chip on people, but sometimes that's how we are, when we act selfishly and don't think about the body. Is there hope for change? Is there a cure? And we must look to scriptures for that hope. Today we're wrapping up another major section of 1 Corinthians. It spans three chapters 12 to 14. Paul has much to say on this matter of spiritual gifts. As a theologian, Paul got us thinking about the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, well, they call pneumatology, and the doctrine of the church, ecclesiology. But he's also pastoral, keeping our eyes on the beauty of love which lasts forever. If we pursue love and build up others through love, we pursue gifts that build up others as well. The main message of 1 Corinthians 14 is fairly simple, but I took three Sundays to cover it for at least three reasons. First, simply put, it's a long chapter spanning 40 verses. Secondly, it deals with controversies. Some believe tongues and prophecies continue today, and they're called continuous. Others like myself are what's called cessationists. That is aside from few exceptions, the Holy Spirit has willed that most in the body of Christ today don't have the gift of tongues as prophecy. which is the miraculous ability to speak in foreign languages and pr or predict the future accurately, respectively. So If these two camps are going to argue, they should do so with their Bibles open to this chapter. And thirdly, if we slow down and look closely at Paul's directions, we can take steps toward restoring order in our churches. In the first half of chapter 14, we saw the repeated emphasis on edification. Building up each other. Last week we saw the importance of conviction. Through the prophetic word taught and apply, stubborn believers or unsaved visitors hear of sin and judgment, and they just might repent. And this week we'll continue to look for practical ways to improve our gatherings. To mainly talk about this worship gathering that takes place at 11 a. m. So let's read today's passage, 1 Corinthians 14, 26 to 40. 1 Corinthians 14, 26 to 40. How is it then, brethren, whenever you come together, each of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation, let all things be done for edification If anyone speaks in a tongue, let there be two, or at the most three, each in turn, and let one interpret. But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in church, and let him speak to himself and to God. Let two or three prophets speak, and let others judge. But if anything is revealed to another who sits by, let the first keep silent For you can all prophesy one by one, that all may learn and all may be encouraged. And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets, for God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in as in all the churches of the the saints. Let your woman keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak, but they are to be submissive, as the law also says. And if they want to learn something, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is shameful for women to speak Or did the word of God come originally from you? Or was it you only that it reached? If anyone thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things which I write to you are the commandments of the Lord. But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant Therefore, brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak with tongues, that all things be done decently and in order. So as usual, here are my observations on the passage structure. Paul's affectionate address of brethren not only establishes report, it's notable for outlining. Specifically in 1 Corinthians 14, it helps identify increases in the long text. There's brethren in verse 6, another in verse 20. There's two more in today's passage, and they create a sandwich structure with verse 26 at top and verses 39 to 40 at the bottom. Now look at all that's in between, verses 27 to 38. There's a clear incision to be made between verses 33 and 34. Verses 27 to 33 consists of Paul's instructions concerning tongue speakers and prophets, both regulated under the principle of peace. Verses 34 to 38 are about the role of women in church and Paul's defense of his position. So that gives us four parts. Verse 26. 27 to 33, 34 to 38, and 39 to 40. I'll give you the uh corresponding four sermon points in a moment, but first here's a bit of a prologue. While tongues of prophecy and woman's role in the church are indeed the issues on the surface at Corinth, I believe there are deeper concerns beneath the surface. It is these deeper concerns that give root to their troubles. By getting down to these roots, we get down to some of the same problems we face today. It doesn't matter whether you're continualist or cessationist. Many churches face the same problem that we see here, the main problem at the root. So I observe here four pairs of competing agendas for church order. They're individualism, and this will be reflected in the points in a minute, I'll put it up. Individualism versus edification, confusion versus peace, ignorance versus submission, conflict versus harmony Given these options, we must make the right choices. And if we make the right choices, we'll unite and bring our spiritual gifts together in one neat package If not, we'll go rogue. At worst, resemble cancer. So here are the four steps. Barely made it down there, but the four steps to wrapping up the spiritual gifts in a knee package Try to be punny there. Wrapping up this section, wrapping up the spiritual gifts. Okay. Um So, first, redirect individualism towards edification. That's verse 26. Secondly, minimize confusion to promote peace 27 to 33. Dispel ignorance and engender submission. That's 34 to 38. Avoid conflict and seek harmony. 39 to 40. So write that down as I continue here. So I'll go one by one first. Redirect individualism toward edification Paul's drawing his lengthy argument to a close in verse 26. He understands that everyone can bring something good to the assembly. Paul presents five examples, all having to do with speech. First, there's someone having a psalm that's probably referring to the Old Testament Psalms, translated into Greek. Maybe they were slightly modified metrically for congregational singing. Next, there's someone teaching, there's someone explaining God's word. That task was up to pastors and teachers. Then there's someone speaking in tongues to review. Recall how the Holy Spirit granted some the ability to speak living foreign languages previously unknown to them. This was a supernatural gift. It was not attained through training or duolingual ESL whatever you guys do today, but And we'll more on tongues in a moment. Revelations up next. It's important to define revelation properly in relation to prophecy. Both are from God. They're mentioned together in verse 6. My guess is that while prophecy has mainly a future orientation, revelation is more general in time reference. It could relate to past, present, or future. So all prophecy is revelation, but not all revelation is prophecy. Finally, there's someone with an interpretation. This is A translation of something spoken in tongues. Why Paul didn't listen right after tongues, I don't know. I'm not quite sure. Maybe that's the point. Maybe the Corinthians didn't make that connection. Tongues and interpretation are a tandem. Paul's going to make that connection in a minute. Well, whatever is the reason behind Paul's ordering, he makes clear the common goal of spiritual gifts, edification. So whether it's someone reading scriptures or praying, presenting a song or a lesson, seek to build others. That's the main goal here. Edification is the work of love. Stimulating spiritual growth. Edification is the work of grace. Our good words impart grace to our hearers. Friends, church is not a show and tell or a talent show. It's not a place to stand out from others. It's a place to build up others. So let all things be done for edification. Redirect individualism toward edification. Okay, that's an easy start. Uh redirect individualism toward edification. Got it. But Paul's not about to leave matters vague in the minds of his audience or even us He brings some precision to the practice of tongue speaking and prophesying. Without such specifics, God's house can turn into a madhouse. So the following regulations relate to the second step in putting gifts in a need package, minimize confusion to promote peace. It helps to begin with verse thirty-three. It says, God's not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints It seems like an easy choice between the two options. Who in their right mind would prefer confusion over peace? Well, but as is the case with my work desk My children's playroom, the law of entropy. All that's required for confusion is to do nothing. Right? Just let loose. Just have a free for all. Give free reign. Liberty above all. Confusion is easier to achieve than peace. So with that in mind, let's step back up to verses 27 to 28. Paul begins with the tongue speakers of Corinth. He puts some procedural controls on their gift. The apostle has numerical limits. It's likely that too many were speaking and speaking all at once. He permits two, no more than three total. And they're not allowed to go all at once. Each one must take turns, and there must be someone there gifted to interpret that specific language. I suppose one and the same person could speak in tongues and interpret. Okay, that's usually how it is with us when we learn language, but Remember at this time from verses 13 to 19 how that's not always true. Apparently you could have the gift of tongues but not understand what you're saying. So if no interpreters available, the tongue speaker must keep silent. Of course, he's free to talk however much he wants at home. in personal devotions. There in private he may speak to God in his spirit without limit. But of course that's not ideal. We saw earlier in verse 4, he only edifies himself and not the church. We also saw in verses 13 to 19 the speaker's spirit may be engaged, but not his mind. So let him speak to himself and to God is a concession. That's not what's best for the whole church. Now, unlike tongue speakers, prophets spoke in plain language. They need no interpretation, but they still need procedural controls over their speech Prophets too must minimize confusion to promote peace. In verse 29, we're told two or three prophets speak per meeting. We typically picture prophesying to be a one-man job. We think of loners like Elijah or uh Micaiah, but prophets consistently work together. So pre-monarchy there were the 70 elders. Mentioned in Numbers eleven with Eldad and Meldad. During monarchy, Saul twice encountered a group of prophets, and Elisha regularly interacted with the sons of the prophets. In post-exilic times, Haggai and Zechariah were a team. In the New Testament, groups of prophets were in and out of Syria and Antioch. Now, as the prophets speak, Paul says, let others judge. Some interpretive talk here, like who are these others, and what does it mean for them to judge? As an influential theologian Wayne Grudham, he believes others refer to the entire congregation listening. They judge the prophetic words, which means sifting through the contents to discern what's true and what's not. Uh Gruden's conclusions that the New Testament prophecy is consistently a mixture of good and bad, divine and human. Now, no surprise I disagree with Gruden. I'm of the opinion that others who judge are those gifted in discernment. Remember, discerning of the spirits is a gift mentioned back in chapter 12, verse 10. She listed right after prophecy. These discerners help us figure out who sent the prophets. Is it the Holy Spirit or is it some other spirit? After all, as 1 John 4. 1 says, many false prophets are out there and their spirits must be tested. Read a little bit about that in the scripture reading earlier as we looked at Deuteronomy 13. So what's consistent in Old and New Testament is that either a prophet is from God or they're not. Either what they say is completely true or they're not. So my view is a bit more my view is more black and white than Brutum's gray. Okay? It prophecies from God, it reveals truth. It is completely true, not partially true. Now, of course, the application of truth is another step that requires wisdom. But still, the prophetic revelation itself is infallible. It is inerrant. It's not like a mix of wheat and chaff that must be threshed and sifted Now it may be that while the prophet speaks and discerners judge, another prophet sitting by may receive brand new revelation. That's the scenario Paul presents in verse 30. Interestingly, the first one, the one pres presently speaking, is told to pause. Maybe a tap on the shoulder or raise of the hand would get his attention It's like a news anchor pressing his earpiece, being told there's breaking news. Now in the apostolic age, God could very well answer prayer for guidance like this. So It's important to leave room for some spontaneity during the worship service. Now in verses 31 to 32, Paul explains why we need the rules for the prophets described in verses 29 to 30. By working together and speaking one by one, the common goal of learning and encouragement are advanced. Prophets, as is the case with tongue speakers, can control their speech for what's best for others. The gifts do not control the gifted. The gifted control their gifts. We must realize that controls, self-control and procedural controls are not bad things. But perhaps the greatest motivation for restraints in verse 33, how we do things, how we do things reflects who God is. God is not the author of confusion, but of peace. We as his children can in small ways reflect God who created everything out of nothing, order out of chaos. So surely we can create a peaceful environment for the church. For that to happen at Corinth, the Corinthians have to get with the program. They have better conform to the general practices at other congregations. Now for some applications. Just stop here for a minute. How do we minimize confusion to promote peace today? Again, irregardless of whether you know you've what you believe about tongues or prophecy, we need to minimize confusion and promote peace. It's amazing how much disservice we do each other, even as we speak a common language of English, right Like just practicing some common courtesy on the s for the sake of the hearers would help. When we talk, explain clearly, you know, enunciate. No, my wife always gets to me like context, explain context, you know. Like your your wife doesn't share a stream of consciousness with you, right? You have to explain what happened. Some of you guys are nodding like you understand exactly what I'm talking about, um What happened at work? What's bothering you? Contextualize for our audience who may not be familiar in our church context with our church lingo or tradition. Okay. So for example, it's important that you hear us clearly through our sound system, right? And see clearly through our worshipful attempts. And we're trying to make sure that you get the points to the sermon and all the points of the announcements and all these things. We also have to choose our words wisely, like true story. There was a time when we referred to the room next to the kitchen downstairs as the old ladies' Sunday school classroom. Okay. It's now called Cedar, by the way. But when someone called this room Old Lady Sunday School Classrooms, I wasn't sure if the room was for elderly women, that old ladies. Sunday school classroom or it's where the ladies used to meet for Sunday school, old ladies Sunday school classroom. You see the difference there? Now of course if you've been here for a while you'd know that it's the latter. Well how was I supposed to know when I was first got here? I didn't know what you guys were talking about Anyways, all I have to say, minimize confusion to promote peace Okay, so given our choices, I hope you prefer edification over individualism, peace over confusion. Not much controversy there, I think. But my guess the next step in wrapping our gifts into one neat package is a lot more challenging. A hotly debated topic. Closer to the end of this chapter, Paul brings up a gender issue that pertains to our church gatherings. It's an issue we hear debated today as we discuss women in ministry. Just as there are cessationists and continualists on the matter of spiritual gifts, there are complementarians and egalitarians on the matter of gender roles and ministry. It's a tough issue. Even a conservative church like ours must untangle the issue and think through it carefully. But as we work towards unity, we dispel ignorance and engender submission. Honestly, I could preach an entire sermon or a multi-part series on this topic There's much to consider. But today I'll just say this: it's important that we read 1 Corinthians 14, 34 to 38 in relation to three passages. One in relation to 1 Timothy 2. Okay? Two in relation to an earlier chapter, chapter 11, and three in relation to the current chapter, 14. Okay? First because in scriptures interpret scriptures. First Timothy 2, 8-15 specifically helps us here. Paul's not saying that women can't talk at all at church. The apostle is quite specific in application in 1 Timothy 2. 12. I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man. We're not talking about any or every talk, just authoritative talk. Teachings and exercise of authority, that means women can't uh teach over men, but they can teach other women. Women can teach children. It's just that women can't teach men there. And the reason is clear. God has ordained even before the fall of man As part of creation order, that men should take leadership roles. The argument similar in 1 Corinthians 11 to the 16th, God created men first, uh man first and place him in the leadership role. As for the women and this was about the head covering, if you remember, you can go listen to it. They must have a symbol of authority over their heads when prophesying or praying. I if you remember I said that I think that's culturally sensitive to first century Corinth, but um some of the key principles there are still the same. And another thing I said about that passage is that location is key. I think 1 Corinthians 11 is different than what we have here at 11 o'clock today. Okay, so and Paul's not saying women can pray and prophecy when the entire church gathers uh at the uh the main meeting at He's probably speaking of a prayer group or auxiliary meeting, something like our Sunday school time or prayer meeting during the week And that's when I think there's more freedom and liberty there. If 1 Corinthians 11, 2 to 16 is talking about the normal church gathering on Sunday, then Paul will be sort of contradicting himself. Here at chapter 14. So I think that's something to consider there. So after considering 1 Timothy 2 and 1 Corinthians 11, We return to the worship gathering at 1 Corinthians 14. What binds all three passages together is Paul's appeal to Genesis creation order in the law of Moses. Woman must not speak authoritatively over men by teaching, and I would say prophesying and praying representatively. That's what's meant in verse 34. They're free to speak in various other ways, you know, sing, give a baptism testimony, make announcements. It's not as if it's not as if women can't make a peep here. Now, it's possible that the scenario we saw in verse 30 happens with the sister gifted in prophecy in the first century That is, at the same time, some guy reveals prophecy, a woman in the church receives direct revelation from God. Yes, it's another breaking news, this time from a sister in Christ. That seems to be what's going on in verse 35. And this prophetess wants to know what to do with this new revelation and discuss it with the church. Seems like a legitimate reason to speak up, right? But Paul says in verse 35 that she should discuss with her spouse first, to do otherwise is shameful. Paul's rationales that we saints uphold and promote male authority in the church and at home too. Right. So I assume that if the woman's single, she may speak with their father or with the elders during the week. So now I'm saying this as a brother and you know I've got to be humble and be careful how I say these things. Not that I don't believe what is said here, just the way I say it and it's very important. Right. It's not that men deserve so much respect and honor. You know, we're sinners and we you know, that's one thing we need to pray about as we pray for our nation. Right. And even our churches, that men would step up. And it's not that we deserve honor and respect. Okay, we don't. It's just that we're doing our best to follow God's commands. And it's the plain reading of the scripture says that we must fulfill our duty by being leaders at home and at church. So we need a woman to help us. We desperately do. And of course, we need the Holy Spirit, most of all, to help us to be godly leaders, Christ-like leaders. Now, next, as if he's anticipating major pushback, Paul takes time in verses 36 to 38 defending his position. on gender. And we can see in verse 36 that up to this point the Corinthians have not followed the directions the apostle gave. They spurned them out of pride. They were acting like they were the source of all authority. So Paul asked whether God's word originates with them. Of course not. They were acting as if they were the end-all, be-all, as if they're above other churches, and the rules don't apply to them. Paul could have asked again, as he did in chapter 4, verse 7, who makes you different from another? If there's a question of Paul's credential, he invites them to audit him in verse 37. If some are prophetic, knowing God's revelation, or spiritual, discerning his truth, they're welcome to run Paul through a test. Go ahead, he says. Scrutinize all you wish. He knows he's speaking the truth. But if naysayers wish to remain ignorant, he's not going to lose sleep over them. Let them be ignorant, Paul says in verse 38. He's done his part as a faithful steward who answers to Christ. Okay. He's done all he can to help the Corinthians keep order his best to dispel ignorance and engender submission So now that we cover tongues, prophecy, gifted women, we conclude with the final step to wrapping up the gifts into one neat package, avoid conflict, and seek harmony. Verses 39 to 40 encapsulates what Paul's been saying throughout. The apostle has his favorite gifts and prophecies, what's best for the Corinthian church. They should desire it earnestly because prophecy speaks edification, exhortation, and comfort to men. But even while favoring revelatory gifts, Paul demands a both and approach over an either-or approach. Okay, see in the second half of verse 39, he's not in favor of absolute exclusion of tongues. A healthy, sound church will prioritize God's revelation, but still leave room for lesser gifts. And that requires wisdom and care. That's why Paul says in verse 40, let all things be done decently and in order. In other words, avoid conflict and seek harmony. That brings us to the close of this chapter and this section on spiritual gifts. It might be tempting to focus on ourselves in our spiritual lives, our spiritual growth and giftings. And care little about the church as a whole. But the Holy Spirit gifted you to build up the Christ's body and care for others, brothers and sisters for whom Christ died. If you lack the motivation to serve others, step back and look at the big picture and that big picture of the gospel. If we ever forget why we're gifted, why we must show grace to others, look to God's gift, the greatest gift, and his grace. Remember how God owes us nothing. We have nothing that we have not received. Left to ourselves, we have no reason to boast before the Lord. If we're talking about what we deserve, here's the truth: we deserve hell, eternity apart from God. The wages of sin is death, separation from God for eternity. And we're definitely sinned. Instead of building up with our lips, we tell lies, blaspheme God, curse men made in his image. We're obsessed with disputes and arguments over words from which come envy, strife, reviling. We speak evil, we're not peaceable, we're hardly gentle. We don't show all humility to all men. Far from our thoughts are edification, decency, and order. But into our misery and mess, confusion and quarreling, God sent his Son. The wages of sin is death, yes, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. God gave himself as a gift. That's because Jesus is God and man in one person. He lived without sin and gave his life a ransom for many. He went to the cross to die in our place, to pay for our sins that we should pay. The wrath of God fell upon him as he became our substitute. He declared his work finished at the cross. He died and he was buried. But then on the third day he rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection. He who condescended and descended, ascended on high, victorious over all, and gave gifts to men. Someday he'll return to stand once more to judge all mankind and establish his kingdom. Now if you don't have a personal relationship with him, start one soon. Repent and believe simple as that. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in him only for eternal life. The Lord grants you access to heaven as a gift, undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And this saving grace is our persevering faith. God has brought us safe thus far, and grace will lead us home. We sang that earlier. And let's remember as we sing our last song, we as Christ's body, his bride, to one hope we press with every grace in due. And that includes spiritual gifts. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word and we thank you that it brings order. Lord, it gives us direction even as we gather on Sundays. That we can seek to fulfill the goal of edification, that we want your word to be exalted, and we want to follow you. Just order our lives according to your word. And we know that we should be doing that individually, at home, at our workplace, in our family life, in our relationship with our uh extend the family and our friends and neighbors. But Lord, even as we get together on Sundays to worship you, help us to keep your word. At the forefront, Lord, we pray that it will be the source of our conviction, it will be the source of our edification, it will be the source of our decency and order. But Lord, may we never lose sight of love. That we, first of all, love because you loved us first. And the love that we receive, that we can in small ways reflect it. In our relationship with one another. May we use our gifts, our spiritual gifts, to build up each other and encourage each other. And we thank you for that truth. And we thank you for gifting us, first of all, with eternal life. And Lord just giving us spiritual gifts to be part of something great, a grand design that you're building in the church. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.