Good to see you all today. If you take your Bibles, turn with me, please, to the book of First Corinthians, chapter number four. First Corinthians, chapter four. Well, I pray that our brother would be very successful in his ministry with young people, successful enough to maybe put me out of business. So that uh we wouldn't have people needing rescue missions. Wouldn't that be something? If we would have this country of our evangelized and discipled to the point that uh we'd see revival. Do you think revival is possible in America? I believe it is. I believe it is. I know that we all would agree that we need it. The question is whether God will send it. Whether God will send it send it. You know as well as I do, 2 Corinthians, 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people notice, my people, God's people, which are called by my name. Here's the hard part, shall humble themselves. It's kind of hard to do that these days. We are the me culture It's all about us. Oh, we say us, ours, us for no more. Amen. God bless this bunch while we munch on our lunch. It's all about us. Learned in Sunday school about how it's so easy to be even busy in God's work. So busy that we forget we have a neighbor. So busy that we overlook a neighbor when he is our closest mission field. And so those are things we need to take to heart. When's the last time you witnessed open Mouth and share the gospel with your neighbor. Something to think about, isn't it? We pray for the Missionaries on the other side of the world or in Iwanas or Baltimore Rescue Mission or other places, but we are to be missionaries. We are to be witnesses. We are to let our light shine. Before men that they might see our Father which is in heaven. Well, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray, do you pray about it? You know? It's one thing to want it. The Bible says you have not because you asked not. When's the last time you asked God seriously for revival? If my people which are called by my name shall pray, humble themselves and pray, And seek my face. That's what prayer is. And turn from their wicked ways. That's a lengthy definition of repentance. repentance. I kind of like history. I like church history in particular. I remember reading about the old times and people say, oh yeah, you look like a Antique. Well, I'm sorry. That's what happens when you keep waking up every morning. You kind of get older. I've seen a few revivals. Not many, really only one or two. I mean real revivals where people got saved right in the middle of the meeting Where people got up in the middle of the meeting and a guy here who wouldn't talk to the guy over there got over, walked over and asked. Now that's revival, okay? Revival's not just people getting saved. Revival is when God's people get right with him. And you get right with God, really right with God, you know what happens? You get right with your brother. I've seen a man get up and walk over on the other side of the church and ask the man, beg a man for forgiveness, and then embrace. I've seen people walk out on the back porch of the church. Asking for forgiveness of one another. I've seen that. Little country church up in Maine. We started it with five families, and I saw a revival break out. I'm telling you, it's real. If you ever get a little taste of it, you'll never be happy until you see it again. Now, if that could happen in a little country church in the backwoods of Maine, and it literally was in the backwoods of Maine. What would happen if it happened in America? All across this country? God could do it. God has done it. There have been spiritual awakenings in this country. Years gone by. But it takes my people which are called by my name to humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven? And forgive their sin. You know, God's not sending any blessings until we get right with Him. God's not going to pour out His grace and mercy on us until we confess and forsake sin. Oh, we're good at confessing it. God, I've done wrong. Have mercy on me. First John 1 9. Don't forget, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and say, Yeah, I know all about it, but it also talks about forsaking our sin. This passage of scripture God's put on my heart for today. has to do with we that are believers, who whether we like it or not are in front of the world. Matter of fact, we're in front of the world. We're in front of our family. We're in front of all of heaven, the Bible says, and you'll see that in a minute. One of our one of our big problems that we have, and it's pointed out in this text, and I I sure don't have time to Elaborate on this too much, but in chapter three it talks about how the problem with the the the the Corinthian church was they were carnal. We all know that means fleshly. And one of the indicators that they were fleshy was not that they were just a bunch of drunks and that they partied and they were a bunch of immorality, uh immoral carnal Christians, but it has to do with the fact that they were hero worshipers. It says in chapter 3, verse 3, for ye are yet carnal, whereas there's among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men, that is, walk as the unsaved. We sometimes become hero worshipers. By the way, preachers become hero worshipers. Christians become hero worshipers We look at a church or we look at a ministry or we look at uh at some Christian leader who it seems as though are are being used in a in a very special way and all of a sudden we start idolizing, we want to emulate and we want to praise them instead of praising the God. Who we're supposed to be serving. Verse 4, for while one saith, I'm a Paul, I like the way Paul preaches. Not me, I'm of Apollos. I think he's a little more intellectual. Are you not cardinal? Question Are you not carnal? And walk as men? For while one saith, I am A Paul, and another I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul and who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believe? Even as the Lord gave to every man. I have planted a polished water, but God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. You know, I preached it at at a at a preacher's fellowship one time on the eastern shore. There was about 40 preachers there and their wives. And when I got done with that message, and I focused on the last verse. So then neither he is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth anything, but God that giveth the increase. In other words, we're nothing. I was on my way to the men's room after the service. And one of the preachers grabbed me. He said, are you saying I'm nothing, brother? I said, no, I'm not saying that. God said it. God said it. Folks, we're nothing. You know, we are all very, I don't know if you figured it out yet, we are all very, very dispensable. Man, God's going to carry on the Baltimore rescue mission just fine without me, if it's his will. Raleigh Holt's been dead and gone for 31 years. I just completed 31 years there, my wife and I. Okay, we've been there exactly as long as he was. But you know what? Brother Holt's been gone for 31 years and God is still blessing the mission and God is still using the mission and people are still getting saved at the mission. It's not about Raleigh Holt, Chuck Benton, or anybody else. It's about the Lord. Chapter 4 and verse 6 says this, and these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sake. That ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against another. In other words, don't look to men. By the way, be careful not to puff yourself up for yourself Well, after all, I am. You fill in the blank. Whom say ye that you are? Huh? Isn't that what they said to John the Baptist? Whom say people that you are? Who are you? We want to know, John. They want to know. John the Baptist walked so close to the Lord Jesus Christ that they assumed he must have been the Messiah. I wonder if anybody could accidentally mistake one of us for Jesus Christ. Not hardly, huh Me neither. You see, sometimes we get to thinking though that we are. Careful now, I'm I I'm I'm going somewhere And when I get there, you'll know it. You see, sometimes we think that we're more than a little special God loves us. He sent Jesus to die for us. God has a plan for every one of us. But folks, the truth of the matter is that our life should not be about us. Our life after becoming a Christian, being saved The next thing on God's agenda for our life, outside of being baptized, which is the next thing he says. By immersion. After salvation. The next thing after that is we are to grow in grace. and serve him. However he chooses to call us to serve him. It may be in the workplace. It may be on a foreign mission ma mission field. It may be in a in a local mission field. It it may be any number of things. It may be in a local church. It may be anywhere. But the idea is to give the rest of yourself to knowing and serving the Lord. Jesus Christ. Paul said at the end of all those years, at the end of his third missionary journey, he said, that I may know him. Future tense. He already knew him. But he said, I'm not content with my walk, not even Paul, that I may know him, that I may know him more personally, more intimately, that I might be more like him. So you say, what we're yeah, you never have read your text yet, have you? No, I'm glad you asked. Verse 9. For I think that God hath set forth us the apostles last. Now everybody looks at the apostles and We look at them as first as far as the human vehicles that God used to transmit the gospel. There are some denominations today out there, well-meaning, but I believe biblically wrong, that want to claim apostleship today. Apostleship today Is not for today. I won't get into that debate, but if you want to talk about it later, I'll be glad to talk to you. But we look at the apostles as first, but they said he thinks that God set forth the apostles last. Why is that? As it were appointed to death, for we are made a spectacle unto the world and to angels and to men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ. Why are they fools for Christ's sake? Because they didn't compromise. They didn't water down or dilute the Word of God or the gospel, no matter how much it offended, no matter how much it hurt. We are made a spectral. We are fools for Christ's sake. We are weak, but ye are strong. Ye are honorable, but we are despised. Do you think he's exaggerating there? I don't think so. Even under this present hour, we both hunger and thirst and are naked and are buffeted. Well, you can say that real fast, but experience some of that. When's the last time you were really hungry? Not because not because you were on a diet, or even because you were on a fast. Because you didn't have the money to buy any food. These guys suffered that. They suffered deprivation. Hunger and thirst, we are naked and buffeted, that's beaten. It's not an exaggeration. And have no certain dwelling place. Anybody sleep out on the ground last night? No, you had a place. It's your place. It's your apartment or it's your house. It's your bed. That's your pillow. And that's where you go every night to sleep Jesus said, foxes have holes, but birds of the air, and the birds of the earth have nests, but the Son of Man hath not a place to lay his head. Cost of discipleship. Cost of discipleship. Man, I'll tell you what, when when when we say, Am I a soldier of the cross? I was gonna actually not sing it, but I was gonna read the words today in this message. I honestly was. God put that on my heart today, to read the words of am I a soldier at the cross. Am I? Or am I a casual bystander? Or am I part of the spearhead? Verse 11, even though this present hour we both hunger and are thirst and are naked and are buffeted and have no certain dwelling place and labor working with our hands. Didn't have a salary. Working with our hands. Being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted, we suffer it. Man, we're not too good at that these days. We we uh we we like our comfort zone. We don't want to we don't want to sweat. We don't want the air condition turned up too high. We want to keep it down nice and low. We don't want to know what thirst is. Not really. Being persecuted, we suffer it. We don't want to be persecuted. We don't want to be called a nut or a fool or an idiot for Christ's sake. A religious quack. I'm not saying you should go around beating people in the head with a big black book and telling them they're going to turn or burn. I'm not saying to do it that way. But there's plenty of opportunities for you to let your light shine in this world if you're if you'll allow that light to come out from under that bushel, out from under that basket. Listen, God hasn't called you to be a private detective Christian. He hasn't called you to be a Secret Service Christian. He hasn't called you to be a camouflage Christian. I spent four years in the military. And not once in those four years did I have anybody ever talk to me about Jesus Christ. I know there were Christians in the Marine Corps. But I never met one. The only religious person I ever talked to was a Jehovah's Witness. And I talked to him about God. And when he told me that Jesus wasn't really God the son, I figured well he was out to lunch because I did learn that much when I was a kid in Sunday school Being defamed. Defamation. People sue people over defamation of character. I have been defamed. I won't go into all the gory details. But I will say this. I had to fire a person that was in the Leadership of Mission Staff. And I was tea I taught for 20 years on Monday nights at Baltimore School of the Bible. And it was night classes. And I came out of class about 10 o'clock one night, and here this person was that I had to fire, out there holding forth in front of about 25 students. Telling them what kind of a no-good blankety blank, blank, blank, blank, blank I was in front of all my students. And I walked out right in the middle of it And it was all because she was too lazy to work. And I had to fire her Being defamed. We entreat. We are made as the filth and the offscouring of the world, filth of the world, and are the offscouring of all things unto this day. Anybody want to sign up to be an apostle? Well, you couldn't if you wanted to. But you can sign up to be a disciple. Not all Christians are, you know. Not all Christians are. So I want to talk for just a couple of minutes. You say you've already been talking for half an hour. No, I haven't. You're exaggerating. That was the introduction. Here's the text, verse 9. I think that God has set us forth set forth us the apostles last. You willing to be last? How's last sound to you? In a world that that only honors first. Second place is a loser Second place has almost made it. The only thing people care about anymore is just first place. First place. Me first. Me first. You ever seen Finding Nemo? Huh? Come on. Finding Nemo, what are we getting ready to say? The seagulls, right? Nemo's flopping around on the dock. What do they say? Mine. Mine. Mine. Mine. Well all these seagulls go nuts because they're trying to get this little fish. And they're all saying mine. That's us, folks. I hate to say it, that's us. Set forth the apostles lay us, as it were, appointed to death For we are made a spectacle, little Greek word there. Theatron. Transliterate that for me. Theatron. In other words, try to make English out of that. What does that kind of sound like? Ideal. Theatron. Theater? Yeah, yeah, you got it. Theater. Hence the title, Center Stage Christian. Whether you like it or not, friend, you are on stage. You are on stage. How would you like to be the president? I wouldn't. Not me. I don't want to be the president. Man, I don't I don't want to have cameras following me around everywhere I can that not not uh not an ounce of privacy in a man's life. No, I don't want to be the president But I do want to be a disciple. And whether you like it or not, you are being watched. My word. I need about 45 minutes, Brother Steve. I won't do it though. Honestly, I won't. Number one, we're on stage before the world. Turn to Matthew chapter five, if you will, please. I'm going to tell you where we're at in history and in our culture and in the life of the church, the body of Christ. We're at an all-time low, folks. We're at an all-time low. You say, well, we still got our building. We still We still, you know, we we we still have our freedom. I I've heard it said today. We still have our freedom. We do, as long as you're careful where you say it, because I'm going to say some things today that uh You know, you say in the wrong crowd, you can get in a lot of trouble for. Matthew 5. 13, you're the salt of the earth. Are you the salt of the earth? But if the salt hath lost its savor, its distinctiveness, its very essence that makes it salt. If salt doesn't have that distinctiveness to it, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing. But to be cast out, thrown out, trashed. And that's what's happened to the church today, and I'm not talking about Faith Bible Church. I'm talking about the church at large. We have been trashed. And I hate to tell you this because nobody likes to take responsibility anymore. We've done it to ourselves. We've done it to ourselves. The communists didn't do it. The liberals didn't do it. The homosexuals didn't do it. The politicians didn't do it. We did it. We did it. Because we won't stand up in a world that hates God and loves sin and say, that's wrong. That's just plain wrong. You can't say that. You can't do that. That's, oh, here's another antiquated word. Wicked. That's wicked. When's the last time you told somebody that their language was wicked? You say, Well, everybody talks that way. I know, and we're used to it. We become desensitized to sin anymore. It doesn't bother us. And the world knows it doesn't bother us. And therefore, we have no influence in the world. You're the slot of the earth. Worth nothing but to be cast out under the the trodden under the foot of men. You're the light of the world. What good is a lighthouse if you paint the windows black? Huh? The Bible calls sin darkness. We're to come out from the darkness. We are the light of the world. Says so. You're the light of the world. It says here, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel. What sense is having a candle? What sense is having light bulbs if you don't turn them on? What sense is saying you're a Christian? If when people look at your life they don't see any difference between you And the world. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. We're on stage before the world. We may not like it. Second Corinthians chapter 6, if you will, please. Second Corinthians chapter six. You know the the truth of the matter is God has a way for us to let our light shine. Did you know that? God has a way. He's made a way for us. He's given us instructions on how to let our light shine. See if you can pick it up in these next couple of verses. Verse 14. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. You say, well, I'm not going to marry, I didn't marry an unsafe person. I'm not talking about marriage. That's not the only way you can be yoked up with an unbeliever, friend. You know, yeah, you you ought to witness to the world. I man, the Lord knows I have it I have enough of the world come to the Baltimore rescue mission every night But I don't make best my bet my best friends, the people that I have my closest fellowship, are not thugs, drug addicts, drug dealers, or prostitutes. Via Keras home. I witness to them, but I don't share my heart with them, and I don't share my free time with them The Bible says, be not unleakfully together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with dark with with unrighteousness? And if I heard Paul say it, I think he'd say it kind of half sarcastically. What in the world are you doing? Being best friends with the world. What are you what in the world are you doing? Hanging out with the world's crowd, doing the world's thing, talking the world's way, listening to the world's junk. What are you doing, Christian? Be different. Come out of that garbage. That's what God saved you from. What communion hath light with darkness, and what concord hath light with Belial? That's the devil. God and the devil don't hold hands walking down the road. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which you have of God, and you're not you You're not your own. Therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. It's talking about you, friend, you, the temple of God. You. It's not talking about the church house. It's talking about you. What business do you have hanging out? with the devil's crowd. For ye are the temple of the living God. As God hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God, they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. You know God's plan for how to let your light shine in this wicked, filthy, dark, nasty world, separate from sin and separate from sinners. Now don't don't don't start pinning me up against the wall saying I said you can't witness the sinners. How how in the world is anybody going to get saved if you don't witness them? You know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about your fellowship. I I I bel I believe in in helping your neighbor. I believe in witnessing to your neighbor. I believe in all that. I also believe in being straight with people about what God says. Holiness is and what God says wickedness is. The problem with the church today is apathy. We really don't get shook up over anything. You know what God says about Christians that don't get shook up over anything? They make him want to puke. It's called the spirit of Laodicea. You think I'm kidding? Turn to Revelation chapter 3 and you'll find it right there. When's the last time you listen, when's the last time you really got your heart and soul stirred up over something? Besides the fact that maybe you had to wait ten extra minutes going to work in a traffic jam. Huh? You say who you made at? I'm not mad at anybody. I'm just trying to preach the truth. That's all. They're taking our freedom from us because we won't fight for them. Last Friday, this past Friday, listen, this past Friday marked the third anniversary of the first papers I got from Housing and Urban Development. For me to allow a 13-year-old boy into our women and girls facility. A 13-year-old boy. Guess what? That suit is not settled yet. I just had a conference call with our lawyer from Christian Law Association and the HUD representative and a heavy from the justice system she got on there to try to intimidate us just a little. She told us about three weeks ago, you know, this is the last chance for you. To conciliate, in other words, compromise. And I told her on the phone, I said, you might as well save your breath, honey. I didn't say that, but I said you might as well save your breath because we're not compromising. End of story, as far as I thought. She said, Well, you got till Friday to do it. And I said, Well, we're not going to do it. Three weeks later, I get an email from our attorney saying she wants another conference call. Isn't that lovely? What about no, don't you understand, lady? What is it about no you don't get? So she she calls us up and she gets this person there from the justice system. And she's telling us, oh hell, we don't have a chance in this. I felt like saying, you don't know my God. Because that 13-year-old boy, folks, this is three years later, do the math. How old is he now? 16. If you didn't want a 13-year-old boy coming in and watching you undress man, Or watching your daughter undress and go back and forth to showers 'cause it's dormitory, it's bump fed, bum, bum, bum, bum, boom. Okay? If you don't want a thirteen year old boy watching you do that, I doubt very seriously you're going to want a sixteen year old. year old watching you. He's saying, well, what are you going to do? We're going to stand. It says stand in the evil day and having done all to stand. You say, well you might lose, and then we'll close her down. You said, oh quit sucking air, friend. God can take care of things. We can still evangelize the lost. It's not up to Karis Home or Baltimore Rescue Mission. It's up to the Lord, and we're supposed to be faithful to his word and not compromise on it. Amen. But we won't we won't fight anymore. We won we won't rear up and fight this thing. I I like our our attorney, her n her name is Miss Miss Cobra. Um guessing her age on the phone, I've never met her. What'd you think, dear? Sixty? I'd say sh I'd say she's one of us old guys. Old people, you know. You know what she said when she hung up the phone from that Jezebel and and called me back? She says, Oh, Brother Chuck, she said, just let her bring it up. on. I like that. I like that a whole lot. Just just let her bring it up. You know what? Shabbrach, Meshach, and Abednego didn't say, well let's see, how hot can we take it? They said, we're not going to pray it. We've already got this settled, King. Fire up. Daniel didn't plead with the king as to whether or not he was going in the lion's den. He just said, open the door, I'm coming through. What is it with us today? We're scared to fight. We say, well, I'm afraid to lose. Hey, how are you going to lose serving God and being obedient? How are you going to lose? The Bible says, fear not what man can do unto you, does it not? Who can who can destroy the body, fear him who can throw body and soul into hell. Fear him. Because he's the one you're going to stand before at the judgment seat of Christ. We won't fight. We didn't listen, as Americans, we didn't fight in the 1960s When we lost the battle over with one woman over prayer. Now you know what I'm saying is true. Some of you remember that. Madeline O'Hare Yeah, yeah. She didn't believe in the Bible. She didn't believe in separation from sin. She didn't believe in soul winning These do a lot of Christians, by the way. When's the last time you won one? When's the last time you tried? We won't fight We we we got homosexual marriage. Man, I remember back, I know I'm a I'm sorry, I'm an antique, but I remember back in the 70s And I remember back in the 80s when preachers used to stand up and say, this homosexual crowd is going to take this country over one of these days. And everybody said, ah, he's a rabble rouser He's all funny fundamentalist. Go ahead and call me what you want. That's what I am. I don't apologize for it. If being a fundamentalist means being a separated Christian, that's me. That's what I want to be. That's what I want to be. I don't want any questions in anybody's mind. I don't go to a unisex barber shop. Do you understand what I'm saying? I don't want to go in there and somebody try to figure out what I am when I come out I believe that's wrong. I remember, I remember when Roe versus Wade came in, brother. Huh? When when we decided not only to make abortion legal, but we would subsidize it with our taxes. And we're still murdering millions of babies a year. And now, bless the Lord. Oh, it just gets better. Would you turn with me and and uh humor me for just a minute because I'm not very humorous this morning, I know You say, what are you all jacked up about? Well, I am so sick and tired of being sick and tired of the wickedness of our country. And and and watching over and over again Christians who lay back and do nothing and don't hardly do anything more than say, Isn't it too bad that we've lost our freedom? Well, how did we lose our freedom? 'Cause we let it go. We weren't Christian enough to stand up and fight for it and maybe lose a few battles and maybe you know, I've never gotten into a fight where I got out without getting a bloody lip or something. I mean it ain't worth the fight if they if you don't get a little something. Some of you don't know what I'm talking about, I guess. I don't know. Some of you, I think you let a fly land on the end of your nose and set up housekeeping, and you wouldn't even swat it off the end of your nose. Mm-hmm. That's what I thought. Deuteronomy chapter 22. I know you're going to laugh at me. You ready for a big laugh? Here's verse 5. You ready for it? The woman. Uh-oh. I don't like that guy's attitude. Take that up with God. The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man. Neither shall a man put on a woman's garment. For all they that do so are an abomination unto the Lord thy God. Thank you. He said, Oh no, where's Jimmy? How come now? In your workplace, if you work for the government, you've got to take a sensitivity training that you will accept the transgender crap. I'm telling you But I know the truth because I work in Wall of the City and I've already had emails from the mayor's office of homeless services saying that I'm required to go. Guess what? Hey, don't tell them about You know why? Number one, I don't believe in it. Number two, we don't take government money. So I don't have to go. Okay? I don't have to go But you know how this thing got in now? To where we're supposed to bow down and worship the transgenders? Because we wouldn't fight against it. The pulpits of righteousness have grown silent and cold and fearful. So we've abdicated our rights to the liberals and to the ungodly and to the Christ haters. Our parents is on stage before the world, in case you're wondering. I don't have time to preach this, but I'm just going to say a thing or two and pass on. God made us Adam and Eve, folks, not Adam and Steve. Okay? I I know I'm preaching to the choir here. I am not accusing anybody here of being any less than the right kind of Christian when it comes to this. But I'm just gonna say because I I like to say it. All right, I just I just like to say it. I believe men ought to look and act like men. I believe ladies ought to look and act like ladies Is that good enough? Somebody said to old Dr. John Rawlings. He was a pastor of Cincinnati Baptist Temple, one of the large, large megachurches, but it was an independent fundamental separated. I mean it was right down the line. His youth pastor, they were going to have a Sunday school picnic. You know what? His youth pastor came to old Dr. John Rell and said, Pastor said, uh We're going to have this Sunday school picnic and I need to know what the dress code is. He looked at that youth pastor. He said, Well, brother, he said, let the men dress like men. And let the ladies dress like ladies, and let the idiots dress like idiots. He said, we'll figure it out when we get there. I thought that's pretty good. I like that Are you trying to be distinctively feminine, ma'am? Sir, are you trying to be distinctively masculine? You should, because that's what God expects out of you. And you're on stage. You're on stage. Our appearance, our actions, where we go, what we do, what we say. Our attitudes, Proverbs 616, God hates April, but man, I'm so sick and tired of this strutting stuff. You know what I mean? I'm so sick and tired of it. God hates pride. You know that God hates your pride and he hates my pride. And by the way, we got nothing to be proud of. It's all grace, is it not, brethren? It's all grace. It's all God's mercy in your life that you're not on your way to hell right now. We got nothing to be proud of. We're on stage before the world. We're all on stage before our families. The primary goal for children should be That they should develop a desire to love, obey, and serve God. The primary goal of the average American, including Christians, is that they go to school, get a real good education. get a real good job, have more things than mom and dad and granddad and grandmom had, and live in a nice big house and a nice big community, and have a nice fancy car and have all easy street and mom and Don't you get a good church once in a while? Let's go over your kids. Don't be trying to lose. I've described the root. You know what should be? Teach them to know and love and honor. And serve our city, the Lord Jesus Christ, and make him the very center, the nucleus, the focal point of our life. Not just tip him on Sunday when we have enough time and maybe a little extra change We're on stage before the world. Matthew six thirty-three says, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added under you. I have a whole section here on marriage. I don't have time. I'm done. I know. Everybody's looking at their watches. It's quarter after. Okay. Oh Steve, what you gotta do, buddy, is you gotta get the trapdoor in here, man. If you wanna get rid of me quick You know, uh I'm all for marriage. I'm an advocate of it, been married almost 43 years, that young lady there. I highly recommend it. I highly recommend it, okay? And I'm all for kids. Man, I got 11 grandkids. Three kids and eleven grandkids. All about to drive me crazy, but I can dump them off when I'm done with them. But be careful about somebody like Linda Reynolds. I heard her name mentioned here today. She's a single missionary, isn't she? Huh? She serves God with everything she has. Now, I'm not saying I I don't know what it is between her and God, but I'm I'll tell you one thing. I know Paul did too. I know John the Baptist did too. I'm saying this. Don't put in your kids' hearts when they're little kids or they're teenagers that you'll never be happy if you don't get married. Careful with that. I'm all for marriage. God instituted it. It's the right thing. But God doesn't call us all to be missionaries, and God doesn't call us all to be married and be careful about making some poor gal or some guy sit around And a family get together because he doesn't have a mate or she doesn't have a mate and make them look like a wallflower or something. Maybe God's perfect will for that. their life. And they may say, you know, maybe Lord, I wanted to have a family, and maybe Lord, I did think that he might have been the right one. But Lord, deep down in my soul. I believe you want me to give all myself to you. Man, don't ever put anybody down for that. Don't ever put anybody down for that. And finally, we're on stage before all of heaven. 1 Peter chapter 1. First Peter chapter one. First Peter chapter one, verse number seven. That the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried by fire. might be found on the praise and honor and glory that the appearing of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen ye love. You love him? Well how can you love him you've never seen him Whom having not seen ye love, in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. receive in the end of your faith even the salvation of your souls, of which salvation the uh Prophets have inquired and searched diligently who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what manner What or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in you did testify, did signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ. the glory that should follow, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you. by them that have preached the gospel unto you, with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things the angels. . . Are you listening, class? The angels desire to look into. How in the world can mankind who have never laid their eyes on the on the throne of God and God sitting in his majesty and his glory in the third heaven. How in the world can mankind Devote their lives to his service and be willing, many of them to die as martyrs to a God they've never seen, when a third of the angels in heaven that had seen God rebelled against God with Satan and the revolt of God in heaven. And the angels stand back in admiration and wonder and in awe at your faith. Your faith It's on stage in heaven, dear friend. I don't know if you know it or not, but it is. Hebrews chapter 11, I'm done. Hebrews chapter 11 You ever think of that? Have you ever think of the fact of the privilege that you have to serve God by faith? By faith. Just by the simple fact that you believe that book that God says he wrote. You believe it. And many of you, probably all of you, have surrendered faith to God and have said those are opportunities that you have to advance yourself or enrich yourself or bless yourself because you believe in what you Now how much do you remember if God's more than remember that? You always want to live in that, even though you can hear sick off this side. And I'll tell you what, this thing's worth it. Huh? It's worth it. Hebrews chapter 11 talks about all those great heroes of faith. Did all those great things. Then it comes to verse 36. And others. Now they had just as much faith as the one that came out on the victor's side. But look at this crowd. And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings. Huh? You like being laughed at? Would you like being whipped? Yea, moreover, bonds and imprisonment. You want to go to prison? They were stoned. They were sawn asunder, literally sawn. Isaiah, church history says Isaiah was literally sawn in, put inside a hollow log and sawn in half while he was alive. That's not an exaggeration, folks. This book is true. They were sawn asunder. They were tempted. They were slain with a sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. Parenthetical phrase there. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth, not in holiday ends. And these all having obtained a good report through faith received not the promise. God having provided some better thing for us that they without us should not be made perfect. Now what's that talking about? Well, verse number one, chapter twelve. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about With so great a cloud of witnesses. Now wait a minute. The chapter division there is for your edification and your simple uh to make it simple for you to break down and study this book. But if you go from verse 40 right to verse 1, it says, wherefore? And wherefore is there because of what went before? The context is those who are in heaven. Those who have already died, that they without us should not be made perfect. Who are they? They are the dead that are in heaven, and by the way, I believe, can see what you and I are doing. You want to know why? Verse 1. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about, encircled about with so great a cloud. Where's the cloud? Up there, isn't it? Cloud's up there. Of what? Rain? Of witnesses. You're being watched. You're on stage You're on stage. All of heaven is watching. The angels are watching. My Bible says there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repents. Man, they shout. They didn't they don't the Bible doesn't say there's joy in the presence of the angel of God when you got your new house and I got a nice house. I I thank God for it. But that ain't what makes me happy I get happy when somebody gets saved in the mission. I I mean some old scraggly, scroungy looking, smelly street guy that comes in and here's the gospel and tears start running down his dirty cheek. And he real he and he really gets it. I got 18 of them on staff. Every one of them came in off the street. Everyone And who's running the mission right now? They are. They are. I don't have an assistant anymore. My assistant retired on April 13th. My new assistant can't come yet because he's got a contract with Pensacola Christian College until July, and I'm trying to twist arms when I go down there next week. Because I want him up here. I need more help than they do. Don't tell him I've said that. Dr. Shoemaker will hang me. Let us lay aside every weight. So great a cloud of witness, let us lay aside every way, and the sin which does so let us run with patience. The race that is said before is what we're talking about is a relay race. I put it this way. I'm not Raleigh Holt. Raleigh Holt and I don't do everything the same way. But God called Raleigh Holt to do the same thing I'm doing Or he called me to do the same thing he did. And you know what? According to Hebrews chapter 12, verse number one. I happen to believe that Raleigh Holt every now and then. I don't know if he gets to see it all the time. I don't know if he gets to only see it once in a while, but I believe sometime he gets to see it. Have you ever been in a relay race? When you were a kid, you know it's been a while since I've been in one. Well you pass the baton, so you run your lap. What happens when you run your lap? You run your lap as hard as you can, because you've only got one shot at it. You've got one lap to run, and you've got to put every and you've got to You've got to leave it off and you say football means you better leave it off and feel. You've got to run, and by the way, you're running your life like that, isn't it, Christmas? You're running your life because when you when you're laid in that coffee But there there he is. He's up there right now. And I know when I ran a relay race here on earth as a kid, I remember it got done and you and you passed And 13 years ago Raleigh Holt passed that paton on when I grabbed it. I'm still running. 31 years ago. But I have a feeling every now and then God lets you all he hold it. Hey. See that? See what's going on down there. I think every now and then, even though Raleigh Holt was as quiet and unemotional as a Presbyterian. Bless their hearts. I think every now he looks at and goes, Woo! All right. You don't think he does that, do you? Wait till you get to have a nuclear find out. And you know what I'll do when I get up there. Second Corinthians chapter ten. I'm sorry, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. You say, you said you were done the last time. I lied. But I believe in forgiveness and mercy And grace. Verse ten. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that every one may receive things done in their body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are manifest in your consciences. For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf that ye may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance and not in heart. For whether we be beside ourselves It is God, or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead, and that he died for all. Here it is. Here's the message. Don't miss it. That they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again Let's pray.