Good morning. Your new pastor and I have been have been friends now for uh twenty-eight minutes And it is good to be here to represent him and to preach at you. I am supposed to give the charge to the congregation. And as Dr. Beale said, he and I have been friends for probably close to 45 years. We built houses about a hundred yards apart And uh several times during the years we would play ping pong together. He had a ping pong table in his basement, and usually he was in the mood for ping pong sometime after midnight. Correct? I don't know that we played many before midnight, but he was sharp after midnight. But I could usually, you know, take him And there was a time when, I think it is probably now twelve years ago, there was a time when I was at the seminary and he pulled me into the basement of the seminary to play a game of ping pong. And if you have seen him play, he has to strap the strap the paddle onto his hand, you know, and when he gets ready to play, it just looks like You know, this guy's gonna be easy to take. And some reason that day he just wiped me completely off the table. Completely. And the first game I was frustrated. The second game I was angry. The third game, I think I was ready to throw a paddle somewhere, of course not at him, but and so on, that kind of thing. And so I use that as an illustration in a message. The next Sunday after that, I talked about these different emotional states I went through, you know. And uh I was going to use that today and then forgot, completely forgot about it, until I saw Dr. Beale walk up the aisle and I thought, there's that illustration, I missed it. But I consider it a great privilege to be with him today, and I consider a great privilege to To aim at you and to give you a charge I'm sure you realize that you are blessed. I'm sure you realize the privilege and the relief. Of installing a pastor. In terms of what to say, I thought about 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And I'd like to focus on three verses. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 11 to 13. I'm reading 1 Thessalonians 5, 11-13. Therefore, comfort each other and edify one another, just as you also are doing. And we urge you, brethren, to recognize those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace among yourselves. There are five commands in these three verses. And they go in two different directions. Three of the commands are horizontal. Three of the commands deal with people on our level. Two of the commands are vertical. The horizontal commands are comfort Edify, be at peace. In verses eleven and thirteen You'll notice along with comfort, you have each other. Along with edify, you have one another. Along with be at peace among yourselves So I think your first responsibility here, I've got three responsibilities. Since Dr. Beale had three, I figured I should have three. Responsibility number one is to bless others. Your responsibility is to bless others. I'm sure you're familiar with these words, these three words, comfort, edify, peace. The word comfort is the word used for the Holy Spirit The Paraclete, it's a wide word that includes all kinds of things, encourage, strengthen, counsel, and so on. Edify means to build up, to strengthen. Make peace means make peace. To me, it's quite interesting that these are in the present tense. They're present tense active verbs. Present tense means you do it repeatedly. You do it continuously. The active voice means that it's your responsibility. Your responsibility is to comfort. Your responsibility is to edify one another. Your responsibility is to make peace We can't expect someone else to comfort and edify and make peace. We can't defer to God. Now, obviously, God has to be involved if anything is going to be accomplished. But the command says, this is your job. You go to it, comfort, edify, make peace. You reach out. You encourage. You strengthen. You stimulate others to love and good works. As Hebrew says, you make peace. Don't wait for your pastor to do it. He's not here to comfort and edify and make peace. That's your job. Now, truth be told, he is here to comfort and edify and make peace. But it's in a different way. He has been given to this church as a coach. You are the ones who do the job. You understand the difference? This evening Andy Reid is going to be on the field. For a football game. Okay? Andy Reed is probably one of the most important people for the Kansas City Chiefs He's going to be involved in the offense, in the defense, in the special teams. And he probably will not touch a football. And he probably will not kick a football. He may not even step on the field to play. Why not? Because he's the coach. That's right. If he had to run the length of the field, he would need oxygen. But so often we get this idea that we hire a pastor And he does the comforting, and he does the edifying, and he does the making peace. Do you see the point? The point is, this is really your job. He is here to help you. He is here to encourage you to do that. But this is your job. In other words, don't stop doing what being without a pastor has forced you to do. Some of you may have had to step out of your comfort zones in the past year or year and a half. To serve in ways that you weren't used to. You know, questions like: who's going to encourage so-and-so? Who's going to get this thing organized? Who's going to write the bulletin? You know, the pastor's not here. We don't have a pastor. I may have to do this. You know, and probably several times Randy has said, I may have to speak. So on So let me stop for a minute and add one of these little Side comments. I just personally think that I need to compliment you on your behavior over this year and a half without a pastor. One of the benefits of being without a pastor for that long is it almost forces you to obey these three commands. You know? Because there's no one else to do it. And from an outsider looking in Coming only on Sunday. I think you have done a very good job. And I think you should all be complimented. I heard one amen. And I think all of you in the congregation ought to join with the statements that Stephen Conrad made earlier and personally thank these people that stepped up to the plate and were involved in some of these things. You know, some people worked hard to lead and to keep things going at times when it looked pretty discouraging. Elders, Pastoral Search Committee, Deacons, Sunday School teachers, music people, nursery workers, Children's workers who have done much. They could have quit. They could have said, you know, there's not much going on here of value. Let me pack up and find greener pastures. But sometimes the blessing of God is in the browner pastures. And I want to commend all of you for sticking it out. A year plus without a pastor is not easy for any church And you've done well, and God has blessed you. So, to begin with, I want to emphasize that you don't want to lose that sense of responsibility for one another. Comfort, edify, make peace. Your first responsibility is to bless one another Now let me talk about the two other commands. Those are horizontal commands Here we're talking about a vertical command. We're talking about a hierarchical kind of command. You understand hierarchical relationship? Actually, when I thought about using this, I had trouble spelling the word. I actually looked it up and found out that I didn't even spell it right when I thought I had it right There's a C near the end of it. C-A-L, hierarchical. This means it's a relationship where you are one up or one down. It's a relationship that is not exactly even. This relation, this your your education in this relationship started with your parents, probably. And the command to children obey your parents. And children honor your parents. And children submit to your parents. You know, they were over you and you were under them. And that relationship may have had Rougher moments and easier moments. And then that translated to your relationship with teachers in school. And then your relationship to a boss. At work, and then your relationship to the government, and so on. There's a relationship In a church that is similar to that because you are underleaders We live in a generation that doesn't like that concept, that likes the concept of us all being equal and all being nice to each other. But we're talking about a hierarchical relationship because this man is being installed over you, and he's being installed to admonish you. So how do you respond? You've got two commands here This is verse 11. Verse 12. And we urge you, brethren, to recognize those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Verse 13, and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace among yourselves. So you've got two commands, recognize and esteem. Let me talk about recognize. So I think responsibility number two is to come to know and recognize and appreciate your pastor. The word recognize is the word no. It's translated in the King James Version by no, and the New King James has used this word recognize, and I'm not sure why, because I think recognize is the less Less precise than the word no. But it's the word no, and it's in the sense of understand and appreciate. You want to come to understand not only your pastor, but elders and deacons and leaders. Understand in the sense of appreciating them. The camo the command implies that you don't know your pastor And I realize you say, yeah, that's true. We don't know our pastor. But when you think in terms of elders, when you think of deacons and others, the command fits them as well. Get to know them. And I think what this command is doing, is it's attacking the normal notion of no. The notion that we'll get to know these people as we meet them on Sunday. You know, an hour in the morning, an hour at night on Sunday, and we'll get to know. This is a stronger idea than that. It's a perfect active infinitive Perfect active infinitive. I don't see any eyes lighting up. And I don't usually bring this kind of thing up, but Dr. Beale's here. I didn't even see his eyes light up The perfect tense is a tense where things are done, finished, accomplished. And I think that's what gives the urgency to this command. The command says, get it done. Get to know them. Get to appreciate them. You may have noticed that this is not necessarily an easy thing to do. Paul says, we urge you, brethren, to recognize, know those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. I think American Christians largely fail in this command. My wife and I were talking about this recently when we were talking about the fact that there is a very casual attitude toward, I really need you in my life. I really need to get into your life. You know? We're content because we're able in America to live our lives solo. We can drive into our garages, close the door, we don't need to even know the names of our neighbors, you know. And we can live our lives without this this compulsion to get connected to other people. And the problem is that you can't You can't grow in Christ in the same way alone. You need other people. The body of Christ is the body. Composed of many different people that will frustrate you as well as stimulate you as well as push you and correct you. And for that to work, you have to make effort to get to know people and to connect with people. So one of the problems with getting to know your pastor is that he is over you. And that he is admonishing you. The word admonish is the word neuthao, which means to stick words into your brain. To affect you and control you by words. And sometimes we react negatively when people are here to tell us what to do. and to convict us and to admonish us. And you say, how do I get to know that guy So the point is, the command is to get to know So how do you do this? My answer to your question is a question. How did you do this in other situations? Think about the process that led to your marriage for some of us several years ago. What active choices? What mental activity? What participation on your part led to your wedding? Did you just wake up one afternoon as you were sipping tea on the beach and you were married? Was it a passive situation? I doubt it. Did you plan creative ways to accidentally meet meet? Did you write letters? Did you create poems? Anybody here created poems as they were approaching their yes? I got one. Two? Whoa. Did you spend money without worrying about how much? Did you spend a lot of time trying to figure out how to deal with some specific situation? All right? Why not think in those terms when you think about your new pastor? You're thinking in terms of what can I do to get to know this person and his family, his wife? How can we get them into our lives and get into their lives? I think one of the big ways is conversation. Asking questions, creating conversation with the pastor and his wife. Talk. Provide feedback. Sometimes it's hard for someone in a pew to realize the challenges a pastor faces. He deals in areas where results are often not visible. It's not the same as running a business where you've got a profit, profit, and loss sheet, and you can tell at the end of the year whether you made money or lost. He's sowing seeds. You put seeds in the ground and they disappear. They disappear into people's minds, they disappear into people's hearts and people's lives and who knows where else. And a lot of times you don't know whether you really succeeded in sowing seeds. Did he say the right thing in the counseling session Did he pray the right prayer for the sick person? Is he meeting needs on Sunday sermons? Is someone sick that he doesn't know about? Why did the man say at the front door, I haven't seen you lately? Why did those people leave? I think almost everybody who ever left Belcroft Bible Church where I pastored said to me, Now it has nothing to do with you, Pastor. You know, anybody that talked to me, they'd say it has nothing to do with you. And I I always knew it had something to do with me. You know? So a pastor often lives in this area where he cannot see obvious results. Does not know. Why not tell them? Why not tell them when you were blessed? Why not tell them when you disagreed? Why not give him some kind of feedback so that he knows he is accomplishing God's will, so he knows he's fulfilling his calling. Alright, so there's command number one. Command number two. Number one, we're responsible to be a blessing. Number two, we are responsible to get to know our leaders. To appreciate them. Number three, at 1214, am I going long or did you go long? I'm going long. It's my fault. Okay. All right, yeah, this is normal. This is the command in verse 13 that says, esteem them very highly in love. The more time I spent on this, the more I realize this is just an amazing command. You've got three words here. The word esteem, the word highly, the word love. Esteem means to think, to consider. You're thinking about who this man is and what position you are going to allot him It's talking about the value you place on him, how you view him in relation to your life. Is he just the hired hand? Is he just here to try to manufacture sermons that will keep you interested on a sleepy Sunday morning? Or is he one of the keys in your relationship with God? Coupled with esteem is the phrase very highly. It means far beyond. It means so much more than. And it contains an earnestness There's an attitude here that puts what is esteemed into the category of a treasure. Just think about the fact that this man has brought his wife over here, is going to settle down here for one reason. To give his life to meet your needs. Who else in your life is doing that? You don't get that kind of attention and service from some preacher on TV. His encouragement, his correction, his instruction will go way beyond anything you'll ever get from TV Then think about the addition of this word love. In love. Esteem very highly in love. This is love that's agape love. This is love that sacrifices for its object, that wants the best for its object. Maybe this is where I put in Dr. Beale's statement about money. You know, make sure he gets paid. Love is a motivation that goes out of its way to do whatever it can for the one loved. How do you love your pastor and his wife? My reaction would be, well, how do you love your best friend? What do you do for your best friend? I think what God wants us to do is to put him, put his wife in our best friend category. Treat them as best friends. So this command directs us to ask who this man is that has entered our lives. And why he is here. You esteem him very highly because he has a very high position in your life. He is one of the big keys in your happiness. In your fruitfulness, maybe even in your future inheritance in eternity Have you ever thought about the fact that your attitude toward God may be affected by your attitude toward your pastor? You ever thought about the fact that your relationship with your God may be affected by your relationship with your pastor? And you say to God, I love you, and God says to you, Well, what's your attitude toward your pastor? He's the one I sent to admonish you. I think one of our problems sometimes is that we don't understand our treasures. Jesus Christ came to earth, and Isaiah said he was despised and rejected of men. Jesus Christ came to earth and was despised and rejected. John 1 says he was in the world. The world was made by him. And the world knew him not. Don't let that happen to your pastor. Don't let him receive that kind of response. I think that if you don't esteem this pastor If you don't humble yourself and listen closely to his instruction and admonition, you are the loser. I think the command here is not for his benefit. The command is for your benefit. Esteem him very highly in love. for his work's sake. So the picture I get of this situation is of a family in Bulgaria. I've been to Bulgaria maybe ten times, and I picture a poor house that isn't big enough to house all their kids and their stuff. Everything scattered around in disarray. And you're there for dinner. Because they appreciate you. And they appreciate one another. And you enjoy the fellowship not because everything is fixed or neat and tidy, but because of the love and the respect and the honor. I think that you are never going to fix everything in this church And perhaps you will never be able to make your pastor perfect so that he doesn't make a mistake. But that's not the issue. The issue is that God can bless and encourage and grow us in spite of the unfixed stuff. When we choose God's commanded attitude and esteem our pastor and our elders and our deacons and Sunday school teachers, So how do we do this? I recommend we pray. Not only for him, but for his family. I mean his wife. I wrote this thinking they had children. Found out they don't. Yet. The pastor's needs often go unnoticed by the congregation. He often has no pastor to pastor him. His well can run dry. There's the mistaken notion that he doesn't need the strength that he gives to others. He's never thought to doubt or have moments of depression when his own world has to be put back together. Pray for him. Pray for his wife. She has challenges Don't be surprised if pastors and wives need time to work out problems like you do. Sometimes you need to give them space. Sometimes they need time off. Pray for them. So here are what I think three major responsibilities that you have. Number one, be a blessing. Comfort, edify, make peace. Number two, get to know. Get to know in a sense of being in their lives and they being in your life. And number three, esteem. Value them very highly Because of their effect in your life Let me say in closing, I've greatly enjoyed my time here. For the past 15 months, I went back and counted how many times I've been here. 21 times. And I want to thank you for your interest in inviting me. I want to thank you for your gracious response over this time. It has been my complete privilege. May God bless, encourage, strengthen you as you launch out with Pastor Cho. I end with the end of 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 23. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful Who will also do it?