Well it's wonderful to be here and uh I have to admit uh I was sitting next to uh Pastor Shupi and we go back 45 years and so I think I pretty much ignored Sunk. and was talking to Jim the whole time before the service and for that song any Ray I apologize but uh uh Jim and I do go way back through all kinds of trials and exciting things. I just Just thank the Lord for him and for his faithfulness in so many different situations, and it's a joy that we can share this wonderful occasion together. Uh Sung, by the way, this is close. Man, when we talk about giving a charge to the candidate, uh he can probably Tell if I've got bad breath or not. But at any rate, uh uh this is gonna be uh up close and personal, as they say Uh Sung, it's been my privilege to know you since 2005, back when you first enrolled as a student at Capital Bible Seminary, and soon thereafter you became a good friend as well. What a joy it has been to follow your journey and ministry over the years and to be able to give you this charge as you are installed as the pastor of Faith Bible Church. I give you three exhortations based on two passages that I'm sure you know quite well, 2 Timothy 4, 1-8 and 1 Peter 5, 1 to 4. My first exhortation is from 2 Timothy 4, which is to preach the word without apology Preach the word without apology. At the end of Paul's ministry, Paul tells Timothy in 2 Timothy 4. 2, preach the word, be ready in season and out of season. Convinced, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and teaching. Now, one reason that I'm absolutely positive uh that you know this verse well is that seven and a half years ago in August 2011 I preached on this passage as your uh at your installation as the English-speaking pastor at the Chinese Christian and Missionary Church in Virginia. In fact, I'm sure you remember all six points that I uh gave from that passage, right? You don't need to repeat them now, but maybe later. Probably not, but uh to me that first point is absolutely key, so it bears repeating These are Paul's last recorded words of Scripture, his final admonition to his beloved co-worker and son in the Lord, Timothy. So that makes it even more significant. Paul says to Timothy, preach the word. It wasn't to preach his own opinions or the opinions of some famous preacher or even a notable seminary professor or two. He was to preach the word. Faith doesn't need a pastor who simply gives us his ideas on Sunday morning or who tells lots of neat stories. Faith needs a pastor who's going to be able to rightly divide the word of truth and to preach the word. And I know faith wants a pastor like that, because after all, they've tolerated me going through the book of Philippians and Isaiah. And other uh preachers such as Pastor Shupi who have exposited the word faithfully. Uh and by the way, somebody said, well, Now's your chance to finish that Isaiah series. And I said, no, if they ever invite me back, maybe I'll do it in one message then. At any rate, but I know that that's what this church desires because that's uh uh what they're used to and that is a wonderful thing. Now obviously a pastor must make the word uh relevant to the people, and certainly illustrations that drive home a biblical point uh are certainly helpful and and uh very, very informative, but we must make sure that all of it is done in order to enhance the preaching of the word The Bible is the foundation for everything else we do. There's no substitute for the preaching of the Word of God And I would encourage you to preach the entire Bible, depending on, you know, I mean, maybe not in the first year, but the uh As you go on, just continue to preach through not just a few favorite parts, but uh all of Scripture. And that's why I always encourage verse-by-verse expository preaching through books or whole sections of Scripture. As Paul told the Ephesian elders in his parting words to them in Acts 20, 27, I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God. Well every time I I read that I think, wow, that's pretty amazing that the Apostle Paul did that Paul continues in verse 2 to say Timothy must be ready to preach the word in season and out of season, whether convenient or inconvenient. and whether well received or not. Sometimes there'll be a great response and sometimes not. Paul says in verses 3 and 4 of 2 Timothy 4 that there won't always be a great response. Of course, in this church, I'm sure there will always be a great response, right? Well, at any rate, I'll let Pastor Shupi worry about that. But you need to continue to be faithful, to preach the word no matter what. So preach the word without apology. That's my first point. Now let me give you a kind of corollary to this first point. I got three points, but I've got a couple corollaries stuck in here. And the first corollary is this. Stay away from politics or political issues, but don't be afraid to speak up on relevant biblical issues. I still remember years ago when my wife and I were hosting our Sunday school class to a dinner at our home. Now you would think that this was a wonderful social innocuous event, right? Well, it didn't turn out to be because one member of the class was continually badgering me to speak more about the right to bear arms. He was a member of the NRA and he was convinced that everybody should be as well. So finally it came to a foil. I still remember this night Vividly, we're trying to be gracious hosts, and it came to a boil of all places in our home that evening. And I said to him, Bob, this isn't a biblical issue. It's not an issue that the Bible addresses. And he got so mad at me. that he left our home, he left our class, and eventually he left our church because we didn't speak out enough on that issue But the Second Amendment is an American issue, and we can have all kinds of feelings about it. It's not a biblical issue that the Scriptures addresses. There are lots of contemporary issues that the Bible addresses, and we do need to speak out on these. In just the past few days, several of these issues were in the news. Once again, the March for Life on Friday reminds us that abortion is a biblical issue Because Psalm 139 verses 13 to 16 tell us that God formed our innermost parts and he covered us in our mother's womb and he planned out our lives. so that when we unilaterally decide to terminate that life, we are tampering with God's handiwork. Also this week there's been an uproar over the vice president's wife, Karen Pence, who had decided to teach art at a Christian school that excludes homosexual teachers and students. Now all of this to me is rather shocking because Mrs. Pence had previously taught at the same school with the same policy for 12 years when her husband was a congressman. And no one said anything. My brother's wife was a librarian at that same school, knows her, speaks very, very highly of her, both as a person and as a teacher But today there is such an all-out assault on Christian schools and churches which speak out against homosexuality. But we do speak out, and we need to speak out because God's word is clear on the issue from Genesis throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament as well. that homosexuality is a violation of God's created order and is an abomination to him. And you and I must preach the word without apology. regardless of the shifting public opinion on these issues. Well, that was all just a corollary. I get a little excited about some of these things. And especially because my brother actually told me last night, he happens to be on the school board um of Emanuel Christian School, and he told me that what they're uh uh fearful of is that they're going to send a test case. student who is homosexual to the class just so that they can take them to court. And that's what they're facing. But still, they're not going to waver from their policy, nor should they. My second exhortation, taken from 1 Peter 5, verses 2 to 4, is to shepherd God's people in a Christ-like manner. Shepherd God's people in a Christ-like manner. The text reads, Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers. not by compulsion, but willingly, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly, nor as being lords over those uh uh entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. I love the 2 Timothy 4 passage, but it doesn't have this idea of shepherding the flock that to me is so key to being a godly pastor. I remember a number of years ago participating in an ordination council of a CBS graduate, and one of the members of the council asked the candidate whether he was more of a shepherd or a leader. Apparently, the idea in the questioner's mind was that the two were somehow in conflict, since a shepherd would be compassionate and care for the sheep, but wouldn't necessarily be a leader. But I thought to myself at the time, thankfully I said nothing out loud, that it wasn't a fair question. Because in truth, a good shepherd, such as the shepherd of Psalm 23, must be both. A compassionate person who truly cares for the welfare of his sheep, and a leader who is able to guide and lead the flock beside the still waters or through some rough paths. That's what Peter is talking about here. In fact, he speaks of the shepherd in verse 2 as an overseer, which emphasizes the important leadership role. So the two are complementary. Peter spells out the motivation for ministry in verse 2 and the method in verse 3. As far as motivation, it is pure an eager desire to shepherd the flock, not because it's your job description, but but because it's your heart's desire. And financial gain or profit should never be a part of it. I've heard of some men in the ministry who would never come and preach unless they received a certain stipend. One person in fact told me that personally. I just don't get that. Now, I'm a little extreme, as uh some of you may know, but when I was asked to teach full-time at the uh at the seminary, I said yes, and I never even asked what the salary would be. Uh I found out later, and Jim is not surprised by this because I'm sure his salary was even less, that it was $9,500 a year. I say even less because he's, you know, way older than me and he started my earlier, $9,500 a year, which was less than half the salary that I was making as a computer programmer. And when a church asks me to preach, I never asked whether they're going to give me an honorarium or anything else like that. If the Lord grants you and E-Ray uh children No one will have to pay you, I hope, to bring up your children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. You'll do it willingly. and pour out your hearts and your lives to them, because you want them to grow and to mature in the Lord. And I hope the same will be true for your flock here at faith. Now, the church does need to make sure to provide adequately for your needs, but that's the other side of the coin that Pastor Shupi will speak on in a moment. Then Peter speaks of the method of ministry in verse 3, not lording it over the flock, but being examples to them. Sadly, we know of some Christians, once they become leaders in positions of authority, the power goes to their heads, and they think that they're above others or superior to others It's easy to do as praise that is given to the pastor or leader can affect them, and they can forget their dependence upon the Lord That's why Peter here continually talks about an attitude of humility, expanding on that theme in verses 5 to 7. I don't know all the pastors that this church has had, but those whom I know fairly well have been men of great character who never lorded it over the flock or thought that their ideas were more important than anyone else's. You as the shepherd must never think that you're above the sheep. Your responsibility is to be an example to the sheep. in every way, in how you react to difficult situations and challenges to your leadership, in how you treat your wife and family, in your integrity and morals, which must be above approach. In your prayer life, and yes, above all, in your humility. Summing up these ideas, you are to shepherd God's people in a Christ-like manner As Jesus said in Matthew 20, 28, the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. My final exhortation is that you remain faithful to God's call in difficult times. Remain faithful to God's call in difficult times It's much easier to shepherd during the prosperous times. It's a lot harder during difficult times. And the context of both 1 Peter 5 and 2 Timothy 4 is that of suffering. Peter mentions it in verse 1 and again in verses 8 and 9, when he speaks of Satan walking about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. But Peter says that the shepherd must resist him steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brethren in the world. Similarly in 2 Timothy 4, Paul says to preach the word in season and out of season, that there'll come a time when people won't Listen. Yet in verse 5 he tells Timothy to endure afflictions and complete his ministry, just as Paul completed his, despite all kinds of opposition. Now my prayer is that you will never get that kind of opposition here at faith, but no matter where we are, trials will come. We are sinners, and we minister among a sinful people. So there will be trials, and when they come, remain faithful to God's call, just as Paul did. And I suppose a final corollary to this last point, when trials come, don't hesitate to ask for help. Go to your Heavenly Father in prayer for sure, but also go to people who have been there before, people within the church, certainly. uh to whom you can go. But also others may be outside the church, such as Pastor Shupi or myself. Sometimes we tend to think that we're all alone. Satan loves To get us to feel as if we're the only ones that are facing this issue or this problem. But we're not. We need a hand sometimes. Pastors are people too, and they get discouraged. Don't bottle it up. but seek counsel from others who are eager to help and encourage in any way possible. And I'm sure both Pastor Shupi and certainly I know I would be willing to help you in any way possible. to encourage you, because there are those times when all of us need some advice or some encouragement. So my charge to you this morning is to preach the word without apology, shepherd God's people in a Christ-like manner, and remain faithful to God's call, even in difficult times.