It's the map has the power ability that all the old testament cost predictions cost price. Come on with the one person he uses. Random. Very good. Hundreds of top. My one conservative account, around 300. With such complexity at work, I don't have enough things to think of all of this. The words of nature and history and kind of break things down for simplicity. Something complicated like a watch, packed full of screws and wheels, don't simply just come together. That's without purpose and desire. In the same way the sovereign God knows the future and intended from the beginning to send his son as a state of war. The Lord reveals some of the details of his plan in advance without each study them and eagerly expect price. Here's an illustration from the late Baptist preacher, Adrian Rodgers. Adrian Rotterd's son David was a missionary in Spain. The Rogers loved David, his wife, and their children. So that's what he did call. I think that will be more soon. di what's happening. So the phone bill was of course very high. So the parents would copy the salt worth it. Now Rather's come out and rebuild the phone, randomly dialogue, and expect to hear David's voice on the other line. What's the chance of that one? There are even some people on earth Rather than that's when Adrian picks up the phone. That eliminates everyone on earth who doesn't have a phone. That narrows it down a lot. Then we download 011, which ever pains everyone who lives in the United States. That's by 1934, all the other nations of the world, I excluded except Spain. Then you have 600 and zoom into a specific region of state. Finally, there's a series of successive numbers, but each number the father gets closer to his son. the other one. He both from billions to millions to thousands to hundreds to tens of children. He finds his club in some because he knows his bond Consider how the Bible will give you that kind of access to Christ. Each ancient prophecies I can call it provision. Adam and reach. Jesus, not another. Start with the seed of the woman. Well, the sea of Abraham. Start of Jacob. Why would you have seen of David? One of the virgin As we've been talking about Christ and after precedence, each of these predictions are important to come together in the unique person of Jesus. That's Adrian Roger's illustration. But let me push that down unless you have a fit further. When I won't be on, I have a pretty simplistic telephone. Just show my eyes. I have all the this we don't need to stand. There's museums for this and this kind of thing now. But uh But I I'm not really sure if my phone had a speed up there still there. All the important numbers were printed down somewhere, memorized, or both Now with smartphones and direct messaging, I would continue to commit them to memory. I still do commit to memory. The numbers of my wife and my mother. I'm sure later I found my son's number S in my mind. Especially. I'm sure. Especially when you were like design to memorize their address, the number, all those things. And in each bestionic office, like a visit or phone number to reach Jesus. We shouldn't build it. But today on this Christmas day, I want us to dive into specific prophecies that add up to the unique further. Jesus with the Christ. So think about three passages from Isaiah, Daniel, and Michael. I'm not really going to get too deep into these. But covering a lot here. But I think there's my mind that relates to how, when, and where respectively That means that's a pre-Christmas festival. One. Christ is born of a virgin to be married. Christ is born of a virgin to be married. Two, Christ is born on time to be the Messiah and Test. Christ is born on time to be Messiah and the Prince. And three, Christ is born in Bethlehem to be the shepherd. I is born in Bethlehem. Be the shepherd. First Christ is born on the Virgin of the Evan. This is truly a wonder of wonders. I say that because the whole process of conception, pregnancy, and birth is amazing in itself. I hope you guys love very well. Just watching my wife grow a human life inside her. It's amazing. The only way to top that is the virgin birth of Jesus. And if that wasn't the number of miracles, this wonder of wonders was predicted 700 years before Christ. Let me read a chapter C from Isaiah and then read his fulfillment in Matthew. Isaiah 7, 1 through 17 Here seven one seventeenth instead. Now came to pass the name of Ahaz, the son of Jacob The son of Udiah, king of Judah, the resident king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remalia, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to make war against it, but could not be failed against it. And he was pulled to the house of Haban, saying, Syria's forces ran. For his heart and the heart of his people were moved, and the trees and the woods are loathed with the wind. Then the Lord said, By their Go up, thou yeah You and Share the shoes or son at the end of the aqua from the upper pool to the highway from Folder's team and say to him, Take heed of these fight, do not fear, or we paint for you These two sons of a smoking biograph. For a few speaker resident Syria and the son of Remalia, because Syria Ephraim and the son of Remalia are a lot of people against you. Let us go up against Judah in trouble. Let us make a gap in his fault for ourselves. Instead of king over them, the son of Had Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, nor shall it come with the pharaoh. For the head of Syria is the mask, and the head of the mask is present. Within 65 years ephrum will be broken so that it will not be of the church. The head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Malia's son. If you will not believe, surely you shall not be saved. Moreover, the Lord spoke again to Ahak, saying, Ask the sign for yourself in the Lord. Ask it to hear it with that. I know. But Ajax said, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. And he said, Hear now, house of David Isn't a small thing for you to wear in that, or for you wearing by God also. Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a son. Because all the virgin shall conceive a bear evil and choose the good, the land that you dread will be forsaken by older kings. The Lord will bring the king of Assyria upon you and your people and your father's house, they that have not come to the day that have not come up with the Now this is a lot to think into and if you like to think into E-Frank idea, I highly recommend Edward Jong's commentary, or if you want to live in commentary, just a massive. right there in the ask after the service I'll give you his phone number and email address so you will find them. So for now here's just a quick overview. The unit of prophecy was given during an eighth-century international crisis, the divided monarchy. It was called. It was known as the Cyber Ephraimite War. Lord of Israel joined forces with the neighboring Syria to revolt against Assyria who ruled over them. They wanted Judah Sunday for them to join the coalition. They refuse to take a no for an answer. Judah their king and people are scared of fear for their But then God said the prophet was sure the king that these could break for nothing but dying fire. Incredible message that they violent. But King Ahab is given a once-in-a-lifetime chance to ask for any confirmation. Any miracle that was spent in his favor. But he pridefully reviews the past in a show of faith out. God rebuked him, but he gave a wonderful sign anyways of the Virgin Mahapach. This prophetic sign was given to the entire house of David, not Ahab's alone, and his fulfillment would happen to earth. Meanwhile, I promised that the media press would not take it away. Within a few years, within a short period of infancy or chocolate popular, they were gone. Now let's turn to max one, eighteen to twenty-five, let's see if we're building it. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was that small. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, where they came together, she was found with a child that will be And Joseph, her husband being a just man and not wanting to make her make something to happen, but finally put her away secretly. While he thought about these things, behold an angel of the Lord appeared for them. Joseph's son of David, and I'll be afraid to give to you there in your life for that which is conceived in her couple weeks to earth. She will bring forth a son, we shall call his name Jesus, who will save. his people from their sin. Now all this was done, it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and their son. They shall call his name. which is translated after thus that Joseph being asked mostly that the angel of the Lord commanded them took to heaven his one And did not know her until she had caught for her first and son of the name. Paul His name Jesus. Here's a little background from Joseph McMarri, one commentator to which Martier is helpful in explaining the standard in practice of the project. Marriages were arranged for individuals by parents, and contracts were negotiated, advocates were accomplished, the individuals were considered married and called husband and wife. They did not, however, begin to live together, instead the woman continued to live with her parents and the man with his for one year. The waiting period was to demonstrate the faithfulness of the philanthropy given concerning the bride. If she was found to be child in the spirit, she obviously was not pure, but had been involved in a one-fateful. sexual relationship. Therefore, marriage could be unknown. If however the one-year waiting period demonstrated the purity of the bride, the husband would then the house of the bride's parents and in a grand processional march lead his bride back to his home. There they begin to live together at some kind of time and constantly make their marriage physical. That story that we read with this background in life. But imagine that initial disappointment of Joseph, his conscience would not allow him to stay with him. But his heart will not allow him to humiliate. This is when the Lord steps in. Joseph found out that as the heavens are higher than the earth. Or that we higher than our synores. The answer to the question of the dairy of friend is completely different than expected. And sir is this. That which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will call upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also the Holy One will be born who is to be born with all the Son of God I don't have all the signs of the virgin purchase truly a miracle But it is interesting to know these names and their name meanings. The name of Imagine how it parallels with the name of Jesus. Let's do it together in one unified message. The wonderful news of Christmas and the gospel is this. That's only our mistake and enjoy God's presence. That's only separation of us, but intimacy with God. So that answers how Jesus was born. Christ is born of a virgin speech. Amen. Second, when was Jesus? Christ was born on time to be Messiah and the things. This is about man. Why is it that Christ arrived when he did do it is true? What is meant by the Bible teaching us when the fullness of the time, God's hand for it to the sun? There's a policy for that, and it has to level number seven. I always have to fall after that. Then these that case our past now serves are leaving. In chapter nine, we actually bought something from the scriptures That is understood by the books, the number of the years specified, by the number of the years have applied. That he accomplished seventy years of desolation. This passage refers to Jeremiah 25 and 29. The massive needed those 70 years of rest. It was to keep the fact that finding the law being ordered by the family. But I was terriers of opportunity and death. Without pace, pray, fast, intercept, fasten. Well it's not even that five The passage would have fine fire than the passage. On the Abu High Comport did we still understand. Beginning of the supplications, the man went out and I comes out of great feet to love. Therefore, consider the matter, understand the vision. Tell me side determined two or two point studies to finish the time question. Make it 10 of the 70 to make questions for the eight and points, make it only Bring in everlasting rights. People love visions and pops and point the most. And restore, build on some side of the land. There shall be seven weeks, six weeks. The street shall be built again, and the wall be made troublesome And after the sixty-two weeks, the thigh shall be covered, the doctor himself, and the people of the prince of which come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. End of it shall be with the flood until the end of the And on the week of abominations Don't be one who may excessive, even until the consummation, which is returned, poured off the descent. Thought there again. But it's immediately obvious from verse 24 that some amazing and significant events are stored for Israel and wisdom. Damn people. And it's what we said, respect it. But there's more. The way I see it is if the bag right looked for the star in the sky thanks to the big room The Israelites shall have looked for the marker and timeline thanks to them. They understand then that Christ is born on time, which must hide them. And if you are selling this as it feels in with Don Gun to you and claim that this is the biggest hypoxy in the planet, I highly recommend you. The short function, the title, damn the property of several pieces. The short one is dense. I'll draw some insights from it And uh you may want to get out of half a later. Some numbers here. First let's talk about the word When we think about that word, we normally think of a cycle of seven consecutive days. But the word in the original English simply means seven. That's the word accompanied by word A like it's happening. Here that's bottom here. That's the case is not a problem. But seven is 52 i want to 69 by 7. Yeah. We already know that twelve months take up a year. So the next step is to determine the number of days Normally say five days in a year, three sixty in a year. But as we see in Genesis, chapter seven and eight ancient Israelites out at 30 days a month. Also we find in the last book of the Bible, Revelation, 1,568. on the 43 for three and a half years. All the populations in place Looking at a total of 173,880. Now, where is the site? Read in verse twenty-five that it's from the going forth of the commandment. Any preference thing of iron features when you build the temple, the damage property has to do with the restoration of the study itself. I think it's a memory versus the amount of step first offer. Moders and live chapter 2. That takes up to March 14th. Only five years ago. Finally we get an endpoint starting from March 14, 445 BC, adding 173,886 Adjusting to our solar calendar and features, we arrived at 32 reasons. A claim will go as far as to say that we land precisely at the day of the triumphal mission. on subject equals episode. That's what until the side has been Whether we agree with complaining or not with that, I think we know for sure that people were not sincere to involve them that day. So in June 1941-44, I'm over the west over the city. As the things that made for their leave were hidden from their eyes, they did not know that the time of their visiting. So they rejected the price. And 946 phones in a band. And five words. There's more than we discussed considering that final seven-year peak in the future corresponds to the seven-year tribulation of revelation, culminating in Christ's second coming. Let's say it's about the first aspect. And then Daniel 9 sets the timer for Christ's first appearance on Earth. We have to be one about four centuries and a half. Afterward, Jesus had all these kids up, grow up, make his adult ministry, air his disciples for the church All that people is called not for his sacrificial That's a lot of numbers. That's that's leave behind the calculator and math. The geography. Jesus was not only one of the virgin, not only does he have a birthday, we had a birthday nice If you think about Christ's birthday, we have to avoid the question of waiting. Do we stand upon it? We see the scriptures, but that was predicted in the fascinating. That gets us to the third lesson. Christ is born in Bethlehem. In Shepherd. But you have to have time. Those who are little among the thousands of Judah, there are future comforts to me, the fact that we're in Israel, the point Therefore he shall give the lust until the time as he which the neighbor has given birth. Then the rest of his breath shall be earned to the children of Israel. And we shall stand and feel his bot in the spend the Lord, the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall abide. Now we shall be grateful for the ends of the earth, and this one will be By the way, my go-to book or the Minecraft is the commentary by Charles Feinberg. If you'd like to check that out Last year I used it to prepare a Christmas sermon on this passage, the short introduction of my club. I won't be able to cover as much ground today, but as a reminder, the first point, the first sermon we have made that day, was about how Jesus hails from God. Obscurity and further. That's the focus of first view. By the sound, that's the hand you know is so obscure that the audience needed help people feel. That modifys. In front of the list of city and cash flow, you see that there's another method of that one. But the method in this pattern is too small. It's insignificant. We put this with Joshua for you. Nowhere here. It's payment, it's an area. He said there's one tap among the thousands, one like no one. Don't let a man who pay that is most important. Five origins are of nineteen. Now must go back to the first half of the twenty example. But only Jesus is dead. For Abraham, I am. Christ came according to the flesh, yet is more eternally less than God. Well born as David's son, David's hometown. David's Exactly. Will they play the match? Heading to Jerusalem to put for each glass and born king of the Jews. I'm an ambassador visiting the US ambition in Washington DC. Not Eldridge. You want to see the King of England full of London? Not Castle Home. Out of the person, gave himself a help of his faith, containing a small county Dispersive address the fumble. The shadow ruler often four shards. That's the first ruler. So just to review, Christ is born to be had. What a positive side of the prince. Born never had to be the shepherd of the How do these truths shape us today? I say we need to take two actions. One, celebration, two, operation. First celebration. Christmas is a purely lion of Christ's birth. But the celebration is all given around. Jesus was born physically. Then this last time Allah comes from all the questions based on the connection in front of the owner feelings. Born that man who made that. Born to make the sun and On the given, second birth. The day of this birth has everything to do with our day of salvation. That's why we celebrate today and perhaps celebration. If our honesty really did become a post-Christian, and see the following chance to ask questions like, what's this Christian? I feel all chalky and gitty. It's happening. And we have such opportunities that's being ready to shoot her classroom. It goes like this, or with gladness. Yahoo Delic, I think, blackness. We're ready. We are exile from heaven, other Russian expression. Then all we like to see a box train. We've got turned heaven. That's why God became a virgin flesh, one of the virgin, man, God would. Christ was born to be beside the priest Yet he was cut off. But after himself, talked about home. I believe it's Roman Ashman growth. Or to die upon Calvary, Jesus suffered by sin to forgive. Or to die upon Calvary, he was wounded by my God. Another recent poem which expresses it well. Jesus was caught off at timeline for him. We complain the truth though. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. God made Christ to need all sin to be sent for us, that we might become the righteousness of God. Jesus, holy and innocent. I paid our repentance. Pay the penalty of sin and each That's not the end of it. Christ is the shepherd ruler. He shall stand and feed his flock in the strength of the Lord, the majesty of the name of the Lord. So that was the meat. Jesus rose from the dead, ascended to heaven. But we first something to establish justice, peace on earth. The old town for a virgin was someday who location bottom. Whistling must be hand These are hopeful MMP. They should not have options. A baseline Proclaim this truth just as the shepherds. We must make widely known the same witches which was told us Those are great questions. Bo on the mountain over the ocean. Right. How we can do that to a word here. A word plus. Uh yeah, it is um age so the lower thing. Sometimes the doctors somehow yeah work at workplace. Graphics. Unlike any of us. One of the version. All the other signs help us to trust in you. For those who, many of us here, who are very trusted, they are being well in the rest of this year and next year. Alpha actually in our arms The darkness seems to me. Work squares, not broken box. How are we? But the subject