I invite you this morning to open your Bibles to Philippians chapter two. Philippians chapter two We serve an amazing Savior. That is, when we consider who He is, what He did We can never stop considering it. He is such a great savior. He exceeds our expectations The closer we look at the details of the life of Jesus of Nazareth, the more food we receive for our souls. Would you agree? That the closer you get to Christ, the more you learn of Him, the more amazed you are at what He has done for you and for me. Jesus is eternal. He never had a beginning. He'll have no end. And our entire lives out into the future. Will in one sense be lives of discovery wherein, when time is no more, we live in a perpetual state of all-inspiring amazement. As we learn more and more of the goodness, the greatness, the righteousness, the holiness, the mercy, and the love that God has shown us through His Son, Jesus Christ. In the New Testament and the Old, we have texts, passages, verses that give us portraits of Christ. We've already seen from Hebrews 1 that he is better than the angels, that he is and was and forever will be God. The expression in Hebrews 1 is one of my favorites in the whole Bible, when it says that Jesus is the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. The radiance of the glory of God, and the express image imprint of God's person. Christ upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins. Sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. Christ in Hebrews 1 is the King. He is the one with authority, our God, the radiance of God. He is the one who purged our sins. Amazing We saw last week about how Christ was willing to give his life, a sacrificial death. So that he could redeem his bride, the church, to himself. It is the intent of Jesus Christ that one day he would have a group of people without blemish or spot of sin. He will in fact have one day when all of history is finally wound up, or I should say wound down, he will present to himself us. And think of this no possibility of sin. No flesh within you. You will be perfect, not just in your desire to be perfect, but you will in fact be sinless. And the Father will present the bride to the Son because of what the Son has done. Jesus is God. Jesus is the perfect husband. We see here in Philippians 2 that Jesus is also the slave. The servant. Let's read Philippians 2, and what we'll do is just read the first 11 verses together. And we'll look this morning at a portrait of Christ as Christ the obedient servant. In verse 1, therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, and if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy. Fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death. Even the death of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. What we see in this passage is a letter, a portion of a letter written to a church that was divided, struggling with its internal unity. We have as one of the themes of the letter to the Christians at Philippi the desire that God would have a unified church. So much so that the apostle is willing to call out two individuals by name and exhort them to be unified. Can you imagine an apostle writing a letter to our church? And calling out the names of two individuals and asking them to be unified to work together. Unlike Many other religions in the world. As Christians, we don't have to look very far to find the superlative example of someone who was willing to serve others. Jesus himself is our example. He sets the standard pretty high, doesn't he? We have people in history called Alexander the Great, and I don't know what titles Adolf Hitler had for himself, but I doubt that they were very humble. We see throughout history men rising up to attain some great status. We also see in our current culture when you turn on the television American Idol, and I had the British counterpart, I don't know what it is, and all these people who are aspiring to greatness. And what is greatness in American culture? What have we defined it as? Well, when your your YouTube video goes viral, I don't know how many people have to watch it for it to be viral? I don't know. Thirty thousand, twenty thousand I should have looked that up. I should have Googled that. But there's a lot of people that watch your video or listen to your song and they're willing to pay a whole lot of money. And that's greatness. But Jesus said, what did he say when the sons of thunder came to him and wanted to sit on his right hand and on his right hand? They wanted to be right there next to him. He said that the greatness, if you desire to be great, serve. Be great in your serving. And he said, the least in the kingdom of heaven will end up being the greatest. And the example that he gave in the Gospels That it is hard to deal with is the Son of God getting out a towel and a basin of water and coming and washing the disciples' feet How many of you actually wash someone's feet? Anybody actually do it? You all have, because when you had kids, you washed their feet, right? So you could probably all raise your hands, or grandkids, or your cousins, or your nephews, or nieces. I've washed obviously all my kids' feet as they were growing up, but I don't think I've ever washed an adult's foot. Not probably a pleasant task. And yet Jesus was willing to do that. What this says about him, if you look at your Bibles now, First, that he was in fact of the highest order, and order is probably the wrong word. He was and is the unique God. That was his status before the before the incarnation. He was God, the Son. If you look at verse 6, it says, who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. Now, this word that's translated form is not just speaking of an external sort of the way he looked on the outside, but that wasn't who he was on the inside. In fact, one man is written in defining the Greek word here, it is the outward manifestation which corresponds to the inner essence. It was what he appeared to be because that in fact is what he was. He was in the form of God. In verse 6, it says he did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, and this is simply stating that because he was already in form God. There was no grasping, there was no sense of inequality in the equality. And he was willing to make certain do certain things because there was no argument over what he was, if we could use the word what there. This idea of If you look here at the fact that he was being in the form God, the word could also be translated Existing. And it's in the present tense in the Greek, so it's Christ's continuing state of existence. He was in his outward manifestation, what he was inwardly in his essence, God. Now what did that look like? Say, well, that's tough. Where would we go to see a picture of the glory that God had, that Christ had? Well, you can look at the Mount of Transfiguration and you see that he unveiled, as it were. His incarnation and showed the glory that he had in his physical form. And do you remember what happened to the apostles on that day? They fell down. Peter kind of yammered on about some things because that was Peter. He didn't know what to say. And we also have a description of his post-incarnate glory, which is very similar to his Mount of Transfiguration Glory in Revelation 1. Turn there quickly to Revelation 1. Now, I don't think he looked this way before he was incarnate because he did not have his body before he was incarnate. But After the resurrection, the Apostle John sees him and describes him here in Revelation 1, and we at least get a flavor of the glory that is Christ's God the Son. He sees, if you look down here at verse 9, it says, I, John, both your brother and companion, in the tribulation and kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. Wow. was on the island that is called Patmus for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day and I heard behind me a loud voice as of a trumpet saying, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. And what you see, write in a book and send it to the seven churches. And then he names the locations of the seven churches in Asia. Verse 12, I turned to see the voice that spoke with me, and having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the feet and girded about the chest with a golden band. His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace And his voice as the sound of many waters. He had in his right hand seven stars. Out of his mouth went a sharp two edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. Now, was it a literal sword coming out of his mouth? Probably not so, but there is this image that John has of the resurrected Christ, and he responds in verse 17. When I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. But he laid his hand on me, saying to me, Do not be afraid. He sees the resurrected Christ and he falls down. Have you ever seen something that was overpowering? So much so that you lost strength in your body. You just I can't imagine that's never really happened to me, but I can imagine I would feel that way if I was driving somewhere in Kansas and I thought And uh there are no corner roads in Kansas, I guess, but let's say I was driving down the straight road and out of nowhere a twister just comes right at me and it's just just coming straight at me and it's inescapable. I can imagine that at my I would kind of react to that and I would start to my palms would sweat and I would try to turn around but But what if that tornado was totally inescapable and I knew within a fraction of a second I would just be engulfed by that thing. I couldn't run away. How would you feel in that instance? Here is the Apostle John, and he's standing before the resurrected Christ, and there is nowhere to go. The first and the last is before him. And as a creature, John is looking at his creator and he collapses and falls down. And he must be afraid because Jesus says, don't be afraid. Puts his hand on him. Wow. So here is a picture of Christ. Now this is post-resurrection, but we get a taste of this glory thing that he had, and certainly he had this before the incarnation. Didn't he have some kind of glory when he was in the form of God, being in the form of God? But we can go further in Revelation and get a little bit more of a picture of what it was like. When we begin to look at the great city, the New Jerusalem, look, turn all the way to the end of your Bible to Revelation 21. This is like Ezekiel, a passage that gives us a peek into the throne room of God. Jesus Christ is going to sit at the right hand of God. He's already sitting there. But the day will come when every knee will bow and every tongue confess. Well, there's a new heaven and a new earth coming one day. This is Revelation 21, verse 1. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of the heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. And he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And then there's this description of the New Jerusalem. He sees it in verse 10. He sees the holy Jerusalem descending out of heaven from God. God is in the midst of this city, having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. Also, she had a great and high wall with twelve gates. And twelve angels at the gates, and names written on them. Now remember, don't lose the context. Here's the new Jerusalem prepared as a bride for her husband. Who. Whose Jerusalem was that? Who did it belong to? Who was it prepared for? Jesus. It's his new Jerusalem, as it were. So it's all described here in verse. You ever want to be encouraged on a rainy day when you look outside and you think, my grass needs to be redone, my house needs to be repainted, my car is falling apart. I need to buy some new clothes. Read this. This is your future home if you're here today as a believer. So he goes out and he gives this great description of everything that's there. And then one of my favorite scenes is in chapter 22. In verse 1, and he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the middle of its street, and on either side of the river was the tree of life, which bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him. And why am I showing you all this? I'm sort of taking you to the end in order to talk about the glory that Jesus had before he became a babe, just to show you and remind you. Sort of hint at what it must have been like. Have you ever wondered, before Jesus became a baby, how he enjoyed his glory, what it was like? How great it must have been. Well, here's a peek at what it's going to be like at the end. But there is a desire Jesus had to experience the glory. And I want to direct you now to John 17 and look at the very words of Jesus and what he said about the glory that he had. And look at John seventeen one to five. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. Look at verse 4. I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself. with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Now, we don't know exactly what that glory was, but here we have Jesus before the cross and he's saying, My work is almost done. I've I've trained these men. Now I want you to glorify me with the same glory we had. Now folks, I just want us to kind of build in our minds That he existing eternally in the state of God, the outward appearance or the outward existence corresponding with the internal reality, it was an amazing, it's hard, hard to comprehend what it was like. But we do know what it's like to be a baby. We do know how fragile a baby is, right? How many of you have ever seen a baby that was born prematurely? Anybody on TV or in a hospital? So I was told recently of a premature child that was so small it could fit, this baby fit in the palm of your hand. Dads, can you imagine holding a baby like that? I'd be terrified that I would drop that precious life. And yet we have, turn to Luke 2, and let me just show you two things real quick. We have our dear Lord, and he is willing to do the unthinkable. He leaves all the glory behind. It's not something he has to hold on to. He is God. He'll always be God. He leaves it behind and he submits to humanity, to becoming a human, taking on. An additional nature. Now, this does not mean that he stopped being God, that he ceased being in the form of God in order to be a man. No, in addition to his deity, he takes on humanity. And so we have here in Luke 2 the story of Christ's birth, which you know well. And so it was, verse 6, verse 6, chapter 2. But while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. In this verse, we have in this simple narrative at least two ways, and probably three, you might know more. descriptions of what Jesus submitted himself to in his humanity. First, it's very obvious the poverty There was no room in the inn. The king of kings is born in a manger with nothing. The glorious king, and now he has nothing. I've already mentioned, secondly, that he submitted himself to humanity as it grew. He submitted himself to all the organic and physical processes that it means to be a human. He didn't begin as a 30-year-old man and start his ministry then. He began as a helpless babe in the lap of an imperfect woman and an imperfect man, and certainly in an imperfect city. And that then brings me to this. He submitted himself also to having parents and authority that was not perfect. How humiliating is it to you to have to work for someone who is deeply flawed? And demonstrates it on a daily basis. Have any of you, men or women, worked for a supervisor, and it has been a daily hassle for you to have to deal with this person? Here's God. All you can see from your supervisor is what they say at work. You don't hear what they do at home. And thank the Lord, you can't read their thoughts. All you hear is what comes out of their mind. And you also don't know what they're dreaming about at night or what their future career plans are or uh exactly what their opinion is of you But here is God in the form of a babe. And he knows every thought of his parents. He knows their past, present, and future. He knows every sin they've ever committed. And can you imagine this, folks? He's an infant, he's two months old, and he knows every sin that they will commit against him. Even as a babe. And yet he's willing to put himself under their authority. He says so. It says here right in the scriptures: after they leave him at the temple and they come and get him, and he submits himself. To their authority. Wow. And then there is the fact: tiny, tiny little fingers, tiny, tiny little toes. Tiny little cry in a barn. That's the first voice he made. And yet, that is the voice of the one who said, Let there be light. And there was light. And let the land be divided from the sea, and it was so, and it was so, and it was so, and let living creatures come forth. I mean, on the one hand, there's this creative, omnipotent voice. And now there's this little. Have you ever heard an infant, a newborn baby, cry? What kind of mindset is this that he's willing to go from glory to infancy? If you turn back to Philippians 2 now quickly, we don't want to go too far afield from our text, but So he is existing in the form of God. He is in fact equal with God. And he didn't consider this as something that he could not humble himself. And that didn't stop him, his equality with God, from verse seven, making himself of no reputation, literally emptying himself. Now, God cannot stop being God. It wasn't that Jesus came and he said, I will take off my deity cloak and put on my humanity cloak. As I already mentioned, when it says here that he took on taking the form of a bondservant, this is the language of addition, not exchange. So he that is why the King James translators and the New King James translators are not literal. They're trying to be a little bit interpretive here by saying that he made himself of no reputation. Theologians speak of this as he he decided to make To submit all the use of his prerogatives as deity, the deity, the God of gods, underneath the authority of the Father. And so when he was here, he said, I always do what my Father wants me to do. And rather than exploding on the scene with this incredible explosion of the miraculous, he becomes this humble carpenter's son who heals the sick and always operates according to his father's will. this making himself of no reputation and taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. And the Greek word that's translated likeness there is a little different. It doesn't demand complete uh equality. So what we're talking here, all right, let me what we're what we're speaking about is he was in fact a man, but he was different from any other man. That's what I'm saying. He was different, for example, in the fact that he never sinned. He was different in the fact that he was the God man. He was 100% man, 100% God, and someone says, how's that possible? It's called the hypostatic union, and it's all it's impossible to explain, but we can try to understand as best we can. But the context here, if you look at your Bible, he was existing in the form of God. He had an attitude about his deity in which he was willing to make himself a certain way of no reputation. And taking the form of a slave and coming in the likeness of men. He made himself a slave to the Father. Alright? This was what he was willing to do When he came, we saw him. Verse 8. He was found in appearance as a man. So here are Mary and Joseph in the manger, and it was in fact a baby, and he was in appearance a baby, and he was a baby. Wow, we have a man. No one during the life of the incarnation ever thought that Jesus was not a person. What is it that they argued about? The fact that he was God. They typically didn't argue over the fact that he was a man because that was evident. And so there's the initial humility, God, and now the God man. And then there's further humility here in verse 8, because he humbled himself and he became obedient. To the point of death. Now, we already talked about his omniscience and the knowledge of sin in his parents, he probably had as the God, as the one and only God. But now, here is Jesus, and he is willing, he is willing to place himself under a punishment he does not deserve. Have you ever been punished for someone else? And you did it graciously? I parents, I don't know if you've ever done this, but when I my kids were young and this is a long time ago, kids, so this won't be too embarrassing. I tried this thing where I tried to teach them about the substitutionary atonement and when they deserved a spanking once I I spanked my own arm in their place. And I said, now look I want you to know something. I'm going to take your punishment in there. Like, oh, I mean that's great. And so I punished my arm and I'm like, and I really hit myself hard because I wanted to feel pain, like, and to show that on my face. And so I don't think it had any effect on them at all. all dad and you can ask them, I don't know. I only did it like once because I thought, mm, you know, this can't become a habit. They're like, are you gonna punish yourself dad or are you gonna punish me? No, I don't know. I didn't want that But but with Jesus, so I I think there's only one other time in my life when someone was punished for me, that's when I tricked my brother into getting spank for me when I broke something and I watched him get a spanking and I I felt terrible, but I was glad. But Jesus Jesus, he did not deserve. Folks, when the world of Eden would not have had hunger in it Adam and Eve had more trees than they knew what to do with. And they were supposed to tend and keep the trees. And then their race was supposed to expand out, multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it. The original creation would have had no hunger. The original creation would have had no relational struggles. No one gets up in the morning and says to the next person, you know what, I'm I you're a jerk. And the only reason they said that is because they're grumpy. That just wouldn't have happened. All the little conflicts that siblings have, original creation, none of it. But from the moment Jesus was born, he was suffering in a fallen world. The sin of his parents, the sin of his siblings, the sin of his countrymen. He felt that day in and day out, and he didn't deserve any of it. He was the perfect creator who now came down to see, of course he knew everything, but to come down as a man. And he took that on willingly to the point of death. God told Adam and Eve, the day you eat of it, you're going to die. This was not what Jesus deserved. But not just dying quietly in his sleep. Or, you know, having being in a nursing home or in a hospice and having a quiet death. If you look down here, it says even in verse 8 at the end, even the death of the cross. Now, I don't think that we're allowed to watch people get electrocuted or get a lethal injection nowadays in our country. I I didn't check up on this, but I don't think there are any film crews there, and if there were it'd probably be all over YouTube. Oh look, let's watch someone get executed publicly. I would imagine uh and you guys can correct me after the service, but I don't think that there Do that. That would be humiliating to the person dying. Now I think the victims might be able to come, and there might be some people who can watch, but the but to put someone up on a pole on a hillside Unclothed, to to whip them and beat them and pummel them until their whole body is a mass of bruises, to put thorns on their brow, and to mock them and spit on them and deride them. And he was willing to do that. He did this because that was the mindset he had. Folks. That's God's mind to us. God is not a king who has to, who demands his right of authority and who is not simultaneously a king of love. Who loves us and is willing to get his hands dirty in our lives. And so he was obedient, verse 8. He was obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. And so we have the incarnate God hanging there, suffering Not only had he suffered with imperfect parents and siblings and countrymen and apostles and disciples and followers who all forsook him in the end, and one who betrayed him. He took on our death. He died in our place, and he didn't deserve one bit of it. He who knew no sin was made sin for us, so that we might be made the righteousness of God. Of God. And that is your God. If you're here today as a born-again Christian and you've accepted him as your personal Savior, that is your God. That is the mindset of Christ. So when you go through whatever issue it is you're going through, you need to erase from your mind that God is in the ivory tower looking down at you with his arms crossed and just shaking his head and going, mm-mm-mm. That person just needs to get their act together. They are so out of it. No, no, no, no. He has those scars still in his hands and in his feet. And he is a high priest who is touched with the feelings of our infirmities because he was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. He knows what it's like to live down here. This is the portrait that Paul draws for the Philippian Christians. Why does he do this? He does this because in verse 5, he wants them to imitate it. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now we're out of time. And there's much more to be said there. But let me leave you with this. That seems pretty hard, doesn't it? Anyone want to go to a cross today? Anyone want to humble themselves and become that kind of a servant today? But you know what? In the first verse of chapter 2, there is this encouragement that comes from being united to Christ. There is this fellowship that is the result of the Spirit of God being in all of us. There is this natural affection. and tenderness that we have toward one another that's the result of who we are in Christ. And so the amazing thing about all of this is that after Christ died and rose from the dead He said, I'll send the Spirit and the Spirit will live within you. And now He Himself, He is this generous. He dies for us, He justifies us, He saves us, and then He comes and indwells us. and empowers us. Can you believe how generous God is? So that we are now able to imitate his self-sacrificial life and love one another. You see, Jesus didn't die just for the sake of dying. He died for people. He died for you, and he died for me. And now he says we should die for one another And we should follow this example. But it's only possible if you are here today and you really are a Christian. Folks, a Christian is not someone who goes to church and names the name of Christ or knows the facts of this book. Christian is someone who looks away from themselves to the cross of Christ and realizes they can't save themselves. They have to be saved through what Christ did because they're a mess and a wreck in themselves. Christ alone is the one who can save them. And so just as I am, as the song goes, and that's why that song is used so often at invitations. Because it's just as I am. I don't bring anything. I come. And when a saved person is someone who looks away from themselves to Christ for salvation. And believes, puts their trust in the cross. They don't have to go to church or do communion or get dunked in the water. I mean, those things come after you're saved, for by grace. You're saved through faith. It's a gift of God, not of works, so that no one can boast