Thank you guys again for coming tonight. I'm Sung Cho, the pastor of Faith Bible Church. And I'm the only one standing in the way between you and the candlelighting and the cookies. But uh we will take some time studying the word and talk a bit about Christmas. And it's true meaning, right? So for those for those who teach or preach regularly, uh you probably agree with me that sometimes the biggest struggle is selecting the appropriate passage for the occasion. Almost everyone here already knows a nativity story from the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. Many of us are well read in the Word, so we know all the related parallel passages. So how do we keep our audiences engaged when we speak on a Christmas occasion, service, or Bible study? How can we present the familiar yet and historical yet amazing and remarkable Christmas account? Again, a big part of that's choosing the right portion of scriptures for study. And this year I sought inspiration from famous preachers. I was delighted to find that the late great Tim Keller delivered a wonderful Christmas message from first John one one to four. Now I read those passages many times, studied it, even taught it before, but never for Christmas. I'd have never thought of doing that, but it makes good sense. I assure you I did not copy and paste Keller's sermon. I have my own thoughts to share. So you can hear my exposition right now, but do go listen to his sermon It's entitled Purpose of Christmas from way back in ninety nine. So it's a really good Christmas message. But it' you're stuck with me right now, but uh you can read with me now, 1 John 1, 1 to 4, and it should be in the second page of the bulletin. Follow along with me and keep that open as we look at this passage. First John one, one to four. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled. Concerning the word of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us That which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we write to you, that your joy may be full. Amen. So whether it's ninety-nine or two thousand twenty-five, we're still amazed at what happened about two millennia ago. Because of what happened then, Christmas is still worth celebrating. It's a beautiful, touching, and joyful occasion. To help you maximize your joy tonight, tomorrow, and really all year and all of your life, I invite you to meditate on four big Christmas words based on the four verses we just read First, there's incarnation in verse one. Secondly, there's manifestation in verse two. Thirdly, there's fellowship in verse 3. Fourthly and lastly, there's jubilation in verse 4. First, Christmas is about the incarnation. Many of us enjoy this time of the year because we get to spend extra time with family and friends. Sure, you stay in touch through texts, phone calls, and video calls throughout the year. But nothing replaces warm hugs from your children and grandchildren. It's best to see someone face to face, not through a screen. We didn't have a choice during those COVID years. It's good to hear one's voice, but not through a speaker, but really hear them face to face I say all that because for a few years, face-to-face is exactly how Jesus related to his closest followers. Live with them, spend time with them for many for throughout the whole year. The beginning in 1 John 1:1, I don't think it's the cosmic beginning of the universe, I believe it's the beginning of Christ's ministry. The author is Apostle John, the son of Zebedee. He was one of the first ones to hear Jesus and follow him. Can read about his encounters in the Gospel of John. And one day he went over to where Jesus was staying and spent the rest of the day with him. Over time, John grew so close to Jesus that he referred to himself as the disciple whom he loved. He sat next to him, he leaned on him. After his death and resurrection, Jesus appeared to John and others in flesh and blood. This is the wonder of incarnation. In the Old Testament, they saw the Son of God appear in celestial forms as the angel of the Lord. Now, in the New Testament, the word became flesh. The second person of the Trinity, the Son of God, became man. The divine nature and human nature, while remaining distinct, became one in what's called a hypostatic union. I'm giving you plenty of big words to study for the rest of the um you know, for the new year I guess. Unlike us, he was born of the virgin. Like us, he was held as a baby. Grew and became strong to adolescence and worked as an adult. Christ's incarnation is a totally unique event in history. We cannot replicate it. Incarnation is a mystery too. It's a doctrine of Christology, right? Study of Christ. I don't think the term is appropriate as a practical doctrine of the church or myology, or we can just captively throw that term around. So as we understand and appreciate that incarnation is amazing and supernatural, we truly appreciate Christmas. The word of life is in the word of God, heard, seen, beheld, and touched. That's the message of verse 1. But what happened after Jesus was born? We know he was born to poor parents and grew up in an obscure town. So, how will people discover him? To experience his greatness and power? So we go on to verse 2. We learn that our Savior did not live as a recluse or a monk. He wasn't an extreme introvert. He made a public appearance. So now we speak of this word manifestation, right? He appeared. So notice how twice in this one verse we hear of life manifesting. This life is eternal, having no end. This life is personal from the beginning with the Father Again, we're talking about life that's in Jesus. In this gospel, John wrote in John 1:4 that in Jesus was life, and that life was the light of men. Now here are two words, light and manifest. You know, it's very sensitive to context if you think about it. You could use these as a topic for a holiday survey. So let's say I go to University of Maryland, Baltimore County, about 10 minutes, 15 minutes from here. So let's say I go there next semester and ask some students, what does it mean to have life? What is life? I'm willing to guess a typical college student would define life as living it up, or if they're more studious and serious-minded, making a living after they graduate Or perhaps it's about recreation and vacation, traveling on adventures, experiencing the world, taking photos and posting on social media to get all the likes and followers. That's life in the eyes of the world, that's for sure. And then let's say I also asked, what does it mean to manifest something? Now let's see if I got the slang correctly. To manifest means made it happen, made something real, wished for something, and it ended up happening. So it's like I manifested that or I manifested my success and wealth, one might say, as a successful, accomplished entrepreneur. Well, sorry to say Christmas is not about us wishing to make our lives exciting and fun for ourselves Christmas is about eternal life from God made known to us, visible, available to us. We cannot manifest such meaningful life from here below. It has to be manifested. for us from heaven above. And life isn't true life, at least Isn't experiencing chief thrills and thrills, right? True life is all about knowing God the Father through God the Son. Jesus prayed to the Father on behalf of his disciples in John 17, verse 3. Is This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. That's life, right? Eternal life is knowing God through Jesus Apostles like John could not help but proclaim these truths concerning word incarnate and light manifested. What they've seen and heard, they bore witness and declare, none could stop them. In fact, once when John and his friend Peter receives severe threats to shut up about Jesus. They reply, We cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. There's no way they'll keep silent or quiet about Christ. They can't be quiet about life manifested to them. So they are evangelizing, sharing the gospel, and evangelism, sharing the gospel, is an invitation to fellowship. That's what we see in verse 3. Like the verse before, this verse has a word that's repeated. Just as you saw manifested twice in verse 2. You see fellowship twice in verse three. You know I thought about making the all the points kind of in the same way by using the word association, but I kept the word fellowship. I think it's a beautiful word that we We should use more often. But how do we define fellowship? Well, consider the tradition of ours tonight, Christmas Eve service. This is fellowship, right? This is part this part of the evening. This is worthwhile, even if we didn't have the delicious cookies afterwards. Sure I can stay home in my sweatpants or pajamas Maybe both, I don't know. Um relax listen to Bing Crosby music watch a James Stewart movie. Of course family time at home is great, right? Hope you guys get a lot of that this Time of the year, but there's something warmer, richer, and more profound among those who share faith in Christ. Those who belong to the household of faith. That's fellowship. The word fellowship, as some of you know, is koinonia. Koinonia is one of those words with death. and complexity. Koinonia can mean sharing of resources and goods, material and spiritual. It can express unity and intimate bond. Obviously, people share fellowship for different reasons. It doesn't even have to be religious. In fact, we see the word used in academia and by medical doctors. So, what makes Christian fellowship unique? Well, the answer is easy. Christian fellowship is unique because of Christ. That's how John explains it in verse 3. I don't know if you've ever been eager to introduce person A to person B. It might be because you're playing Cupid matchmaker, right? Or say you're using your connections to help your friend land his or her dream job. But there's someone better than anyone you'd encounter for romance or career. John and the other apostles are exclaiming You've got to meet Jesus. We're declaring what we've seen and heard so that you'll join us. But we are not the best thing about this fellowship. The best thing about this fellowship is not knowing John, Peter, or Paul. No, the best thing about this fellowship is knowing God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Now, while talking about Christian fellowship, I'd be remiss if I don't explain to you how to start a relationship with God. First thing we have to do is address the rift, the divide between us and him. We've all fallen short of our Creator's perfect standards. We've broken his laws, coveting, lusting, blaspheming his name. Our iniquities have separated us from God. Our sins have hidden his face from us. Isaiah 59, verse 2 says, We don't deserve eternal life. We deserve justice eternally apart from the Lord in hell. But here's the good news We remind ourselves of why we celebrate Christmas. God the Father sent his son to bridge the divide between heaven and earth. God became man, a helpless faith. As we sang earlier, through Christ, veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hailed the incarnate deity, pleased as man with man to dwell. Jesus, our Emmanuel. Then our Lord Jesus lived a perfect life, then he went to the cross to die in our place. He cried, the cry of their relation, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He felt as man the horror and pain of this fellowship. He was rejected for us to be accepted. He suffered as our substitute and satisfied the wrath of God that we deserve. He finished his work of redemption and breeded his last. Having paid the price in full, Jesus rose from the grave on the third day. He gave many proofs of his resurrection before ascending to heaven. And someday he'll return to judge the living and the dead. Now this good news demands a response. Repent. Turn from sin and selfishness. Self-righteousness. Believe. Turn to Christ. Place your hope of heaven on Him only. Not our effort or endeavor that will secure for us eternal life. It's all about God's mercy, grace, and faithfulness. That's how we're called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. And there's nothing more wonderful than relationship and fellowship with Jesus. It exceeds all the joys we have in this life. It's greater than the joys of career advancement, of blissful marriage, and rewards of parenting. I don't deny that God grants us special happiness at various stages of life, but they're all partial and incomplete. They're meant to point to the greatest joy found in God. We are meant to point others to the greatest joy found in Christ. Let's follow the lead of the apostles in 1 John 1:4, which says, And these things we write to you, that your joy may be full. And so these things we rehearse, remind, and repeat in our times together, as we do tonight and as we do every week, to share with others the joy that we have in knowing God through Jesus Christ. So now as we do every year, we'll end Christmas Eve and look forward to Christmas tomorrow with Silent Night. That night about 2,000 years ago may have looked like any other night, quiet and uneventful in the eyes of the world. But the angels were eager to look into what happened in Bethlehem. There was joy wrapped up in swaddling cloth. There was joyful worship on heaven and earth. Glory stream from heaven afar. Heavenly hosts sing hallelujah. Christ the Savior is born. That's why Christmas is beautiful, touching, and joyful. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you are not a God who is far away. You're not a God who wound up the universe like a clock and just left us. You are not a God who is distant from us, but you are near us. And Lord, we remember that tonight and really just all throughout the year, but as we think about Christmas, how the word became flesh, how you sent your son. We're thankful for that. And we see how it transforms our lives. How despite our unfaithfulness. You loved us first while we were still sinners. Your son died for us. And we thank you for that. And we thank you for the life that he lived. The life that he lives after the death and resurrection. That's how we can join him in that life through faith. Pray that if anyone is unsure about this or needs reassurance of it tonight, pray that you would speak to their hearts Pray that that as we sing that your son will be born in us today for those who need this gospel tonight. We pray for those among us, pray to pray for people in our families, in our In our friendships that really need to hear the gospel, we pray for them that they would also have the joy that we enjoy. The joy of knowing you through Jesus Christ, your Son. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.