Have you ever tried to update something and realize that it was time to just throw it out? One of the things we go through a lot in our household because of the nature of growing up as a boy is shoes. Can you parents relate to this? How many times did you have to buy shoes for your son or your daughter? And if you ever looked down and went, whoa, didn't I just buy those? And now they've got four or five holes all through them, and it's already time for another pair. of shoes. Maybe you're like that. When I was growing up, I wore my shoes out really fast and my parents said the same thing. Hmm. And so now I say the same thing. There are times in our lives when we have to get rid of the tires on our car, replace them with some new tires. There are times when we have to replace our whole car. Maybe it's time for a truck. A nice, nice big manly truck with a gun rack in the back, and you know, maybe it's time to buy that golden retriever you've always wanted to buy and put him in there, go hunting. Well, maybe it's time for a nice small compact car. So your kids are growing up and you want to have something that's more fuel efficient. But folks, there are also times when Something has changed so drastically that whatever comes next It has to be so different from what was previous that it's really not even on the same level. There's really not a parallel. There's some overlap. There's a relationship between the two, but it's so new and so different by the way it is inherently made and built that it just doesn't fit the mold. And this is what Jesus said about the old covenant in comparing it to old wineskins, and the new covenant, comparing that to the necessity of new wineskins or new wine. If you took an old wineskin that was already stretched and worn out, and you put brand new wine in it and then stopped it and left it in there, it would continue to stretch and expand and by virtue of the temperature, and that old wineskin would break and be useless. And so Jesus taught that sometimes it's necessary for, if you're going to have new wine, for new wineskins. That was his his illustration of what he brought. You and I have a hard time with new things. I do I remember one man talking about this. He was a preacher. And he was bemoaning the necessity, but yet the constriction of tradition. And he said that he was just as guilty as everyone else. He said, if you come to my house, And you sit down in the chair next to the fireplace, hey, that's my chair. And I sit in that chair every day. And when I have guests over and someone sits there, I have to stop myself and say, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, wait a minute, right. I can sit in a different chair. How long have you been sitting in your particular pew? Have you changed a whole lot the last six months, or is that kind of your pew, your seat? I was at a conference two two weeks ago or about a week or so ago. in Virginia Beach at a counselor's conference, this huge area, a thousand plus people, and I had a st a chair. And I sat in that chair or right around that area every time I could And the second session, I'm walking in there and going to my chair. Hey, you're sitting in my chair. It's over a thousand people. Lots of empty chairs, but that one is mine. You know when a Hebrew came to Christ, when he was heard the message of Jesus, of Nazareth, and the fact that he was the truth true savior of the Jews and the Gentiles, that was something that was hard to accept. But some Hebrews did accept it, if you remember at Pentecost, quite a few. Listen to Peter's preaching. And in Jerusalem, on that day, there were thousands. And that group continued to grow, primarily of Hebrews and proselytes who came in there for that celebration. And they grew, and they grew, and yet still, I mean, you think of how hard it was for the Hebrew people. They had an entire Old Testament that was just for them Romans says the oracles of God was delivered to the Hebrews, and this was a huge advantage to them. And they had that Old Testament law. And they had Sinai, and they had angels that administered that covenant that were somehow involved in that. And of course, the Lord Himself And it was difficult for them to sort of get rid of the old wineskins. It was a struggle for them. This letter, most folks believe, and I think it is accurate, is written for Hebrew Christians A number of different kinds of Christians that are that were in the church here that this letter is written to. First, there were those Hebrew Christians who Who heard the message and truly believed, but were suffering and were tempted to sort of forsake the assembly and kind of walk away from a deeper commitment. But then there were also those here who were not truly saved. They had sort of intellectually accepted the gospel. And they gave sort of a verbal assent, but inwardly they were not truly regenerated. Folks, do you realize that in this very room the same condition exists? Just because you join a church or become a member, does that make you a Christian? Is it possible in this very room that some are truly not born again? I'm not talking about folks that visit necessarily, but the actual people who come here week after week. So you see that there are different people that can exist in one assembly. And so Hebrews is written and it's kind of uh it aims at different people in different passages. We know from Hebrews 1 that the people here were struggling with identifying what Jesus was. They knew that he was that the that the apostolic claim is that he was God, but they wondered, was he just an angel? By looking at this passage today, I want you to see a couple of things. First, Hebrews chapter 2, verse 1. It says, therefore, and we'll get into why the therefore is there, but in Hebrews 2 verse 1 He says, therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip. These two expressions, the more earnest heed. Lest at any time we should let them slip are nautical expressions. The idea here is of mooring ourselves tightly to truth, lest we drift away from it. Like a boat out in the water, if you didn't moor it to the dock, it's going to drift away. Now these expressions are not People who are setting their wills to swim out to the ocean, who are saying, I'm I'm out of here, I am willfully and publicly proclaiming my descent, I'm leaving. The word pictures here are this subtle movement over time. The rope slips down into the water and no one notices. And the first hour, maybe it moves a couple yards away from the dock, and the second and the third, and before you know it, it's so far out to sea, there's no hope of ever getting that ship back. Folks, we are always in danger of that in our church. It's neglect. Have you ever neglected a houseplant? Oh, I'll water it tomorrow. No, I'll water it tomorrow. Oh, I'll water it tomorrow. And then you finally get around to watering it, and there it is, it's dead, and the cat ate half of it. There's your houseplant. Neglect is one of those things that every Christian is perpetually in danger of because we're called to spiritual discipline and to action, and yet everything around us just calls to us to relax. You deserve a break today. You've had enough. Why open that Bible? I mean, is it really that important? I mean, why go to church? I mean, you went three times last November. Why go this Sunday? Or as one professing Christian woman told me, I don't read my Bible because I know all the stories. I know what's in there. Why should I ever read it again? We are in danger of that. All of us here. So I have to start this message with this question so that you see the importance of chapter one and what we could drift from. Are you drifting this morning? Where are you in your walk with Jesus Christ? I mean, have you kind of felt some subtle movement, some rocking of the boat under your feet? I mean, when's the last time you made sure? That your rope is fastened tightly to the truth of the new covenant that is in Jesus' blood given to us. The danger, and we'll talk if we have time, the danger is very present in verses 2 and 3. Of chapter 2. If the word spoken by certain creatures, angels, was steadfast, it was certain And every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. Sodom and Gomorrah. The angels came, a message was given, a town was destroyed. But specifically, in the covenant of Sinai, Angels were somehow involved in the giving of that covenant, although it certainly came from the Lord. And that covenant Is steadfast and immovable. If that kind of a covenant that involved angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received A just recompense. How are we going to escape, verse 3, if we neglect so great a salvation? A salvation that comes with the covenant based on Jesus' blood and righteousness. Why does he say that? Well, that is from chapter 1. Let's go back to chapter 1. The first thing I want you to see is very simply that Jesus is God. If you want to remember easily how to talk to someone about the deity of Christ, you could, in your mind, remember three key passages: John 1, Hebrews 1, and Colossians 1 All three deal with the deity of Christ in a very clear and straightforward way. So I often go to these passages when I'm talking to someone about his deity. Jesus is God, and we see this first expressed in let's just read the first three verses together and we'll see. The writer says, God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets. Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he is appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. Now we see here that the writer is tying the ministry of the Jewish prophets of the Old Testament to the ministry of Jesus Christ. These are the last days. And by using this expression, you must understand that the last days are not in the future when meteors streak across the sky and the Antichrist arises. We're living in the last days. Eschatologically, the last days are from the moment of Christ's ascension to the moment of his return. You say, wow, that's a long last day, and yeah, you're right, it is, but we still stand at the end. Waiting for the return of Christ. And so the writer says this: that he has been appointed an heir of all things, and he is also God, made the world through him. His relationship right from the bat with creation is being established. Jesus Christ is the one who at the end of these last days is going to receive all of it as an inheritance. It all is going to Christ Because he is also the one at the end of verse 2 who made all these things. Now you might be fooled by this expression, by whom also he made the worlds. As if God Himself Put on gloves of Jesus Christ and made the worlds, and sort of Jesus was a tool that God used to make. But that myth is dispelled in verse 3, when the very The descriptions of Christ are listed first in speaking of who Christ is in verse 3. He's the brightness of his glory. Now, this is the only time this Greek expression is used in the New Testament, and it's the only time this expression, the express image of his person, is used in the New Testament. But we can see, we know in spite of that, that this word brightness is not referring to a reflection. As if there is God looking in a mirror and he sees Christ. It is more the idea of the very radiance. There's something happening where there's glory. the glory of God. And Jesus is so closely associated with that that he is this radiance of the glory of God. When you see Jesus, you're seeing the radiance of the glory of God Himself. And then this idea in verse 3 of the expressed image of His person This is in secular literature and Greek literature used in speaking of making an engraving or an imprinting. So if you were to make an imprintation of God, And Jesus, Jesus is like that. To see Jesus is to see God. So on the one hand, there is the glory of God, and that is Christ. The radiance is Christ Himself. On the other hand, there is this image of God, and that is Christ himself. What we see by these two expressions is that Jesus The incarnate Jesus of Nazareth is so closely associated with the image and the glory of God. That where Jesus begins and God ends, where God ends and Jesus begins, that line is blurred. Something is happening here that these two are so close that the conclusion eventually is that they are one and the same. He builds on those two expressions in verse 3 by talking about how it's Christ who upholds all things by the word of his power. So Christ Himself is creator. Christ Himself will receive all things as heir. Christ Himself is that glorious radiance of God. Christ Himself is the very image of God, and Christ Himself is currently, by virtue of his words, upholding the entire universe. That's the idea. Now, what kind of power would that require? Have you ever asked yourself that question? Not too long ago, well, it's probably been time goes, three or four years ago now. I was watching a video by an evangelist and he was describing the glory of God, and it was pretty interesting. He was going through the different kinds of stars that exist out there in space. And he was comparing them to the star that we have and know as the sun. Now I forget all the statistics, but did you know that there are stars? I remember this. There are stars that are out there that are the size of our entire solar system. That big. Now, how much power does it take to uphold all the universe? Could an angel do that? A man certainly could not do that. Only God is depicted in the Old Testament and New Testament of having that level of power, the one and only God. And how does he do it? Well, you see this word word in verse 3. And how is it that God made the heavens and the earth? And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And what did this God do? Verse 3. Jesus Christ purged our sins. And he sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. Now, this seating at the right hand, it is an enthronement He is on a throne beside the Majesty on High. But by virtue of the fact that he is at the right hand, This means God the Father has authority over God the Son. God the Father is the one who is now orchestrating this plan of salvation. And God the Son is joyously participating. When Jesus was on the earth, he said, This, I always do the will of my Father. In the garden, while he was sweating drops of blood, Jesus said, Not my will, but thine be done. And so he is a servant to the Father, although co-equal with him The Father, folks, he purged our sins. He cleansed our sins away. This is, now we could stop right here and preach sermons on this. How is it possible? Who is your God? One day all things. He is an heir who will receive everything. He made everything. He's this radiance of the Father. He is God. And yet he was willing, he was willing to by himself purge sins. That is a Amazing. Because not only does this, although it's not a direct reference to the love, grace, and mercy of God, it shows the great comp Compassion and willingness of such a God to come and do this for us. What is the result? What is the result of this idea of purging sins, being who he is? Well, there is verse 4. What happens when God the Son comes to this place? And he's willing to submit to death, the death of a cross. Well, he is made. Now that word made is not talking about created or recreated, as if God the as if Jesus did not exist. And God the Father spoke, and now there is. It's more a change from one state into another He was made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. Now that word inheritance there is probably a reference more to what he was before he was became God the Son incarnate. In other words, folks When God became a man, he was still far better than an angel. He was still the God man. He did not leave behind his deity. And so he when he became a man, he was better than the angels by virtue of the name that he had obtained. What name? Well, it is the kind of name that would be in keeping with someone who could sit down on the right hand of the majesty on high It's the kind of name in keeping with someone who radiates the glory of God, who is the radiance of the glory of God. It is the kind of name, folks. Of a being that can uphold the universe with his very words. He's the Lord, the Lord of Lords, and the King of Kings. How do we know? Now, you see these descriptions of him laid line upon line, but even these do not appear to explicitly state he is God. Although I certainly think that they build that case very clearly. Where do we see this explicitly? Well As we continue down through the passage, we see the writer quote from the Old Testament over and over again building his case as to who Jesus is. He is God who became man. And now let's look at what is said in the scriptures. Look at verse 5. Now we're going to talk about what the Father said about the Son. For unto which of the angels said he at any time? Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. And again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he bringeth the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. Now, he wants us to know he's God who became a man who is also the Son of God. Now you see this word begotten here. This is largely misunderstood. And first begotten in verse 6. This is not a reference to Jesus being this creature that God made at first. Like God made Jesus first, and then Michael the Archangel, and then Gabriel, and then and then maybe Lucifer was made somewhere in there, and then all these other sons that God made. This expression first begotten is also used in Colossians, and it has to do with the idea of a son who has the preeminence over the other sons because he was the firstborn son. He's the one who's going to get the inheritance. He's the one who's going to receive it all and be the one in charge because he is the first begotten in that sense. In John 3. 16, we have the that for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That expression there that's translated only begotten probably is a reference more to his uniqueness. Folks, there's only one Jesus who is a son of God. There's no other person like him. The unique God man, is there? Is Michael like him? Is Michael God? No. Is Michael a man? I'm talking about the angel? No. Is Gabriel God? No. Is Gabriel a man? No. Are you God? There's only one God man, the only begotten Son of God. And he has the preeminence over all his brothers and sisters. We're his brothers and sisters. It's the will of God that there be many of us, because God the Father would glorify his son for all eternity. But there's only one. And so, verses five and six, he was brought into the world, and the God is his father, and he is. His son, and now the father says to the angels, verse six, worship him. Now I love thinking about this. Because I love angels. I don't love them like worship them. But they fascinate me. You know theologians think and I I think I agree with this because of what Jesus said. The angels don't marry. They don't procreate. They don't have kids. So the number of angels that God made at the beginning is the same number that are existing now. We also, so it we tend to think that each angel, therefore, although I can't explicitly prove this, this seems to be in keeping with what Jesus said and what we see in the Old Testament. Each angel is like an individual masterpiece from the hand of God, from the speech of God. Each one created, created, created. How powerful are these angels? Well, in the Old Testament, the angel of death came over a city, and all the firstborn died. That's a lot of power. How many thousands do you think that was? But then you also had the Assyrian army, do you remember? Being wiped out, how many tens of thousands by an angel of God? What do the angels look like? Well, we have the Ark of the Covenant And we have two classes that we're aware of, probably three. There's the Archangel, the Archangel, because there's probably only one And there are only two angels explicitly mentioned in the Bible, Michael and Gabriel, and Michael would be the archangel. Then we have the seraphim and the cherubim. Those are plurals. You see in the Old Testament the cherubims, that is not good English. It's actually the cherubim and the seraphim. They look different. We're not exactly sure how they look different. You have in Ezekiel we just read those beings that, if we take that literally, there are these multiple wings, these four faces. I don't know. I don't know if that's literal. I tend to think so. But angels are incredibly powerful. They don't die. And how powerful are they compared to you and me? If we are to take the angels of Ezekiel, And say that there are angels that look just like that, then there are gigantic creatures. Can you imagine? I like to think of this. Christmas. It's a ways away, but Christmas. The stable, the baby Jesus in a stall. Here's Mary and Joseph, the shepherds. We'll throw in the wise man because we're painting a picture. They're there The Seraphim, the cherubim, Michael, Gabriel, and behind the tiny forms of Mary and Joseph kneeled over that little stall, these immense Creatures of light bowing before the Son of God. The Father said, Angels worship him And in this context, it would almost seem that it's during the days of his incarnation the Father is saying to the Son, I have begotten you, there he is, worship him amen. Wow, what a thought. This this juxtaposition of weakness and babe in flesh, this man who is the God man and angels. Bowing before him. Do angels worship other angels? Who are angels supposed to worship only worship? What do they say in Revelation when John the Apostle bows down and the angel says, No, no, no, no, no. I'm just like you. Worship God. And this is also evidence of the deity of God, of Jesus. So where does he go next? Well, in verse 6, he says, the Father commanded the angels to worship Jesus. The angels, what are they? Well, he he quotes this passage, but of the angels he saith, who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire. So the angels are still in spirit form. They are, by virtue of their essence, different from the Son. But of the Son, and here's your explicit statement: of the Son, verse 8. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever a scepter of righteousness, is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. And somebody says, I don't get it. He's addressing him as God, and then he's saying he also has God, and that is, of course, the Trinity Himself. Three persons, and yet each one distinct. Do you understand it? I don't understand it. Are there things in the Bible sometimes that have been revealed to the sons of men that we don't completely understand? Yes, there are. But God has anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows Not only, here's what he's saying here. Not only is he God who has become a son of God the Father, he's already pre-existing as the Son, but now he is incarnate. But he also has, verse 8, a throne. That implies authority, and what kind of throne? Thy throne, O God, is Forever and ever, an everlasting throne. Now, try to keep this in your head. If you ever want to sing a song of praise to Christ If you ever want to encourage yourself and get your mind off your own problems, think about this list here. Your Christ, your Jesus who saved you from your sin. He is the last one that God has spoken from. It's the covenant that is based on the blood of Christ. He is going to receive all things as heir. He is the creator. the radiance and glory of God, the express image of God. He upholds the universe by his power. He was made Better than the angels by virtue of the fact that when he was incarnate, he was already God and He stayed God. And he has a throne, an everlasting throne. So where does this lead us? Well, if you look at your Bible and you see verses 9 to 12, it's an extended quote from Psalm 45, Isaiah 61, and Psalm 102. He says in verse 9 some statements about the character of Jesus and what he is like. He loves righteousness. He hates iniquity, and so he has been anointed to be king. In verse 10, he is the one who laid the foundations of the earth. The heavens are the work of his hand, and so on. And then in verse 13, a quote from Psalm 110: There is this current period of waiting. Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstools. So in chapter 1, a comparison between Christ and the angels, and Christ is better than the angels That leads us to chapter 2, hanging there now. When you or your kids were little or your grandkids, have you ever given them a message to tell a sibling? Have you ever said something like, go tell Johnny it's time to eat dinner? And tell him that dad said so. And have you haven't your son go run up the steps or run out to the yard and say, hey, try to eat. And the other kid says, so And the kid's like, Dad said so. And all of a sudden the other kid just throws his stuff down and runs in because he knows that when the authority of the father is backing him up, It's a greater authority, and it's not one to trifle with. If it's time to eat, it's time to eat. But what if the father came out? What if the father stood up and said, it's time to eat? What is the son supposed to do then? He better get up and get in there. It's time to eat. There's a schedule to keep or whatever. It would even have more, I don't know what you would call that, more of a presence and authority. This is kind of the argument that's being made here between chapters 1 and 2. Do you remember the parable Jesus taught? He said that a landowner left his vineyard, his farm to his servants, and then he went off into a far country. And then he sent back some messengers to deal with them. And what did they do? They killed the first one or they sent him away? And he did this multiple times, and they kept dishonoring and disrespecting the messenger. So what did the landowner say? He said, Well, I'll send my son. They'll have respect for him. And so he sent his son. Of course, we know that the Jews rejected Christ, and that is what the parable was about. But he sent the son because the son Has so much authority. Folks, when you read this book, it is not just the words of men and apostles. This is the words of God, and the covenant that you have is based on Jesus. And so, verses 1 to 3, we're back here again to conclude the message Are you listening to the one who in these last days speaks? Jesus. Are you standing this morning on the new covenant that is in his blood? Are you in danger? Or Are you in danger, verse 3, of not escaping if we neglect so great a salvation? See, folks, there might be someone in here, and you think that your church record, your Sunday school attendance, the fact that you're even in a building like this, somehow get you closer to God. And really, it doesn't. I have a picture in my office of Russian Christians meeting in the middle of the woods. On a snowy day. Are we closer to God because we are here in this building? There is no closeness to God without Jesus Christ, and there is no escape from hell. From everlasting punishment without Jesus. You see, when Jesus came, his message and the message of the cross is that poor sinners like you and I We can escape from the coming wrath of God in hell if we flee to that cross. If we say, I give up on trying to do it on my own, my life's a mess, and I need God. And we look to him and we say, I believe that Jesus died in my place on the cross. The punishment that you and I deserve, it fell on him. He died for you and for me. He that means he loves us, right? Would you die for someone you don't love? Well, I don't think so, but he God said, God so loved the world that he sent his son to do this, and the son said, I always do what my father tells me to do. And Jesus said, this is a new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another as I have loved you. So we know that God the Father loved us and sent the Son, and we know that the Son loved us, and that's why he went to the cross. And so when we look away from ourselves to that cross and we say, Lord, save me by virtue of what He did, not by virtue of what I did, that very moment we're saved. It doesn't matter if you're out in your shed, in your jeans, you know, fixing the tractor, or whether you're in this building. It's putting your faith and trust in Him That saves you. People who don't do that will, people who don't put their trust in Christ and repent of their sins will not. Folks, there's no way to soften this. Zero. They will not escape It won't happen. At the great white throne judgment, the Father is not going to say, you almost trusted Christ. He's not going to say, if I had given you another five years, you might have accepted Christ. I'll let you into heaven. The door will shut, and that will be all. Who are you this morning? Are you neglecting salvation in that sense? For the rest of us here this morning that are Christians Isn't it weird that God exhorts us to listen a lot in the Bible? James does it too in James chapter 1. We're supposed to listen and then obey. Listen and then obey. Have you ever found yourself not listening, but you really want to? I have. Folks, let's renew our ears. Let's ask God to give us fresh ears to hear. In the coming weeks, the Word of God, wherever you find us, if you're listening to sermons on the way to work, when you open your Bible in the morning or in the evening, or when you sing a hymn that is scriptural, listen. Don't start drifting away from the covenant of Christ