Well, on behalf of Faith Bible Faith Bible Church, we'd like to thank you all for joining us this evening. And my name is Sung Chou and I have the privilege of serving as the pastor of FBC. And I'll be officially beginning in mid-January. And I'm glad to spend Christmas Eve with all of you Now before I was voted to be the next pastor, I remember sitting right there with Mark, and he was asking me a whole bunch of questions from the congregation. I was a bit nervous, but looking back, I quite enjoyed the experience. Q<unk>A is a great way to get to build relationships. That's the best way to get to know people. I mean, isn't that the way we bond with family? Uh, catch up with our friends, write emails to our coworkers, make small talk with strangers, carry a conversation on a date. And I'll be glad to answer more questions by myself, but tonight the focus is not on me, not on the leaders of this church, not even on the congregation. We're talking about the person and the birth of Jesus Christ, whom we worship as the Son of God. Remember the night he was born and joyfully recognized he is all that the Bible says he is. As we just sang, that child, so dear and gentle, is our Lord in heaven above. Now, if there are any in this room who do not know Jesus very well or want to get to know him better, I believe the best way forward is to ask more questions. And I'll be glad to answer them. I'll sit right stand right there after the service if you want to ask me more questions about Jesus. And maybe s a good way to come up with some questions is to Use the 5W and the 1H. You guys know this? Who, what, when, where, what, and how And I want to consider following six questions about Jesus. When was Jesus born? Who is Jesus? How did Jesus come to earth? Where did Jesus arrive? What did Jesus do? Why did Jesus come? And maybe you can piece together all of the answers just from the pharaoh service tonight, from the songs we And we could go to various other places in the Bible to answer these questions. But I want to turn to one passage. in Apostle Paul's letter to the Galatians. Let's look at Galatians chapter four, verse four and five. Just two verses, if you have your Bible with you. If not, I'll just read it for you. I'm reading from the New King. James Version Galatians chapter four, verse four and five But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law That we might receive the adoption as sons. I believe we can answer all the questions that I just posed. in these two verses. First we may ask, when was Jesus born? The easy answer is about 2,000 years ago. And we heard from John's gospel and the choir about the fullness of grace, hope, life, and joy that accompanies Jesus' birth. But here in this passage, we also speak of the fullness of the time. What does this do? You see, the Son of God came to Earth not at some random time. Two thousand years ago wasn't just an arbitrary time. He came. He came right on schedule, just as God foreordained it. Now we don't have time to discuss in depth, but a sixth century prophet named Daniel records in his book specifically chapter nine, I encourage you to read it. That sixty-nine sevens would pass after the decree to rebuild Jerusalem, and then the anointing one will be cut off For you mathematically mind the people, sixty-nine times seven equals four eighty three, if you guys are already doing that in your head. And if we do some conversion with the Hebrew calendar, the Gregorian calendar, we arrive in thirty three AD. The year of Jesus' crucifixion. And we're gonna explore the de um meaning of that in a minute, but the main point here is that Jesus came to ar right on time. To fulfill the prophecies of the past. When did Jesus come? He came right on time to fulfill the prophecies of old. The Old Testament is replete with similar predictions, and I encourage you to study them. Secondly, who is Jesus? Who? We like Paul know Jesus to be the Son of God. And we believe that one God exists in three persons. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. As we heard in John 1:1, Jesus is the Word who was with God, and He was God, and He is God. He was with God as a separate person of the Trinity, but at the same time he was God, and we're saying he is the fullness of God. He existed from the eternity past and he became flesh and dwelt among us. He was sent by the Father from heaven. God, Jesus, who is he? He is the Son of God. Thirdly, how did Jesus come to earth? How We read at the end of verse 4 that he was born of a woman. And you may be like, okay, born of a woman. Why no mention of his father, Joseph? Jesus was not born like all of us in this room through the union of male and female, conceived by the Holy Spirit, Jesus was born of a virgin, fulfilling the prophecy of Isaiah 7. And we sang in Heart the Herald Angels sing that he is the offspring of a virgin's womb. Fourthly, where did Jesus come from? We read in the last phrase of verse 4, Galatians 4, 4, that he was born under the law. Wait, what does that mean? Isn't everyone born under the law? I was born under the South Korean government and many of you were born in under the US government. But the law that Paul is talking about here refers to the law of Moses, the lawgiver of Israel. It was necessary for Jesus to be born as an Israelite into A Jewish family. But just keep in mind, as we talk about Bethlehem and the little town of Bethlehem where he was born, he was not an ordinary citizen. We learn from the prophecy of Micah, which we read, that he will be specifically born in the town of Bethlehem, the town, hometown of King David. And Jesus is the prophesied ruler of Israel. And even though he was born many years after David, he is superior to his ancestor David. Because as we read, his goings forth are from of old, from everlasting. That's why even angels joined in to celebrate the birth of Jesus. So even though Jesus was greater than the greatest king, David, and greater than Moses, the lawgiver, he was born under the law so that he can become just like his people. And we're gonna explain. Significance of that in a minute. Fifth question: What did Jesus do? We read in verse 5 the purpose behind God sending his son. To redeem those who were under the law. The Bible teaches us that the one who sins is a slave to sin. We're s we so often sin that we ought to be identified as sinners. And every time we actively or passively rebel against God, we owe we a cruel death to a righteous God who will demand payment. And there's no filing bankruptcy with sin. We're headed toward the judgment day, the day of reckoning. Eternity of God's wrath awaits all sinners. And the law clearly indicates to us that we are sinners who deserve such punishment. And the and part of Paul's argument in Galatians is that the law helps us to understand our predictions. predicament and drive us toward Christ. So such realization is not bad at all to realize that we need a redeemer in Jesus. And Jesus, he was born under the law, but he never failed to obey the law of Moses. He lived a perfect life, a claim that no one else can ever make. Yet this innocent one was crucified like a notorious criminal. And you may wonder what in the world happened between the first few chapters of Matthew and Luke and the last chapters of Luke. Books. How did he end up like this? We learn that Jesus gave his life as a ransom for us, substituting his life for ours. He died on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins, and he paid it in full. And again Paul talks about in Galatians, he hung upon a tree, becoming a curse for us in our place, so that the blessings Promise for Abraham might come to us. This is redemption. This is what Jesus did. And he rose from the dead as a proof that his sacrifice was accepted by the Father. Now he offers this redemption to us, and we can accept it by faith. I hope that you all of us have that assurance. Sixth question, why did Jesus make such And we read at the last part of verse five, so that we might receive adoption as sons The second half of that verse speaks of this purpose behind Jesus' redemptive work. We're no longer enemies, no longer Um alienated, no longer servants. We are rightful heirs of God the Father through his Son Jesus Christ. And if you go on to read Galatians 4 in the next two verses, we find this promise. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying out, Abba Father. Therefore you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir of God. Through Christ. Hope that answering these questions leads you not only to more questions about Jesus, but to praise Praise God the Father for sending his Son in fullness upon. Praise the Spirit for giving us assurance of our adoption. Praise the Son for his redemptive work that he has finished for us. Pray that this night will be a holy night for you all, a night when we consider the greatness of Jesus.