Many years ago there was something called Lordship Controversy. It was centered on whether one could accept Jesus as Savior to be saved, but not making the Lord the wife. One time, submission to his authority, in fire, the general seems a lady On the other side, somehow demanding the gives as to the doctrine of justification by baseball and paperwork. So who's right? Our convince that we cannot separate Jesus the Savior from Jesus the home. Those who refuse to talk about high school and power and then the back school are in the wrong. A sheep and grace called easy beliefism. And sadly, some influential voices from dispensational circles promoted this era. I'm therefore that some like John McCarthy spoke up, being a dispensationalist himself, believing some help of dispensationalists. But as he always does, he turns to the scriptures to address his back. Here's what McCarther had to say in a sermon from 2009. Oh There is a tendency for dispensationalists and yet carried away with a compartmentalizing truth to the point that there is unfold differentiation. And almost a sensitive desire to categorize the contrast based on has carried various dispensationalist interpreters far beyond the legitimate distinction between Israel and the church Many would also draw a hard line between salvation and discipleship, the church and the kingdom, Christ teaching and the apostolic message, faith and repentance, and the danger of law and the danger of grace. The aid of law, aid of race division in particular, has been happening on this sensationalist theology and contributed to confusion about the doctrine of salvation. The carbon later of the same experiment called it AW closer, some set of L4 constraints. For the Lord will not save those whom he cannot command. He will not divide his offices. You cannot believe on account of Christ. We take them for the lucky test that anoint the savior and the other good, King of Chief, of the onwards. He will not be clear that he mistakes us and models and chores, without the understanding that he can also hide and control our lives. To talk about dividing the officers of Jesus have Christ. That starts talking about Deva. Christ asks him. The whole concept of unusual triplex, the three-fold office of Christ, has some people say about the more recent future controversy. You could bring the question differently. Is it possible to accept Jesus Christ as high priest, but not as king? But if we have any time fixated on the word Lord without fully understanding, price I'm taking back to the late summer of 2016. I'm back in Lort Virginia and busy getting ready for marriage. Writing inventations, and you meters, unequal passing, etc. All that did happen and it was stressful yet, holy worth it. But now as a content, I tell my fiance the following, Erin, I love you and I want to marry you for the love of my life. I accept you as a Korean American, a daughter of a pastor, and a missionary. But there is one thing. I do not accept you as a registered person. Uh, you're earning what would you say? You didn't become a nurse by holding a dice, just cash a paycheck, and then move on to something else later. He prayerfully closed his career, finding him healthy, and worked with others to share his same passion. Even a nurse doesn't say everything about E-Ray, but it still says a lot. Very important to her for identity How should she react to a man who can accept her as a nurse? That's how ridiculous. That's how the Lordship controversy sounds ridiculous to me. How come it does Jesus accepted as Savior and Greece? As Okay, that's enough stories and quotes and illustrations. Ultimately it's dark word, doubt self-discord Well leading will be established. Ice is truly ice is good We base this truth as we open the Bible. Once we see it for ourselves, we should say with utmost confidence that ever receives our name, that everyone care for me. Now the passage I've chosen for today is 2 Samuel 7, 1 to 17. There are many passages that talk about Christmas day. But before I leave, let me just take a few minutes to set the stage. We go back and start playing back with Abraham and Sarah. There were promised that kings have come from Jim. That proof that April has opposed to the same, but only in his timing and under his ultra rules. And like Abimelech and Saul were unfit to be rulers. So any hopes of a vasting dynasty died in. Then comes David as the second king of Israel after Saul. But he's second to none besides, of course, Jesus. David denied the tribes under his rule. His political rivals were vanquished, his enemy nations were subdued. Also he had conquered Jerusalem and made it the city of the capital of the nation. Now Jerusalem not only has the name of David upon it, and also it's also the place where the Lord God chose the display. That's why the king was so excited to bring the article of the subject, the study in 2 chapter 6. Though the initial slip of them caused a tragic casualty, but after some contemplation, David Lauf apartments properly, with much badfish, sacrifice, and joy. At this point, life was good for me. It was settled. But something unsettled him. Now let's read 2 Samuel 7, 1 to 17 and see what that's all about. Go by 2 Samuel 7, page 216 of the Pew Bible, second Samuel 7, 1 to 17, page 216 of the Pew Bible. If you don't have Bible, we need to take Bible to the Bible to pick Bible. Now it came to pass when the king was dwelling in his house. The Lord had given him rest from all his enemies all around. But the king said to Nathan and Prophet. See now, I dwell in a house of Cedar, but the ark of God dwells inside and curtains. Then Nathan says to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart. The Lord But it happened that night that the words of the Lord came to Nathan saying, Go and tell my servant David. Thus says the Lord. Do you build a house for me to dwell in? For I have not dwelt in a house since the time that I brought the children of Israel up from Egypt, even to this day, but I moved them out in a heaven and in a tablet Wherever I have moved about with all the children of Israel, have I ever spoken a word to anyone in the tribes of Israel? I have managed to shepherd my people of Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a host of the seed? Now therefore thus shall you say, my servant David, thus says the Lord of hosts, I took you from the sheepfold, from following the sheep, be ruler over my people over. Israel and I have been with you wherever you have gone and have cut off all your enemies from before you that made you a great name Like the name of the great men who are on earth. Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them that they may dwell in a place of their home and move no more. Nor shall the sons of wickedness oppress them any more. He was the time that I commanded judges for the over my people, Israel shall cause you to rest from all your enemies. Also the Lord tells you that he will make you a house. When your name is fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seat after you, will come from your body, and I will establish you. He shall build a house for my name. I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father. He shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chase him with the rod of men, with the clothes of the sons of men. For my mercy shall not depart from him if I took it from And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever I'm putting all these words, putting all the divisions of these data The king had a body ambition, and initially Navy can encourage them to follow through. Like I said two weeks ago, confidence can say wonder what God gives them Here at verse 3, he's just giving his opinion on the matter. It was not speaking that inspired words of God. But starting in verse 4, God himself, in effect, be told what David said earlier. This verse in verse 17 frames the passage that is reported the prophet delivered a message. All that's between verse 5 and 16 reveal the contents of that night vision. This is what's famously known as the Davidic covenant. Though the word covenants not in this passage is found in reflections of this event label And there are some structural divisions within verses 5, 6, 8. Verses 5 and 8 are parallel. Go and tell my servant David, thus says the Lord. Sounds a lot like, thus shall you say to my servant David, thus says the Lord of hosts. These phrases break up the speech And then in the second half of verse 11, there's another break in mark from also the Lord tells you. It's like going on to these steps, but you have to come up out of the water to get some air. So verses 5, 8, and the second half of verse 11, can you see there as headings of the visions? That gives us three sections. First of all, the seven. A figure A. D. So we might call these three sections three reactions to David's good intentions. I also think that the three parts correspond to the three phases of Israelite history, past, present, and future from David's and Israel. First in verses four to seven We learn that in history. God is greater than any human nation. God is greater than any human mission. Secondly, we find that in verses 8 to 11a that God desires only candidates for the human. God desires lowly candidates for humiliation. This is shown in Davis's. Thirdly, we find in verse 17. 16 or 17, that God promises to establish the village old world after he is passing. God promises to establish the village after he is passing. As expected we'll set most file at the third point in the ice. The first lesson here is that God is greater than any given definition. I'll agree on this point. I don't know what tone was used with the question in verse 4. Would you build a house for me to dwell in? I don't think that the Lord was displeased. But David wish to build a country. Not something sarcastic or disparaging. Rather, I think, is more like when we spend gifts to our parents or grandparents and a They tell us, oh, you don't need to give me anything. Is that all I need? Our elderly family members probably are doing something for themselves, so give them present. So a mask for Dominic, it really doesn't mean anything else. His self-sufficient, he owns it all. The Lord explained in verses 6 and 7 that he has never dwelt upon them of home, with all the mood, even after they entered the promised land in Canaan. Never ask one about a teacher. Doesn't he clones at all? The Lord declares in Isaiah 66, 1-2. Heaven has come from, and earth is my foot. Where is the house that you will build for me? And where is the place of my rest? For all those things my hand has me, and all those things exist. Now if you continue in idea 62 expression, here that's taken the following, but on this one will I not A temple is a board and a contract spirit. That means that a second, not the eyes, but we can do this. We're sitting in another section. The emphasis here is on the movement of the stumble in the We don't see it as a sheet this way. Once you put up there, we will take off the presence of the stage We find this song 78, 73, 70, 100, 77. We find it with that. Show my labor after They revolted successfully for the balls for the first time. It would have never escaped great patterns. God took his name on the home and elevated it in the national town. Thus that the Lord made Abraham's name great. That's from the same. And the food here, that's it, fine, really any more expensive. That's how we look at paper. David understood this, Lord himself, over then later in the second time on the 23rd. Verse 3. He who rules over men must be justified in the fear of God. And he shall be like the light of the morning when the sun rises, and the morning without clouds, like the tent of the rest, springing out of the earth, like clearly shining after the moon. Ultimately back is all of the methods, stable nutrition and stable sensation. Back from chapter 7, and we'd love to see how Davis Mark is beneficial to this. What holds perspective being the property form in section band. So I will have to say God will save us people and stuff on the hands of the and all heavens. On that days of Saul, the period of justice before that, the sons of Lucas did not compress his mother. So again, uh still we can do this comments It wasn't because it was a mortal program. That's a given of this. Doesn't apply back to the As David mentioned King David, the patriarch Abraham, they shared a father's genuine trust, the Lord for salvation. Both benefited from gracious covenants of me. That gets us to the third lesson. God promises to establish the political government. The middle person makes it takes another deep breath at the word we won't continue. Started this chapter with David, which he will take house for the world. Now the Lord says, he will fill in my house. It's a bit of a word figure. Even as English, house not only means a place of residence, but also means family, ancestors, extenders. And here Davis promised a house that will earth. This doctor establishes it She got the word established four times in five verses. I got the word on two words, the original language This doesn't make much common, but we shrink make much of how it's going to go to this path. And doing the work So that comes that key for another person. I thought about how I will condemn these answers. Price of the day in chocolate This next video we are still. I thought we were prepared by talking about five messianic truths, five persons corresponding to five big things ahead. On Monday, look at verse 12. Think of the word. Consider how price seven of the even speed of the evening. Even if forever, Rob hash and his both dead and very and his tool was in the room. Where is that from Ted of God? And for Jesus to be Christ, the most case, it must come from David's father. God has spoken with us all to David that of the fruit of his father, put into his flesh, were raised of the price that honestly. The gospel writers made sure to present Jesus as the speed of David. That's why the New Testament begins by tracing its genealogy. In the early chapters of the book, we see the same idea of Jesus. Same result, except this one is raised very small. So don't just look at the Christmas tree one day. Think about the chess tree On Tuesday, they come out of the temple, describing verse thirteen. In Israel past and Israel future, there's a special relationship between the house of Jacob and the house of the Lord. It shows the ideal ideal king's heart for true worship. David says attention in Psalm 132. We're told that it was a physical Thou before God. Surely I will not move the chamber of my house, of the walls of the comfort of my bed. I will not give sleep to my eyes, but slumber to my eyes, until I find the face of the Lord, a dwelling face of the mighty one of Jesus. And even though David wasn't allowed to build a temple himself, with a quick bug stain for your resting, he made sure to get this object ready for his model. And David, Jesus Christ, the chief. has the same passion for temple for each. Why see he cleaned the temple of God and seed? Jesus is also by Solomon touch that Ice. There was a literal template that food and taken from the feet, 40%. Until then all the other temples include the bottom, the year of the feedback. Becoming attractions in the light. That future building will be more glorious than anything we've seen on earth because they're glory of our perfect. And when they think about the father, that's a relationship. God has a relationship. It's described in verse 14. This is the promise that the king of David's mind will be the greatest king on earth. Thus that the firstborn in the family has been eminence for the other symbol. But with that privilege also comes responsibility that the king is out of mind, the Lord will discipline, will lead any of the acts of righteousness for his main state. But Jesus, of course, there's no iniquity in him. Because he's a perfect God man E 58 still tells us that only when the start gets no medium by the things which we stuck Jesus is done into ways, both in eternal origins, and into appointment over all. Both ontological and economic. Because Christ is the first one over all creation And firstborn from the death can be the firstborn over the bottom because ask the Father for the disease of the earth as him Continuing on Thursday, think about verse first two Consider how even bad characters like railroad and manasseh like the billing house of the woman, the godless son abandoned his promise to the will. Bobby Nine Jeremiah 33. Lovely times. April's covenant offices are Explore that basic top nerve forever. Christ is the sure mercy of David. Because Jesus is the son of David, the house of David will not Even if others have to fail instead, David will not fail, but have a method that's full of the group. You can find a royal house that looks like a street stuff. There should come far from stems. Man shall roll out his trees. Even in Israel's current violence, there's this blessing quote. Libert will out of mind and ungodliness. Apply it, consider how everything comes together in person. Think about the word forever. Oil house, kingdom of Israel, the throne of David will last what he turns. Because of Jesus Even death could not stop this kingdom. Jesus' soul was not left in Hades, nor did his flesh be corruption. Jesus is Christ, Christ is he, He blessed forever, He sustained forever, He has given glory forever. And actually, Saturday and Sunday, I'm hoping you will join us to celebrate Jesus, one of the seed of David appointments. Who is the path? God sent this out, born into moon, came to Earth, promised for a major disorder, that architect for us, state. It's clear that Jesus fulfills the whole of Christ, the Vidy King. Luke 1313 We go angel Gabriel, here it is the Virgin Mary to tell us, Behold, who are conceived in your womb, bring forth the Son. Shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, will be called the Son of the High. The Lord God will came and the throne of his father David, He will make who also came for His kingdom. Let me talk to you a little bit about Christmas story is in and should be the music. What did we do with this perfect fine? 13. We weren't there two thousand years ago, but we're no better. That also came also. One being not surveyed. You don't want to listen to them. Everyone who is love the truth hears the voice of it. Pointing to this world bear witness to the truth. But I would be asked. That was true. What are the letter to the mountain Jerusalem? I now awake them to fight. Have no kingdom sin. All of us thirdly exploded from the speed of that. But God did not leave us like this. The king died for the brothers. The son of God who deserves many pounds on his head, or the pounds of restoratives. When does the cost to die in our place? We pay the price of hell and rose with the great, conquer the death. He ascended for heaven, something he will return. He will appear sitting on the wine force, faithful and true, king of king the boat of moons, and in righteousness of judge of people. Will you surrender to Christ? Will you be like the kings of the earth in their hearts to gather to make war against him? will surely lose a year in breath. Those that every meal bow and every mountain facts that Jesus is. The question of whether you submit now and you stay or submit later and you do that. before standard delegation and ask for the conditions of these enforcement Would you do the service for Jesus your name? If that service power is above Jesus Repent. Turn away from your self-hop, selfishly, self-righteousness. Stand from your own throne and enthrone Christ. Trust in Jesus alone and save your faith alone and reason. Say look forward to the I don't have any problems. Amount has got max respect to all of them. Submission, authority, more than popular words, out in the world, but in our hearts. Not push not once. But my each receiver. We thank you that yourself truly knows in your work for our unable, humble, thankfully. Clear that you love that you are not judging and copy that radical teams of this world. Yes, that as you think about this season, as you think about next year. However long you have a search. Orange our lives, maybe submit ourselves, maybe found the knee before your authority. Yes sir. Give us more humanity. Just continue. As we get a snow few, the thought is pressed in. For