All right, let's uh open our Bibles to Ephesians chapter five. Right now we're in a series on the portraits of Christ. Portraits of Jesus Christ We call it an expository series on portraits of Jesus Christ because we are not primarily going to a dozen or two dozen passages and building a picture from a topic. We are in fact looking at one main passage to see what it says about Jesus and building our understanding from one main passage, making our points and subpoints grow right out of one main passage. As I was thinking about the message today and reflecting on how you and I kind of perceive reality and go through this world, something occurred to me that really wasn't that pleasant. I want to share it with you because I know that we're all honest in this room and we have a church where we try to be transparent with with our our life and the sort of challenges we go through in life. So let me test you on this. Let me test you. How much of the suffering in your life that you've endured? Don't raise your hand and don't shout out a percentage, has been your fault? How much of the things that you have suffered in this life have been for your bad decisions, your bad financial priorities, your relational mistakes. And your oopses in life. You say, wow, that's a hard question to ask right out of a sermon. But folks, I ask it in love Because I think about it about my own life. I don't live in an ivory tower where I'm looking down at you. But what do you think? Well, let me ask a second question as kind of a follow-up. How much of the suffering in your life is because of the sin of others? Who've sinned against you personally. I mean, on the one hand, there's personal sin that you have suffered from that you've done, and then there's sort of this wisdom area, and that's not necessarily sin, but Maybe you made some unwise decisions as you were growing in Christ and you've kind of suffered from that. But what about the sins of others? A mom or a dad who sinned against you as you were growing up, a a relative, a husband, a wife, how much of your suffering in your entire life do you think has been the result of the decisions that other people have made? And relate it back to you. Those are some good questions. But this led me to a third question. When it came to Jesus, how much of the suffering that he went through was his fault? Absolutely none of it. Jesus Christ was the only person who's ever been born who never once suffered because he was getting back the backlash of a sin he committed, of a word he shouldn't have let loose in an argument. of a financial transaction that was a little bit shady. There was never one time in the life of Jesus Christ when he suffered because of his poor choices, his sinful attitudes, his struggle with self. Not one. And yet, throughout his entire life, folks, how much he suffered Whether it was imperfect parents, Mary and Joseph, whether it was brothers and sisters who in their sinful flesh Treated him badly, and certainly that occurred, folks. Has there ever been a brother and a sister who did not fight at times? Can you imagine being the perfect brother? No, no. Truly the perfect brother And yet, growing up into manhood and beginning a ministry and having to deal with these twelve ordinary men who in their flesh and fallenness are speaking out of turn or dreaming grandiose dreams of their own self-exaltation, who are walking beside the Son of God. And not listening at times to a word the man said. And it culminates in the garden when all these people come to arrest Jesus And everyone flees. Every single friend he has in the world, the closest ones, they're gone. And they don't care how embarrassing their flight is, they're gone. And then there's the suffering on the cross. Not only did he sort of have this direct suffering between himself and the sins of mankind, but there was the wrath of God placed on the cross. On Jesus on that cross, and all the anger of God that justly falls on you and me as sinners, because we are condemned in the sight of God, guilty before him, it all falls on Christ. And there's that moment, folks, when Jesus says, why have you forsaken me? And it's the best question in the world because humanly speaking, there is Not humanly speaking, that's a bad choice of words, but logically speaking, there's no reason the Father should forsake Jesus. None, not one, because he has never sinned. And yet the Father, as it were, we often describe it as, we try to come to grips with a way to describe what's happening on the cross. So we say the Father turned away. Or the fellowship between Jesus and the Father was broken. Or in that moment of agony, Jesus is feeling the pressure of Of being forsaken, and he has nowhere to turn, and the Father Himself has forsaken him. Wow, you think about that. Jesus Christ, the perfect one, never once suffered for his own bad decisions or his own sins. That's quite a portrait of Christ Last week we looked at Hebrews and we saw from chapter one that he was the radiance of the Father's glory, the exact imprint of his nature, that he was in fact God, because God looked at him and said, Your throne is going to be established forever, and addressed him as God, God the Son, who had come. And we see also in Hebrews the portrait of him as being one who is the great high priest. Who offered up himself, his very body, to die for you and for me. But the reason I bring up this whole thing about how much of your suffering is yours and the result of others is because. There's really no cl there's no terrarium where you put Two people. There's no enclosed space where you put two people where that does not become more evident than marriage, is there? We're in Ephesians 5. We're looking at verses 22 down to 33 The context here is marriage, and the portrait of Christ, however, that I want to pull out of this is I want to take the statements that Paul wrote about Jesus, and I want us to just look at that today. We'll see, for example, how Jesus loved the church and that caused him to do certain things. We'll look at his motivation for loving and giving himself to the church. We'll look at the nature of his sacrifice. And as we look at this portrait of Christ, I want you to remember He was the perfect man. And he is the perfect husband. Now, I don't want us to use this morning's sermon as a way for ladies to bash on their husbands when they get home. Because we're all part of the church. We're all part of the church, and because of that, we have, as it were, blemishes, wrinkles. and spots of imperfections and sins, men and women here tonight, today. But I want us to glory in the nature of Christ Christ. He is the perfect husband. He is the perfect one willing to sacrifice for us. So let's look at this. Look at Ephesians 5. And let me just read some of this to you and pull out some of the phrases for you to contemplate. So in verse 22, there's the exhortation to wives, which you've heard many times. Wives, submit to your own husbands. As to the Lord. For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. Now that word submit means to place yourself under. And the reasoning here for wives to do this to their husband, to follow their husband's lead, is because the husband has authority over the wife. The word head here is not speaking of source, it's authority, because the exhortation is submission to one in authority. When it comes to Christ, he has authority. Over the church, because he is the head of the church and the savior of the body. The image here is of a body and Christ being the head and the church being the rest. And so, therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let wives be to their own husbands in every way. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave. He gave himself for her. Why? Well, verse 26, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word. Why? Verse 27: that he might present her to himself, that he might present her to himself, a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh But nourishes and cherishes it just as the Lord does the church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery. But I speak concerning Christ and the church. Nevertheless, let each one of you, in particular, so love his own wife as himself And let the wife see that she respects her husband. Now, this passage is amazing. Because of the way Christ gives himself for the church and the way it's described here is just so humbling. First thing I want you to see here. In verse 25 is that there is this very clear giving that is the result of Christ's love. When it comes to Christ, the perfect husband, there was this initial act wherein he gave himself for her, for the church. He is called in verse 23 the Savior of the body. Now, in order to appreciate that statement there in verse 25, he also loved the children. church and gave herself himself for her, we need to remind ourselves of what the church was like before it was the church. And all we have to do in order to do that is to flip back a few pages and look at what we were like before we became Christians. Look at chapter 2 of Ephesians. Ephesians 2. In Ephesians 2, the first paragraph, we have a description of what it's like to be dead in trespasses and sins. A couple of years ago, I went to a conference on drug addiction, and there were a lot of pastors and missionaries there, and the goal was to. Train us and give us tools on how to help people who had serious, well, any kind, of drug addiction, whether it was prescription drugs or whether it was the kind you buy on the streets. There is a kind of drug that's made often in garages and basements that results in explosions. And this drug, if you ever see somebody's garage just blew up for no apparent reason, it's probably because that's where they were making this particular drug. They had a little chemistry set in there and they weren't very careful. This drug produces a real effect on your face. The man, I think I showed you this picture years ago. I don't know if you remember. put it right up there. It was a picture of a 22 or 20-year-old woman before she started taking the drugs and only a few years after. She had the spots and the blemishes and the marks of her drug abuse all over her face. Her teeth were yellow. Her front teeth were rotten looking and brown, almost like it they were rotting from the roots down. She had scabs and all these blemishes on her face, open wounds. Her hair was thin and graying. She looked awful. Folks, before we come to Christ, we bear the blemishes. the spots and the wrinkles of sin. What what produces this? Look down at chapter 2. He says, in you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince Of the power of the air, the Spirit, who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of the flesh. And of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just as the others. Look at verse 11. Remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenant of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. Now try to follow this. You have here in verse 2, lives that are lived according to certain things. According to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. Before a person comes to Christ, they're living according to certain patterns. There's a pattern in this world we have from 1 John, love not the world, the things that are in the world, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life. They're of the world. I mean, there is this thing called worldliness. It exists and it's typified by people, verse 3. who conduct themselves in the lusts or the desires of their flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. What's wrong with these desires? Well, we see down there in verses 11 and 12 that they are completely godless desires. There's no compass There's nothing about God in their heart and desires. You people know what this looks like. You work side by side with these people every week Where do their godless desires lead them? And what does that produce in their life? I have worked with some ladies, you all know my testimony. When I was in Bible college, I worked a million different jobs to get through. I have worked with men and women who come to work on Monday morning grim. Angry, bitter. You can't get through a Monday with them because they're going to yell at you and you don't it there's nothing you can do. You just kind of stay away from them. And the weekends they're fun time. After all this fun, they come back and this is their attitude? Have you ever worked with someone like that? Have you ever been around someone who who is just aimless in what they do and they just kind of go wherever the flow takes them? This is what we were before we became the bride of Christ. This is described in other places a little bit more, with a little bit more. Detail, let me get you to turn to another passage to just see it in Galatians and look at the works of the flesh. Look at this quickly. So what does the work of the flesh say? Or what does it look like? Galatians 5, verse 20. What are these horrible marks on our faces as we indulge ourselves in the lusts of our flesh? Well, let's start with verse 19. The works of the flesh are evident, that is, that they are visible. Adultery. Fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred. That's what I mentioned there in my illustration contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envies, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like Which I tell you beforehand, just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Folks, in order to appreciate the perfect husband who gave himself for the church, we need to remember what the church was like. Before he gave himself, this is what it was like. He looks at the possibility of a church. Adultery, jealousy, hatred, and enemy, and he says, I'll give myself for that one. And you and I would think he is crazy Would you ever do that? Would you ever give yourself for such a blemished and disgusting individual who in fact hates you? And yet that is what Christ did. He was willing to turn and embrace the leper. He was willing to turn and look and think the unthinkable. Before the foundation of the world, the plan was made that Christ would give himself for sinners. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. When we begin to paint a portrait of Christ from Ephesians and the idea of the perfect husband, we have to start take our paintbrush and start sketching out this idea of Love that is beyond understanding. What kind of love does God have that the scripture writers say God is love? What does God What does that mean? Back to Ephesians chapter 5. And so we have at the beginning a Christ who loved the church and gave himself for her. Now, this love was not without purpose. It's not as if Christ looked at such a blemished person and said it she'll remain that way always. He died on the cross, taking the wrath of God upon himself, because he had a plan. He wasn't just going to marry the church and leave her as she is. What is that plan? Well, you look, and that's verses 26. and 27. We see first that he wanted to sanctify and cleanse her. The word sanctify here in this context is probably the idea of just Setting her apart to himself for his special attention. These people would now be his in a special way. The church would now be his body, although that's another metaphor. The idea here is they were there, and now they're going to be brought near as his bride. The kind of relationships they had before with the world, the flesh, and the devil are completely changed. They are now his. Now, that is something that I think you ladies can relate to, because marriage, of course, is the illustration of this, and vice versa, marriage back to Christ and the church. When a wife enters into marriage, and now she belongs to her husband, and in a sense her husband belongs to her, there's this unit now that's taken place, this union. And now, because of the close proximity of those two individuals, it's almost as if life can finally begin, because now you can be together and you can relate to one another. You can spend all your time talking, working. Of course, we know that's not how it always works out, but here's the idea of sanctifies He brings her close, verse 26, because he wants to cleanse her with the washing of water by the word. Now in the New Testament, this concept of sanctification has two meanings, but primarily the one, and Roman Catholicism gets this wrong all the time. In the New Testament, sanctification, there is this initial act of God setting us apart to Himself, and that is almost a positional idea. But justification is also a new position because we've now been imputed with the righteousness of Christ This is talking more the second meaning of sanctification when it brings it into the idea of a progress, of a washing of water by the word, of something that takes place over time. It's not just one washing, it's something that takes place over time. Because, verse 27, there's uh there's a gap between this initial washing of the water by the word and the eventual presentation of the church to himself a glorious church. So the purpose of us being close to Christ and in this church Part of the body is so that we can constantly receive this washing of the water by the word. Now, what does that look like in your life? What does that look like? The word washing, certainly a reference to being cleansed, cleaned, purified in some sense. Has this ever happened to you? Has this happened to you this week? Have you ever caught yourself thinking something that probably wasn't biblical? That wasn't quite right? And you enter into the Word of God in some way, whether you're listening to a sermon on television or the internet or the radio, or whether you're just reading the Word of God, and suddenly the light goes on and you realize, you know. I have not been thinking the right way about that. I'm going to change the way I think. And then you move away from that. And you start establishing a new way of thinking. And then as you begin to think the right way, what follows? You start to speak. the right way. You start to, in reference to that one area, you start to adjust your behavior. I mean this is what we're talking about. There's this progress Through time where Christians know that by God's grace they're not what they used to be. They're still not what they want to be. But they're not what they used to be by God's grace, right? It's called spiritual growth. And so Jesus gave himself for the church that blemished individual so that he might bring her in and begin this process of spiritual growth. And I want you to see this if you look at verses 26 and 27. The purpose in verse 27 is that he might present the church. To who? To himself. Now that is kind of shocking. Is it all right for Jesus to be selfish? What do you think? If God was purely selfish in his motivations, would that benefit us at all? Or would that sort of make him almost like the devil? Folks, I think you need to release your consciences to understand that it's okay for God to be 100% selfish. Because when God is selfish, it's not sinful. When God does something for himself, it's for always results in our good. In this case, he wants a glorious church that is without blemish, and so he's going to put the church through this process so that eventually the church comes to him clean. And washed to some extent. So, where does that leave us? Well, that leaves us secondly, first, there's this the sacrificial love And then Christ doing this so that he can bring the church near. And then there is this connection, this union between Christ and the church, which is special Spectacular. Now look at this, and we'll try to wrap this up, and we're already out of time. So let's look down at this. There is here in verse 28 Paul exhorts husbands to love their own wives as their own bodies. Now, this this selfish kind of thinking seems to go back to verse 27 because it's Christ who's presenting his bride to himself. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. So there seems to be a connection here between the actions of Christ and the motivations of Christ and the actions of the husband. No one, verse 29, ever hated his own flesh. He nourishes and cherishes it just as the Lord does the church. You say, now wait a minute. Is that saying the church is his body? Absolutely. That's what we just read up there a few verses before. The husband is the head of the wife, Christ is the head of the body, he's the savior of the body. He's the head of the church, the savior of the body. This is, do you remember when Paul, or I should say Saul, got kicked off his horse? On the way to Damascus, and he met Jesus. And Jesus said, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And yet Saul never met Jesus He never met him up to that point. Who was Saul persecuting? The church. And Jesus has so closely related himself to the church that to touch the church is to touch Christ. And here we have that idea present again. Christ nourishes his body because we are part of him. We are united to him. And so, verse 30: members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. Yes, it's a great mystery, but he's speaking concerning Christ and the church. So, on the one hand, there's the sacrificial love of Christ. On the other hand, there's sort of this, could we call it the sensitive love of Christ? He's aware of the needs of the body. He knows that there's this relationship between him and his body, and he acts accordingly with sensitivity when it comes to us and what we need. Look, we have to wrap this up, and I have to make at least two applications before we get to the Lord's table. The first one is If you're here today as a born-again Christian, you are part of the body of Christ. It doesn't matter whether you've joined a church or not, that's irrelevant to this big C church. There's the universal church, the body of Christ. And if you're saved, you're a part of that body. And what that should do for you is it should cause you to lift up your eyes And say, thank you, Lord. So you might be here this morning and think that nobody cares about you. Nobody. Nobody knows your life. Nobody's aware of your needs, your spiritual needs, your physical needs, your emotional needs. Maybe you're here and you feel lost and adrift Well let me ask you this. Are you part of this? Are you a part of that Ephesians passage? Are you a part of that body? If you are, you are known. Someone died for you, Jesus. That means he loves you an awful lot. And because he has this sensitive love, he absolutely knows all your needs, everything that's going on. You are known and you are loved, and even do you have you realized circumstances often lie? Your health says, you know what? God doesn't love me. I'm suffering because of my health. The scriptures say, lie. God does love you. He sent Christ to die for you. So go with what the Bible says. Don't go this morning with how you feel, what your bank account looks like. It's called a walk. Of faith. It's where we put the Word of God before our feelings and we act upon a passage of Scripture and we look at a portrait of Christ and we worship in faith and we believe it. Second application is this. If you are not, if you're a part of this, it is the will of God that you go through this process of being washed by the water of the Word. How many times during the week are you getting into that process? I mean, when are you having those moments when your mind is being renewed, when you're starting to think God's thoughts, when when you're starting to be cleaned by the word? Is that happening to you? Because it's the will of God for the day to come when you stand before Him. And you will have the righteousness of Christ. Even the carnal Corinthians have the righteousness of Christ. But it is the will of God that you grow spiritually. And that leads me then to this. We have before us today the elements of the Lord's table, the unleavened bread and the wine. It's not alcoholic, but we call it wine. Because the scriptures do. They represent the blood and the body of Christ. We have to take this seriously This is so important to God that if you come to the Lord's table and you make a light thing about it, Paul wrote to the Corinthians that some of them were dead. Because they did that. It's not a light thing to look at the Lord's table and the sacrifice of Christ and not consider. It is very important. But having done that, giving this weight, this is the evidence as we remember the cross. For all things, when it comes to our Christianity, this is the evidence this morning that you are loved by the perfect husband who gave his life for you.