So, as much as I love this season and the Christmas Day itself, I get a little stressed out when I have to pick a sermon passage. There's too many good ones. How do I narrow down the choices? Last year I selected verses from the book of Revelation. Yes, there's something about Christmas in the last pages of the Bible. This year I could have gone to the earliest pages of the Bible and preached from Genesis 3. There's something about Christmas there too. Well, I made a tough midweek decision to prepare a message from Micah 5. I thought we could use more Old Testament sermons. I checked out the website and saw that besides Dr. Bill's sermons on my own series on Jonah, only a few preached from the prophets. At least in the last decade or so. Only one on Jeremiah, again by Dr. Beale. Dan Fox preached on Ezekiel and Zechariah. And a guest speaker named Jeff Sturtz taught on Haggai. I also thought that since we're working through 1 Samuel, the Life of David series, I pick a passage that relates to him and his hometown of Bethlehem. Of course, we did hear from Matthew 2 in our reading. About how Herod the Great located Jesus' birthplace with the help of today's passage. But it will be good to know also the origins of Micah's prophecy. When it was first uttered, the context in which it was initially communicated. So let's talk about Micah the person before we talk about Micah the book. And if you like, you can turn to the first verse, the very first verse of chapter 1. And there's much to glean from that. If you're using the Pew Bible, you you can uh turn to page 652 And I'm just going to read the first verse and then talk about it a little bit. The word of the Lord that came to Micah Amorsheth in the days of Jochtham, Ahaz. And Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. Let's go through this verse a few words or phrases at a time. Micah is a common name, simply meaning who is like Yahweh. The micah in today's study is from the small town of Mureshet, about twenty miles west of Jerusalem in the Shephella region. In the fertile lowlands. Micah's hometown is mentioned in the book itself, in chapter 1, verse 14, as Moreshet Gath The mention of Gath there may indicate that it was under Philistine control. It was located between Axiv and the more famous Lakish. Jochem, Ahaz, and Hezekiah are kings of Judah, the southern portion of the divided kingdom. So that's where Micah ministered. Those royal names also help us narrow down to a specific spot in the timeline, mid-8th century BC to the early 7th. As extreme limits, 750 is when Jotham started his reign, and 686 is when Hezekiah died. So that means Micah was a contemporary of the prophets Hosea in the northern Israel and the more famous Isaiah in the south. Towards the end of verse 1, there's a mention of Samaria, the capital of Israel. Though Micah lived in the south, he also had something to say to those up in the north. At least some of his predicted prophecies came before 722 BC when Assyria conquered the northern kingdom. Look, for example, in chapter 1, verse 6. Therefore, I will make Samaria a heap of ruins in the field, places for planting a vineyard. I will pour down her stones into the valley, and I will uncover her foundations. Next, we see Jerusalem, the capital of the southern kingdom of Judah. It appears Micah did his best and most memorable work closer to 700. When the city was in danger. Here's why I think that's likely. Nearly a century later, elders of the land would recall how Micah's message in Hezekiah's days is strikingly like Jeremiah's message in Jehoiakim's days, both in content and circumstances. When you get a chance, look at Jeremiah 26 at home. Both Micah and Jeremiah dared to speak against Jerusalem while the threat of foreign invasion was looming. Anyways, the summit of shortly, Micah spoke against the northern Israel right around its demise. And he also spoke against the Sodon Judah about 100 years before its fall. So that's Micah the person. Now let's look at what he said. Perhaps I'll return later to Micah for a in-depth preaching series. For today's Christmas message, we'll have to set up for a bird's eye view. For that purpose, I'm going to think in threes as I normally do. I'll discuss three sections of the book of Micah. Then I'll talk about the three objectives of God through Micah. Lastly, I'll talk about the three paradoxes of Christmas in Micah V. First, the three sections of Micah, the book. This will be quick and easy. For the structural outline of this book, Charles Feinberg's commentary on the minor prophets is helpful. According to him, this book can be divided neatly into three parts. One part, chapter 1 and 2, second part, chapters 3 to 5, the third part, chapters 6 and 7. You'll see the keyword here that initiates each section in chapter 1, verse 2, chapter 3, verse 1, and chapter 6, verse 1. Next, let's talk about the three objectives of God. This will be longer. Here's another useful insight from Feinberg. In each of the three sections I just mentioned, God accomplishes three objectives through his prophet. One, rebuke sin. Two, announce judgment. Three, bless through Christ. Three objectives involving sin, judgment, and blessings. I recommend relying on these three as guideposts to work through this loosely organized book. The three objectives can be control points for triangulation, for survey. Again, sin judgment and blessings. Let's look at each objective and sample passages for them. First through Micah, God rebukes sin. And sin is in every place, everywhere, in every person. In chapters one and two, the Lord appears From his holy temple to judge the transgression of Jacob, the high places of Judah and Jerusalem, the idols of Samaria Lesser known cities are no less guilty. God stands against the inhabitants of Beth Aphrah, Lakish the importer of Israel's transgressions to Judah, and even Micah's hometown, Morish. But not only are they sinning against God, but they've sinned against humanity. If you turn to chapter 2, verse 1 and 2, you'll see what I mean. Woe to those who devise iniquity and work out evil on their beds. At morning light they practice it because it is in the power of their hand. They cover fields and take them by violence, also houses and seize them. So they oppress a man and his house, a man and his inheritance. The people have become like Ahab and Jezebel, scheming, plotting, stealing the land of their neighbors. Coveting, seizing homes, and oppressing. Still in chapter 2, in verses 8 and 9, we see them robbing clothes from their fellow countrymen. They're unjustly evicting widows and orphans from their pleasant houses. You may ask, where are the legal authorities to police and enforce the law? Where is the justice system amidst such injustice? Sadly, the leaders are also guilty. Judges, magistrates, priests, prophets, political, religious, it doesn't matter. We go on to chapter 3, verse 9 to 11, and see that God rebukes them too. Now hear it is, you heads of the house of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, who abhor justice and pervert all equity, who build up Zion with bloodshed and Jerusalem with iniquity. Her heads judge for a bribe, her priests teach for a pay, and her prophets divine for money. Yet they lean on the Lord and say, Is not the Lord among us? No harm can come upon us. Sin is universal and ubiquitous. God rebukes it And the Lord who sees all and knows all announces his judgment. Remember, that's the second objective of God in Micah. Because the people have polluted the land with sin, there's the divine sentence in chapter 2 verse 10. Arise and depart, for this is not your rest. Because it is defiled, it shall destroy. Yes, with utter destruction. A foreign nation will take them captive away from their promised land of rest. The leaders also received punishment due to them. They built up Zion with bloodshed and Jerusalem with iniquity. Such corrupt designs must collapse. It's only appropriate that God announces the judgment of chapter 3, verse 12. Therefore, because of you, Zion shall be plowed like a field. Jerusalem shall become heaps of ruins, and the mountain of the temple like the bare hills of the forest. And then later in chapter 4 verse 10, God declares, to Babylon you shall go. Remember, this is hundred years before Babylon took them. But Micah is not all doom and gloom. The Lord's ultimate purpose is to restore his people. Remember the third objective of God in Micah? Blessed through Christ. As you read through chapter 2, You'll see that verse 12 rather abruptly introduces the promises of blessing. There will be a future regathering of God's people. Verse 12: The Lord God of Israel will put them together like sheep of the fold, like a flock in the midst of their pasture. They shall make a loud noise because of so many people. As God's people return and repopulate the land, Zion, the hill of Jerusalem, is restored. It was once plowed like a field and bare. But then look at the blessed future in chapter 4, verse 1 to 4. I'll read it. Now it shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains. And shall be exalted above the hills, and peoples shall flow to it. Many nations shall come and say, Come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways. And we shall walk in his paths. For out of Zion the law shall go forth, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, he shall judge between many peoples, and rebuke strong nations afar off. They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. But everyone shall sit under his vine and under his fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken. For all people walk each in the name of his God, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever and ever. Again, these wonderful blessings, words of blessing, unexpectedly erupt throughout Micah. They interrupt the flow of rebukes and judgments announced. That proves to us that God can suddenly end the cold, dark winters of our fallen world. Warm and bright seasons of the heavenly kingdom are right at the door. Now, how do we claim such blessings for ourselves? Again, the Lord blesses through Christ. He's described at the end of chapter 2 as the shepherd who leads the flock of God's people. He's the one who breaks open the paths for them and removes the obstacles out of their way. He is the king who passes before them. And the next major passage about Christ after chapter 2 and the blessings mediated through him is today's passage. That was a lengthy introduction. And we can learn more about Jesus the shepherd king in chapter 5, verse 2 to 5a, the first sentence of verse 5. So let's read it now. Michael 5, 2 to 5A. But you Bethlehem Aphrata, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me, the one to be ruler in Israel whose goings forth are from of old, from everlasting. Therefore he shall give them up, until the time that she who is in labor has given birth Then the remnant of his brethren shall return to the children of Israel, and he shall stand and feed his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall abide, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and this one shall be peace. From this passage, I want to discuss the three paradoxes of Christmas. 1. Jesus hails from obscurity and eternity. Jesus hails from obscurity and eternity. That's verse 2. 2. Jesus achieves the best through the worst. Jesus achieves the best through the worst. That's verse 3. And then 3, the third paradox. Jesus stands near us, yet he's far above us. Jesus stands near us, yet he's far above us. That's verse four to the first half of verse five. First, Jesus hails from obscurity and eternity. When I speak of obscurity, I'm speaking of Bethlehem. Now it could be hard for us to imagine the city to be obscure. I had no trouble finding hymns that talk about Bethlehem this morning, right? But the modifier that follows, Ephrata, is there because Micah's audience need help locating this Bethlehem in particular. If we turn to the list of cities in Joshua, you see that there's another Bethlehem in the land of Zebalon in chapter 19, verse 15. But the Bethlehem in today's passage is too small and insignificant to be included in the list of cities of Judah in Joshua 15 or Nehemiah 11. It's nowhere near as famous as Samaria, Jerusalem, or Lakesh Yet we read in the rest of Micah 5-2 that a ruler of Israel will come out of that obscure town. He's none other than Christ, the King of Jews, worthy of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. But paradoxically, he who has a birthplace, a birthday, and a birth year has his origins from of old, from everlasting. Jesus hails from obscurity and eternity Our Lord Jesus Himself affirmed this to be true, and so did his disciples and followers. Though he was not even fifty years old, he told the crowds, Most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. He asked the people to consider concerning himself. If David then calls Christ Lord, how is he his son? The early church also believed in his eternal origins. John begins his gospel with this proclamation: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. In Romans nine five, as Paul spoke concerning Israel, he taught that out of them Christ came according to the flesh. Yet he is over all the eternally blessed God. Romans 9, 5 This paradox has been taught throughout history in statements, creeds, hymns, prayers, on and on. Now we could simply stop or go on and on with verse 2, but there's more to it than Christ's obscure and eternal origins. It's not only about the beginning of the one with no beginning. It's about what he'll accomplish and finish in his career. Let's move on to the second paradox. Jesus achieves the best through the worst. I'm going to reread verse 3 because it's not as easy to understand or interpret as verse 2. Therefore he shall give them up until the time that she who is in labor has given birth, then the remnant of his brethren shall return to the children of Israel. How do we understand this verse in light of the previous verse? Well, verse 2 is about who and where. Verse 3 is about when and how. Verse 2 told us that the ruler of Israel will come from Bethlehem. Verse 3 tells us that Jesus will come after Israel's humiliation, and he will be born of a woman. But is it necessary that God gives up his people? God's all-powerful, so why can't he just wave a magic wand over our mistakes? Can't we just skip over the part about the exile to a foreign nation as punishment? We must not forget that God is holy. He will by no means clear the guilty. There must be consequences for our sinful choices Because we give in to depravity, God gives us up to captivity. This is the logic of the gospel. There's the good news because there's the bad news. God giving us his son for salvation only makes sense if he gives us up for our sins. And this isn't just an Old Testament idea. Paul begins the body of his letter to Romans by telling them three times that because of universal sin, God gave them. To their desires, to face the consequences of their awful choices. But by God's mercy, it was at our worst that he gave us his best. He sent his son, Jesus. It was while we were still without strength, when the fullness of the time had come. God sent forth his son, born of a woman. I believe the woman in labor in the middle of Micah 5, verse 3, is both generally Israel in Revelation 12. We talked about that last year. And specifically the Virgin Mary, the wife of Joseph. And what is the best that Christ accomplishes? He brings his people together as the shepherd. The phrase remnant of his brethren refers to the saints from the tribe of Judah, the tribe to which Jesus himself belongs. That means the believers of Judah will reunite with believers from the other tribes of Israel. What's promised later in Ezekiel 37, verse 22? Will come through, come true through Christ. I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel. And one king shall be king over them all. They shall no longer be two nations, nor shall they ever be divided into two kingdoms again. You may wonder where are we, the church, in this storyline of redemption? We're talking about Israel, we're talking about Judah. I'm not a Jew. I'm a Gentile. Well, let me tell you that we're living in a time of parenthesis, sort of an interregnum. If we could shrink ourselves and walk on the pages of our Bibles, we'd be at the middle of verse 3, occupying that space after the semicolon that follows birth. And if we Gentiles make the right choice, believers of this era, and become believers here, we too can enjoy The best of times that will come after the worst of times. But to do that, we must understand the gospel. And here's the good news. The true meaning of Christmas. Jesus was indeed born in Bethlehem Though he grew up in Nazareth later, you can read about how that happened in the first chapters of Matthew and Luke. Around age 30, he began his ministry. Rebuking sin, announcing judgment, blessing others through himself, the Christ. And though he proved himself to be the rightful ruler of Israel And from everlasting, he was rejected by his people. But even this rejection was all part of God's perfect plan Jesus is the good shepherd who gives his life for the sheep, for those who have gone astray. He went to the cross to pay the penalty of our sin in our place, to face God's just wrath that we deserve. He went and gave his life willingly. He said, No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down. I have power to take it again. By his own authority, he died. And by his own authority he rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until his second coming, he's gathering into his flock not only those of Israel and Judah, he's also calling Gentiles. People of all nations, other sheep that are not of this fold, to be one flock under one shepherd. Yes, we too can submit ourselves to Christ. And a way to enter his flock is to repent and believe. Repent, that is, turn from your sins of thought, word, and deed. Believe, that is, turn to Christ by faith There's nothing we can do to earn heaven. It's all a gift of grace, not of works. Come to Jesus today if you haven't Jesus once laid down himself for the flock in the weakness of God. Someday he shall stand and feed his flock in the strength of the Lord. And that leads to the third paradox of Christmas. Jesus stands near us, yet he's far above us. This paradox is captured in the doctrine of incarnation, God becoming flesh. We should celebrate all year round how God is with us through Jesus Emmanuel. Around this time of the year, we recall the scene at the manger as God's son became Mary's son, a helpless babe. Jesus stands near us, yet he's far above us. But I think the scene out in the fields of Bethlehem also signifies this paradox We juxtapose poor shepherds in the margins and the multitude of heavenly hosts. Imagine hearing the sound of angels singing while smelling grass and sheep. It's not just something we don't see every day, it's two things we won't see together any day. But the shepherds and angels together signal how Christ stands near us, yet he's far above us. Micah 5:4 also juxtaposes seemingly contradictory functions of Christ. He deigns to feed us, yet he reigns to lead us. Jesus is not only the royal Messiah, the kingly ruler, he is the royal shepherd, the kingly servant. It comes to us with both the frailty of humanity, with the man's name, and the majesty of divinity in God's name. His acts of intimate kindness have otherworldly power behind them. He stands above all y stoops to our level. And he is the one we call King. Where all earthly kings have fallen due to corruption and weakness, our heavenly king does not fail. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. That's why his sheep can abide safe and secure under his reign forever. In his kingdom, peace won't be a product of checks and balances, of uneasy truces. Jesus, the Prince of Peace, himself shall be peace. The ruler of Israel shall be great to the ends of the earth. The King of the Jews and the David's Lord will be revealed as the King of kings. And the Lord of Lords. That's why the joy and wonder of Christmas are not only reserved for the shepherds of Bethlehem or the Magi from the East. We too can truly sing. Joy to the world. The Lord has come. Let Earth receive her king. Let's pray and sing that together. Lord, we thank you that Christmas is not some modern invention of a consumeristic society, Lord, but it is a day of hope and promise that has come true. The ancient prophets have foreseen that the Messiah would come, that Christ would come to save us, that he will be born and that he will redeem us from death and sin. And Lord help us to understand, help us to appreciate all the build-up, all the anticipation that has gone throughout the years and centuries and millenniums. And Lord, we pray that we would celebrate not only today, this week, this month, of coming year But throughout all eternity will sing and praise you for sending your Son Jesus Christ to die for us in our place. Pray that you'll fill our hearts with joy and peace as we go our separate ways. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.