Good morning. Good to see everyone this morning on a foggy day. We came through four traffic accidents on our way this morning. Two at the intersection of Interstate 70 and 29. Two at the intersection of 29 and 100. So I hope none of you were involved in those as you were trying to get to church. It's good to be here. As announced already, this is the last message in James. And uh since I'm going to be here for two more Sundays, I thought maybe I should start a long book. Well then I thought maybe I should talk about Christmas. I don't know. Do you have any uh If you have any votes that you'd like to make, I will accept votes. All right Trust you had a good Thanksgiving and enjoyed fellowship with others. As you rejoiced in God's grace. We had twenty-three for Thanksgiving. That was not the greatest problem. We had thirteen Kids. Nine of the kids are completely trustworthy. So afterwards we were surveying the damage. Damage control. I think we only lost the heads of two dolls. We lost the ping pong paddle. And then uh the back tire of one of the bicycles was flat and I thought, oh, I'll just bump it up. Well somebody had torn the valve off, the inner two, so there was no valve whatsoever. But well so it was a cheap Thanksgiving in terms of Damage control. But it was great. So we're into this strange ending of James today. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone turns him back Let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. And that's it. James doesn't say goodbye. He doesn't say peace be with you. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you forever. Just Sins is the last word. I thought it was interesting that we read Psalm 119 today Verse the last verse of Psalm 119, the psalmist says, I have wandered from the truth. So, why does James end this way? It's almost as if he wants these words to ring in the listener's ear when the reader sits down. Multitude of sins. Cover a multitude of sins. I think this is an important part of James' message. He wants them to know that they are in this together. That no one is an island off there alone by himself or herself. And no one can say, like Cain, Am I my brother's keeper? The answer is absolutely The answer is, and your sister too. In James 5:9, James says, Do not grumble against one another. Brethren. In five thirteen he says, Is anyone among you? Suffering. In 514, is any among you sick? 516, confess your trespasses to one another. And pray for one another. Do you see the picture? There's a similarity here between your family and what happened perhaps at Thanksgiving and the Church of Jesus Christ. So I've entitled this section, Church as Family. What does it mean to be in God's family? It means being in a fellowship of mutual concern. It means loving God by loving one another. And loving one another means much more than saying hi at a church picnic. It means even chasing brothers and sisters down to help bring them back to the joy of the truth. It's like Elijah who gave himself to prayer to rescue those who he loved. So let me talk about church family life from three perspectives. I think in these two verses I can find at least three perspectives. Perspective number one: families have trouble. Families have trouble. We define family many times with ideal pictures Children obediently sitting around the dining room table discussing theology, or how they shared the gospel with the neighbor that day. Or asking questions about how the parents feel toward the liberal agenda. As far as I know, these pictures are not matched by any family on earth. I think our children were all under 14 when Martha and I decided that for devotions in the morning we wish we should read through the Gospel of Matthew. the Gospel of Mark, and come up with a title for each paragraph. And write it out on a three by five card and Hang it with a clothespin on a line that was across the family room. So we would have three to five card for each side In Mark. That was our picture. And we were going to do this between 7 a. m. and 710. Just ten minutes a day, focusing on the Lord. At that time we had Six children and a visitor. We actually had seven children. First of all, we couldn't get them there by seven Um you know, getting dress, uh bathroom breaks When we finally started at 7. 09, if we were lucky, they were scattered around the floor In chairs, some still sleeping, others complaining about the rigor of our religion, or talking about what they had to do that day, you know, and it was just sort of a General Shoopy disaster. And I don't know if we got very far in Mark at all I've come to the realization that those kinds of experiences are normal with children. Doesn't look like very many of you agree. We've got agreement over here in the in the Western Gallery. Yes. The parents have a good idea, but there's some sort of inertia among the children. And we remember movies like The Sound of Music. Of music, or cheaper by the dozen. And we wonder what's wrong. To add to that, there are Christian leaders who suggest that if you do it right, according to biblical standards, and you raise your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, And you guide them the way you ought to guide them, you won't have any trouble And so what happens is that we often have churches that have parents who are depressed. Over the fact that it doesn't work in their family or hasn't worked in their family, or they have messed it up I'm waiting for an amen. After all, Proverbs says, train a child in the way he shall go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. What's wrong with your kids? You know? What's wrong with my kids? So the danger is when we get this idealistic picture of what a family should look like. And when we get discouraged over the fact that it doesn't look that way. So in this family, in James. Verse 19 says, and this is A in your outline if you're filling it in, one of the children is out of sync. One of the children is moving in the wrong direction. James says, any one of you, anyone among you. Any one among you. Don't be surprised when that happens. Don't think it's your fault. On the other hand, don't be proud over the fact that it's not you. This can be anyone. Sometimes it's the very people you think will never have problems. But someone wanders from the truth. And this one is called a sinner in verse 20. His wandering leads to error and sin. The truth is that all families have trouble. Every family seems to have such a child or a relative going in a different direction. What is the family to do in such a case? Answer. Help him. Help her. The passage contains at least three kinds of helpfulness. In verse 14, the person calls for the elders. In verse 16, the person confesses sin to someone else so they can pray. But here in verse 19 and 20 The brother or sister goes out to help without permission, charges into their life to turn them. Simply because he sees a family member in need. Adam and Eve were perhaps the best parents ever seen on the planet. After all, they had walked with God Himself in the cool of the evening and discussed their responsibilities. They were brilliant people, and yet they had serious trouble Son number one had an uncontrolled temper that led to the murder of his brother. Anyone who thinks that when parents do all things right, the children will all turn out right does not understand a human. Heart. But parents get hung up on the ideal family so that if a child turns away from the Lord, the first question they ask is. What did we do wrong? What did we do wrong? I remember when our son disappeared. At the age of 15, stole our van and left the two 13-year-old girls. That was our question. What did we do wrong? It was our fault. And then the more we talked about it and the more we thought about it, the more we realized we had spent more time with him. Son number one. He had had more experiences in the Christian life. He had memorized probably at least a thousand verses of scripture There was more, you know, gospel packed into that frame than any of our other five kids. And the issue is that a child always has to make a change. Choice. Comes to the place where he's got to make a choice. And some of them, like Cain, turn against the best wisdom of their parents, go their own ways. Now, exactly the same thing happens in a church. Even with the best teaching, the best fellowship, the best examples in the church, the best pastor, people get strange ideas. Turn away from the Lord. So here's B on the list. The result is projected to be serious. The result is projected to be serious James is talking about more than not coming to church or getting into an argument with an elder We're talking about serious wandering. James uses words like multitude of sins. Turns him, save a soul, death He's referring to a direction in life that multiplies sins. You can't multiply sins without becoming a slave to sin. So here's someone who's becoming maybe a slave to drugs, maybe a slave to false doctrine, maybe a slave to any number of things. What does James mean by death? Do you remember that discussion? We had this that discussion a year ago. Everybody should remember that. I was looking at uh when I started this series on James. It was November the 12th last year. So it's It's taking us taking taken us a year to get through James. But we talked about this back in chapter 1, verse 15. Which ends with the word death. The verse ends with the word death. James describes the end result of temptation. When yielded to, it produces sin. Sin when it is full grown brings forth death. So what kind of death? And I referred you to the death that Adam and Eve faced when they sinned. God said, The day you sin, you will die. Adam and Eve sinned, and they died. They didn't die physically, but they instantly recognized certain changes that had taken place. They instantly recognized that they were naked. They instantly wanted to hide from God. God came calling in the cool of the evening and they weren't there So something had happened immediately, like a cleaver that separated. Death separated their relationship with God. And I think that's the kind of thing that James is referring to. He's talking about the fact that death makes a difference. in the way we relate to God, the way we relate to others. And that death spread in many directions, not the least in the fact that their firstborn k son killed their secondborn son. Physical death. Sin and death are always connected with separation of some kind. For an unbeliever, sin ultimately leads to eternal death. But even before that, sin separates. It ruins relationships in a family. People hide like Adam and Eve. People get angry like Cain and Abel. And all kinds of disaster comes out. So, in a real sense, in a real sense, what this passage is talking about is destiny. Destiny is involved when people turn away from the Lord. That's why we're in the family. We make it as we make it together. Our great concern must be to shepherd each other right through to eternity. Here, C, the family needs to recognize the danger. The family needs to recognize the danger. Sometimes a family's ignorant of the danger of a brother or sister, what they're into. Or the family doesn't recognize the importance of this one family member. You know, the family may be focused on something else. It's only one, they say. You know, we've got seventeen kids. It's only one. Or Osama bin Laden, remember Osama bin Laden, his father had fifty-four kids. It's only one. But the story of Christ is an example of repeatedly choosing to deal with one in the middle of a larger group. So the parables in Luke 15 are all about one. One sheep, even though there were a hundred. One coin, even though there were ten, one son, even though there were two. The importance of one. That's God's method. So the family needs to wake up to the realization that every one is important and this situation is important. When somebody from the group wanders, that's significant. You can't say, well, I just didn't really expect they'd last anyway. You can't say, I'm glad it's not me. You need to realize that it is important. That one is important. You need that one. You can't just let them go. Do you know any wanderers? Friends of yours that have gone astray? Friends of yours that aren't friends anymore? We have a good friend who just at Thanksgiving time got a note from her sister. They're both in their sixties. Her sister said to her, I do not want to see your face anymore. Can you imagine that So I'd like you to do something. I'd like you to think in terms of two people. Two people that are wanderers Two people that aren't connected and write their names down. You can write them down on the sheet that you have there. I'd like you to write down two names. Okay. Two names that you can focus on between now and Christmas. And think in terms of what you can do. To help them. So now the question is So, what is the family to do? What am I to do? Here's main point number two. This is the the second percep perspective on family. God's solution to family trouble is the family. God's solution to family trouble is the family. Perhaps I should have worded this. God's solution to family trouble begins with the family. You know, I'm going to emphasize in this section that you and family members are more important than psychologists and counselors and specialists. And I don't mean to ignore them and say they're not necessary. I think this passage is saying the thing begins with you. It begins with the family. How do you reach out to those that are wandering? It's the family that does it. We often think that the solution has to be a specialist. After all, anyone who's who's got enough psychological and moral problems to wander away needs Specialized help. No, James says anybody can do the job That's A. Notice the word someone. Someone Who? It doesn't matter. Just another family member. Someone who sees the problem is concerned about it. Makes a move to help. The word someone is very general, very indefinite. It's not talking about the pastor. It's not talking about an elder. It's not talking about a trustee. It's not talking about a Sunday school teacher. Anyone Who sees the person in need, even if they don't have a counseling degree, even if they've never been to college, even if they haven't finished high school. The fact that God allows you to see someone else moving away from the Lord implies that He's giving you the opportunity and responsibility to move out and help them. You say I'm not qualified. I'm not qualified. How do you know I would think that if you were not qualified, you would be blind to what's happening. The fact that you see what's going on, the fact that you know what the issues are, is an indication to me that God can use you to help that person. You may be more qualified than you think. It's like the parable of the Good Samaritan, you know? What did it take to help the Jewish man who's laying by the side of the road? Well, the priest was qualified, and the Levite was qualified, and they came by and said, We're busy And he is not as important as our other responsibilities. What did it take to help him? Even an enemy could help him if he had compassion. And I think that's the that's the issue many times When you have people in your family or people in the church that are going their own way, often the issue is simply: does anybody care? Is anybody interested? Will anybody take time? Will anyone talk to them? So often the response is like Cain, you know, am I my brother's keeper? I've got enough to do. Look at all the stuff I've got on my list. You know, the priest and the Levite, when they passed the Jewish guy laying on the side of the road, they probably had a schedule and they were serving God. So family life depends on the participation of every family member. Ever been sitting around the fireplace as a family with all the brothers and sisters and cousins and uncles and aunts having a great time? And there's one character in the group that messes it all up. You know? There's one person that puts the whole group on edge Could be that he's angry. Could be that he wants to hog every all the conversation. You know, could be any kinds of things. But just one person puts it on edge. What happens? A lot of times the group that's there fixes him. Some do it gently. Some do it harshly, some do it physically, they fix the situation I think that's a picture of what God wants. He wants us as a group to participate. When our son was in his rebellious ways, just his presence in our family made the family completely different. We were all on edge when Joseph was home. If Joseph was gone, things were just significant significantly different. And then the day when he moved out, you know, he got married actually and moved out. Different family The same thing, the same kind of thing happens in your family and happens in in the church. So the goal here is to turn such a person. Suppose no one does anything, no one moves, then chances are that you probably won't have significant family life. They may have the same last name. Like us, Shupe, same last name, but we weren't really acting like a family at certain times But on the other hand, suppose that everybody got involved. Suppose that the whole church worked on one person. They all showed up. They all expressed their love, their desire to see this person back in fellowship, not only with them, but with the Lord and with the joy of the Lord. Suppose that happened. I've seen a couple cases where that has happened and has made a significant difference in the person's life. We actually had people at our present church who came who joined our church and then the church that they left in a huff. Came en masse, apparently, meaning like a dozen people, came to visit them. They left our church and went back to the original church. They realized they were loved there. Hadn't realized that before. So the point is anyone can do it, somebody's got to make a move And the goal, this is B under number two, the responsibility is to turn the brother back. Turn The word turn is a word that means to encourage, to cause, to cause one to repent. This is an important word because it describes what we're doing with one another and to one another. We're seeking to turn one another. What does that mean? Well, the word is used twice in Luke chapter 1, verses 16 and 17. Luke 1. 16, the angel speaks of the ministry of John the Baptist and says, This: Many of the people of Israel will he bring back to the Lord their God. The words bring back are the same word as turn here. It's simply the idea of bringing them back home. Helping them get their mind off of whatever else has fascinated them and reintroducing them to the privilege of family life. The next verse goes on by saying, And he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children. And the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. In other words, he's going to get a group of people ready for Messiah. Because Messiah is entering the scene right after him. He's going to get them prepared, and how is he going to do that? Well, he's going to turn the hearts of the fathers back to their families, back to their children. What's happened? When John the Baptist entered the nation of Israel and began preaching, The hearts of the fathers had gotten away from their children, had gotten away from their families. Fathers had Forgotten their responsibilities and their privileges, thinking that there was something more important than raising children They had gotten busy with work or making money, of course for their children, or their projects. Perhaps their sports. Did they have sports back then? They're entertainment. And they lost sight of their primary responsibility to see all these things as secondary to the significance of their family. And what happened? Same thing that happens today. You get a generation of children that grow up who do not know what family life is all about because Dads are absent, even though they may physically be there. Sound familiar? Perhaps you're the product of a father who never turned to his children. He may have been rich. He may have provided you with many things. He may have been a big name in the neighborhood, but you grew up with this. Missing part in your system. You know? A longing that he never met, a longing just for a connection with his heart. And what happened was that you compensated for that. Perhaps overcompensated for that. Which affects other people as well as you. So John the Baptist was not talking about some optional addition. That fathers maybe ought to be thinking about their kids. He was there to turn the hearts of the fathers back to children, back to families. This is foundational for families. The hearts of fathers need to be turned, or the entire family suffers. The children suffer. Their suffering affects others. So John's ministry was to turn fathers. Jesus' ministry was to turn the nation. Our ministry is likewise to turn, to turn the hearts of people. To awaken them to the direction they're going. Turn them back to the family. Turn them back to the joy of the Lord. It's interesting to me how many brothers and sisters who have wandered away turn back simply because somebody else is interested in them. Somebody chases them. Somebody writes them a note. Somebody loves them. I'm sure some of you know Tom Bissett From the Christian radio station over here. He wrote a book entitled, Why Christian Kids Leave the Faith. How many of you have read that book? Why Christian Kids Leave the Faith? I see one hand. I'd encourage you to read it if you would like to. In fact, no, I'd like to say that's stronger than that. I would encourage you to read it. Why Christian Kids Leave the Faith. And one of the things That's interesting is that in in whatever research he did, he came to the conclusion that 85% of the kids, Christian kids that leave the faith, come back. 85%. That's kinda interesting. You wouldn't think that. I know as a parent when you watch them go, you're not sure they'll ever come back. That's the way James writes. James writes as if somebody has left, somebody has wandered, but it's not terminal. Don't let him go. Don't let him get away. Turn him back. Because this is the way the Christian life operates. We read it in Psalm 119, 176 today. Here's a psalmist. He's writing a psalm. He's just finished 176 verses. Talking about the blessing of God's Word. And he says, I wonder. How's that possible? Well, check your own heart. How long does it take? So if and when you happen to read Tom Bissett's book, our situation is in China. Chapter 4. It's a shoopy confession here. We're chapter 4 in that book, okay? I'm John. Martha's Becky. Okay? And the story is our story when our son ran away. One of the interesting things Is that when Joseph came back to the Lord after after he had led his wife to Christ, Tom wanted to interview him Tom wanted to talk to him because he wrote another book, Why Christian Kids Who Leave the Faith Come Back. So the attitude of this whole kind of thing is that such wandering is and ought to be temporary. Because of the family. The family is there to work on it as people express their love, as people go after them, as people say, hey, let me just remind you what you use. So if you have two people on your list that you have written down, I've been watching to see if anybody has obeyed me here. Like fifty percent of you have obeyed, and the other I don't know anyway, but if you've written those down, here's my challenge. Ask God for wisdom as to what to do. How can you set out to turn them? You're not just setting out to say hi. You're setting out to turn them. In the process of this message, the Holy Spirit said to me, Okay, Shupi, why don't you apply this to yourself? two do you have? So I chose two. I've got two. And my first project now is I'm gonna send both of them a Christmas card. And I'm gonna say to both of them something in terms of fellowship with Christ and the joy of the Lord. So here's the third perspective. First perspective is families have trouble. Second perspective is God's solution to family trouble is the family. Here's number three. God's solution to family trouble involves work. Going after someone to turn them is not always simple and effortless. It involves work. A, the example Christ gives us is of sacrificing other things. The example of Christ is sacrificing other things. Think of the shepherd in Luke 15 who had 100 sheep And one got lost. What did he do with the others? He left ninety-nine. Who did he leave them with? We don't know. Isn't that kind of dangerous? He was concerned about the one. The Good Shepherd operates that way. The very fact that he leaves so much and goes so far to get one demonstrates his heart. That's why you are saved if you've trusted Christ. Christ, the shepherd came after you. And how does he go after the one? Does he say, come here, you little beastie. Wait till I get my hands on you. You will never wander again. No, sir. I'll put a mark on you to end all the trouble you've caused me. No, he carries it back on his shoulders and calls his calls his friends together for a celebration. We have missionary friends named the Kings who were in um Sweden for years. years and uh Nancy the wife the mother was raising four kids in Sweden with Amazing challenges. And one time she was asked, Why are you doing so much for your kids? Aren't they running your life? And her response was, what's the problem with that? They are my life I think that's the attitude. I think that's the attitude here. Why are you spending so much time with that person that's running away? Why bother? Aren't they running your life? They are my life. That was Christ's attitude. They are my life. So there's a brother who goes astray. Who's going to help him? The person who says, No, this is not a bother to me. This is not an interruption in my life. This is not making me into a doormat, because this brother or sister is my life. That's the attitude here in James. That's the attitude God wants us to develop. What does it mean to be like Jesus? It means that you can't stand by when your brothers and sisters are going into sin. Jesus not only came to do something, he gave his life to rest. From our sin. Elizabeth Elliott says, Love has a price tag. It will cost you. I'm convinced that even in the gravest marital problems. Serious problems of a deep and lasting nature, there's a solution. If both parties will give of themselves and be willing to sacrifice. Even the deepest wrong can be made right by sacrifice. This is Elizabeth Elliott still. What was wrong with the world was so terrible that it could be remedied only by sacrifice. And Jesus made that sacrifice. So B says the example James gives is of unseen work. Unseen work. And you'll notice I've got a one, two, and three. Here. What kind of unseen work? Number one, pray. Prayer. Praying fervently, like Elijah. We just talked about Elijah and how he responded to a whole nation that was going astray. I think that nothing really happens in interpersonal relationships until we pray. You may be trained and skilled in public speaking or in one-on-one speaking, but nothing happens without prayer. Elijah gave himself to prayer. And interesting enough, he prayed about the weather. More people ought to pray about the weather. And God turned the nation back to himself through a series of miracles. So what was the key to their turn? Why did Israel turn? Was it the marvelous preaching of Elijah? Was it the force of Elijah's persuasive ability to turn them and made them think differently? Make them think differently? No, the key was his prayer. Elijah stayed on his knees, and God moved in the situation. When our eldest son Joseph ran away and disappeared with our car, we prayed. We prayed in anger for his arrogant stupidity. Probably for twelve hours. Then we prayed in fear for his life. Probably for the next twelve or twelve Then we prayed for God to rescue him from whatever situation he got into. But we prayed. And God rescued him. Joseph was always on our minds, and I've thought many times since then about whether I have prayed that way for anybody else. Have I ever prayed that constantly, with a passion, for anybody else And I'm sorry to admit that it hasn't happened that often. And I wonder if anyone else has that same problem. We just don't care enough about another person's wandering. We don't see those people as our brothers and sisters. We don't see the family responsibility. We're not touched by their pain. We walk by them in their agony like the Levite and the priest did. In the Good Samaritan parable. So this is why we need to get together for prayer. Some of the wanderers in this congregation are our children. Some of them are our literal brothers and sisters. We need to plead with God to move in their lives and awaken them. to their need of turning. Number two, go. Go to the person alone. Alone. Luke 17, 3. If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. You have to make the move. You don't say to the Lord, give me words to say when he calls me, when she calls me, when she knocks on the front door. That may never happen. You make the move. You may email them, you may send them a letter, you may call them, you may go to their house, you may send them a gift. You may ask him, what can I pray for? For you. Any number of things. God can guide and direct you. It's the fact that you say, I want to do something. I want to go. And then number three, you help. Help. Don't worry about what you're going to say. Your goal is to be there to help. Keep asking God what you can do to help. Most of the things that you prepare to say aren't going to fit anyway. Just be with them. Just write them. Just connect Your goal is to show him that you love him. It only may be a one-minute visit, you know, a five-minute visit, a co a phone call, but that is a move in his direction. So pray and go and help. The point here is that you and I have the tremendous privilege of saving the soul of our brother and sister. And that in the process of doing that, we cover a multitude of sins. That's exactly the heart of Jesus Christ. Giving his life to save a world of condemned sinners. Maybe that's why God saves his highest honors. For those who turn others, for those who lead people to Christ, for those who rescue others from wandering. Highest honor. Here's Daniel chapter twelve, verse three. Those who are wise Shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. May we love enough to seek to turn others back. Let's pray. Father, we're grateful for your word and for the clarity of even these two simple Verses. Would you encourage us in family life? Would you encourage us enough that we might make a move That we might pray, that we might go, that we might help. And I pray by your grace, wanderers, in our lives My turn back to Christ. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.