Blessed. Blessed is a word you see frequently in the scriptures. You may hear it often in your Christian circles. These days you'll encounter it in social media with like a hashtag in front of in front of it For a Duke University professor of American religion, Kate Bowler, it was the perfect title for her book. The subtitle explains her project: A History of the American Prosperity Gospel. So in it, Bowler is trying to give an objective overview of a major religious movement that promises the blessed life. Turns out it at its root are many intersecting ideas from the 19th century. What became known as the New Thought Movement was a mix of many old thoughts. But if I could boil it all down to a few sentences, I'd probably say a life of blessing is predicated on positive thinking. To improve your life, adopt an optimistic outlook. This idea spread via various forms from various sources. Authors, preachers, televangelists, and yes, social media influencers. Now, even so, I don't want to shut down every instance of blessed or hashtag blessed. I think they're all bad. Not all talks of blessings rise out of naive, misguided belief in the prosperity gospel. Some are sincerely and genuinely grateful and just expressing themselves. My wife has done that with family photos on social media. And they don't need me to lecture them that heavenly treasures are better than material blessings. And even if people you meet are confused about the idea of blessings, why not use it as a springboard to share the gospel? So it's vital that all of us align or realign our thoughts and concepts of God's blessings according to the scriptures. Then we'd avoid conformity to this world. We'd be transformed by the renewing of our minds. Rather than being captivated by some new thought movement, We must bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. For that purpose, we understand God's blessings. To understand God's blessings properly, we continue in our series. Keep calm and read Psalms. Continue our look at Psalm 40. We covered up to verse 3 last week. We'll go over just two verses this week, verses four and five. So let's read that. Psalm 40, 4 and 5. Blessed is that man who makes the Lord his trust, and does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to the Many, O Lord my God, are your wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. As we just focus on two verses today, I'd like to consider one, how we think of God, and two, how God thinks of us. How we think of God and how God thinks of us are vital for the blessed life. So how are we to think of God? Based on verse 4, in my mind's eye, I see him meeting. Us as a loving father, welcoming us with the blessings of goodness. He's loving but also powerful. He's our refuge and fortress, shelter and strong tower. We trust in him. He's far better than the alternatives. The wicked who in their proud countenance do not seek God. God is in none of their thoughts. Their pride has deceived them. In contrast to them, as we saints think of God rightly, we also consider how God thinks of us. In verse 5, David begins with the Creator's grandiose works in general everywhere, but then he focuses on his gracious thoughts in particular towards Israel. David's people. Overwhelm the psalmist overflows in worship. So to live a blessed life, trace the line of David's thought to arrive at the two following conclusions. Conclusions. The one one, the one and only source of trust is the true God who blesses the humble. That's verse four. 2. Many are the works and thoughts of the Lord who cares for his people. Verse 5. If you're taking notes, maybe you should just jot down the first point for now. Because I'm going to change slides quickly, but I'll show this slide again later. First, to secure your blessings, conclude that the one and only source of trust is the true God. Who blesses the humble. I'm going to traverse through verse four, a word or a phrase at a time. The first word blessed sets the tone here To properly define blessed, I've gathered some commentary for us on the next slide. David Goodzik in his Enduring word Bible commentary writes, quote, The Hebrew word Esher is here translated blessed, which has the idea of happiness or contentment. Esher is a form of the Hebrew word Ashar, which in its root Means to be straight or to be right. Blessed is the man speaks of the happiness, the blessedness, the contentment in the life of the man or woman who is right or straight with God. God the righteous man will be a blessed man, a happy man. You can find that online. I can send you the slide later if you want it. Here's another one. Mentioned this guy this morning actually. From the famous Reformed scholar and pastor. James Montgomery voice. Blessed means supremely happy or fulfilled. In fact, in Hebrew, the word is actually a plural, which denotes Either a multiplicity of blessings or an intensification of them. So that's a whole lot of blessings poured into one man. And the man who makes the Lord his trust is blessed. This is not just an entirely new idea in this psalm. Right? David has just mentioned in the previous verse how God has put a new song in his mouth. Praise to our God. Many will see it and fear and will trust in the Lord. The root of the verb will trust there in verse 3 is the same as the root of the noun trust here in verse 4. The idea is essentially the same. So making the Lord your trust means you're trusting the Lord. That seems simple enough. But there's more in the second half of verse 4. The blessed man not only trusts in the Lord, we see also, and he does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Some translate that word lies as false gods and NIV or idols in the New Living translation, thus likely motivated by the desire to contrast Yahweh with rival deities. But I think the general idea of falsehood is more appropriate here. Lies. Are we talking about turning aside to the to the prideful who are also those who turn aside to lies, right? It's not hard to imagine the arrogant people buying into lies about all kinds of things, not just idolatry. Now put it all together in verse 4. David saying, To do one thing, you must not do the other. Do make your Lord your trust. Please do not respect the proud or those who turn aside to lie. The second part of verse 4 expands on the first part. It shows us what it means to truly and biblically and genuinely trust in the Lord. A lot of people talk about faith or believing without end just in a very abstract way. Faith, it turns out, has a moral component to it. To put it another way, David strongly implying here that the blessed faith is humble and the blessed faith is truthful. So first with respect to humility, David saying that to rely on God we cannot respect the proud. This makes sense because the Bible often tells us God opposes the proud. Psalm 138. Verse 6 says, the Lord regards the lowly, but the proud he knows from afar. Twice in the New Testament we're instructed God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. James and 1 Peter So if we if we're truly friends of God, God's conceded enemies would be our enemies. Also with respect to truth, David saying that to rely on God we cannot respect liars or deception. We see deception is not far from pride. Prophet Obadiah could very well speak to anyone at any time when he wrote, The pride of your heart has deceived you. But when we saints are rescued out of self-delusion, we turn to the God of truth and walk in his ways. Walk in truth. That means we also turn away from those whose lies lead them astray. By making such tough choices to separate from the crowds, we might feel lonely at times. But God must be the one and only source of trust. To let God, we must let go of others. Nothing else lasts. God is first and last. Not the proud, as God scatters the proud in the imagination of their hearts. Hearts, nor the deceitful, as the truthful lips shall be established forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment Now, I may be preaching to the choir, but let's back up and think for a minute. Why would we be tempted to respect the proud and those who turn aside to lies? Well, arrogance plus deceit oftentimes equals those who advance in life in ungodly ways. They were totally honest. We're like ASAP sometimes, right? We're envious of the boastful when we see the pro uh prosperity of of the wicked. Like Jeremiah, we might ask, why are those happy who deal so treacherously? So in our lives, in our careers, sadly, even in our ministries, we might be tempted to mix in a little guile and trickery to advance a bit and get ahead. I'm strong enough in my faith to compromise just this one time. What's a little white line Like I said, I think even as people doing ministry, they feel tempted to compromise their convictions. Feel like the people who are really proud and people who seem to have it all together, they're getting ahead, they're respected, they're getting all kinds of followers. I don't know if you ever feel tempted that way. And that's when it gets so tough to trust in the Lord. That's when we have to lean on his promises, passages like Proverbs 28:6: Better is the poor who walks in his integrity than one perverse in his ways, though he be rich. We have to trust God Himself is our exceedingly great reward, not only that he rewards those who keep his commands. This is the good way, but it's also narrow and difficult. Journey through it may not yield earthly blessings. But you can be assured of your heavenly blessings. By being sure your one and only source of trust is the true God. In time you'll see that He abundantly blesses the humble. So don't think that if we limit our faith to the Lord, we limit our chances at the super blessed life. This is an investment where you put things in different portfolios or Don't put all your eggs in one basket, right? Spiritually speaking, put all your eggs in one basket, right? Give yourself to the Lord fully. And that's where we should be, right where we should be. We sang earlier, plenteous grace with thee is found, thou of life, the fountain art. We sing on other week, come thou found of every blessing. We wonder what riches of kindness He lavished on us. Believe that the grace of Christ is sufficient for us and that God is able to make all grace abound toward us. In line with this graciousness of God, keep in mind what David says in Psalm 40, verse 5: Many, O Lord, my God, are your wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts toward us cannot be repeated. counted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. We learn here that to be blessed is less about positive thinking on our part. It's much more about divine thinking on God's part. We must realize that many are the works and thoughts of the Lord who cares for his people. What am I seeing in Psalm forty verse five? A miniature version of Psalm eight, three to four, which me Covered two weeks ago. Let's see if a side-by-side comparison helps. The first part of Psalm 40, verse 5, up to the semicolon says, Many, O Lord, my God, are your wonderful works which you have done. I'll call this by A. And it corresponds to Psalm 8. 3. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained. Then what's next? Back to the other slide. Go on to the rest of Psalm 40, verse 5. Which reads, and your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. I'll call this by B, and it corresponds to A4 Psalm 84, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? What I mean is this in both Psalms, David begins from the grand vision of God's creative work to zoom into the particular whether it's the children of men in Psalm 8 or the children of Israel in Psalm 40. We descend from those large wonders of the universe to these small wonders on earth. We're amazed that the Lord would think of us at all, as Psalm 8 says. Now we're even more amazed that the Lord thinks of us so often, so frequently, so many times, as Psalm forty says. Elsewhere in Psalm 139, 17-18. David brings together both the quality and the quantity of his mindfulness toward man. How precious are your thoughts to me, O God? That's quality. How great is the sum of them? If I could count them, they will be more in number than the sum of them. That's quantity. Now back to Psalm 40, verse 5. It's helpful to stop and define God's thoughts and determine the exact extent. of us, they go hand in hand. We must start by considering the specific privileges of Israel that God has privileged them with. You'll find them all throughout the scripture. This is why it's important. to get off your thoughts and think of what God is thinking, right? Through you through the word of God. Speaking of Israel, we start with the Old Testament. They will be to him a kingdom of priests and holy nation, they will be his own inheritance. Even when they are disciplined, the the thoughts that the Lord thinks toward his people are thoughts of peace and not of evil to give them a hope, future and A lot of people cite Jeremiah twenty-nine, eleven, but think of this in original context of how God thinks of his people, the covenant people of Israel. Next, we go into the New Testament of the church age. The most Jews you meet today would not revere Jesus. What Paul says in Romans remains true even today. As Romans 3:1 says, the Jew has much advantage in every way. 9:4-5 says, To them pertain the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises of whom are the fathers and from whom. 1128-29 reminds us even if there are enemies concerning the gospel, they're elected as a nation, let beloved for the sake of the patriarchy. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. You add all that up. Yahweh will keep his covenant with his People. He has not changed his mind about them. He has not given up on them. On the contrary, many are the works and thoughts of the Lord who cares for his people. So, this was the way for David and his people to live the blessed life. The one and only source of trust is the true God who blesses the humble. Many are the works and thoughts of the Lord who cares for the Lord. For his people. Now, a good follow-up question is: what does this have to do with me? I'm no Jew. But as we read earlier from Galatians 3, also as we saw last week in Psalm 40, verse 3. The God of Israel always intended to bless Gentiles through faith. And this week, the invitation to trust in the Lord and consider his thoughts leads us to To reflect on the gospel. Gospel is what we celebrate this and every Christmas season and really all year round. It's the good news of Christ, good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. But before we talk about the good news, good tidings, and good will, we must talk about the bad news, evil tidings, and the stubborn will of man. The fact is, this reference to the proud and those who turn aside to lies in Psalm 40, verse 4, is not only about those awful wicked people out there. Before Christ came into our lives, we testified, we were once proud. Formerly we turned aside to lies. Apart from mercy, Proverbs 21:24 applies to each of us. A proud and halty man, scoffer, is his name. He acts with arrogant pride. Apart from grace, we're full of deceit in our minds, we practice deceit with our tongues. Even Psalm 40, verse 5 reveals a disturbing problem within us. I was looking at Psalm 92, 4 to 5, and we see that left to ourselves we're senseless and foolish. We don't recognize how great are the works of the Lord and how deep are his thoughts. Our willful ignorance, our self-deception, our lack of humility got us in big trouble with our holy Creator God. We're under sin and so under his wrathful sentence of hell. That is eternally apart from him. So what hope is there for us? What blessings are there when we're so cursed? We can try to be good enough, but inevitably we fail. That's because we simply won't continue in all things which are written in the Book of the law to do them. What good is it when there's none who does good? What's the point of trying to be clean when we are all like an unclean thing? What's the use of dressing ourselves in self-righteousness when all our righteousnesses are like filthy racks? But there is good news. To solve the sinful human problem, God became a sinless human. We'll talk about Jesus. The Son of God came full of grace and truth, declaring the Father, doing his works, exposing the devil's lies. He came as the humble king, not as those proud. The second person of Trinity, God Himself, made Himself of no reputation. He took the form of a bondservant. Coming in And on top of living a perfect life, there's his greatest act of humility. He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death. death of the cross. Jesus hung on a tree becoming a curse for us so that we might be blessed. He became our substitute At the crucifixion, he paid in full the penalty of sin. We deserve the wrath of God that we should face. After declaring it is finished, he Breathe his last and died. He was buried. He rose from the grave on the third day. He ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now as that judgment approaches, be warned that apart from grace we stand in danger of hellfire. Behold, the day is coming, Prophet Malachi said. Then all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone. As Revelation 21 says, the time to repent and turn from sin is now. Turn to Christ. Eternal life is a gift available through him This blessing is not like your salary or wages. It's by grace for blessed, not as wages for those who work. This blessing is available for anyone who makes Jesus his or her. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So the blessings of this gospel, right? This good news is countless and innumerable. Paul writes in Romans 4, To him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Then Paul cites from one of David's Psalms, Psalm 32, which sounds similar to Psalm 40, verse 4. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. To be succinct, the blessings of forgiveness come from the blessings of faith. The Father looks at the sacrifice of his son, his perfect righteousness now and forever covers those who trust in him. Our iniquities are not counted against us because Jesus paid it all at Calvary. Our record books are clean thanks to the blood of Christ. There's even more blessing as we consider our relationship with the third person of the Trinity. Not only are we reconciled to the Father through faith in the Son, through that same saving faith, we also receive the promise of the Holy Spirit. The indwelling Holy Spirit reveals to us the deep things of God. The things freely given to us by Him, the things He's prepared for those who love Him. So the Spirit reveals to us the kind and gracious thoughts of God toward us through his scriptures. So now we echo what David says in Psalm 44 to 5, but with even more joy and gladness. Blessed is that man who makes the Lord his trust, and does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord, my God, are your wonderful works which you have have done, and your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. So we're counted blessed through faith. And we can count our blessings because of faith. So let's do that with our final song. Yea, justified or blessed thought. And sanctified salvation wrought. Thy blood had pardoned walk for me, and glorified I too shall be. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the season when we think of the greatest gift, the gift of your son. Lord, you gave us uh An incomparable gift. Lord, we might we're thankful of course for the earthly blessings, our families and our friendships and our jobs, the roof over our heads, the coast. On our back. But Lord, help us to think this time of the year. Again, the greatest gift, your son Jesus Christ. And Lord, as we think about the greatest blessing that we could ever have. have. May our trust in you increase. May our faith grow. Lord, may our resistance to the world and the ways of the world. to the the pride of life and the deception that's everywhere in society. Lord may those things become less and less charming. Less attractive. And the the desires of our flesh become deadened as we turn to you, the giver of love. Life, the Father of lights, the one who abundantly blesses us through your Son, Jesus Christ. Lord, as we open up your word this week, not just this time of the a week on Sundays or during Sunday school, pray that you would over fill uh fill us up that we might overflow with just the happiness that comes from meditating. on your word and the promises you have laid in store in your word. We thank you that you would think of us this way. That you would save us. You would send your son It's in his name, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen