I guess I should start with a bit of an apology. Um I know our bulletin says at the very front expository preaching, but I'm doing a topical sermon today. Um But I tell you I will assure you that we do give a steady diet of expository preaching. But I don't mind sprinkling a few in the calendar once in a while. So I'm doing one today. And that's just because I just finished a miniseries on Psalms. I mean we can go on forever with Psalms, but I'm not going to. So we're gonna pause that, keep song keep calm and read Psalms thing for a while, and then we got Todd Beal preaching next week. Daniel and the Lions then. And I and I need a one-off uh sermon today, and um so that's why I'm doing like a topical sermon. Um So what to say, what to say. So I looked at my records and realized the last time I taught topically was back in 2022 Um it looks like there were two topical series in the second half of that year. In one of that I went through some portions of our statement of faith, church statement of faith. And I could have done that again. I think it's good for churches to do that. Like this is what we believe. Here's why we believe it. But I thought it'd be better if we go through a more underrated document. It's the covenant of membership. Why is it underrated? There are probably many answers to that question. Maybe you're the type who doesn't believe in local church membership at all. I recall asking one visitor whether she's interested in membership here. She said she answered, Oh no, it's okay, I belong to the Universal Church. So I gave her a few booklets on the issue and we haven't really talked since. Now, how would you convince or encourage a professing believer to join our church or another conservative evangelical church? Can you make a compelling biblical case for local church membership? To go further, can you justify the use of a covenant like ours? If not, why should we even have membership and covenant? You could argue based on tradition, we've had a covenant of membership since our beginnings. Uh here's a March sixth, nineteen fifty-nine typewritten version of our constitution, now just called bylaws. I had to dig through that in the downstairs, but you flip through the pages and what's this? Sure enough you see a membership covenant. It's a little different than what we have today, but um just again substantially it's the same So, why did the charter members of Faith Bible Church include this? Was it because Pastor Clayton Crooks and others were just following the trends of the day? Or were they on to something? Maybe they were emphasizing something that's been forgotten over the years. Could it be that our congregation from the very beginning believed in the importance of a membership covenant? So to answer these questions, we must go back past nineteen fifty-nine, even past fifty-seven, right? We'll move past twentieth century and nineteenth century America and even cross the ocean or the pond, as they say, right? We'll make a quick stop in Europe a few centuries past, but then speed up and go back through the millennia to biblical times. We'll look at the early church and some of the apostles teaching that justify the use of membership covenants But we can even go back to the Old Testament times and find grounds for them there. So for that end, I want to discuss three matters of importance when it comes to church covenants. Historical precedents of church covenants. Biblical rationale for church covenants. Spiritual benefits from church covenants So not exactly a historian, but here's his my take on it. So let's talk about the historical precedents Of church covenants. So in 17th century Europe, deciding on church membership in most places was really simple. It was decided for you very early in your life. If you're born English, you're infant baptized, you're Anglican. You're born Scottish, you're infant baptized, you're Presbyterian. Today of course we think that's ridiculous. Sure, when you're little your parents decide where you go Sundays, and then later you decide as an adult. The government doesn't determine for that, uh for you, right, or enforce it. But the idea we take for granted today that we should freely choose where we worship was scandalous to many back then. Citizens who did not support uh state established churches were deemed dangerous. Leading proponents like the Puritan Robert Brown were tortured. John Greenwood, Henry Barrel, John Perry were hanged for civil disobedience. Some of the pictures up there. Some faced imprisonment for refusing to show up at their parish church. Others were exile. Despite such persecution, the idea of separation of church from state control grew among some groups. Say if you're not one of those groups, congregationalists and Baptists. Say you're skeptical about this whole idea, right, about these changes. You think it's civil disorder, right You have some questions for these so-called separatists. If the government doesn't place a citizen into an established church, how do individuals freely organize themselves as a local congregation? Upon what basis will you and I be bound together? Well here's the answer. For the purpose of organizing a church, two key documents were used. Two documents that shape life together as a congregation. You have to agree to one, a confession of faith, centered on vital doctrinal issues, like a doctrinal statement. Okay. And two, the church covenant, which deals with Christian conduct. These two documents have different functions, one governing beliefs, the other behavior. But both have to be biblical in content, obviously. So let's focus on the church covenant since that's the topic for today. That document may not mean much to you in today's context. Maybe you looked at it once when you joined. But for independent churches in England, that membership covenant was more than a piece of paper. It kept them together when the pastor died, when divisions arose, when Anglican extremists attacked them. One notable example is 1720 Wurton Church Covenant, composed of 13 articles. I'll just share you, I'll share with you one quote from Article 7, which deals with persecution. We will, as our God shall enable us, cleave fast to each other to the utmost of our power And that if perilous times should come, and a time of persecution, we will not draw back from our holy profession, but will endeavor to strengthen one another's hands and encourage one another to perseverance. Such solemn agreements are not only beautiful and touching, they're biblical, and I'll explain why next in more detail. But for this first point, I'm just saying church covenants have a firm historical precedence. Membership covenants have a place not only in our faith Bible church history, but in church history in general, and especially those churches in history we most likely align with. Now before I leave this historical argument, I want to say a church covenant also appeals to wisdom, logic, and common sense. Before children, my wife Ire was interviewing for some nurse practitioner jobs. There was one position open and only. Montgomery County. Well during the interview, ERA was told by the employer, who's the doctor, right? Something like this. I don't really believe in contracts. You know employment contracts. I think it ruins relationships. Just go with the flow, you know. Well Ira and I thought that was strange. I think far from ruining relationships, I would think outlining clear boundaries and expectations from both parties would help it, right? A contract would define, sharpen, and improve the relationship I mean similar to employment contracts or rental agreements between landlords and tenants, proposals between businesses and clients, vows between husband and wife. I can definitely say the marriage vows have helped my marriage, right? It certainly makes sense then to have a covenant between a Christian and a church Well, besides common sense and history, what biblical argument would you offer to join a conservative evangelical church like ours? See, we must not only argue for the separation of the church and the state, we must also argue for unity of the church and the individual. We've correctly pushed back against involuntary church membership. We must also push for voluntary church membership. For that end, let's turn to biblical rationale for church covenants. Okay. So you'll find the covenant itself included in the bulletin. As you turn there, I just want to make this quick transitional point about covenants in general. We often think of covenants as made between the Creator and the mankind, right? Creatures there. In the early parts of the Bible, there are ones God makes with Noah, his family, the surviving animals, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But there are also covenants between peoples and individuals, right? Abraham and Abimelech, you know, Jacob and Laban, Israelites and Gibeonites, later, right? Later in 1 Samuel, we see the covenant between David and Jonathan. We talked about that when we were covering 1 Samuel. So covenants not only move vertically up and down, us and God, okay, but also horizontally between you and me. So all that's to say it's not strange for us to have covenants in community context. Hopefully you're at the pace now. So here I want to buttress the Biblical legitimacy of this covenant line by line is not enough to say we've done this for decades or even many centuries or churches have done this We need to see whether these covenantal demands align with biblical demands. So there's many passages, so as you go through these slides, you're going to see scriptural proof texts, right? And by no means exhaustive. Okay? So it's gotta be more of a homework for you to see like whether you really these cov covenantal demands are Found in the Bible. So on your bullets, I've added some space between the lines so you can write down the references as you follow along. So here's the first line Having received the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and openly confessed them by means of water baptism, I desired to unite with this portion of his visible body, the Church. This is the longest sentence of the covenant with thirty-two words. The next longest is twenty. Consequently, it makes sense for me to spend the most time here. And since the sentence is relatively long, it's best to divide it up into halves. I'm making the division at the first comma. In the first half, we observe two key assumptions that precede membership We assume that you've done the following already. You got saved and you got baptized. Got saved and got baptized. Let's now focus on the you got saved part, having received the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal savior. To support this idea I'd like to cite two passages. Again, there's Many others. First Romans ten, nine to ten. If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. There's another key passage, Colossians 2. six to seven. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. So taking these two passages together, we see that individuals must first make a personal decision to receive Jesus. But that saving faith is not merely an individual matter. I remember one of my former pastors saying this: true saving faith is always personal, but it's never private. True saving faith is always personal, it's never private. By all means, a genuine trusting our Savior is important at the heart of the matter. But if it really is genuine, it moves beyond the heart, right? Doesn't it? There's a public element to your genuine faith. Yes, there's the first of all the verbal confession we make about Jesus as Christ. But then not only our lifestyle, right? Not only that confession, but there's that our lifestyle, our walk is built on that foundation of faith. Saving faith abounds in gratitude beyond the bounds of our hearts. What's invisible manifests in the visible, that is visible good works, as we see in James two, fourteen to twenty-six. So moving on, even if you pray the prayer sinner's prayer or the personal prayer for salvation alone, there follows this very public act of water baptism. Okay? That's why we say we openly confess Christ by means of water baptism. If you get saved, then get baptized. And those are two distinct steps in proper order. First get saved, then get baptized. You don't get saved in water baptism, you don't get saved through water baptism. You don't get baptized to be saved, you get baptized because you're saved. Water baptism is kind of like a birth certificate. Right. A birth certificate is not itself a birth, right? It comes after the birthday. It tells others about the birth. Similarly, water baptism is not itself a new birth. It comes after regeneration. It tells others about your rebirth. A birth certificate reveals your identity, your name, your surname. Water baptism reveals your identity as Christ's disciple, baptized in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. As we find in Matthew 28, 18 to 20. Water baptism is certainly a powerful picture of the gospel, but it must not be confused with the gospel itself. Okay, once that's clear, there's salvation and the sign of baptism that follows. Next comes the act of joining a church. We say it like this. I desire to unite with this portion. of the vis of his visible body, the church. Even if we already belong to the universal body of Christ at conversion, we must join a local body where we do our part. We cannot belong everywhere at once. We're not omnipresent. We're physically restricted to one location. We hence the need for local church membership. So the practice of the early church and most of church history is to make baptism An initiation, right, for entrance into a congregation. The earliest church in Jerusalem started out with only about 120, but after the preaching of Peter, At the day of Pentecost, it says in Acts 2. 41, those who gladly received his word were baptized. And that day about 3,000 souls were added to them. So this first church grew in membership from 120 to about 3,120 in one day. Over time, more souls would be saved and joined through baptism. That's one prayer I have. I'm not asking God for a day of Pentecost, but like Lord, we need to grow, right, in our membership. So it's like a recruitment sermon in a sense. But anyway, later these believers would spread out and organized themselves in churches in different places. What links them together are this common profession of faith in Christ and the common experience of water baptism. soon afterwards. So it's interesting that Paul would use baptism as an object lesson to teach any fellow Christian, even those he has never met before, as he writes in Romans 6, 1-14. You know, he can speak of how we identify with Christ in his death, burial, resurrection as we're immersed in the water, our old man submerged and gone free from sin. We re-emerge, we show up we're alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is a common experience of believers. So we can talk about baptism. Okay, that's probably enough talk on this one line. Before I go on, I want to speak for a few moments about the gospel message, right? So let me ask everyone here and anyone listening online, this is very important, what does it mean to receive Lord Jesus Christ as your person? personal savior. Well it begins with admitting that we need saving Right? God created us to have a proper relationship with Him, to enjoy Him forever. But we turned away from Him. Okay, choosing pleasures of sin over God. Not only do we fail to love God, we fail to love our neighbors. We're selfish, putting our desires ahead of everyone else's. We covet, we slander, we lust instead of treating each other with respect. So, for all these reasons and more, we deserve the just wrath of God, separation from our holy Creator, eternity in hell. But thank God that He didn't leave us like this. God the Father sent His Son Jesus. He's God and man in one person. He is Christ, anointed by the Holy Spirit, to preach good news to all. He is Lord, not merely human like us. He's greater than David in existing before Abraham. But for Jesus to be our Savior, he had to go to the cross. Though he did nothing wrong, he suffered for our sin. He suffered for our shame. He became our substitute. He paid a penalty of our evil, a price that we should pay forever in torment. He declared his work finished and breeded his last. He died, he was buried. But the Father would not allow his Holy One to see corruption. So on the third day he rose from the grave. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. He was seen by many during forty days, speaking of the things pertaining to him. to the kingdom of God. Then the Father exalted him to his right hand to be prince and savior. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. So until then, all must repent and believe in the gospel Everyone must receive Lord Jesus Christ as his or her personal Savior. That means repent, turn from self-centered and self-righteous living. Turn to Jesus, trust in them only for salvation. You cannot earn or deserve a place in heaven. Eternal life is a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone. Alone in Christ alone. So once we decide this personally, get baptized publicly, join believers corporately, we must grow together. Okay. As newborn base, we desire the pure milk of the word that we may grow thereby. That says in 1 Peter 2 2. As we grow, we maintain our childlike innocence, but we must not be naive, right? We gotta be Mature in understanding as we see in 1 Corinthians 14 20 and Ephesians 4 11 to 16. That's the church discipleship plan we find next in the covenant. I'm going to tie together the next two um the s sentences, second and third sentences. I believe in the fundamental doctrine of the Word of God And the standards of discipline as set forth therein, I agree to the statement of faith in Faith Bible Church. And to go back to the earliest church, we see in Acts 242 that believers continue steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. We gather that Peter and others used the Old Testament and what was developing into the New Testament. Paul emphasized the importance of the Bible in 2 Timothy 3. 6. sixteen to seventeen. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for the correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. That would also help to summarize our beliefs, and we do that in our statement of faith. As I said earlier, historically both the covenant and the doctrinal statement are vital to forming our church identity. Since the covenant encourages you to go and read or reread the statement of faith, that can be your homework. But for now, I'll just comment on that phrase, standards of discipline. So when we talk of discipline in church contexts, we usually think of two types: formative discipline and corrective discipline. With corrective discipline, the serious cases of unrepentant sin, the last resort of excommunication, that they that gets all the headlines you hear about like some disgraced past You hear about some great division happening at a church, people calling out sin. And that gets all the headlines, you know. The world is all over it, right? In the newspapers. And no, our our bylaws do have about a page worth of um you know just instruction related to these things. But less dramatic forms of discipline are also very important. What's called formative discipline, right? That's what just normal things that happen during the course of the life together as a church, regular teaching and preaching of the word. We'll talk about Sunday schools, we'll talk about worship services, Wednesdays, you know, Fridays during the school year for us, you know, once a month in men's Bible studies. Okay. These are just regular means of growth, and that's also called discipline, you know. So it's not only about interpretation and presentation. but also application and training too. So once a month we go out for evangelism. We occasionally do evangelism training. We have flock groups, the small groups I just mentioned earlier in the service that we we sh hopefully share our joys and struggles to each other. And even in less formal settings, right, like one-on-ones, maybe a phone call or conversation at the church hallway or you know Just um maybe even texting, right? Um, we can exhort each other, confess sins to each other, correct each other. That's all related to the standards of discipline. And we can all take part in it, not just the pastors and official teachers of this church. Alright, so I'm gonna as you can see I'm like kind of lumping more and more lines together. So the next three lines are treated together. I realize there is no salvation in my church membership. I promise to be faithful in church attendance and in prayer and financial support of its program. Further, I will endeavor to order my life in a manner pleasing to Christ. The statement about salvation and church membership is an important hedge for what follows. We don't want anyone to think that you're saved by some contractual union With fellow Christians, you're saved by your spiritual union with Jesus, right? See in Galatians 2. 20. And salvation is in no other person and in no other name. As Acts 4. 12 tells us. But now it's also a temptation for some to go towards the other extreme. That is, they don't see any place for fellow saints in their lives. But that's not right. But clearly salvation is by faith alone, in Christ alone, yes. You don't grow in your faith alone. You won't grow effectively without the help of faithful, mature Christians. That's why to go back to the earliest church in Acts 2:42. You should find it not only continuing steadfast in the apostles' doctrine, They're also devoted to fellowship in the breaking of bread and in prayers. So this call for devotion we capture in the next time. I promise to be faithful in church attendance. and in prayer and financial support of its program. So what's so special about these three specific things? Attendance, prayer and financial support. Let's look at them one by one. I learned a lot about church attendance in the last ten years or so. In my last church, I recall non-attendance was the most common reason for removal of members. I've heard stories of pastors, you know, starting at their new church, and that supposedly had many members, right? Even hundreds of them But on the first few Sundays, there's like only a few dozen there. So like what's going on? The pastor asked for like a directory or like membership role or some kind of records. It turns out many of the so-called members haven't been to that church for years. They moved far away to different places. Some were even some were dead. They left the names on there. Now I don't think that's an issue at our church, thank God, right? But it's key that we emphasize attendance as an important duty. of a true Christian. It's biblical to do so. Here's an important word from Hebrews ten, twenty-four to twenty-five. The classic text on You know, church attendance, but pay attention to all the other things that surround the idea of attendance, right? And let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works Not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, yeah there you go, but as is the manner of some church attendance was a problem back then too, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So you gotta put that attendance in context of considering one another, stirring up one another, exhorting one another, looking forward to that day. Honestly I wish Saints would treat church at church absence more like truancy. You know, like skipping school. If the student isn't sick for traveling, he or she should be at school. The administration notes it, right? The teacher sees the MCC. The classmates would know. Regular attendance is what's best for the individual and the group. We also need to be faithful in prayer. Again, you see the emphasis in Acts 2. 42. Like attendance, prayer is something all of us can do. Even if everyone's not gifted to teach, not everyone's appointed to preach, not everyone's ordained for the diaconal office, but everyone can pray. We pray alone, but we also pray together. We pray for ourselves and pray for each other. We pray seriously, watchfully, and continuously. We pray for those within. We pray for those outside. So all these references talk about that. And then thirdly, we must be faithful in giving the financial support of our church program. Some might be surprised to find that the common word for fellowship, koinonia, is not just a meal we share, right? It's not the name of some building hall. Do a word study and you see koinonia also refers to financial contribution. In Romans 15, 26, material giving connects the Gentile churches to the Jerusalem church. The same ideas there in 2 Corinthians 9. 13, Philippians 1. 5. The conclusion is this: that we Christians should put our money where our mouth is. As long as that said mouth is proclaiming the gospel to the lost, teaching the Word of God, exhorting believers to obey. So I'm going a bit long, so I'll do two things at once, cover the last line of the covenant, and discuss the spiritual benefits of the covenant as a whole. The covenant closes with these words. Further I will endeavor to order my life in a manner pleasing to Christ. Frankly, there are many verses that could support this idea. Romans twelve, one to two, second Corinthians five, nine, Galatians one ten, Ephesians. Philippians 6. 6, Philippians 1. 21, Philippians 2, 12 to 13. But ask yourselves this. Why is such an individualistic declaration in a covenant of membership? What's the use of standing before a bunch of people to say, I'll live for Christ? And what's the spiritual benefit of doing that? Well, I'll close by saying I see three spiritual benefits of church covenant: unity, accountability, and charity. For unity, I turn to Romans 15, 5 to 6. You know, earlier in the letter in Romans 10:10, Paul said, concerning our conversion, with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. I mean it begins with the heart, but his confession is made with the mouth. Now a few chapters later, after discussing matters of unity, he prays, Now may the God of patience and comfort grant you to be like-minded toward one another, according to Christ. Christ Jesus, that you may with one mind and one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So if we're going to speak the same thing with one mouth, avoid divisions, perfectly be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment, as First Corinthians 1 ten tells us, we gotta be on the same page. Right? And I mean that literally, right? On the same page with the covenant of membership. Okay. In my former church, we recite a covenant together just before the Lord's Supper, right? It was a great display of unity It was a great reminder that we should not only sign a covenant when we first join a church, as we consecrate ourselves before God, we should also renew our commitment to each other. Another spiritual benefit of church covenant concerns accountability. The way I see it, every true believer has some level of authority. It comes from our identity. We form a royal priesthood. 1 Peter 2 9. It comes from our message that we proclaim. We preach the gospel, the power of God's salvation. Romans 1. It comes from our gifts. Talk about the spiritual gifts granted by the Holy Spirit, 1 Corinthians 12 to 14. And with every Christian having some authority, not just pastors and elders, right? There can also be an abuse of that authority. I'm saying that a misguided believer can be dangerous and be harmful to others And I believe, and I'm not saying membership solves all of that, but it at least is calling for accountability. It's an invitation for others to keep you accountable. You're asking others to speak into your life, right? Hold you responsible for your words and actions. Help you leverage your gifts for edification. Again, I know I'm being idealistic, but that's what we should strive for as a church body, right? Keep each other accountable Finally, with church covenants and membership in general, I'm getting pretty general here, there's potential for growth in charity. Non-charity, I'm using the word charity more classical sense of love, right? Is there a risk here? You'll be hurt if you join. Like commit yourself to a local church. Yes, there will be a risk, right? That's love for you. There's always a risk, you'll be hurt. You'll need to bear each other's burdens, bear with one another in love, and forgive those who offend you. Galatians 6. 2, Ephesians 4 2, Colossians 3. 13. But to love and to be loved is a great spiritual benefit, even with all its risks. It's worth it. The alternative is not so great. Most tragically, the most tragically thing is that you fulfill many of the one-another commands in the Bible You'll miss out on the great joy of obeying Jesus. And I'll end with the quote from C. S. Lewis, right? To love at all is to be vulnerable. Love anything, and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact, you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries. Avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will change. It will not be broken. It will become unbreakable, impenetrable. Irredeemable. To love is to be vulnerable. So I hope you deepen your commitment to a solid gospel-centered local congregation. Even if it's not ours, but please do consider prayerfully joining us, right? If you haven't. So let's pray now and sing our final song about the beauty of the church. So we thank you for this time of reflection. Lord, we thank you for the emphasis of belonging. We're first of all thankful that we belong to you. You call us your own. Lord, you saved us through grace. And Lord, we are your children. You gave us the spirit to cry out to you, our Father. And Lord, you've also called us to be a people, a flock. You called us to be uh a building. There's so many pictures here. And we're thankful that just for many decades our church has cut just covenanted together and gathered together and kept the ministry going. But Lord, we we are praying for more. More commitment from each other, more commitment to fulfill the one another's. And Lord, we also pray for more members to come and join our church so that we can grow together. And Lord, um, we know that we're not a perfect church. Just we see your word and we fall short in so many ways. But Lord, may we not abandon these ideals. We pray for your empowerment to obey your commands, to love one another. And so as we think about these things, as we turn to your word, as we uh turn to this new week that we're facing, Lord, uh may we devote ourselves to you and maybe May we encourage each other as we part our ways. Keep us safe. And Lord, keep us in your love. And just pray that we will grow in your love and grow in love for one another. Christ's name we pray. We pray.