What is the main task of the past that all summoners? Is my text on What it should not be. What it should be. When a man goes to church, he often hears a picture in the pulpit. We rehash everything that he has read in the editorial. the newspapers and the fantasy. On the TV commentaries, he hears the same stuff over again, yawns and goes out and basically When a man comes to church, actually what he is saying to you is this, feature, I know what the TV commentator has to say. I hear him every day. I know what the territorial has to say and read it every day. I know what the medical leaders have to say and read that every week. Preacher, what I want to know is, does God have anything to say? If God has anything to say, tell us what it is. God does have something to say and we must tell him what it is. This is why the Bible church is devoted to exposure and preaching. That no one can have reading once in the Bible, but trying to go through books of the Bible, it has to be books of the Bible. And that means we start to explain to make plain. Such preaching is imperative, it manifests God's word. And here's another key reason for doing it. Christ himself did it. He taught the scriptures for years of his ministry, hours before he died, and on the day of his resurrection. Let's go back to that someday. Yeah, there's been on five appearances of the prison lord that day. Mark 69 says, while every Macfully was the first to see Jesus. That's resurrection number one. A little bit later the other woman saw them too. That's appearance number two. And now all the women who are at the tomb early that day, tonight, and a week in their witnesses, not only was the grave empty, not only did the angels appear there, but Jesus is risen. So how about the pen? The general K did not believe the voice report at first. Down those distinguished himself does one who believed upon entering and inspecting the limit too. There was nothing lacking in all. So what these brothers left, the Lord looked new. appeared to them. Sometime after Peter's all the empty tomb, after Jesus appeared to the women, he met Peter one-on-one. Old 1 Corinthians 15, 5 and 24, 35 That's also that's the question of case number three We're last discussion one four starting in question four thirteen, so let's see what happens You don't have a Bible, you just take one of ours on the fuse there. There's a gift for us to do. You'll find the 24-13 starting. Eight seven forty one seven forty one forty four thirteen thirty-five Now most of them were traveling that same day to a village called the Nas, which was seven miles from English, and they talked together on all these things which happened. So it was while they conversed and reasoned, that Jesus himself could hear that language, but their eyes were restrained so that they did not know it And he said to them, what kind of conversation is this that you have with one another as you walk and are standing? Then the one whose name, Cleopas, answered and sent him. Are you the only stranger to us? I'm happy about all the things which happened there in these days. He said to them, what things? So they said to them, the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth was a prophet, fighting indeed and word before God and all people. Now the chief priests and our voice delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified. We were hoping that it was he who is going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened. Yes, a certain women of our company will arrive in the tomb early, astonished. When they did not find his body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those were with us who went to the tomb and found it just as the woman had seen But tempting not see. And he said to them, O foolish ones, and spoke according to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Ought after Christ cloud suffered these things and will enter into his glory. And beginning that Moses and all the prophets responded to them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. Then they drew near to the village where they were going, and he indicated that he would have gone further. They constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening. The days are spent. And he went in his table with them. Now it came to pass that he sat at the table with them. Then their eyes were open and they knew it, and he vanished from their sight. Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us? The road and while he opened the scriptures for us. They rose up that very hour and returned to Christmas. And Basley Leven and those who were quick and gathered together. Saying, the Lord is written indeed and has a pure sign. They told him about the things that had happened on the road and how he was known to them in the breaking of bread. The outline of this active is fairly simple if we consider the shifts and locations First in verses 13 to 27, we're authorable from Jerusalem. Next in verses 28 to 32 were acts and reason Finally in verses 335, meet through 10. Verse 35 actually encourages us to disturb this function. But there's more to the story than that. You might as well take Christmas disciples and then tell them that it's something. So we are going to three lessons of the names. One, the Christ suffering to the scriptures. C. Christ suffering from the scriptures. That's verses thirteen. Two, though Christ's identity in his true nature. No Christ's identity in his true nature. First funny thing, thirty-two. Three. Continue press resurrection. Love Okay, Christ resurrection for lunch. That's verses 33 and five. First, see Christ suffering in the scriptures. I'll spend the most time on this point. And I'll set the stage first for it. the world, I would want to call it. In verse 13, when it says two of them, we're talking about two among those, all of Jesus, but not among the eleven posts to it. One of them is named Cleopus. Some speculate that Cleopus, the variance thrilling of coloffs, had in fact The same as both past the husband or one of the marries and the past of the relative of Jesus. There's even further speculation that these two Or in fact, that call costs and marry home is mad and mace. But I think there's an interpretation that these are men I believe they were among the 72 to set out back in chapter 10. Regardless of the two travel out of Jerusalem in the northwest direction with a little known village of names. And they left after lunch hours. It arrived at around 4 p. m. or so Back to the starting. As they left the city, the two disciples began talking in conversing about what had happened. The original word behind reason is translated elsewhere as dispute question. The word in verse 17 also suggests a bodily discussion, a even of heat that debated. We're not sure at what point Jesus approached them and joined their company, I guess a little bit early on the journey, but they had no idea that it was him. Arts 16 tells us he appeared in another form. On top of that is then in the latest passage, Luke 24, 16, that their eyes were restrained. So that's the question. Who is painting? Combining grammar and theology. Here's what some call divine passage. It's the Son of God Himself who restrained those eyes. Letter reverse third life to open those same eyes. It will not recognize the price of hand, but it will flee. But she surprised his identity and pretends to know nothing of past these events. The downcast face changed why I'm shocked. They don't must have asked, I think they're living on the rock. So the two disciples not only revealed what had happened recently, they recount their altar economy, and their recent recently. I say dissolution because you see how Jesus is interviewed and described. The two disciples are super following. Jesus as it was indeed a prophesy, and even working for God at all people. That much is certain. But then their messianic hopes were dashed. Their own religious leaders killed him. Gone were their hopes that he the redeemer of Israel. Because of what happened Friday, the Israel would move down suddenly. But confidence is equal to infidence So also here with their fellow traveler, report of that empty tomb, spell passing split death for something that they have to do, they heard a woman talk about their encounter with angels. They also heard that Simon Lee or had seen the boy. But still, they could not. They would not really Age having listened and response in verses 25 to 27. Let's look phrase by phrase here. All foolish ones. This is how all addresses the relationship spring from this gospel. So is used in James 198 Good qualities, low to speak is low to crack. Here, it's the opposite The last thing we want to do is to be slow and work. That's because with the heart fundamentally something righteousness. And the object of their prayer, all that the prophets are so good. I thought that they were definitely illiterate. What's the feeling? Disciples, stopword won't select the hearing. Okay, selected meaning They tune into all the parts of the Bible about health, about prosperity, the glory of the Messiah, the beauty of his kingdom. They couldn't add guilt, judgment, unless of course it has to do with repentance. Salvation from outside forces has become more important than salvation from in one. And these disciples went the first or the last to be the Bible like this. That's why it's no key to declare the whole household of God. That's why Jesus Himself gave his heart to show the truth why God Christ ought to have to suffer these things. Verse 27 gives us a summary of what happened in the next few hours or so. Beginning of Moses and all the prophets, he sponsors them in all the scriptures and they But this thing is like a bow for choice. But ultimately, it's what's best for his life. It's best, but they're grounded in the world. This is the pedicle chill that highest the curve. Patiently, carefully, welcome to making sure that the people understand. That's the one good teacher. After health. That's the ministry of the Christ. And his method of opening the scriptures takes hearts that are slow to believe radically transforms into a heart that learned of God. That's a shame that we don't have the actual references to Christ used in this talk, but I don't think it's far fetched to say that the contents beat out onto the rest of the contest. And based on the conjectures above the spectrum Maybe our Lord started with the earliest proclamation of the gospel in Genesis chapter 15. How Christ, the seed of the woman, will bruise the serpent, while he himself is bruised. David struggled first. What remains is the counter. Perhaps he took some time with the patriarchs, justifose the blessings of Abraham's Genesis with the curse of the law into round. Christ leaves us from that curse, by becoming a curse himself. Any of the three of the cross can help. That would be easy to bring into the concept of substitutionary atonement, the need for sacrifice for sins. If Jesus asked while discussing exodus, is it just a coincidence that Jesus was crucified, Passover, his bones preserved. His blood not sprinkle inaugurate the coming And the bit of us because this was the Day of Atonement. You're telling me Jesus suffered outside the camp. Does that remind us of how animals burnt outside the camp? Is it matter that the veil of the temple for the Israel to have to bottom? How about not? Remember when the Israelites complained to God in the wilderness and he sent fire surface? But they repented. The Lord instructed Moses to make a odd serpent and put it on holy. The remote there, parallels are unholy stuff right from step. and his men at the cross the son of man was lifted up above the earth we can look upon and even for salvation That's just a small sample from the books of Moses. Jesus could have easily spent the whole day with them, but he must have gone around to the later boss. Consider the song of David. Since Christ is the seed of David, there's so many connections between the two. Jesus was also betrayed by a trusted friend, as it says in Psalm 41, 55. He was opposed by the rulers of the world, as Psalms says Psalm 22, we sign the script of the cross. High of revolution. I die, I thought, why do we see? Almost as he ridiculed me, they shot the lip, they shake the head saying, even trusted in the Lord, let him rescue them, let him deliver him since he lessened. Versus 7 to 8. They pierced my hands and my feet. They come on my bones, they took and stir at me. They divide my hardness among them for my clothing they passed by. But then it goes on to verse 22 of Psalm 22. I will declare your name to my friend. And this of your settlement I will preach you. How do we go from such? That's where the painful circumstances of blissful worship. This is what you gather from suffering suppressed and blowings that fall. Here's the grid of Psalm 16 and 15. When I beat my soul in short, nor will you allow the Holy One to see for us. You will show me the path of life in your presence for this enjoy. At the right hand. That's just a sample of the songs. And Bula, without talking about the prophets. Like the Psalms of David, Isaiah 32 and 53 reveals why Christ had to suffer. Like the Psalms of David But you see, there's this figure, he is the servant of the Lord. And he shall be insulted, and he souly high But before that, his visit was larger than any man, his form was the sons of man, his despised forget the fine men, a man of sorrows, and a point of the free. And we did, as it were, on faces from it. Why we did not escape? Why did he not suffer that? Mind as we'll go on to the rest of the chapter, starting from verse 4 in Isaiah 53. Surely he has borne our feet and carried our sorrow, yet we have been strictly spritzed by God and of the But he was wounded for transgressions, he was loosed for iniquities, chastisement, our peace was upon him, by his trust, the artist. All we might achieve upon strength He observed everyone to his own way. And the Lord has played on him the heavy must. He was impressed and he was a very open on his mind. That is a man to the spot. It doesn't sheep before his shears is fine, will be all the land his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment and will have been fed in his generation, but he was caught upon the land of the living, for the transgression of my people, he was tricking. The game is rained with the wicked, but the witch has sinned. But to get a lot more violence, all the sin can see in his mind. Yet it pleased the Lord through sin, that put them to read. When he gave his soul an offering for sin, he shall see this seed, shall prolong his days. And the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the labor of his soul be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify man, he shall bear never in the reason. Therefore I will divide them and he worshiped with the great, and he shall divide the soil with the strong, which he poured out the soil of the And he was numbered with the transgressors. He wore a sin. Made intercession for transgressors. That's just one of the traditions of Christ and sufferings from the promise. We could go on and sacrifice It's caught off, appears, destruction. But that's all here to address those going on Christians. Let's be now, just being the way I'm only When we see Christ suffering through the scriptures, God opens our eyes. Something amazing happens. We see how often it was for our transgressions, our individuals, and our sins that Christmas straight was spin with the blood. This is at the core of the gospel. It starts with the fact that we are the street of God's strength, gone in our own ways. But here's the good news. It was Jesus who stepped up as our son. Because he who has done no wrong has all no evil. was bruised with green, and there is a lack of the sword. His life was not spent in vain. His soul was an offering for spent, satisfying the wages of spent. which is death separation from God. Christ, the righteous servant, paid for our penalty of hell in our place when he was Christian. He rose from the dead on the third day. Someday he'll return, and all will know against you. Salt. So Until then all must turn away from self-censored, self-righteously. Where does Jesus can be justified by trusting in him? Does not even continue to burn or deserve heaven. God saves us by graceful, our sin. The only way to be saved is we see by suffering. Now that's Luke for two disciples for seeing Christ helping in the scriptures. I did by the presidents. Can you imagine the transformation in them? They were in roads. I wasn't pulled by it. All what I would do to be by blocking by. And then you give the nails. Who's time to set them up? No Christ with them in his true nature. Jesus still concealed after when he was going further. Philip and his companion insist that he stay with them. Not only with a customary hospitality, They were grateful because they were plenty of the world. One of the years more as a came. And home, so far everything feels at the beginning of a normal Sunday evening. But the Lord had greater plans for these two. There are some peculiarities. Normally the host, not the guest, prays, breaks the bread, starts the feeling. Not here. And that's just the beginning of unusual events. Our Lord Jesus, as a human like us, had his particular gestures, intonation, voice, and body movements. We're starting to surface. Also consider how for the last two hours they probably didn't get a close look at a space. Once in close quarters, he did. Any detailed articles of the scores on his wrist and the feet whose eyes under restraint, now open, but that they recognize Jesus. But before Khaledup and his companion got the air, he vanished from their sight Using the powers of his resurrected father. It's simple, right, wanting love and church, but it's different now. Death no longer has the menu life. They realize that evening they unwittingly entertain not an illusion, but someone so much greater than the illusions. Clear past and his friend Last Low Christ identity and his community But it's interesting because the Lord does not spend much time with them. Our Savior wants their faith to rest not so much on this unique experience of meeting Him after the resurrection. But much more than scriptures. It is the scriptures that can transform Foolishness, not only the way of the Lord. It's a wisdom for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. Moving through the pages of the Bible. You see guys what happens when our hearts burn for God through His good. We can't help, but tell others not Consider Jeremiah. One time he was sick and tired of persecution not as a prophet. He thought about the thing. He said in Jeremiah 2 verse 9 I will not make mention of them lost me any more in the same. But he continued. But his word was in my heart, like a burning fire, shut up in my bones. We're holding him back. I was done. In the same way, Bill Poss and his companion has to tell others That they have received the listening word, both through the Bible and with their own eyes. That leads to the current lesson of the mayor to proclaim Christ's resurrection to others. Two disciples discuss and agree concerning the identity of the body, earth and sea. The must have wisdom, they hurriedly as the sun slept behind them, the burning hearts, providing fuel when the muscles were weakened. The days that began with lots and lots of money early in with one more. But they arrived in the city, they located eleven apostles and other disciples in some undisclosed location. We're told in John 20, 19 that the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for the year of the Jews. Upon our Bible, the two disciples reinforced the testimonies of the women the year before them. The Lord is present in me and has not cared to suffer. They discussed their own encounter with Jesus on the way from there to the village. Now we're gonna stop at this point and talk about the resurrection of the years. Number five, that's the main pattern, but not screen first number many master classes of fire master as opposed to the preservation. Through them the apostles and disciples will be equipped, be witnesses Jerusalem and Australia and Samaria and State and the Earth. All that new time Before Christ ascends at the spirit distance, while they still have Christ with them on the earth, they'll need to listen carefully as he teaches them the scriptures. Today we sit here on a Sunday 2000 years after that resurrection time We're past the Pentecost. Any saints are gone before us in Christ's resurrection. But the mission continues. We have all that we need, word coming from. Sword of the Spirit. Word of God. Let's have confidence in it. That's what we need. That this last song that we are end by faith the prophets all a day and the long for Messiah will appear. To the power of praise the chains of sin and death, and rise by often from the grave. By faith, the church was called to build, to the power of the spirit of the lost, the delivered captives at the preachment. What we think about right, the land, the eating industry We may wonder to ourselves, what if we were there during all the miracles at Exodus, the early church They are so much better than us that they see all those reality. So we don't really have all that we mean By a prophet, by a precious loving kindness. You yourself working beings. After the model, after the mind We understand and come up with how we open. And we can understand it. As we open the scriptures for us. And we open it for others. Ask one by see it. Power as one other lives.