So I was a nineties kid, more specifically a teenager during the nineties. Those were my first year in the States, so they were even more formative than a typical Hit in the nineties. And as I zoom into the mid-90s, that's about thirty years ago, I don't remember too many vivid details. Sure, there was an awkward transition from middle to high school. But besides that, I can't recall too many exciting things happening, except in the summer of 94. Something does stand out in my mind, my memory. I was watching TV one evening. So it turns out to be June 17 to be exact, and it seemed like all the channels began covering the same thing. A strange event was happening on the other side of the country in Southern California I joined 95 million viewers as police cars chased a whiteboard Bronco through the freeways. It wasn't like one of those um you know high-speed movie chases, it was kind of a slow chase, that's why I made it Strange. And driving that car was its owner, Al Collins, I believe. And he's a friend and former teammate of the fat uh famous football player, O. J. Simpson, who was in the car too. So what led to this crazy event? A few days prior, O. J. Simpson's ex-wife and her friend were found stabbed to death. was a person of interest. He was ordered to surrender himself by 2 p. m. on June 17th, but he didn't show up A few hours later, his lawyer read what sounded like a suicide note from Simpson. Soon the chase began, and then the arrest followed. Then there came the highly publicized criminal trial that lasted for eight months in 1995. In the end, the verdict was not guilty. But the victim's family tried to bring Simpson down in a civil trial. There, the jury found him liable for the murders. He was ordered to pay tens of millions in compensatory and punitive damages. O. J. Simpson died last year, and many got to reminisce all that took place. It must have been especially disappointing. For fans who watched him play and he even won like the most valuable player award in NFL. But that was beyond my time Whether you liked him on the field or not, you couldn't ignore him on trial. That famous offensive player became the infamous defendant. And his case raised all kinds of questions, like during and afterwards. There was much talk of justice, racism, police authority, etc. Sound familiar. Well, to go further is beyond me and above my pay grade in terms of commentary about that. You'd be better off listening to a lawyer or a journalist. But I bring up this well-known controversial case as a springboard to discuss the first murder trial in human history. This earliest one wasn't televised, but it's in our Bibles. Thousands of years before the people of the state of California versus Rental James Simpson, there was Lord God versus Cain Adamson. As the earliest murder case, it sets the precedent for all future cases, in a sense. As we continue in Genesis 4, we pick up from verse 9. Today we conclude the tragic story of brothers Cain and Abel. Here's a quick review of what we saw last week, because Cain lacked genuine faith and good works, his sacrifice was not accepted like Abel's. Instead of dealing with this sin, Cain took out his frustrations on Abel. Somehow Cain lured his unsuspecting brother to a field where no one was around. Then maybe for a split second when Abel wasn't looking, you know, maybe he was looking another way, Cain ambushed him, blindsided him Imagine that he knocked them over and brutally landed one punch after another until he died. Perhaps the body was left at the field or buried there. Maybe rocks were placed over the site for good measure. We don't have all the details. But what we do have next is the Lord Himself confronting the first murderer. And when the Lord speaks, there's no need for forensic science, combing the crime scene, analyses of fingerprints and DNA. Hebrews 14, 4:13, sorry, reminds us that God knows at all. There's no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. Ashley came to own up and confess. Let's see what he does before we discuss further. We turn to Genesis 4, 9 to 15. Genesis 4, 9 to 15. And the Lord said to Cain Where is Abel your brother? He said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? And he said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. So now you are cursed from the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you till the ground, it shall no longer yield its strength to you. A fugitive and a vagabond, you shall be on the earth. And Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear Surely you have driven me out to stay from the face of the ground. I shall be hidden from your face. I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond on the earth, and it will happen that anyone who finds me will kill me And the Lord said to him, Therefore whoever kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord said a mark on Cain, lest anyone finding him should kill him. I believe today's passage is about how the sinful man reacts when he's cornered and captured. Because Cain welcomes sin into his life, because sin that once crossed at the door of his life now possesses him. Now the sin and the sinner are one and the same. Together they claimed their first victim and martyr, Abel, the man-killing Cain has become like the man-eating lions of Sabul. So God must urgently hunt, corner, and capture the murderer, lest he causes more damage. Of course, when a stubborn animal is cornered, we'd expect it to put up a fight, or at least make excuses. The same is true with sinners cornered by God. And Cain reveals how a simple man typically acts, or reacts, first in verses 9 to 12. When the simple man's quarter, we see he denies truth and responsibility. Secondly in 13 to 15, again when the simple man is cornered, he defies justice and true repentance So first the simple man denies truth and responsibility. We saw earlier God graciously asking questions to Cain to prevent him from sinning, get him to reflect on himself, remember them from verses six to seven. Why are you angry and why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? God was also gracious to tell Cain exactly what to do next. If you do not do well, sin lies at the door and its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. The Lord saying, Rule over sin, lest sin rules over you. Now Cain has allowed sin to reign in his mortal body, he has obeyed it in his lust. He has presented his members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, to use Paul's language from Romans 6. So now God must confront the son of Adam as he did with his father Adam. Where is Abel, your brother? In verse 9, sounds eerily similar to the question God asked Adam in the garden. Where are you? The question does not reveal a lack of knowledge on God's part, it's meant to push man to a knowledge. Sin in his own heart. The best that Cain can do is state the obvious truth, accept his responsibility that he's failed You know, in the span of eleven verses, seven times Abel said to be Cain's brother. There's no avoiding it. No way around it. They say blood is thicker than water, and yet Cain has spilled his brother's blood. That's what makes his sin so horrific and tragic. But the simple man, when cornered, defies, I'm sorry, denies truth and responsibility. There is that famous response in the second half of verse 9. Caines denying truth when he says, I do not know. Yes, you do. He's denying responsibility as he says, Am I my brother's keeper? The proper response should have been a confession, God, I've sinned. I killed my brother and left him out in the field. Instead of protecting my little bro, I murdered him. But Cain doesn't plead guilty, so the Lord responds. And he said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. Cain may have silenced the pleading voice of his brother. He may have drowned out the voice of his own conscience. He may have leafly covered up the crime and hit the body. But there's still a voice that testifies against him. It comes from beyond the grave. It's the blood of Abel. Imagine if you are Cain's defense attorney. You might feel good at any human court You tell your client, don't plead guilty. We they have no proof. There are no witnesses. You'll go scot-free. But then the prosecutor says, I call to the witness stand the blood of Abel. We weren't ready for that, right? There's no use in questioning the character of the martyr. Hebrews eleven four says that by faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his truth. Yes. The rest of that verse goes, and through it, faith, he being dead still speaks And the simple message of Abel from the grave, beyond the grave, is this: Cain murdered him, and now the Lord demands justice. Undeniable, irrefutable evidence. So we hear the judge sentence in verse 11 to 12. So now you are cursed from the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you till the ground it shall no longer yield a strength to you. A fugitive and a vagabond you shall be on the earth The very ground where Cain stood now rejects him is as if earth itself knows that the one tilling it is a murderer. It's as if the land joins Abel's blood and the bellows. Cain, I know who you are. I can't stand the touch of your hand and the soles of your feet. Get off of me. But within a generation, the curse intensifies. Already the ground was cursed with the storms and thistles. Now adding to the ground is the cursed man. Kane won't be able to get anything out of it. This is a just and fair sentence. Actually, if you think about it, Kane got off easy. Later in Numbers 35, we're told there's no pardon or ransom for the guilty murder. That's because spilled innocent blood defiles the land. And no atonement can be made for the Lamb for the blood that is shed on it except by the blood of him who shed it. So there's a demand for justice. There's a demand for capital punishment in the law, but Cain is scared of that. There's probably a few reasons why. These are all possibilities. First, God wanted to introduce capital punishment later, after the flood. We see that in Genesis 9. Secondly, maybe it's because the human population was so critically low at this point that Cain had to be spared. Thirdly, if a death sentence must be carried out, who would be the executioner? His parents? Or one of his sisters? Right. So maybe for that reason, again we're not hundred percent sure why. We just trust that God knew what he was doing when he spared Cain. So for special and specific reasons, Cain does not receive the death sentence. You think that would be a cause for relief? Again, he got off easy. Sure, he's got a life sentence, but at least he has a life. And now he has time to reflect. He has a chance to repent. He can stop denying truth and responsibility, but as we see, he won't. We find the rest of the passage that when the simple man is cornered, he defies justice and true repentance. In response to God's judgment in verse thirteen and fourteen, and Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear. Surely you have driven me out this day from the face of the ground, I shall be hidden from your face. I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond on the earth, and it will happen that anyone who finds me will kill me. James Montgomery Boyce Explains his reaction well, quote, one of the clearest marks of sin is our almost innate desire to excuse ourselves and complain if we are judged in any way. That's Cain for you. His proper response should have been: my punishment is less than I deserve But it's obvious he doesn't take his sins seriously enough. Cain's throwing fists and he's throwing a pity party. He's crying bloody murder, ignoring the crying blood of Abel. It's bloody murder. Not once does he show remorse for what he's done to his brother. Not once does he confess how much pain he's caused his parents. He puts himself first, as seen in the first person pronouns. Me, me, me, I, I, I. Poor me. Now, in his tirade, Cain does touch upon a real concern. Even before the age of the law, it seems, the concept of an avenger of blood likely existed. The word about the first murderer will no doubt spread among the descendants of Adam and Eve. Cain will be public enemy number one. His face maybe will be on those one of those most wanted posters. But that's not what the Lord wills for him. So he addresses Cain's concerns. Verse 15 says, And the Lord said to him, Therefore, whoever kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord set a mark on Cain, lest anyone finding him should kill him. So in this verse we see God both speaks on Cain's behalf and acts on Cain's behalf. In the first half of the verse, he speaks. He promises sevenfold vengeance. Here it's as if it's not as if the one who kills Cain will somehow die seven deaths. I don't think that's what it means here. I rather I think it's just sim sevenfold symbol symbolically refers to the Lord's perfect vengeance And God backs up this spoken promise with the sign in the second half of verse 15, he acts on behalf of Cain, protecting him with some visible defense. So now we've got to ask, what exactly is this mark? The word itself doesn't tell us much It's used earlier in Genesis 1 14, speaking of the sun, the moon, and the stars, the Lord declared, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens, divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs and seasons and for days and years. That doesn't tell us much, except that this sign's physical and visible So there have been numerous speculations about the mark of pain. Here's a sample, I'll start with some benign examples. Some believe a letter was carved or engraved or tattooed onto his forehead. It may have been a tau, right? Better tell as is the case with those marked in the vision of Ezekiel 9, 4 to 6. Others think the mark was more dramatic and demonstrative. Perhaps Cain's face was disfigured. Perhaps he contracted leprosy, so people had to stay away. Maybe he suffered from uncontrollable shaking of his body That's kind of based on the the Greek translation of this passage. All these are possible And whichever option you choose, the main point of the text is not affected. The point is that the sign serves a visible warning to leave Cain alone. We can move on, but I remiss if I don't address and refute one particular ridiculous idea about the mark. Believe it or not, people throughout history have suggested that the mark of Cain is a darker skin color. Kidjuna, no joke. They say that while Adam and Eve and all their other children and grandchildren were lighter in skin tone, Cain would now stand out from them. They say the same curse was applied later to Noah's son, Ham. In their minds, this interpretation justifies slavery of African Americans. This is a disturbing twisting of scriptures with horrible consequences. Note that this is not some ignorant racist flogger speaking. Not found in some KKK pamphlet. We're talking about literate, trained Protestants and Mormons, clergymen, teachers, and writers. To find supporters of this view, we only need to look in our backyard, our own country, our history, just a few centuries ago. But we've got to refute such dangerous ideas. Let's look at the Bible and interpret it correctly. I'll address the curse of Canaan later when we get to Genesis 9. As for today's passage in Genesis 4, it's very, very unlikely that Cain was marked with a darker skin tone. The main problem with this view is that such a sign would not really distinguish him I agree with answers in Genesis that for Adam and Eve to be parents of all future races, they have to be somewhere close to the middle in the spectrum of skin color. So if one is very light and And 10 is very dark, then Adam and Eve were somewhere around 5, middle brown, right? When their children were born, there would have been variations, of course. Maybe second or third generation humans would range from three to eight, or maybe even two to nine. Our early ancestors would have been used to. the variety of skin color amongst themselves, even darker ones of seven, eight, and nine. So even if Cain scores something called ten in pigmentation, he will not be significantly different from others That's one way to argue this, besides obviously racism being sin. Okay, I digress, but you see why I have to digress. Hopefully you understand. If you want to talk more about this, we can talk after service. Now I have to get back to the sermon point. God has declared A fair sentence on Cain, but the sinful man defies justice. The simple man also defies true repentance. Even though the Lord graciously spares him, even protects him and marks him, there's no godly sorrow detected in Cain. We'll see next week where Cain ends up after this. For now, we see him as the prototype of the sinner, cornered by God. From the simple man's cornered, he denies truth and responsibility. He defies justice and true repentance. As we wind down the sermon, I'd like to speak of two applications. First of all, we must discuss our parallels with Cain and our need for justification. Then we see how we contrast with Cain through sanctification. First, we have parallels with Cain, so we need the gospel of justification. The scriptures are clear that we're not so different from the first murderer. Remember, Apostle John wrote in his first letter: whoever hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding. This is one of the verses I like to cite when we share the gospel. Talk about the command to do not murder. You just need to hate, to be liable to judgment. And not only in hatred, we're like Cain in the excuse-making department too. Say someone confronts us concerning our lack of love. We don't like that at all, do we? That's because sinners suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Instead of brotherly love and kindness, we grieve and destroy each other. We shut up our hearts when we see those in need. We deceive ourselves when we say we love God, yet hate the brethren. In all this we break the laws of God as we lust, murder, covet, fight and war with each other. We don't have to bring all of his commandments to be condemned. The Bible says, whoever shall keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. In other words, apart from mercy, we're all in big trouble. We're all in a sense cornered by God. Justice came For him then, there's no escape. Both haters like me and killers like him are destined for hell. An eternity apart from the Lord awaits us. God the Father did not leave us like this. He sent his son Jesus. He is God and man in one person. He came to us. And he was not ashamed to call us brethren. In fact, in all things he had to become made like his brethren. Enduring temptations and sufferings, despite all of these challenges, he lived a perfect life. But his greatest challenge awaited him at the cross. We had to die so that we might live. Blood had to be shed to bring us into the new covenant. That's because without shedding of blood, there is no purification or remission of sins. At the cross Jesus willingly suffered, there he fulfilled his unique role as the mediator of the new covenant. He shed his own blood, the blood of the everlasting covenant, the blood of sprinkling, that speaks better things than that of Abel. While Abel's blood cried out for justice, Christ's blood cries out for mercy. As Charles Wesley writes in the hymn, His Precious Blood to Plea, Spirit answers to the blood. That's because there's redemption in the blood of Jesus, purchase of our salvation, there's propitiation in his blood, which means satisfaction of God's wrath against us. With this blood, Jesus paid in full the ransom, the penalty for sin that we should pay. He declared his work finished. He breeded his last. He was buried. But on the third day, God of peace brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, the great shepherd of the sheep. That was proof that his sacrificial offering was accepted. He showed himself as alive to many for forty days. When he ascended to the Father's right hand, someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now, this good news calls for a response. Left to ourselves and our sins, we're bound to be like Cain, guilty as the Son of Adam. But if we turn from ourselves and our sins, we can unite with Christ, the Son of God. You can be justified freely by grace through faith because Jesus paid it all. All the necessary works have been done for you. You can be saved by grace alone, through faith alone, through Christ alone. I hope and pray all who hear this message will be saved, if not already. Now if we're truly saved, we're destined to grow in sanctification. We mature as God's children We practice righteousness and love each other. But even if we're born again with the indwelling spirit, we'd still sin again because of indwelling sin. You can't deny it. Sin is not forever, thank God, but until we're glorified, sin is for real John says, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But to help us overcome sin, we should apply today's passage as a believer. Right. By God's grace, we not only unite with Christ, but also separate from Cain. There's a Cain in us that we need to. Cut out somehow. And we contrast with Cain by doing the following. When God the Father confronts us in our sin, maybe God will use your private times in your word, in in God's word. Or maybe God will use a fellow believer at the church. However, God confronts us. Remember, He does so out of love Don't be like a kid who hates getting scolded by his parents. Don't cross your arms, pout, and make a scalp, you know. Don't hang your head and stare at the ground and like just kick at the ground. Certainly, don't run away, excuse yourself or throw a tantrum. Instead, as you're cornered by God for discipline. Remember the word of exhortation. We read parts of it earlier. It comes from the writer of Hebrews. Back up a little bit to verse 5 and 6. My son, do not despise the chastening of the of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For whom the Lord loves he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, this is the part we read, God deals with you as we s as with sons, for what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not son. Again, being a child of God and contrasting with Cain isn't performing. It's not about perfection. You can't be perfect. Not like never messing up. It's realizing that the Lord in his love will pursue us. That's what Cain failed to realize because of his lack of faith. That's why he didn't display godly sorrow. That's why he didn't truly repent as to be saved. But again, we're not like Cain. We rejoice because our Heavenly Father won't leave us alone. He'll seek us and release the hounds of heaven to capture us And as his children, instead of pushing him away, we should embrace him, accept his mercy, grace, and love. As Paul says, be sorry in a godly manner. In repentance, produce diligence, clearing of yourselves, indignation, fear, vehement desire, zeal and vindication. These are all fruits of true repentance. That's the proper response to being cornered by God as his sons and daughters. That's the relentless love of Christ. Hope you're thankful for that. So let's sing of it as we close. I had no hope that you would own a rebel to your will. And if you had not loved me first, I would refuse you still. Hallelujah. All I have is Christ. Hallelujah. Jesus is my life. Let's pray. You are unchanging. From beginning of human history. You are not this god of deism who just made everything and said, see you later. Or even today, as back then, you pursue the sinner. You give them chance after chance for repentance. You put up with us who, despite knowing your grace and mercy, mess up and act like Cain Even those in ministries like myself, Lord, we act like Jonah, running away from the calling you've given us to do, and sinning by running away from your presence. But Lord, we thank you that you are pursuing God, a loving Father. Won't leave us alone as we are your children. And Lord, and again, that you gave evidence of your of your power and in creation and Lord you're drawing people in your providential work. As believers who should know this better than anyone else, we pray that this week that we would just do some introspection, see where our hearts are, in what ways we are like Cain, in what ways that we We need to confess, hold up to truth and responsibility, see you as you are, that you do not tolerate sin. Can I stand it? That you are holy, God, and that we would respond in true repentance, that our lives would be displayed by true repentance each and every day Lord, in all this we're thankful that you pursue us and capture us, that you drew us to repentance by your kindness. And in Christ's name we pray, Amen