Uh it's great to be with you. Uh For those of you who remember this far back, and I can almost not remember last week, so I don't blame you if you don't. But uh uh In May, I preached on Daniel chapter 4, and then in October I preached on Daniel chapter 5. So don't worry, I'm not expecting you to remember everything from those two messages, though I do hope that you realize from both of those uh chapters that uh to put it mildly God hates pride And whether it's exhibited by so-called important leaders in society or our next door neighbors or possibly even us. As we begin to look at Daniel chapter 6, I'd like to mention once again the possible uh literary uh structure of Daniel uh two through seven that I've pointed out before and is an exceedingly Small print and your outline sheet. That's my fault. That's not the fault of uh uh the people putting together the the bulletin. I gave it to them that way and forgot that of course it's gonna be a little bit more than a little bit. to be shrunk to uh go into the bulletin. But at any rate, uh Paul Tanner notes and especially here the parallels between chapter 3 and chapter 6. And in chapter 3, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to bow down to Nebuchadnezzar. uh to the giant image that he had made, because to do so would be a violation of the first commandment Well, here in chapter 6, Daniel refused to stop praying to the Lord despite the king's decree. So while in Chapter 3, Daniel's friends were pressured to do something that their faith prohibited Here in chapter 6, Daniel is presented and pressured to abstain from doing something his faith mandated. So, in both cases, what was happening is that the outcome of disobedience was, humanly speaking, absolutely catastrophic. A fiery furnace in chapter three and a den of hungry lions in chapter six. I don't know which one is worse. I don't think I'd like to experience uh either one. So, at any rate, that's what we have. Of course, the pagan king here in chapter six is no longer Nebuchadnezzar, the great Babylonian king who ruled from six oh five to five sixty-two BC. BC, nor Belshazzar, who was the co-regent with Nabonidus in chapter 5. in 539 BC when Babylon fell to the Medes and Persians. The king of chapter six was Darius the Mead, introduced in the last verse of Daniel 5. And I mentioned last time that there are at least five possibilities for the identity of this king. To me, the uh probably the most likely is the Cyazaras II, the uh Median king, given the reign of Babylon after Cyrus uh uh conquered it. Now I have a one-page handout discussing this issue, which I'd be very happy to send to you if you email me, um although I did make the same offer last time I was with you and I don't remember receiving any takers. Now If if you can uh my memory's not perfect, but there weren't let's just put it this way, there weren't an abundance of uh takers for that, and that's okay. You don't have to humor me and just ask for the thing just to make me feel a little better. That's quite all right. But I want us to see right here at the start that though the testing and the trials are quite similar to chapter three. The historical situation in chapter 6 is quite different. We have a new dynasty, Medo-Persia not Babylon. And uh while uh Daniel and his friends were relatively young in chapter three, now Daniel is quite old. I'm sure no one here can relate to getting a little older in um uh with time. Um yeah, that was supposed to be somewhat humorous, but perhaps you all think you're uh twenty-five or so. I don't know. W I look in the mirror every once in a while. I try to avoid it, but when I do, whew, I think, who is that guy? You know. Oh my. Uh I'm sure it's not uh the same with view though. But if the events in this chapter occurred soon after the fall of Babylon, maybe five thirty eight or five thirty seven BC, then Daniel was in his mid-80s. And that thought leads me to the first section of this chapter in verses 1 to 3. And that is the faithfulness of Daniel to the king. The faithfulness of Daniel to the king Why would a new ruler want to make a man as old as Daniel one of the main administrative leaders? That's a good question, isn't it? Well, first of all, Daniel had a huge amount of experience, uh uh uh certainly in serving under Babylonian rule rulers and second he was known as a man of exceptional uh uh giftedness and integrity And third, he had predicted the downfall of the previous regime at Belshazzar's great feast, a prediction undoubtedly known by Cyrus and Darius. So in verse 1, Darius appoints 120 satraps. The word means protector of the kingdom. And in verse 2, the king appoints three governors over the satraps, Daniel being one of them. So that it says in our text, the king would suffer no loss. Not surprisingly, given what we've already seen of Daniel in chapters 1, 2, 4, and 5, Daniel once again rose to the top. uh distinguishing himself above the other two governors. Our text says, because an excellent or extraordinary spirit was in him. Whether that simply meant his extraordinary ability or a wisdom that ultimately came from the Lord, we're not told. But but no surprise to us, Daniel was once again exceptional. In his 80s, just as he was in chapter 1 in his teens. If you look at Daniel 1. 20, that's exactly what it says. Now I simply want to pause here for a moment just to say, isn't it wonderful to see The consistency of Daniel and his worth ethic and his testimony from his teens to his 80s. Um this uh summer, uh well actually be right before the uh end of the school year around in in May Uh I attended my oldest granddaughter Hannah's high school uh graduation, yes. It's I don't understand how I could possibly have a granddaughter that's now in college, uh, but I do. Uh at any rate, uh and Uh uh they uh she graduated from Cranit Granite uh uh classical tutorials in Columbia, Maryland, which is a school which supplements her home schooling education. And I'm uh they had there were only eleven graduates in my high school graduation we had 400 graduates and no one knew. uh who I was, that's for sure. But in this uh graduation there were only ele eleven, so they each had a a a write up, a little biography of of each one, which was kind of fun uh to read. But my immediate thought was And I don't know what's wrong with me, but this was my immediate thought, all right? Which is what would these young people be like eighteen years from now? At age 36. Now my prayer was that each one would be walking faithfully with the Lord But sadly, that's not always the case. But it was true of Daniel, even though he was living in a hostile environment nearly all of his life. Throughout his life, Daniel had been faithful in serving each administrator and king, and the same thing was true here. So the end of verse 3 tells us that uh Darius was thinking about uh uh setting Daniel over his entire realm. Man in his eighties. What a testimony. But that brings us to our second main section in verses four to nine, the plot of Daniel's adversary. The plot of Daniel's adversaries. Clearly, the satraps and the other two governors were jealous of Daniel's success. And for sure they didn't want him to be set over the entire kingdom. Verse 13 tells us that these leaders were probably resentful of Daniel, even being included in any leadership whatsoever. Because they still thought of him nearly 70 years later, and notice this in verse 13, as one of the captives from Judah. That's how they labeled him. Verse 4 says these men tried to find some charge against Daniel so that they could discredit him before the king, but they couldn't because there wasn't any fault found in him. Wow. Can anybody say the same about us? Um I mean I'm sure your pastor is perfect, but uh it's possible he might have a thing or two, you know. Um I have no idea what that is, however, and don't ask me afterwards. I just wouldn't be able to answer. Anyway. Isn't that amazing? I think that's amazing. The text says he was faithful. The Aramaic word that's used here is the cognate to our Hebrew word, Amen. To be trustworthy or faithful. And when we say amen, that's exactly, we're affirming that it is true. He was a man of utmost integrity. And I just wonder about the testimony of so many in this regard. It should be the testimony of every believer. But often it is not. These men realize that Daniel does have a weak link, not in his character. but in his love for the Lord and for his word. Verse 5 says, concerning the law of his God. So they contrived this plot described in verses 6 to 9, which plays on the vanity of the king to achieve their desired result. Verse 6 says that these men thronged. That's the word that's used literally. The word means to be in tumult. But the word the idea here is probably they conspired together or they colluded. It's used three times in this chapter in verses six. And then verse 11 and verse 15. And nowhere else in the Old Testament, its Hebrew cognate, is used only once in Psalm 2, 1. Which says, why do the nations rage or conspire, and the people plot a vain thing? So it's a word that's always used in the context of people conspiring against the Lord or against his servants. I can see I'm still knocking with this This guy, so he's gonna go there and you can still hear me, right? Okay, I know this is that's too far. Oh my. All right, you're just gonna have to endure the knocking. I I apologize, uh, but I'm I'm doing the best that I can. What can I say? Um anyway, uh so uh uh uh basically the weak link then, they they attack by appealing to the king's vanity. And uh so uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh this uh this uh what they're these guys are doing here, they're cons uh I was conspiring, just like this uh word uh indicates, they're uh conspiring either against the Lord in Psalm two or against his servants. And that's what they say here. They tell the king that the plan. Now, I didn't pick this up at first, you know. I think I'm a pretty good reader of scripture. I don't always see these things. But the you know, w the the when I was uh preparing for this message, I saw this that they say the plan has the support of the all the governors and the satraps But clearly Daniel wasn't even consulted on uh you know, or on board with the decree, so they're lying right from the start. Didn't have uh open the uh unanimous appeal. They persuade the king and uh and to sign this what seems like an innocent decree Whoever petitions any God or man except you for the next thirty days will be cast into the day of den of lions. I mean, boy, that's going to make him feel pretty good, right? Yeah, he's thinking, oh yeah, that sounds great. Uh and uh by the way, we know from historical records that the Medes and Persians indeed Did use such grotesque forms of execution. Well, the appeal to Darius's ego worked like a charm, so the trap was set. Now that leads us to the next section, which is only one verse, but I would like to uh submit that actually I think it's the key verse in the entire uh uh section in the in the entire chapter and that is the faithfulness of Daniel to his God. The faithfulness of Daniel to his to his God. And we see that in verse 10. I'm going to read it here again. When the Daniel knew that the the writing was signed, he went home and in his upper room, with the windows open towards Jerusalem, he knelt down on his knees three times that day and prayed and gave thanks before before his God, as was his custom since early days. Now, uh first of all, I I want us to see some things in that verse. First of all, Daniel knew all about the decree. He knew that by doing what he usually did, he'd end up being thrown into the den of lions Second, he didn't flagrantly disobey the decree. He didn't set out to make a point as a protester might do. No, he simply did what he always did. Uh he went home and prayed three times a day on his knees, praying and giving thanks before his God, as was his custom. Since early days. It says that Daniel prayed toward Jerusalem because that's exactly what Solomon told them to do if they were taken captive in 1 Kings 8:48. Solomon says that they were to pray to the Lord toward their land which you gave to their fathers, to the city which you have chosen and the temple which I have built for your name. One commentator notes that, and I quote, It is not as with his three companions in chapter three, a question of a positive sin which he will not commit, but of a positive duty. Which he will not omit. Now, I don't know about you. Have you ever put yourself in Daniel's position here? Well, I gotta say, it would be awfully easy to rationalize here, wouldn't it? I mean. It's only thirty days, right? And then I'll resume. Well, I can always pray to myself when I go to bed, right? I mean, nobody has to see me, uh, rather than out in the open. But Daniel didn't rationalize. He simply chose to obey God in prayer as he always had. What a testimony. To me, that's the climax of the chapter, not the deliverance of Daniel from the lions. That's the climax right there in verse 10. Well, that brings us to the fourth section of our passage in verses eleven to seventeen. The apparent success of Daniel's adversary. Daniel thrown into the lions. Once again in verse 11, the men thronged, this time to catch Daniel in the act of praying and making supplication before his God. Then in verse twelve these men confront the king, reminding him of the decree which he signed, and which verses eight, twelve, and fifteen uh said was irrevocable according to their law. And that, of course, was also an essential element of their plot. And then in verse 13, they tell the king that Daniel had disobeyed the king's decree by making his petition three times a day. Notice again the disdain that they show to Daniel by calling him one of the captives from Judah and accusing him of not showing proper regard for the king. In verse 14, the king realizes the trap. Notice that, in fact, contrary to the officials' charge, Darius never doubted Daniel. Daniel's loyalty. So he tried to figure out a way to deliver Daniel, but he couldn't. Sadly, in verse 16, the king commanded that Daniel be cast into To the lion's den, but before that happens, he tells Daniel, Your God, whom you serve continually, is able to deliver you. Some translations render the verb as a justive. May he deliver you, but it's probably simply an indicative. He can deliver you. I see two interesting truths here in this statement. First, Darius is completely aware of Daniel's devotion to God. He says, your God, whom you serve continually. We might as well just substitute faithfully. Day in and day out, regardless of the consequences. So Daniel's testimony was not hidden at all, but it was open, as was his prayer life Second, there's at least a feeble faith on the part of the king in Daniel's God. Your God is able to deliver you. Maybe he had heard of some of the sa uh past exploits of Daniel and his friends. Regardless, though he knew he couldn't do anything, uh, he realized that Daniel's God could. And that's a wonderful thing. Well, verse 17 tells us then that a stone was set on the mouth of the den, so Daniel couldn't escape. I don't know. Oh how he would have done that anyway, uh regardless. And that brings us to the wonderful next section of our text in verses eighteen to twenty four, which most people would say is the climax, but I think Verse ten is the climax. Uh uh and verse uh verses eighteen to twenty four speaks of Daniel's deliverance, the king's joy, and the adversary's demise, to put it uh um um a little uh less bluntly. Um in verses eighteen to twenty we see that The king's anguish over Daniel's fate. In verse 18, it says that Darius spent a sleepless night. He fasted and refused any form of entertainment. One commentator notes, and I find this humorous, so I wouldn't put it this way, not only did the king fast, but so did the lions. I thought that was funny. Anyway, I think that's a little silly because, you know, the l well anyway, I have no idea how other than the Lord intervening, the dear lions weren't Ravenous. At any rate, in verse 19, the king arose at dawn, and he hastened to the den of lions, crying out in an anguished voice to Daniel. But notice what Darius says to Daniel in verse 20. He calls Daniel the servant of the living God. That's quite a statement from a pagan king. Then he once again emphasizes Daniel's continual service to God, just as he did in verse 18. And finally, he asks if his God was able to deliver him. Now, some commentators, for example, Ian Duguide, who I usually really like, have contrasted Darius's anguished night with Daniel peacefully sleeping among the lions. But the text doesn't actually tell us that Daniel slept. I mean he could have, but I know if I were Daniel, well okay I don't have quite the faith of Daniel perhaps, but I wouldn't be sleeping, I'm telling you. And I'm not sure that you know, that Daniel was either. But still I liked you guys concluding thought that tr and This is a quote, true peace does not come from the possessions that we accumulate, but from the presence and favor of God in our lives. I love that. Well to the delight of the king, Daniel does indeed answer the king in verses 21 and 22. Which are, in fact, and this is another thing I didn't quite realize until I studied it again, they're the first and only words that Daniel utters in the entire chapter. I mean, this is all about Daniel, right? I mean, if you or I were writing this about ourselves, wouldn't we feature a brilliant speech by us? I would. Okay. Yeah, maybe I wouldn't, but I think I probably would, uh sadly. I'm sorry, but that's just what I think. But no. He doesn't defend himself in the first part of the chapter. He doesn't appeal to the king. To spare him from the lion's den. His only words are praise for God's deliverance. Do you notice something that is true virtually every time Daniel speaks in this book? He always gives praise to God first and foremost. It's a pattern of his, and it's exactly what he does here. In uh in Hebrew or Aramaic, the normal word order is the verb first, then subject, then object But sometimes the subject can occur first, and that's what happens here for emphasis. Daniel says that my God. In the emphatic position, so you could put it in, I don't know, bold if you wanted, sent his angels to shut the lion's mouth so that they did not hurt him. Why? Daniel goes on to explain that it was because he was innocent before his God and before the king as well. Daniel's name means God is my judge. And indeed the Lord here judged Daniel innocent. Just as God sent his angel in Daniel 3:28 to protect Daniel's three friends. in the fiery furnace. So here God sends his angel to protect Daniel from the lions. Psalm 34 verse 7 aptly says the angel Angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him and rescues them. And in the great faith chapter, Hebrews chapter eleven. And verse 33, it says that the prophets, through faith, stopped the mouths of lions, almost certainly a reference to Daniel's experience. The king's reaction in verse 23 is great joy. He commands that Daniel be taken out of the den, and there was no injury found on him. Why? The end of verse 23 makes it clear. Because he believed in his God. In verse 24, the king orders Daniel's accusers and their families to be thrown into the den of lions. Undoubtedly, that would have included the other two governors and probably a handful of the satraps, the one who directly accused Daniel, uh, not all a high And just in case, we might have thought, well, gee, those lions must not have been hungry that day. Well, the end of verse 24 indicates that the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones before they come to the bottom of the den. So without question, Daniel's deliverance was a miracle. No surprise, of course. To us. Well, uh that leads us to the sixth and what I consider the final section of this account, the King's Decree in verses 25 to 27. Now this is a pretty amazing decree, and I have no doubt that d uh Daniel's uh thinking about his God was passed on to the king, who seemed to get the message loud and clear after the miracle that he had. He had just witnessed. It is ironic, too, that the custom was for someone addressing the king to wish that they would live forever. Oh king, live forever. We see it when uh King Nebuchadnezzar is addressed in Daniel chapter 2, verse 4, and Daniel 3, verse 9, and when Belshazzar is addressed by the queen. in Daniel 5 and verse 10. When Darius is addressed by the governors and satraps in verse 6 of our chapter, and even when Daniel addresses Darius in verse 21. But one of the major themes of the entire book of Daniel is that no human king or kingdom lives forever. The only king who lives forever is God, and the only kingdom that endures forever is God's kingdom. And that point is made emphatically at the end of chapters two, three, and four. It was undoubtedly absent from chapter five because of the unrepentant heart of Belshazzar. But it's right back here in Darius' decree of chapter 6. The decree is that all people should tremble and fear before Daniel's God. And I quote, because he is the living God enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall never end. One commentator thinks, and I would agree with him That since these declarations all come at the end of each of these very dramatic chapters, they carry even more weight. And they reinforce the teaching Of the entire Old Testament, but especially in Isaiah and the Psalms, as they declare how all of the nations will worship the Lord. I've got all kinds of references in my notes. Isaiah 2, Isaiah 40, Isaiah 45, 49, 56, and 60. Isaiah 60, I'll just give you this one. The Gentiles shall come to your light, and Kings. Psalm 22, Psalm 72, Psalm 86, Psalm 96, Psalm 102, Psalm 138. I'll give you that one, Psalm 138, 4 and 5. All the kings of the earth shall praise you, O Lord, when they hear the words of your mouth. Notice It's universal. It's not just in Israel. Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. Well, not only does Darius say that God and his kingdom endure forever, but the second point emphasized by Darius in verse 27 of his decree. Decree is that God is the God who delivers and rescues. Nebuchadnezzar made the same point at the end of chapter three, verse twenty-nine, when he said, There's no other God who can deliver like this. And Darius states it here. He delivers and rescues and works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, who has delivered Daniel from the power of the light. What an amazing declaration from a pagan king. Now we reach verse 28, which I've entitled the Epilogue. Daniels continues. Prosperity. All these kings come and go, but Daniel continues to prosper under each one of them. beginning with Nebuchadnezzar as a teenager in Daniel 1 and continuing right through old age with Darius and Cyrus Why? Because just as Daniel was faithful to his God, God was faithful to him. Well, as we near the end of this message and don't start packing up yet, um I'm glad you have what? You have like a a l lunch thing and then a meeting, so I'm not feeling terrible that you're not racing home. And by the way, there's a s some football game and for Ravens fans you're not that interested because of last week's um debacle. Um and so I'm hoping for not the same result uh this week. I'm I'm a little closer to D C you understand. So at any rate, but I know you don't care about football anyway, you care about the word of the Lord. But I knew if if I were in my home church and it was a one o'clock meet uh one o'clock start, I remember that full well when back when the actually the Redskins were pretty good and uh boy, they started giving me the look. You know? You've given me the look if I was gonna go over it because I wouldn't be able to Yeah, you get the idea. But you're not like that, I'm sure. But plus it's at three o'clock anyway, and you've got to The congregational meeting and all the rest. So I see five applications, at least five applications for each of us here today. And first of all, you're not going to like this one I'm sorry, but you're not. I don't like it. Obeying God often leads to trouble. Obeying God often leads to trouble. It can be seen clearly with Daniel's three friends in chapter three, and we see it clearly here in Daniel 6 with Daniel himself. Now, I don't know about you, but neither a fiery furnace nor a den of lions is a place where I'd like to spend some quality time. What did these four believers do to deserve the punishment they received? They obeyed God rather than men. They refused And they refused to stop praying to and worshiping the Lord. Uh were they making a big scene with their actions? No, not at all. In both cases, It was people who were jealous of their success who unjustly accused them. In neither chapter do we hear Daniel or his friends uh complaining bitterly about their unjust treatment. Isn't that what you and I would probably do? I think so. In these actions, they are just like their savior who would be born over five hundred years later, who would be unjustly accused by people who felt threatened by him and who would suffer and die on the cross for the same people who accused. Him. But in the case of Daniel and his friends, and in the case of our blessed Savior, obeying God was the right choice despite the consequences. I have a corollary to this first point, and you're not going to like it any better. And that is this: Troubles can come at any age. Troubles can come at any age. If you're if we're obedient to the Lord, trouble can come when we're young, middle-aged, or old. Daniel had his share of troubles as a result of obedience to the Lord. And it didn't magically stop when he became old. And we shouldn't expect it to to uh stop, as Jesus told his disciples in John sixteen thirty three, in the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the Well my second application is this: integrity matters to God. Integrity matters to God. And since it matters to God, it better matter to each of us as well. So already mentioned it would have been easy for Daniel to wait 30 days before praying openly, but that would have violated his integrity It's easy to justify all kinds of things, but it's a slippery slope. And um don't get mad at me, but I'm just going to mention something. You're going to hear it. You're not going to get too mad at me, and then you're going to we're resume maybe even liking me. Okay? And that is, I have been appalled in recent years at the lack of integrity displayed by our elected officials, including our presidents of both parties. I've never seen it quite this bad before. And I've heard the arguments, etc. I don't want to go into it, etc. But when you have a lack of integrity, that's the problem. You start justifying it, that's a problem. I'm done. I understand you had to vote for you know for somebody. I get the whole picture, but That we should not be praising the lack of integrity. Just a few verses to r that's the end of the soapbox. Now you can They can, you know, unstop your ears. Um, Paul tells us but I've been the same. I I I remember w when the President Clinton Remember when he had that, you know, with Monaco Lewinsky and all of that? You know what I did? I preached on the foolishness of false confessions. And I used him as exhibit A, 1 Samuel 15. Yeah, I did that. I know. I'm crazy. But to me A lack of integrity is the most important thing that I saw. So it's in both parties. 1 Timothy 3:2: an elder must be blameless, a man of integrity All of us are sinners. We recognize that. But we should be people like Daniel, about whom it's hard to find fault. Proverbs 10, 9 says, He who walks in With integrity, walk securely. But he who perverts his ways will be found out. Proverbs 11:3. The integrity of the upright will guide them, but the perversity of the unfaithful will destroy them. Proverbs 28:6, better is the poor who walks in his integrity than one perverse in his ways, though he be rich. Well, that's probably enough. I think you get the picture. Integrity matters to God, and it better matter to us. A third application, and it comes from the verse that I said was the centerpiece of this chapter, and that is that consistent, consistent persistent Persistent prayer is essential. Consistent, persistent prayer is essential. Back in Daniel chapter 2, when Nebuchadnezzar was going to wipe out all the wise men of Babylon, what did Daniel do? He gathered his His friends to petition the God of heaven. Daniel 2, 17 and 18. And in Daniel 9, the amazing prophecy of the 77s. was revealed to Daniel in response to his 17 verse prayer. We sometimes forget that part, and we jump right to Daniel 924 for what we call the good part. But Daniel was praying for 17 verses, and in fact, the prayer was actually interrupted by the angel Gabriel. Now, I don't know about you, but I've never had my prayers interrupted by an angel. Well, for one thing, they don't last quite enough long enough. I'm sure that's not true of you, but there's my true confession. Uh Daniel did. Prayer at three times a day was Daniel's pattern, and he didn't break it simply to satisfy a foolish king's decree. Worshiping and communicating with the Lord was more important than his own personal safety. And by the way, notice Daniel's posture in prayer. It says in Daniel 6. 10 that Daniel knelt down on his knees. Now, I remember in the first church I attended, a Lutheran church, they had kneelers in the front. Now I'm not recommending this, okay? I'm not recommending this. I'm just pointing it out. All the people, regardless of age, would kneel for prayer at certain times. And I was amazed at these people that at that point I thought were you know you know, extremely old. Now I think they're, you know, not all that old. But at any rate, they're all kneeling uh right down Didn't seem to matter how old they were. Well Daniel's around, oh I don't know, he's in his 80s, and he's kneeling three times a day And they weren't short prayers, if Daniel 9 is any indication. So I'm not trying to say, hey, this is mandatory, but it indicates a proper humility and reverence toward God. Prayer was vital for Daniel, and it's vital for us as well. We're in a spiritual battle with a wily foe, and we need all of the spiritual reinforcement that we can get. Well, my fourth application is perhaps a counterbalance to a possible misuse of this passage, and it is this: For the believer, immediate deliverance is not guaranteed. Though ultimate deliverance is. For the believer, immediate deliverance is not guaranteed, though ultimate deliverance is. It's interesting, as I've thought about this, and Daniel 3 and Daniel 6 are often featured in children's Bibles storybooks, and for good reason They both speak of a godly refusal to follow the world's way. They both speak of a miraculous deliverance by the Lord. And that's wonderful. But it isn't necessarily the norm for the believer. And if we tell people that it is, then we aren't telling them them the truth. Last uh uh February our pastor was doing a series on Acts and he asked me to preach on Acts uh uh twelve. Um I don't know if your pastor has preached on that. Did you preach on that yet? Or I haven't preached on Acts 12, speaks of the arrest and miraculous deliverance of Peter from prison. It's a fantastic chapter and a wonderful example of God's power to deliver. But you know how that same chapter begins? And I'd never seen this before. Again, I thought I'd you know, a good Bible teacher or observer or something. No, I just saw this last year. Uh you know what's how it begins? Herod kills another disciple, James, the brother of John. I hadn't seen the juxtaposition of those two events before. Wasn't God able to save James from the clutches of an evil king the same way that he saved Peter? Of course he was. But for whatever reason, and this is where we shouldn't start questioning all kinds of things, he allowed James to be killed, yet he dramatically saved Peter. Think about that for a second. And I'm gonna get personal for a minute. My forty-five-year-old son, Jonathan, who decided to go to seminary about ten years ago after selling uh cell phones and uh uh computer parts and things like that. Um well he became the director of Wayside Cross, the men's rehabilitation ministry in Aurora, Illinois. He would teach the Bible to them every day. It was an in-house program. They lived there, etc. He would be counseling them, all of that sort of thing. And uh he did that for five years Uh but then he resigned. His health began to deteriorate rapidly, so much so for the past six months he hasn't been able to use his right hand and uh his speech and his His thinking has slowed down considerably. Finally, a few months ago, he learned that he has what's called corticobasal syndrome. It's a Parkinson's plus uh disease, uh, which uh basically attacks the nerve cells. Of the brain. Barring a miracle, it will result in increasing disability, including the inability to communicate or walk. So I definitely appreciate your prayers for him and for his decisions. Your wife Kim, and for their three young children, ages five to ten. But my point here is simple. I mean, here he is. He was, you know, just n normal secular job, just like most people here, and then he decides to to go to seminary, get trained, go into ministry, and then You know, this happens. And all I'm saying is you and I should never presume what God will do in every any given circumstance, whether in illness or financial hardship or job situation. Or relationships, or in any other trials. We are simply called to remain faithful no matter what. But when I say that immediate deliverance is not guaranteed, which is certainly true, for the believer, ultimate deliverance is. It's a certainty. While we may not know the details, we do know that in the end Satan is going to be defeated. The kingdom is the Lord's, and we will have everlasting life Just as the Lord promised Daniel in chapter 12. As Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, we will have new resurrection bodies. Boy. I'm sure my son Jonathan is delighting in that now. I've been delighting that for a good number of years. Many of you have as well. Death will be swallowed up in victory And we're going to be giving thanks to God who gives us the victory, Paul says, through our Lord Jesus Christ. While immediate deliverance is not guaranteed For the believer, ultimate deliverance is thanks to the work of Christ on the cross and his resurrection. And my final application, which really has been emphasized in previous points, But I think it bears repeating here. Faithfulness will be rewarded. Faithfulness will be rewarded. Throughout his life, Daniel had been faithful In serving each administrator and king. We see the same thing in this chapter with Darius, even in Daniel's old age. Daniel was faithful in his actions, in his moral compass, in his integrity. He was faithful in continually praising the Lord, and he was faithful in praying to and worshiping his God, even when doing so might cost him his life. Life. Yes, a faithful man will prosper whether in this life or the next. 23 and 24 says, The Lord preserves the faithful and fully repays the proud person. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all you who hope in the Lord. You know, God is not looking for brilliant, flashy Christians, nor is he looking for those who will be on fire for him one minute But then lackadaisical the next. God is looking for faithful Christians like Daniel, who was faithful over many years in many different situations, dealing with many different people. One whom even his enemies could not find fault with. God is looking for you, and he's looking for me to be faithful to him now. And one day we will hear the Lord Himself say, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of our Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much. For your word, for the truth of your word, Lord, is it's true in Daniel's day. It's exactly true and relevant to our day as well. And I pray, Father, that whatever uh trials and struggles that we may be going through, whether financial, whether physical, whatever uh nature, Lord, relationships, Father, we should rest in you. Help us, Lord, to do that to rest in you because indeed if we're faithful to you uh ultimately you promise deliverance. Help us, Lord, not necessarily just to look at uh some kind of deliverance here and now. But help us, Lord, to look to the future, to eternity. And Father, I would pray if there's Some here today that have never trusted in Christ as their Savior, that they would do so today, to recognize their sin and their need For the Savior, who died in their place on the cross and rose again, and that we, uh each of us who put our trust in Christ, would have forgiveness of sins And eternal life. What a joy that is. And I would pray that that's true of each one here, but if not, that they would accept Christ today For the rest of us, and I thank you, Lord. I've known some of these folks for quite a while and seen their faithfulness firsthand. But you above all see the faithfulness Lord, that none of us can see. And I pray, Father, that you would continue to strengthen us and Lord help us not to be weary in well-doing. Daniel didn't say, you know, now I'm retired. I'm going to live the way I feel like it. No, he was faithful to you from as a young man and as an old man. May that be true of us as well. We pray this in Christ's precious name with thanksgiving. Amen. We