Well, besides your anniversary, I think there are two other reminders in the calendar to show your appreciation for your spouse. I think they're his or her birthday and Valentine's Day. In my marriage they're back to back as Erae's birthday's today and Valentine's Day's tomorrow. I think there's a few other birthdays this week too but for me with my son's birthday coming up later this month February's turning out to be pretty packed But one celebration at a time, today and tomorrow are about my marriage and the great privilege it is to be a husband. I heard some say when a woman decides to marry you, she's taking the greatest risk of her life She's taking you on your word, a promise, and sticking by your side no matter what. Can I handle this burden of leadership? Now my mistakes and errors not only harm me, they can trickle down and potentially harm my wife under my care. As we continue in 1 Samuel, we'll see that decisions of male leadership have weighty ramifications for women. Those consequences can be good or bad. The story of David is not only about men struggling for power. It also involves women who have to discern God's will in difficult circumstances. Let's read about one account in 1 Samuel 25. And you'll find that in page 206 of your Q Bible. It's gonna be a long reading, so hang on to your hats. Then Samuel died, and the Israelites gathered together and lamented for him and buried him at his home in Rama. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. Now there was a man in Maun whose business was in Carmel, and the man was very rich. He had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. And he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. The name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail, and she was a woman of good understanding and beautiful appearance. But the man was harsh and evil in his doings. He was of the house of Caleb. When David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep, David sent ten of his ten young men, and David said to the young man, Go up to Carmel, go up to Nabal, and greet him in my name. And thus you shall say to him who lives in prosperity, Peace be to you, peace to your house, and peace to all that you have. Now I have heard that you have shares. Your shepherds were with us, and we did not hurt them, nor was there anything missing from them all the while they were in Carmel. Ask your young men, and they will tell you. Therefore, let my young men find favor in your eyes, for we come on a feast day. Please give whatever comes to your hand to your servants and to your son David. So when David's young men came, they spoke to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David and waited. Then Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse There are many servants nowadays who break away each one from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my meat that I have killed for my shears, and give it to men when I do not know where they are from? So David's young men turned on their heels and went back. And they came and told him all these words. Then David said to his men, Every man gird on his sword. So every man girded on his sword, and David also girded on his sword. And about four hundred men went with David, and two hundred stayed with the supplies. Now one of the young men told Abigail, Nabel's wife, saying, Look, David sent messengers from the wilderness to greet our master, and he reviled them. But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, nor did we miss anything as long as we accompanied them when we were in the fields They were a wall to us both by night and day, all the time we were with them, keeping the sheep. Now therefore, know and consider what you will do, for harm is determined against our master and against all his household. For he is such a scoundrel that one cannot speak to him. Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves of bread. Two skins of wine, five sheep already dressed, five seas of roasted grain, one hundred clusters of r raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and loaded them on donkeys. And she said to her servants, Go on before me, see, I am coming after you. But she did not tell her husband Nabel. So it was as she rode on the donkey, that she went down under cover of the hill And there were David and his men coming down toward her, and she met them. Now David had said, Surely in vain I have protected all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that belongs to him. And he has repaid me evil for good. May God do so, and more also to the enemies of David, if I leave one male of all who belong to him by morning night, morning light Now when Abigail saw David, she dismounted quickly from the donkey, fell on her face before David, and bowed down to the ground. So she fell at his feet and said, On me, my lord, on me let this iniquity be, and please let your maidservant speak in your ears, and hear the words of your maidservant. Please let not my lord regard a scoundrel Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I, your maidservant, did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent Now therefore, my Lord, as the Lord lives and as your soul lives, since the Lord has held you back from coming to bloodshed and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now then let your enemies and those who seek harm for my Lord be as Nabel. And now, this present which your maidservant has brought to my Lord, let it be given to the young men who follow my Lord. Please forgive the trespass of your maidservant For the Lord will certainly make for my Lord an enduring house, because my Lord fights the battles of the Lord, and evil is not found in you throughout your days. Yet a man has risen to pursue you and seek your life. But the life of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with the Lord your God, and the lies of your enemies he shall sling out as from the pocket of a sling And it shall come to pass when the Lord has done for my Lord, according to all the good that He has spoken concerning you, and has appointed you ruler over Israel, that this will be no grief to you, nor offensive heart to my lord, either that you have shed blood without cause, or that my Lord has avenged himself. But when the Lord has dealt well with my Lord, then remember your maid servant Then David said to Abigail, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me. And blessed is your advice, and blessed are you. Because you have kept me this day from coming to bloodshed and from avenging myself with my own hand. For indeed, as the Lord God of Israel lives, who has kept me back from hurting you, unless you had hurried and come to meet me. Surely by morning light no males would have been left to Nabal. So David received from her hand what she had brought him, and said to her, Go up in peace to your house. See I have heeded your voice and respected your person. Now Abigail went to Nabal, and there he was, holding a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him. for he was very drunk. Therefore she told him nothing, little or much, until morning light. So it was in the morning, when the wine had gone from Nabel And his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became like a stone. Then it happened after about ten days that the Lord struck Nabal, and he died So when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord, who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal and has kept his servant from evil. For the Lord has returned the wickedness of Nabal on his own head. And David sent and proposed to Abigail to take her as his wife. When the servants of David had come to Abigail at the Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, David sent us to you to ask you to become his wife. Then she arose, bowed her face to the earth, and said, Here is your maidservant, a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord. So Abigail rose in haste and rode on a donkey attended by five of her maidens, and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife. David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and so both of them were his wives. But Saul had given Makel, his daughter, David's wife, to Palti, the son of Laish, who was from Golem. Through both the good and bad displayed in First Samuel twenty-five We learn three ways to prevent relational disasters. One, beware of provocative, sinful words Beware of provocative simple words. That's in verses one to thirteen. Two, de-escalate strife with good understanding. De-escalate strife with good understanding. That's verses 14 to 31. 3. Wait for God's justice patience. Wait for God's justice patiently. That's verses 32 to 44. So first, beware of provocative sinful words. Before we talk about David, Nabal, and Abigail, let's conclude the storyline of Samuel. So it's just one verse. Verse 1 marks an important turning point. As you can see, his funeral was a national memorial event, and deservedly so. He had a lasting impact as Israel's leader. We saw some of his notable accomplishments in the earlier chapters. But as you go on in your Bible reading, you'll find more. In 1 and 2 Chronicles, we read that Samuel organized the Levites for service at the sanctuary. Collected funds to be used eventually for the temple project, and kept the Passover. In Psalm 99, verse 6 and Jeremiah 15:1, he's recognized as a prayerful man. In Hebrews 13, 32, he's among the great warriors and heroes of faith. Truly, Israel lost an exemplary leader in Samuel. On a much more personal level, I have to believe his death affected David profoundly. Samuel knew before anyone else that God chose him to be the next king. It was Samuel who came to Bethlehem to anoint him for the office It was Samuel and his disciples at Naoth and Rama who protected him from Saul. But now he's gone. In my interpretation, David, as strong as he is in his faith, was probably shaken up by this loss. Perhaps he felt vulnerable and hypersensitive. That could explain why after showing so much restraint of power in the previous chapter, he's quick to anger and ready to kill in this chapter. You may also explain why David left the boundaries of Israel for the wilderness of Paran. He's likely fearful and nervous. He does eventually return to his country. The scene ships to Carmel in verse 2. Just to be clear, this is not Mount Carmel, the site of that famous showdown between Elijah and the prophets of Baal. In 1 Kings 18. No, this Carmel is a town, one of the cities of Judah in the mountain country, north of Mayon, just up the road. We last heard of this place back in chapter 15, verse 12, and that's where King Saul in his vanity set up a monument for himself. And there was another stiff there, Nabel, who had a prosperous shepherding business. He and his wife are identified as Carmelite and Carmelitis, respectively. And I'll comment more on Abigail later and come back to her description in verse 3. For now, we focus on the head of the house. He's from a noble line, from Caleb, one of only two men from the first generation that entered the promised land from Egypt. But Nabal is nothing like Caleb or Joshua. He's a Calavite in name, but truly a Nabal, a fool in reality. I think his parents meant to name him after either a music instrument or some household object. But because of homonyms, words that sound the same but mean different things. And because of his ungodly ways, he's closer to a fool. We read in verse 3 that he's harsh and evil in his doings In the earlier books of the Bible, the word harsh has been used to describe Joseph's initial treatment of his brothers, one nation's cruelty over another, tough legal cases, and the stubbornness of Israel. And here in 1 Samuel, the word harsh has been used to describe harmful speech and the effects of harmful speech. As for the phrase evil in his doings, is most frequently found in Jeremiah's warnings during Judah's last days. Likewise, this description portends the last days of Nabel. Also in verses seventeen and twenty-five he is described as a scoundrel, someone who ignores God and human authorities. And from verses 4 to 13, we see specif specifically how he's harsh and evil in his doings. You might be tempted to think that Nabal is not obligated to give anything to David and his men. There's nothing that he did wrong here. It's not like he asked for their help, anyways. But David, like any responsible leader, protects the vulnerable civilians. He knows a thing or two about protecting and caring for sheep. He provides his services free of charge. And plus it's because of Nabel's status and circumstances that David asks for help. It was during the traditional festivities of sheep shearing that he decides to request help. And even then he does not take charity for granted. He asks politely, when there's plenty of food. Without demanding this or that. Look at the end of verse 8. We come on a feast day. Please give whatever comes to your hand to your servants and to your son David. Now, Nabal could have spared some gleaning from his abundance. That was actually required by the law of Moses as provision for the poor and the stranger. Or he could have simply said no, respectfully. But as you see in verses 10 and 11, he can't help but be a fool. And as Ecclesiastes 10. 14 says, multiply his words. Recall that in verse 5 and 9, the messengers greeted and requested in the name of David. Well, what does Nabal think of that name? Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? It's not that he doesn't know, he doesn't care. He also shows contempt for the messengers, doubting whether they're even really from David. Those are fighting words. Nabal embodies Proverbs 18, 6-7. A fool's lips enter into contention. And his mouth calls for blows. A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul. And now David's going to let his sword do the talking. But before that takes place, we turn to Nabel's better half and the second principle, de-escalate strife with good understanding. The introduction to Nabel in verse 3 anticipated his folly and demise. In contrast, the introduction to Abigail in verse 3 anticipates her grace and wisdom. She's a woman of good understanding and beautiful appearance. That phrase beautiful appearance is used elsewhere to describe Rachel and Esther. But the other phrase is more important here. We saw the verbal form of the noun understanding back in chapter 18 of 1 Samuel. Four times in that chapter, we're told David behaved wisely. And in this chapter, it's Abigail's turn to behave wisely and apply her good understanding. She is a virtuous wife who watches over the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. So she acts in haste and does not wait for David to arrive. She falls upon the ground and bows before David. She speaks respectfully, unlike her husband. Seven times she designates herself as a maidservant. Fifteen times she calls David my lord. Fourteen times in the span of eight verses. She appeals to our hero's faith in God, his vindicator. She acts and talks a lot like David himself from the previous chapter. Abigail is truly a persuasive speaker. She paints word pictures, appeals to David's conscience, encourages him to think long-term, and invokes the name of the Lord. It all comes together in verses 30 and 31. God will eventually, certainly fulfill his promises, and David will be king. But if you are tax label, that would be a major block on his political resume. There's no lasting benefit in bloodshed. David remembers just in time that he must trust in God's hand, not take matters into his own hands. The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Abigail's plan works. While Nabel's harsh word stirs up anger, Abigail's soft answer turns away wrath. Now, how about some contemporary application? Now Abigail acts independently and without Nabel's consent. Doesn't that contradict New Testament passages like the one we read earlier? Doesn't Paul and Peter command submission to husbands, even if some do not obey the word? Well, let's start with the general principle. We all operate under some dominion, and we must live biblically under that dominion. Fear God. Honor the King. Be subject to governing authorities. Be submissive to the leaders of the church, elders Servants, be submissive to masters. Wives, submit to your own husbands. Children, obey your parents in all things. But in this fallen world, there are some complications. Except with God, there will be times when someone in power does not align with God's will. Though it's always God's will to show respect and honor, there are limits when an earthly authority conflicts with heavenly authority. The first limit is when obeying a human authority harms us spiritually. I think of idolatry or disobeying God's word. That's when we have to be like Daniel's friends and say, oh king, we do not serve your gods. That's when we stand up like the early church against the mandate to stop evangelism. The second limit applies when obeying human authority leads to physical harm. Obviously, we cannot always avoid bodily danger. We have to accept such fate if it comes to that. But while Abigail still had time, it was on her to save her household. If she fails to act, all would be ruined. There was no use telling her husband because no one can speak to him. She'd have a better shot at getting David to relent than getting Nabal to repent. If she didn't act quickly, and yes, without her husband's permission, she could not save her husband's life. I could easily see an application here for the wife of an alcoholic abusive husband, or a man who leads his family and children to ungodly and criminal activities. I once heard a story of a woman who ran away from her home with her children. Her husband was addicted to child pornography. If you're forced to make a binary choice today between life and loyalty to your husband Save yourself and your children today. Live another day so that next day you can save the marriage and your husband. Abigail protects her home and saves lives with her wise speech. Wisdom is a defense as money is a defense. A wholesome tongue is a tree of life. And as we turn to the life-giving results of Abigail's wisdom, we turn to the third principle. Wait for God's justice patiently. Now, David's both a good and bad example of this principle. First the good. David's glad to listen to Abigail's voice. He blesses the name of his God, her advice, and herself. While our hero sees her virtue and value, her own husband is ignorant, it was no use telling him anything in his drunken stupor. There's a bit of a tragic word play in verse 37. The word for wineskin bottle or container in Hebrew is Nebel. So the narrator says: the wine had gone from Nabel. Mocking his hollow, empty way of life, a dark hole that he tries to fill with food and alcohol. And once the truth hits him, he's good. He's as good as dead. It appears that he suffered a stroke of some kind. And he died in about a week and a half later. The news reaches David, and he's glad that he waited for God's justice. And he didn't have to wait too long. Starting at the second half of verse 39 until verse 43, I think David's not waiting for God patiently anymore. He shows his weakness for women. The deathbell has barely stopped ringing, and already he's thinking of wedding bells. But this isn't finding romance. It's seeking power. The last two verses of the chapter may indicate that Davis attempting to build his support base through marriages He wants to strengthen himself by taking wives from northern Jezreel and Southern Carmel. We'll have more to say about the wives later. Meanwhile, Saul wants to weaken David by giving Mikel to someone else. To come full circle and to tie things back to the beginning of this chapter, These were David's feudal attempts to stabilize himself after Samuel's death. Add to his team. If Saul is going to take away Jonathan and Mikel from him, he'll take in Abigail and Ahinoah. He's going to multiply wives, though God forbids it. If only David waited for God's justice patiently. I'll end with the gospel application. Have you ever felt like David? On the run, unmoored, unstable. Loved ones are gone or distant. Feeling alone. In such circumstances, many seek alliances, friendships, and marriages as answers to their problems. Or like label, they feast and drink, trying to drown out their emptiness. Now it's true that our Heavenly Father grants good gifts to all and fills our heart with food and gladness. But he never intended them to give us lasting fulfillment. God wants to give Himself to us above all, so that we might delight in Him. But we've turned away from our good Creator. We've sinned in thought, word, and deed. We now deserve eternal punishment. And separation from him who is holy. But mercifully, someone came and stood between God's just wrath and our wretched souls. Someone better than Abigail. Yes, she's certainly a wise woman, woman of good understanding. But here's Jesus, the perfect God-man who became for us wisdom from God. Yes, Abigail stood between her husband and David and gave gifts to appease him. Jesus stands as the mediator between God and man. He gave himself as a ransom for all. Christ died on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins. Rose to live forever, ascended to heaven, and now intercedes for his bride at the Father's right hand. Now is the time to respond to this good news. Do not remain as you are, foolhardy, harsh and evil in your doings. Turn from sin, repent. Turn to Christ, trust in Him alone for your place in heaven. You cannot earn it or deserve it. God offers you eternal gift, eternal life as a free gift. We are but poor beggars reaching out to our God, rich in mercy Unlike Nabal, our gracious King gently welcomes us to eat at his heavenly table. I hope that you accept his merciful offer today. And for us who have already accepted that invitation, let's celebrate that privilege we enjoy as we sing our final song. Before that, let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. Help us to live according to it. We thank you for the guidance that we receive from it. Pray that through your spirit, we'll be able to apply your word in our lives, in all our relationships. Relationships with our neighbors, with authorities, with our spouses, with our household. Help us to be wise. Help us to be godly. Help us to trust in you in all our ways. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.