I will be a geek for a few minutes. The Lord of the Rings. You know you have a classic novel in your hands. If you read it, go see the movie adaptation, read it again, binge watch the films again, and make sure your child reads it. Ira and I are agreed on those plans. We are not agreed, however, on the best character of the story. Her favorite is Legolas. Mine is Aragorn. One of my favorite moments in the entire trilogy, in the first book, at the Village of Brie. The hobbits meet the strider before he reveals himself to be Aragorn. Frodo inspects him and decides to trust him He thinks there's no way he can be a spy of the enemy. A spy would look much better than that. Aragorn takes the insult in stride, pun intended, laughs and responds Quote, I see, I look foul and feel fair. Is that it? All that is gold does not glitter. Not all those who wander are lost. The fictional Aragorn reminds me of a non-fictional person in the Bible, David. I can picture him saying to Abiyatar, the priest, or the citizens of Kala, I am David, the son of Jesse, and if by life or death I can save you, I will. Like Aragorn, David wandered and stayed hidden in the wilderness. He too waited. And waited until the right time to emerge as king and claim the crown Yet it was during those long seasons of waiting that David grows in character and his trust in the Lord. Some lessons of life just cannot be given as homework. They're learned from field training, in the outdoors, on the run. Let's turn and read 1 Samuel 23 and observe. If you're using the Pew Bible, it's in page 205. 1 Samuel 23. Then they told David, saying, Look, the Philistines are fighting against Cala, and they are robbing the threshing floors. Therefore, David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and attack the Philistines and say Calah. But David's men said to him, Look, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Calah against the armies of the Philistines? Then David inquired of the Lord once again. And the Lord answered him and said, Arise, go down to Calah, for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand. And David and his men went to Calah and fought with the Philistines, struck them with the mighty blow. and took away their livestock. So David saved the inhabitants of Calah. Now it happened when Abiathar, the son of Akimelech, fled to David at Calah that he went down with an epod in his hand. And Saul was told that David had gone to Calah. So Saul said, God has delivered him into my hand, for he has shut himself in by entering a town that has gates and bars. Then Saul called all the people together for war. to go down to Calah to besiege David and his men. When David knew that Saul had uh plotted evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring that Epad here. Then David said, O Lord God of Israel, your servant has certainly heard that Saul seeks to come to Caleb to destroy the city for my sake. Will the men of Caleb deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant has heard. O Lord God of Israel, I pray, tell your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down Then David said, Will the men of Calah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And the Lord said, They will deliver you. So David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed from Calah and went wherever they could go. Then it was told Saul that David had escaped from Kalah, so he halted the expedition. And David stayed in the strongholds in the wilderness and remained in the mountains in the wilderness of Zip. Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand. So David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life, and David was in the wilderness as if in a forest Then Jonathan Saul's son arose and went to David in the woods and strengthened his hand in God. And he said to him, Do not fear. For the hand of Saul, my father, shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Even my father Saul knows that. So the two of them made a covenant before the Lord. And David stayed in the woods, and Jonathan went to his own house. Then the Zippites came up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is David not hiding with us in strongholds in the woods? in the hill of Hakilah, which is on the south of Jesimun. Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of your soul to come down, and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand. And Saul said, Blessed are you of the Lord, for you have compassion on me. Please go and find out for sure, and see the place where his hideout is, and who has seen him there, for I am told he is very crafty. See therefore and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hides, and come back to me with certainty, and I will go with you. And it shall be if he is in the land that I will search for him throughout all the clans of Judah. So they arose and went to Zip before Saul. But David and his men were in the wilderness of Ma'on, in the plain on the south of Jesimond. When Saul and his men went to seek him, they told David. Therefore he went down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maun. And when Saul heard that, he pursued David in the wilderness of Mountain. Then Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain. So David made haste to get away from Saul, for Saul and his men were encircling David and his men to take them. But a messenger came to Saul, saying, Hurry and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. Therefore Saul returned from pursuing David and went against the Philistines, so they called that place the Rock of Escape. Then David went up from there and dwelt in strongholds at Engedi. A useful Bible reading technique, especially in the narratives, is to pay special attention to shifts in location. I'll talk about three places here. The oppressed city of Kala, the Woody Hill of Hakila, and the Providential Raka Moun Based on these three locations, there are three divisions and three lessons. David learns: one, seek the Lord for answers to tough questions. Seek the Lord for answers to tough questions. That's verses one to fourteen. Number two, find friends for strength in tough places. Find friends for strength in tough places. That's in verses 15 to 24a, the first part of uh verse 24, the first sentence there. 3. Trust in God's providence in tough situations. Trust in God's providence in tough situations. That's the second half of verse 24, 24b to Verse twenty nine. First seek the Lord for answers to tough questions. If you're keeping track of David's whereabouts, we saw him in chapter 22, verse 5, leaving the foreign Moabite territory to return to his homeland. Specifically, he went to his tribal territory of Judah, to the forest of Herod. Next, David headed to the city of Kala. There he meets up with the priest Abyatar, who fled from the massacre of Nob. So Kalah is where they talked. at the close of the previous chapter, chapter 22, verse 20 to 23. Here's a little background on Kayla. It's listed among the cities of Judah in Joshua 15 and as a district of Judah in Nehemiah's time, in Nehemiah 3. In Saul's time, it was apparently susceptible to foreign domination. The words of David's men in verse 3 imply that it stood outside of the safe bounds of Judah. Practically speaking, since Team David's already in a precarious position, living as fugitives, why confront more enemies? Now of all times. It's a valid question. But it's the logic of David to seek the will of God, not the will of man That's why David's faith is true, while Saul's faith is delusional, as you see in verse 7. And let's dismiss the false notion that real men don't stop to ask for directions. Godly men very often stop to ask for directions from the Lord. Just look at today's passage and tally up the number of question marks. David exemplifies excellent leadership Because he's actively, assertively going to God for guidance. And while his men and the men of Zip ask questions too, They're rhetorical, and they're directed to lower authorities. David brings genuine questions to the Lord, the highest authority. He does this in different relational contexts and via different means of grace. First, look at the different relational contexts. In verses 1 and 2, David considers those away from him. In verses 3 to 5, he considers those under him. In verses 6 to 13, he considers those around him. Like David, we must be sensitive to God's will. And sensitive to others. Look again in verse 10. Your servant has certainly heard that Saul seeks to come to Kaila to destroy the city for my sake. See how David's not in self-preservation mode. He's not feeling sorry for himself, like Saul in verse 21. If he and his men do not get away and put some distance between themselves and that city, Cala would end up like Noob. As for the different means of grace David uses, he prays to the Lord directly in verses 1 to 5. But once Abyathar arrives with the Ebad, he employs priestly mediation. Here's how it works. Inside the breastplate of judgment are two stones called Urim and Tumim. The meaning of their names is disputed, but we gather that they represent opposites or extreme contrasts. Urim starts with the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, Aleph, and Tumim starts with the last letter, Tau. So these were used for binary decisions. Yes or no, I or nay, verdicts. Whatever the means, saints must remember the truth of Proverbs 1633. Lot is cast into the lap But it's every decision is from the Lord. So now how do you handle life's tough questions? Like David, think relationally. That's vertically and horizontally. First, look up to seek God's purpose David exemplifies the wisdom of James. Don't say today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city. It's better to say if the Lord wills we shall live and do this or that. Employ the ordinary means of grace, the word and prayer. Pray without ceasing. Open your Bibles The saints of the old had the lock for guidance. We possessed better means of grace. Wisdom and knowledge through the Spirit given to the church. And it's that same spirit that has inspired the scriptures to give it its authority. Also think horizontally as you consider life's tough questions. What are some reasons you'd move to another city? Better pay, to be closer to children and grandchildren. Nice weather. What if we changed our mindset and asked completely different questions? Is the commander of the army of the Lord deploying me strategically to this spot on the map? What if we pray, Lord, should I put on the whole armor of God, move to this state, and there strive for the faith of the gospel? So I joined this church plant there to pull the people out of the fire, to rescue the perishing. Embolden me to love the lost like David and Paul, even if one moment I'm on their pedestal, then the next moment they stone me, drag me off, and leave me off for dead. These may be big moves to ponder, but God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. You see how David's not asking or thinking of his need for encouragement himself, but God graciously grants it anyways. And that leads us to the next point. Find friends for strength in tough places. God was already granting David strength in numbers. Compare chapter 22, verse 2, with chapter 23, verse 13. Team David grows from 400 to 600. There's also the need for old friends As Saul continued his hunt, Jonathan snuck away to strengthen David in God. Jonathan knew that God is both the ultimate source of our comfort and the means of our comfort. Yes, it's good to read and recite his promises alone in daily devotions at your home. But the Lord often uses the voice of his servants to speak his voice. David and Jonathan renew their covenant of friendship. Though this is the last time we see the two together, their bond of loyalty continues on. David really needed this prep talk before his next challenge. It's sad that though he has the help of Jonathan from the house of Saul, his enemy. He can't trust the people of Zip from his own tribal land of Judah. Why can't these Zipites zip it? They reveal to Saul that they was hiding in their area, and he dispatches them for reconnaissance. David's once again in a tough place, but he found a friend for strength. Let me offer two applications of this principle, the second one. First from Jonathan's point of view Are you willing to be a friend like him to a brother or sister in Christ? Will you strengthen his or her hand in God? Even if that requires great risk and great inconvenience. Here's an illustration. I was reading an article by Andy Johnson, formerly one of the pastors at my previous church. He wrote on the topic of short-term mission trips. It's been a while since I've been on one, but I thought I'd read it in hopes that someday our church can go on them In this article, Andy suggests the following: From the very beginning, we should decide that every short-term trip will aim to benefit the work of long-term missionaries and local believers. That may sound obvious to us, but often churches send teens for some sort of glorified vacation experience Not to glorify God. Someone a fun tourist experience of a foreign culture and become a burden to the workers there. Sadly, my in-laws have some stories. One member of a short-term mission team decided to put on her swimsuit and get some suntan at the Christian school playground. The Muslim country, I don't know what she was thinking. She wasn't thinking about strengthening others' hands in God. Let's think about how we can be Jonathan's to David's, those in the front lines. Let's also take David's perspective. When we're in tough places, we need to draw strength from our covenantal community. Here's an illustration. I was reading up on some church history this week. I was reminded that key theological ideas we take for granted today, the autonomy of the local church, its distinction from political powers The membership authority to elect its own officers. These ideas came at a great cost. Puritan Separatist Robert Brown was tortured. John Greenwood, Henry Barrel, and John Perry hanged for civil disobedience. Some faced imprisonment for being absent at the parish church. Others were exiled. Despite such persecution, the separatist idea grew among the Congregationalists and the Baptists. But here's a lingering question. If the government does not forcibly place a citizen into an established church, how can individuals freely organize themselves as congregations? The common 17th century mindset was that if you're born English, you're infant baptized to be Anglican. If you're born Scottish, you're infant baptized to be Presbyterian. Here's the correct biblical mindset: the profession of faith first. And then comes the voluntary baptism. Stay with me here. Also, there are two documents that shape the life of the individual in such churches. You have to agree to one the confession of faith centered on vital doctrinal issues, and two, the church covenant that deals with Christian conduct. These two documents had different functions, but both have to be biblical in content. So let me focus on the church covenant now. That document may not mean much to you. Maybe you looked at it once when you joined a church. But for the beleaguered independent churches in England, that membership covenant was more than a piece of paper. It kept them together when the pastor passed away, when divisions arose, and when Anglican extremists attacked them. One notable example is the 1720 Vurten Church to Covenant. It has 13 articles in it. I'll just share with you one quote from Article 7, which deals with persecution. It goes. We will, as our God, shall enable us, cleave fast to each other to the utmost of our power. And that if perilous times should come, in a time of persecution, we will not draw back from our holy profession, but will endeavor to strengthen one another's hands and encourage one another to perseverance. When you're in tough places of life, I hope you turn to the local church. If you haven't formally joined one via Church Covenant, please consider uniting with us here at Faith Bible Church. We're not perfect, but our aim is to be a root or a Jonathan to you, to cling to you, and strengthen your hand in God. Here's the final lesson from this chapter. Trust in God's providence in tough situations. Let me begin with the concise definition of providence. Since I'm in a church history mood, I'll turn to the Heidelberg Catechism. The 27th question asks: What do you understand by the providence of God? The answer. The Almighty, everywhere present power of God, whereby, as it were, by his hand, he still upholds heaven and earth with all creatures. And so governs them that herbs and grass, rain and drought, fruitful and barren years, meat and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty. Indeed, all things come not by chance, but by his fatherly hand. The Almighty Hand is also the fatherly hand. And like an expert level chess master, our Lord moves his pieces on the board. Thus far in today's passage, David has avoided trouble. practically perfect in every way. He's prayerful, resourceful, and careful But we must remember this. Even if we do our daily devotions, attend church faithfully, live wisely, there's no avoiding trouble in this world. As Paul wrote, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. Saul is certainly growing worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. He again goes after David in the wilderness of Ma'on, not far from Zif. Our hero ends up between a rock and a hard place, with Saul and his men tightening the noose and closing in, but that's when God intervenes. At the height of suspense in 1 Samuel 23, the Lord sends the Philistines to draw away David's enemies. This reminds me of 2 Kings 19, when God sends the Ethiopians to draw away Hezekiah's enemies. David memorializes that location as the rock of escape and moves on to Engedi. Well that was a close call. This can't be good for the heart, but it is good for the faith. We learn to trust in God in tough situations. It's not merely an academic exercise. It's a deeply enriching experience that results in praise in the end. Just as we read in Psalm fifty-four. I'll read it for you. To the chief musician with stringed instruments, a contemplation of David, when Zippites went and said to Saul, Is David not hiding with us? Save me, O God, by your name and vindicate me by your strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth Or strangers have risen up against me, and oppressors have sought after my life. They have not set God before them, Selah. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with those who uphold my life. He will repay my enemies for their evil. Cut them off in your truth. I will freely sacrifice to you. I will praise your name, O Lord, for it is good. For he has delivered me out of all trouble, and my eye has seen its desire upon my enemies. Like David, consider all the ways the Lord has providentially brought you safe thus far. Maybe you can write it down like David did. I hope you too will freely sacrifice to him and praise his name, for it is good. We have even more reasons to worship God than David. David experienced salvation from earthly enemies. We experience great eternal salvation from sin. And that's made possible for us by Jesus, David's Son and David's Lord. But to realize our need for Christ, we must start with the problem of sin. We face the truth that we're sinners. We've offended God with our thoughts, words, and deeds. The consequence of our sinful choices is eternal punishment away from God's presence. But the good Lord did not leave us in a pitiful state, wandering forever, when we were still without strength. While we were still sinners, the Son of God came as man and declared, Behold, I have come to do your will. God's will was to go to the cross and take on God's wrath upon Himself, the penalty of our sins, in our place as substitute. With power he laid down his life, and with power he raised himself back to life, just as the Father commanded him. Someday he'll return to judge the living and the dead. Once the stone which was rejected, Jesus is now the cheap cornerstone. If you repent and place your hope of heaven in Jesus, he can be your rock of escape. Escape from condemnation of hell. Turn now from self-indulgence and self-righteousness through repentance. Turn to Jesus Christ and place your faith in Him alone. There's nothing you can do to earn eternal life. It's all a gift. It's all grace, not of works. May your life be hidden in Christ. May you be a living stone upon him as your foundation. Heaven is our home as saints, and we are strangers, sojourners, and pilgrims on earth. But not all those who wander are lost. Seek and cherish Christ this week In him we have a priest far better than Abyathar, a covenantal friend better than Jonathan, a rock better than those of earth Let's claim all these blessings as we sing our final song, but let's pray first. Lord, we praise you because we can hide ourselves in your Son. We are safe and secure for that day of judgment that's to come. And we thank you for that truth of the gospel. May our reliance, may our faith, cause our faith to rise, Lord. Help us to grow in our trust and reliance on you. In our prayer life, or in our church life with fellow saints, in our trust As we see how you work in this world as the sovereign God of Providence, cause our faith to rise. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.