The council has decided that I should bring the members of Faith Bible Church. a new expositional material for this week, even though we are not able to gather. But as I was praying and thinking about the appropriate message, I looked back at my older sermons and landed on a file from 2018, December 30th. It was the last Sunday of the year and I delivered a sermon to my former church, preaching from Psalm 90. I began that sermon listing all the significant events of 2018. In Russia, Vladimir Putin was re-elected for a fourth term. The North Korean leader Kim Jong-un crossed over the DMZ to meet with the South Korean president. In Thailand, over 10,000 people were involved in the intense 17-day rescue operation of a boys' soccer team In England, Prince Harry married Meghan Markle in Saint George's Chapel, closer to home. The ongoing wildfires of California had destroyed almost 2 million acres of land as of December 21st. Truly, 2018 was a was an eventful year. But as I think about the first three months of 2020, the first 81 days of this year, perhaps it will not be far-fetched to say that we are having one of the most memorable years of our lives. I think that would be the case even if the rest of the year looks completely normal. I mean, we've already went through bushfires in Australia The assassination of Iranian General Qasam Salomani, and the crash of the global stock market, and of course the COVID-19 pandemic. Who knows what other events lay ahead of us in 2020? A wise man instructs us in Ecclesiastes 7. 14 In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider. Surely God has appointed the one as well as the other So that man can find out nothing that will come after him. It is true that we can't predict the future unless God reveals it to us. And when we are faced with adversity, we are led to reflect. But now, how exactly should we reflect? Thankfully, we have in the Bible many exemplary men and women who have to evaluate their own lives and the events therein. Today I want to focus on one individual, Moses. In a few places in the Bible, such as Exodus 15, Deuteronomy 32 to 33 and Psalm 90, today's passage, we have Moses' poetic reflections of God. His people and his own experiences as their leader. That means that Psalm 90 is the earliest Psalm we have available. It is more difficult to pinpoint exactly when Moses wrote this. I've heard suggestions as early as we forced Exodus to the final year of the wilderness wandering. But whatever the date, Moses had his share of excitement and disappointments in his life. He had days he felt like a one, as he had to endure over and over again, the complaints of the people. He had days he felt like a ten, like he was on top of Mount Sinai. What do you do with all this? How do you process it all? If you ever feel like Moses, let's read Psalm 90 together. And see what we can learn. Psalm 90, we're going to read the entire chapter Psalm 90. A prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you have formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting you are God. You turn man to destruction and say, Return, O children of men, for a thousand years in your sight are like yesterday when it is past, and like a watch in the night You carry them away like a flood, they are like a sleep. In the morning, they are like grass which grows off. In the morning it flourishes and grows up. In the evening it is cut down and withers. For we have been consumed by your anger, and by your wrath we are terrified. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins, in the light of your countenance, for all our days have passed away in your wrath. We finish our years like a sigh. The days of our lives are seventy years, and if by reason of strength, they are eighty years. Yet their boast is only labor and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Who knows the power of your anger? For as the fear of you, so is your wrath So teach us to number our days that we may gain a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? And have compassion on your servants. O satisfy us early with your mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad according to the days in which you have afflicted us. The years in which we have seen evil, let your work appear to your servants, and your glory to their children. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands for us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. It is my hope that we can learn from Moses how to look to God hopefully as we look at ourselves honestly. I think there are three lessons in this psalm. 1. God provides eternal security. Verses 1 to 6 2. We are sinful mortals, verses 7 to 11. And 3, we must wisely beg God for help. Verses 12 to 17. First, we must learn that God provides eternal security. Moses knew this truth, and that's why he prays, and that's why he is a man of God. He understood that God is not only a dwelling place for his generation alone, but for every generation. When Moses penned verses 2 to 6, I am nearly certain his mind was wandering back to the book of Genesis. In the beginning, God and the rest is history. God is eternal. There is no beginning or end with him. And what are we compared to him? God was there when the first man was formed out of the ground, when we were formed in the womb. He will be there when we return to dust. What are our ephemeral lives in his eyes? What is a millennium in his sight? A day past? A night watch? Grass that sprouts and withers within twenty-four hours. God has creatively designed us to find security and meaning outside of ourselves. In him alone. I feel as if I've been taught this all my life. I remember reading a child as a child the story of the three little pigs. You know how it goes. The first pig builds a house from straws, the second from sticks, the third from bricks. Next the big bad wolf comes to announce, then I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in. In the version I read, the first two pigs survive the catastrophe and run into the third pig's house. We repeatedly, earnestly, long after security. Have you recently and prayerfully confessed, Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations? Because I come from a broken family, I used to seek shelter in friendships. That's no fault of my friends, it's my fault. Perhaps you guys felt or still feel the same way. But while I still value friends, I've learned to wean myself away from them. Friends of nearly 20 years of my life are now in other parts of the world. My best man and my wedding now live in Texas. Others are leading busy lives everywhere, elsewhere. It's difficult to see them regularly, even though in my college years I would spend nearly every day with them. Imagine if my security was solely based on their proximity and quality time with them, I would be the most miserable. Moses knew how to rest in God. He knew how after the disaster of 1445 He knew how 40 years later, while blessing one of the tribes of Israel, just before they entered Promised Land. These words are from Deuteronomy 33, verse 27, and they are similar to Psalm 90, verse 1. Deuteronomy 33 verse 27. So eternal God is your refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. What would it look like for you to find solace in this truth that God is our refuge, dwelling place, and underneath are his everlasting arms? How could you bless others with these words? Here's an example I found. Anthony Showwalter was leading a singing school in an Alabama church in 1887. When he returned to his boarding house room one night, two letters awaited him. Both were from former students, and both men told of their recent loss of their wives. Mr. Show also wrote back seeking to comfort the young men in the midst of their grief. But what to write? When he came to the end of each letter, he wanted to include a Bible verse. He picked Deuteronomy 33. 27, The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. He pondered the words of that verse as he penned them into the letters, and the lyrics of the chorus of Leaning on the Everlasting Arms came to his mind He wrote to his friend Elisha Holtman, explaining that he had a chorus but no verses. Mr. Holtman wrote back with the rest of the words of this famous hymn. And you know what they are. Leaning on the everlasting arms is the constant thread of the song. The refrain repeats the phrase and adds, safe and secure from all alarms. The verses are filled with the benefits of having God as our refuge. What a fellowship, what a joy divine, what a blessedness, what a peace is mind. Second verse, oh how sweet to walk in this pilgrim way. Oh how bright the path grows from day to day. Finally, what have I to dread? What have I to fear? I have blessed the peace with my Lord so near. Indeed, we need to lean on the everlasting arms because we are mortal creatures. As one preacher said, God is eternal, we are ephemeral. It seems like the most obvious course of action is to turn to this eternal God for refuge. But we have a serious problem. It's called sin. We are not only mortals by design, Genesis 1 and 2, we are mortals by choice. Verse of Genesis 3 That choice is the willful rebellion against God, manifest in our daily thoughts, words, and actions, the refusal to seek Him. Verses seven to eleven emphasize that we are sinful mortals. Far from deserving God's haven, we see in verse seven. that we are consumed by his anger and dismayed by his wrath. Why is God angry? As we see in verse 8, we can't stand before God because iniquities stand between him and us. As another writer laments in Psalm 130, verse 3: If you, Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? We can't enjoy God's presence because our secret sins are brought into light. Because of our sins, we read in verses 9 and 10 that both the quality and quantity of our lives are diminished. Under God's fury, our days have declined, our years are but of breath, lasting seventy to eighty years, filled with labor and sorrow and fleeting. That is just a hint, only a taste of God's fearful wrath. Moses can only wonder what the full measure of it might be in verse 11. Moses had abundant reminders of God's anger during his lifetime. He was front and center when God judged Egypt and Pharaoh through a tenth place. He heard the screams of firstborns and groans of their parents fill the streets. He saw an entire army drown in the depths of the Red Sea. He entered the clouds that covered Mount Sinai where God's glory rested. Exodus 24, 17 records The sight of the glory of the Lord was like a consuming fire on the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. He saw the ashes of Nadab and Abihu, sons of Aaron, devoured by that very fire. He witnessed the defeat in the hill country under the sword of Amalekites and the Canaanites. As his fellow countrymen were routed, Moses knew that they were done for. He knew that sin was people's greatest problem in every generation. Therefore, we do not deserve to have God as dwelling place in any generation. If we are truly honest with ourselves, and if we would confront the total depravity of our human condition, we would arrive at the same conclusion as Moses. We would see God and his wrath as necessary, imperative to make sense of this universe. The English-American poet W. W. H. Alden adopted many ideologies over the first few decades of his life. They ranged from post-Froudian psychology to Marxism, but the common denominator underlying them all was his basic belief of man's goodness. That belief would be seriously challenged one faithful night when he went to watch a movie in Yorkville, a neighborhood in the Upper East Side of Manhattan, New York City. Biographer Humphrey Carpenter recounts the experience. It was largely a German-speaking area. and the film he saw was Sig in Poland, an account by the Nazis of their conquest of Poland. When Poles appeared on the screen, he was startled to hear a number of people in the audience scream, Kill them He later said of this, I wondered then why I reacted as I did against this denial of every humanistic value. The answer brought me back to the church. Soon after the Yorkville incident, Alden wrote these words in a poem. Either we serve the unconditional, or some Hitlerian monster will supply, An iron convention to do evil by. Alden came face to face with sin in all its ugliness, and he could no longer hold on to the naive conviction that humans are basically good. Not only that, he saw the need for an absolute morality for man, even if it means their damnation. While Alden's poetry does not matter inspired Psalm 90, he was on the right track in his discovery of depravity and search for the unconditional. And what Alden had as a troublesome urge, Moses had as firm revelation, firm conviction. The wickedness of man, which the poet saw at the cinema, God sees constantly with his holy gaze. And we are not just speaking of sins that grab the headlines. God sees all. Read again in verse 8: You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your countenance. Like a surgeon with a sharp scalpel, God penetrates our sins to reveal the filth of our sins. He penetrates our hearts. We read in Hebrews 4, 12 to 13. For the word of God is living and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow. and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. Please know that there is no hiding our evil from God. So it seems then God cannot be our hiding place. He is justly angry with us because we are sinners. We deserve his wrath in hell. Theologian John Murray wrote a helpful definition of God's wrath. The holy revulsion of God's being against that which is the contradiction of His holiness, that manifests in a positive outgoing of the divine displeasure. The holy revulsion of God's being against that which is the contradiction of his holiness that manifests in a positive outgoing of the divine displeasure There is no holding back God's righteous anger. How can we ever hope to calm a vengeful, immortal God? We can't. But Moses knew dimly, but Christians today know clearly in full detail. About a millennium and a half after Moses, God sent his son, born of a virgin, Jesus Christ, to live a perfect life and die on the cross. What happened at the cross is what we call propitiation, the pacification or appeasement of God's just anger. Jesus took the full brunt of God's fury on behalf of sinners. The wrath of God was satisfied. Jesus rose from the dead as proof of this truth and ascended to heaven. Now he offers salvation to you. If we would humbly repent and trust in Jesus Christ, we can become objects of his mercy. We don't have to remain as objects of his wrath. Please turn to Christ before it's too late. Our time on earth will pass by like the blink of an eye. We are not guaranteed a single moment beyond the present. Every breath we breathe could be our last. Please email or call me if you want to have God as your dwelling place, not consuming fire. I beg of you that you would beg of God for salvation. That leads to the third point of Psalm 90. Whether we need to initiate our relationship with Christ for the first time or we have been walking with the Lord for years. We must wisely beg God for help. From verses 1 to 11, Moses has been a narrator. Recounting God's greatness and human frailty. Finally, we have Moses entreating and asking. There are many requests, at least one request per verse. Verse 12, teach us. Verse 13, return, O Lord, and have compassion on your servants. Verse 14, O satisfy us. Verse 15, make us glad. Verse 16, let your work appear to your servants. and your glory to their children. Verse 17, let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands for us. Do these entreaties and requests echo the desires of your heart? Moses' appeals are firmly grounded in sober self-awareness and God awareness. We need both. Self-awareness and God awareness in these dark times. For example, look again in verse 12. Because we are mortals, we should learn to budget our days like the way we budget our money. We have limited time on earth. This is wisdom. This is wisdom we can offer to God, God who is everlasting. We ought to offer Him such a wise heart. Paul most likely had this verse in mind when he wrote Ephesians 5, 15-17. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil Therefore do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. I'm willing to bet that you already value your time and even quantify it to small increments. I bet if I looked at your calendars, they are filled with events, deadlines, and flights I probably don't need to ask you to keep yourself busy. We've been wired since childhood to go from one event to the next, commute from one location to another. Well this pandemic has forced us to come to a screeching halt and reassess. So now What would the rest of 2020 look like if we were to consciously devote blocks of time to understanding the Lord's will and live wisely? To help us answer this question, let's continue to verse 13 and again observe God's eternality and our mortality in Tam. We need God to return to us because we are servants who return to dust, as we saw in verse 3. There's much wisdom here. The question, how long, is a perfect demonstration of actively waiting for God in prayer. Would you learn to pray more starting today, eagerly anticipating the presence of God? And ask the Spirit to help us start tomorrow morning with prayer. Verse 14 provides the template. We can ask at breakfast. Oh, satisfy us early with your mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Yes, satisfy us even if each day starts to look the same. Speaking of joy and gladness, if life has been rough lately, we can look forward in hope and pray, as in verse 15. Make us glad according to the days in which you have afflicted us, the years in which we have seen evil. We can open up the Bible in individual or family worship time and lift up these words to God in verse 16. Let your work appear to your servants, and your glory to their children. Or what if you were to recite verse 17 as you return to work, whatever that may be, or work from home? And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands for us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. How would your attitude and your calendar be different with all these applications of Psalm 90? How will you live the days God has appointed for you? Someone once observed that a wasted life is really nothing more than a collection of wasted days. The first step to avoiding a wasted life is to know the Lord. Know that God is our dwelling place through Jesus. Though we are sinful mortals, Jesus died on the cross in our place. In contrite, humble confession, we ask for God's salvation and growth in wisdom, joy, and holiness. With these truths in mind and heart, life is no longer drudgery or meaningless. Life is filled with good and bad things, seasons of joy and seasons of sorrow, and for all of them we ought to be thankful. And all of these give way to the best days to come in heaven. Perhaps you will say amen to the words of Samuel Rutherford, the great Scottish pastor. The sands of time are sinking, the dawn of heaven breaks, the summer morn I've sighed for, the fair sweet morn awakes. Dark, dark hath been the midnight, but day spring is at hand, and glory, glory dwelleth in Emmanuel's land.