So you know you're out of sermon illustration ideas when you start looking up jokes. Uh since I love puns and we're talking about death today, what's better than puns about death? Well So here we go. So pun enters a room and kills ten people. Pun in ten dead. Okay, what's the corpse's favorite currency? Cryptocurrency. Okay, my brother-in-law who works in finances might like that one. One more, um, a cartoonist was found dead in his home. Details are sketchy. Okay, so the intended effect was not groans, but was to laugh about that. And I know that sounds strange Maybe you you're not on board with that. Maybe that's a faux pas in all situations. But as Christians I think we should approach that in the grave with courage, right? At least a little bit of levity. After all, to live is Christ and to die is gain. And so we've been released from the bondage of fear of death. There's a proper biblical attitude towards death, and for that we turn to today's passage. We'll read first Corinthians fifteen, fifty to fifty-eight. Now, this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed, for this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your sin? Oh Hades, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. These nine verses form the last section of First Corinthians fifteen. And their book ended by Paul's warm address of brethren in verse 50. An even warmer address. a beloved brethren in verse 58. As for what's between, he deals with, I see, three topics. Mystery, victory, and stability. First in verses 50 to 53, Paul speaks of mystery revealed Just by observing the repetitions, we see why these four verses form a cluster. You have the repetition of inherit in verse 50. We shall be changed in 51 to 52. Must put on in 53. Paul speaks prophetically of great and wonderful promises to be fulfilled ahead of us. And then in verses 54 to 57, the apostle speaks of victory granted. Part of verse 54 essentially repeats 53 as a transition, but then it introduces a scriptural fulfillment. What Paul says will happen in the future fulfills what Isaiah has said in the past. There's a reference to Hosea as well. In it, observe the word victory in verse 55, repeated in 56. We were once losers, but now we're victors through Jesus. Finally, in verse 58, Paul speaks of stability achieved. I love it when we don't have to figure out the application of a passage because the author gives it to us straight. He's saying that the value of the resurrection is not confined to the future. As our eyes of faith look forward to that glorious day, our minds, hands, and feet are strengthened for today. We stand up and stand out in this world now, knowing we'll rise up or rise out of graves later. We can be steadfast, immovable, that is achieve stability Now, since Paul's building up to verse 58, you might say that mystery revealed and victory granted are the building blocks for achieving stability. So here are three stabilizers to keep us steadfast in faith. First, be encouraged as mysteries revealed about our transformation. That's 50 to 53. Second, be thankful as victories granted to Jesus our Lord, that's 54 to 57. And thirdly, be active as stability is achieved upon our assurance. That's verse 58. First be encouraged as mysteries revealed about our transformation. When Paul says this I say brethren, he's about to say something of monumental importance or significance. In fact, the last time we saw him start a sentence with this I say, brethren, it was back in chapter 7, 29 to 31. Paul was making the point then that our earthly relationships, lifestyles, schedules, priorities, attitudes cannot be in sync with this passing world. That's because we belong to another world. Similarly, here he's again speaking of a certain incompatibility. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, he says. We don't have to guess what that means as he immediately follows with this, nor does corruption inherit incorruption. Simply put, we're human and we're fallen. Flesh and blood describe our humanness. Corruption captures our fallenness. Paul is basically summing up what was said last time in verses 42 to 49. Left to ourselves in our current state, in Adam, in our natural bodies of dust, dishonor, and debility. We cannot hope to get into heaven. We need the life-giving ministry of the last Adam. Jesus offers us spiritual bodies of incorruption, glory, and power. Now after this quick review in verse 50, Paul teaches new material in 51. Paul exclaims, burst out with, Behold, I tell you a mystery. Before I get into specifics, here are some general comments about mysteries. Mystery is just what it sounds like: something shrouded, something hidden. The Bible speaks of various mysteries in various passages at various times. But my favorite mysteries are the ones that get solved right away, right? Where you don't need much guesswork. Okay. Revelation 120 is an example. Jesus doesn't allow us to speculate on the mystery of the seven stars which John saw in his right hand and the seven golden lampstands. Our Lord explains immediately in the same verse, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands which you saw are the seven churches. Speaking of churches, we should uh we would appreciate today's mystery uh better uh if we accept that the church with a capital C was at one point a mystery as well. In Acts the earliest church members, mostly Jewish were scratching their heads. You know, like they had trouble grasping how Gentiles could be fellow heirs with them of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ through the gospel. I mean of course they believed that Gentiles could be saved, but they thought that they had to become Jews first or they were something akin to second-class citizens Not so they learned as they witnessed the spirit given to believers of diverse backgrounds. Take a look at Ephesians 3 for more description of this mystery Now in today's text, I say all this for this reason. Just as the church as entity was once a mystery, so also the church's destiny was once a mystery. Again, just as the church as entity was once a mystery, so also the church's destiny was once a mystery. This destiny was a mystery until Paul wrote what he wrote in 1 Thessalonians 4, Romans 11, and here in 1 Corinthians 15. Now he reveals the final destiny of the church. See what comes after the colon symbol in verse 51. We shall not all sleep. but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. The current church age will close dramatically and instantly. Not all the saints will be buried in their natural bodies, sown in corruption, sown in dishonor, sown in weakness. Some, without facing death, will be raised in incorruption, raised in glory, raised in power. They'll be alive, not dead, awake, not asleep at Christ's coming before the tribulation described in Revelation. Their natural bodies will be transformed into spiritual bodies. There's in one moment a momentous change. By the way, the phrase in a moment, here's where we get the word atomic, seemingly an indivisible unit of time. Faith turns to sight in the twinkling of an eye. There will be the last trumpet which closes the mystery age of the church, then we shall be changed. We shall be reunited with those who passed ahead of us, the dead in Christ. Now it makes little sense to equate this last trumpet with the seventh trumpet of Revelation 11, 15 to 19. The seven trumpets of Revelation c clearly pertain to the judgments of God. The last trumpet of Corinthians pertains to the church of God. Now good Christians. Now, good Christians may disagree about the definition of mystery and the timing of the prophecy. We might argue about the exact nature of the church body and the extent of the church age. But we don't have to argue about verse 53. This corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. We can agree on this principle. One of the three stabilizers to be for uh to keep us steadfast in faith, be encouraged as mysteries revealed about our transformation. Does studying the end times encourage you? I hope so Eschatology is not only about drawing up charts, it's about cheering up hearts. For example, Paul's teaching on the rapture in 1 Thessalonians 4. How does it end? It ends with this exhortation. Therefore, comfort one another with these words. How about doing that ourselves, for ourselves and for each other? 17th century Puritan Richard Baxter suffered from kidney stones, headaches, bleeding, toothaches, swollen feet, and more. Yet he was diligent in evangelism and discipleship. He wrote a book entitled The Saints Everlasting Rest. In it, he revealed that he committed to meditating upon heaven for at least a half an hour each day. Could you do something similar this week? Just 30 minutes thinking about heaven. Also as you do, be encouraged, as mysteries revealed about our transformation And if you open up the word to study the end times, you'll learn something else. You'll learn that you won't be spending all your time in the last pages of the Bible. You'll need to rewind, flip back the pages, even past the New Testament into the Old. You'll land on the ancient prophets. That leads us to the second stabilizer to keep us steadfast in faith Be thankful as victory is granted to Jesus our Lord. Picture verses 53 and 54. As two leaves of a hinge, right? The pen in the middle is the phrase that's repeated. This corruptible put on incorruption and this mortal put on immortality. In verse 53, Paul tells us this must be done. Verse 54 explains what follows when it is done. Paul doesn't just say the end and the credits roll. He speaks of scriptural fulfillment. It's like it's just like Paul to do this. Remember how he started the chapter? He presented Christ's death, burial, and resurrection as according to the scriptures Paul's doing the same thing with our future transformation as well, explaining how it's according to the scriptures. He then says, He says, Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written. He then cites from two passages. Verse 54 cites from a portion of Isaiah 25, verse 8. 55 cites from Hosea 13, 14. Now before I discuss each prophet, I want to be clear that as Paul said earlier, death is still the last enemy to be subdued at the end of the millennial kingdom. But as saints guaranteed new bodies, the victory is as good as done. Already ours. were treated to an early advanced screening of death's demise ahead of all others in the world. First, we see a snippet of Isaiah 25, verse 8, at the end of verse 54 here, and 1 Corinthians 15 is a glimpse of Christ's kingdom rule over the earth. Let me read Isaiah 25, 8 in full. He, God, will swallow up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces. The rebuke of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. That's a straightforward message of future hope. But the citation of Hosea 13, 14 in verse 55 is more difficult to understand Unlike Isaiah 25, Hosea 13 is not really a promise of hope for God's people. It's about their judgment. In the original context of Hosea 13 and in our best translations of verse 14, we have a chilling declaration of judgment. And that judgment applies to all sinners at all times, not just those of Israel In the last ten years or so I've suffered from a bee sting at a park, a wasp sting at an apartment, and a yellow jacket sting at the front of at the front yard and live to tell the story, you know, just It's tough, right? But nothing can compare to the sting of death. That's why it's so amazing what Paul does in verse 55. He takes what was originally a threat against God's people and he turns it into a jest against God's enemies. He stares down death, the executioner of the dead, and Hades, the place of the dead. He mocks them and he taunts them. For lack of a better word, the apostle saying to these formidable foes, I'm better than you. Na na na na boo-boo. Stick your head in doo-doo. Excuse my language. So, how is it that we too can experience such victory? How can we be so radically changed so that instead of living in fear of death and Hades, we can turn around and say, oh death, where is your sting? Oh Hades, where is your victory? Well, as verse 56 reveals, we must somehow disarm death, remove its thing, and sack the strength of sin. We must somehow free ourselves from lost sin and death. Who can do this? Certainly not you and me in our own strength. Go on to verse 57. Victory is granted to Jesus our Lord. This is the essential truth of the gospel. This is the part where I talk about the gospel in the sermon, right? God created us as his children to live free in his love. Yet we've chosen the path of bondage. We've tied up ourselves in the unbreakable chain of lost, sin, and death. Let me take those three links one by one. I spoke on this around Easter time, so I'll repeat what mostly what I said then First, there's the law. God's laws are good in themselves. Through them we know what pleases the Lord and what displeases him. The laws reflect the lawgiver, the one who is holy, just, and good. But then, secondly, as we go beyond the law, literally transgress the law, we all sin. Sin is in fact lawlessness, as 1 John 3. 4 says. Ultimately, we have no one to blame but ourselves. Sure, Satan tempts us, but we're drawn away and enticed by our own desires. Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. Once we give in, sin cannot be managed. It has a life of its own, like a virus or cancer. It takes opportunity by the commandment to produce in us all manner of evil desire. And then thirdly, by sinning against the law, we learn that wages of sin is death. As James 1:15 says, sin when it is fully grown, full grown, brings forth death. And not only is death wages and consequence, it's a monster. To borrow from Psalm 49, you know, which I talked about around Easter, death is your shepherd. You should not want. The realm of death, his home field is Hades, to use a different analogy. Satan is the prince, death is his hangman and jailer, Show and Hades or Hades is the maximum security prison. And you're not getting out ever. This is obviously a desperate situation. Seems like mission impossible, like breaking out of alcohol tracks, that'd be even harder. Who can help us? Well, we do sing regularly. By faith, the prophet saw a day when the long-for Messiah would appear with the power to break the chains of sin and death and rise triumphant from the grave. Here's the good news: God the Father sent His Son to be Christ, Christ who is divine Himself, has shared in the same human flesh and blood as us, yet, unlike us. He's perfect. He never once sinned. Jesus came to break what seemed unbreakable, the chain of law, sin and death. Start with the law. We're taught in Galatians 3 that to be under the law is to be under a curse, because curse is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. But Jesus took care of that curse at the cross. He has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Curses everyone who hangs on a tree. That takes care of the law's curse. Jesus handled our sin as well. He took our place. His soul became an offering for sin. God made him who knew no sin to be sinned for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Christ, the Lamb of God, without blemish, without spark, takes away the sin of the world. His precious blood secures redemption, remission, forgiveness, and cleansing of all sins. That takes care of sin's eternal consequences. Next up, death. Jesus suffered and tasted death for everyone. On that dark day, through death, he destroyed him who had the power of death. That is the devil. On the third day, Jesus was declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection from the dead. After proving he's really alive, he ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. So now Christ Jesus has the keys of Hades and death. That's because it is He who lives. And was dead, and behold, he's alive forevermore. He is the resurrection and the life. It is he who grants you freedom. The law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus frees us from the law of sin and death. In Christ, you have the legal grounds to pass from death into life. It is he who grants you victory. When death comes knocking, it arrives without its thing. Death is swallowed up in victory so that mortality may be swallowed up by life. Victories granted to Jesus our Lord. These are rich doctrines, but they would not benefit you until you get right with God. Get right with God by grace. There's nothing you can do to save yourself. You can't buy eternal life. Heaven's a gift. Unmerited, undeserved. Simply repent. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in Him only. You can be saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Because there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Death threats of death no longer scare us. We can be confident and we can be grateful. Jesus was mocked so that we might mock death. We can trust talk Hades, knowing Hades with death will be traced into the lake of fire. Be confident and be grateful. When we sing about these truths, like we sang earlier, consider that verse and abide with thee. I fear no foe with thee at hand to bless. Ills have no weight, and tears no bitterness. Where is that sting? Where grave thy victory? I triumph still, if thou abide with me Or if you're a fan of more modern songs, consider the last verse and the last chorus of that one we learned earlier this year. It was finished upon that cross. That was once my great opponent. Fear once had a hold on me, but the Son who died to save us rose that we would be free indeed. I rejoice in Jesus' victory. It was finished upon that cross. Be confident, be thankful. Victory is granted through Jesus our Lord. So this victory is so certain, so thorough, so total, so complete that it affects all that we do. The doctrine of the resurrection, ours, and Christ, understood as it is truly, will transform your life. I call this lifestyle active stability. So this see this entire chapter, not just this last part of our victory granted, leads up to verse 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding. In the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Here's the third stabilizer of our faith. Be active as stabilities achieved upon our assurance. I close our study of this chapter with a few remarks on this verse. First, we see a conclusive. See if this is working. Okay, there you go. First we see here a conclusive exhortation. It's marked by therefore. Okay. I think it would not be wrong for a preacher to start with this final verse and then work backwards into uh the chapter. I didn't do that of course. But there's a great and wonderful application here And it's the culmination and conclusion from Paul's observations and interpretations. And then not only is verse 58 a conclusive exhortation, it's a warm exhortation. Paul has repeatedly called the Corinthians his brethren, yes. But only here does he call them my beloved brethren. Paul reserved that affectionate address, my beloved brethren, for the Philippians. And something similar for the Thessalonians, but even with all their faults. Paul's got love for this church in Corinth. It's as if Paul got three European kids, Phil, Tessa, and Corey. Phil's the good responsible first form getting all the praise. Tessa's good as well, but he's beleaguered. Corey's the wild one. No, just uh yeah, but you love them all dearly, right? Speaking from experience maybe? In addition to conclusive and warm, verse 58 is also encouraging. Two words that deserve our attention here in the middle: steadfast and immovable. The Corinthians and by extension we must be these things, steadfast and immovable. We saw the word steadfast earlier in chapter 7, verse 37, concerning a father's decision about his daughter's marriage. The adjective immovable is not found anywhere, elsewhere. But there's a helpful and relevant cross-reference in Colossians 1. 23. And let me read it. from verse 21 for context's sake. And you who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death. to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight, if indeed you continue in the faith grounded and steadfast, and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard which was preached to every creature under heaven, of which I, Paul, became a minister. In the middle of Colossians 1. 23, we have key parallels with 1 Corinthians 1558. Being steadfast means being grounded and continuing in the faith. That word is the same there between the two verses. Being immovable, right, similar, right? One's adjective, others a verb, right? Being immovable means not moving away from the gospel. This also goes back to Paul's thoughts at the beginning of the chapter. Remember, he said, I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you, which also you receive, and in which you stand. By which you also are saved, if you hold fast the word which I preach to you, to be steadfast and immovable, the Corinthians must develop their core strength and core truths. Right? That is centralized what is central to the gospel. That's Paul's encouragement. Finally, we not only have a conclusive, warm, and encouraging exhortation, we have an energizing one. Two verbal participles conclude verse 58. Abounding and knowing. One has to do with purpose, the other with reason First, abounding is the purpose of the command to be steadfast and immovable. The more we focus on being, the more we'll have for doing. Stepbast doesn't mean you're stationary. Immovable doesn't mean you're inert. Knowing who you are in Christ, you know what to do as a Christian. You're always abounding in the work of the Lord. Secondly, knowing our labors not in vain in the Lord's the reason, we can abound in the work of the Lord. Throughout this chapter, the concept of emptiness or vanity appears five times in four verses. Recall in verse 2, there's a possibility that the Corinthians believe Second in verse 10, Paul denies the possibility that God's grace to him was in vain. Thirdly, in verse 14, Paul teaches, if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. Fourthly, in verse 58, here there's this assurance that the Corinthians' labor is not in vain in the Lord. To bring it all together, the reason we can abound in the Lord's work is that Christ really did rise from the dead. Because his grave's empty, our faith, my preaching, God's grace, your labor are not empty. Because Jesus is alive, we're alive, and our works are alive. Because our labor is not vain in the Lord, we can be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the Lord's work. That energizes us. And we need that energy, right? Because our work on Earth's not done yet. We have much to do today, the rest of the week, and the rest of our lives. Don't pack it in early, right? Remember that all this has purpose because of what Christ has done for us. His finished work motivates us to face an unfinished task. So before we get to it, let's remember his sacrifice as we observe the Lord's supper. Lord, we thank you that as we open up your word, as we study it, as we observe it, as we interpret it properly and apply it in our lives, Lord, we are motivated. Lord, we come before you at times very discouraged and not sure what to do. Personally, in our spiritual walk. corporately as we strive to fulfill the Great Commission, maybe as a family leader. Not sure what to do with our marriage or our parenting or we don't know what to do when we think about our work life, our career path, various other things. But we're thankful that you force us through your word to look beyond our small-mindedness, just our immediate circumstances, to look at what's ahead. Victory. The end times. And that gives us motivation. That makes us steadfast And Lord, we want to ask you to help us. We ask the Spirit to empower us to fulfill your commands. We thank you for these promises that are certain. Pray that our faith would grow in them, our assurance would grow. Pray that as we would obey you each and every day. As we obey you by just observing this ordinance. May you cause us to grow in our faith. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.