So it's good to rejoin you after we struggled with COVID at our home last week. Thankfully, all is well now. But I'm glad I didn't have to miss this Sunday because today and next weekend we're going to spend some time on this topic of developing a disciple-making culture. So that's what we're what's going on here. And that's the sort of the title. It's not a traditional sermon that you might be used to on a Sunday Anyway, this seminar includes learning during the combined Sunday school hours, Friday evening, Saturday morning, and afternoon. In addition to all that, during the two Sunday services, I'll deliver some of the seminar material from the pulpit here. And I'll preach two topical sermons covering four of the lessons. So earlier today we looked at lesson one. Now we're on to lessons two and three. So please follow along in your workbooks. If you don't have one, again it's in the back. It'll help you kind of pay attention to what I'm doing. Um and I'll help you fill in the blanks as I go. So I'm kind of basically taking Tim Potter's position from here. So first let me begin With the prologue to the lessons, consists of a few key Bible verses and references, a quick word study and a gospel presentation. First, there's no place, better place to begin this talk than Matthew 28, 18 to 20. Why? Well, in our own bylaws, specifically the statement of faith, it encourages us to revisit this passage. Here's what we recited earlier. We believe that the gospel commission of Matthew 28, 18 to 20 is for the church today. Not just what happened 2,000 years ago. It's for us today. And here's the passage itself. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. This is a foundational passage for this entire seminar. There in verse 19, we find that main verb, make disciples. It's the main idea of the Great Commission. Grammatically speaking, make disciples is one word in the original, Mate Tuo, again, grammatically speaking, is the only command among all the verbs there. But what about goal, you say, right? Well go is really a participle of attendant circumstance. Now you'd be like, what is that? All I want to tell you that it gets its imperatival force from what follows. Make disciples. But it's really a participle. Baptizing and teaching are also participles, but they're participles of means Right what I mean by means? Jesus is saying by the the the means by which you make disciples are baptizing and teaching. Go is obviously presumed, right? You gotta go to make disciples, you can't just sit where you are. But also, you can't make disciples without the ordinances of the local church. You can't make disciples without the observance of Jesus' commands. Now let's go back to that verb make disciples. Again, it's one word in Greek. By the way, as I go on, I'm going to use the verb disciple. synonymously and interchangeably with make disciples. Guess the only issue I have with disciple as a verb is this. According to Collins Dictionary, disciple as a verb It's archaic and obsolete. That's what it says in the dictionary. So I'm like, is that our fault as Christians that discipling is obsolete and archaic? Is that because we don't do it? I don't know. I haven't done a full deep study of that. But maybe. Okay. If it is, we have to make disciple great again. Right Okay, back to the verse. Well, Matthew 28, 19 is important. It's not the first place in Matthew where you see the verb Matheo. We find it twice earlier. In Matthew 13, in the first collection of the parables of Jesus, our Lord explains the benefits of knowing both the Old and the New Testaments of the Bible. In verse 52 it says, Then he said to them, Therefore, every scribe instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who brings out of his treasure things new and old. The word instructed is literally made a disciple or discipled. That means when Christ was looking for a few good men, he's looking for those who are already well versed in the Hebrew scriptures. Those would be scribes willing to listen to Moses and prophets as they point to Jesus, and of course they'd be willing to listen to Jesus. Jesus himself kind of reveals Paul's strategy too as he was going to synagogues in the cities because he's looking for people who know the Old Testament and willing to listen to the New Testament that's being formed. Jesus and the apostles. Yet another place we find the verb Mathetio is in Matthew twenty-seven fifty-seven. Now here we find that besides make disciple, this verb can also mean be a disciple or become a disciple. For you grammar geeks, I'm saying the verb can be both transitive and intransitive. Make disciple or be a disciple. Anyways, in this verse, we're talking specifically about Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent member of the Jewish council who condemned Jesus. He had earlier become a follower of Jesus secretly at first. But publicly later, he did not agree with what they did to Jesus and sort of uh comes out into the public with what he's uh giving his grave up What interests me here is all that's implied in Jesus interacting with Joseph. This rich guy was following Jesus, but not up the mountains, right? And it wasn't like you know attending these synagogue events publicly to say, hey, here I am, I'm following Jesus My guess is that like Nicodemus in John 3, Joseph met Jesus privately. In the cover of darkness, maybe. I don't know. In whatever way it was done, our Lord made a disciple out of Joseph. And it was only a matter of time before this man's faith would become known to others as it does. It's like that famous quote, a Christian's faith is always personal, but never private. To add some nuance to that, a genuine faith in Jesus can never stay private forever, right? So One more passage for that we fast forward to the early church in Acts 14. In context, this is during Paul's first missionary journey. And talk about up and down in Lystra, he was first put on a pedestal. Next thing you know, he's buried under rocks. But he got up, dusted himself up, and went ahead to Derby. From Derby, he retraced his steps, returning to those cities he visited earlier in the trip. So here's how he did it. Verses 21 to 22, Acts 14. And when they had preached the gospel to that city and made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium. And Antioch strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, We must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. The Paul's making and strengthening disciples, among them names like Timothy and Gaius. So those are four passages with the verb matetuo, meaning make disciple or be a disciple. But lest this becomes just a mere academic exercise, I must ask you, anyone who might be listening to this later, are you a disciple of Jesus? Have you made a decision to follow him and listen to him? One of the first words of Jesus in his public ministry is this: the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Feel the urgency in his words. Hear the word about repentance, which assumes that we're sinners. But that means before we understand the good news, we must accept the bad news. The bad news is that though God loves us and created us in his image We've rebelled against him, we've sinned, transgressed, broke his laws. Our hateful motives, words, and actions lead to murders, right? Our lustful glances and looks amount to adultery of the heart. There is no hope of pleasing God through our good works. That's because if we try law-keeping, we're obligated to follow every single one of the laws. That's an impossible task for sinners like you and me. Whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. That means we're sinners who deserve to be thrown in hell forever. But there's no way we can, in our own strength, be a follower of Jesus. But thankfully, God did not leave us like this. He didn't just toss us aside. God sent his son Jesus, God and man in one person. Lived a perfect life. He was worthy to be served as teacher and master that he is. Yet he said of himself, The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. So before we can deny ourselves, take up our cross and follow him, Jesus humbled himself, took up his cross to die for our sins. He climbed the hill, hung on the tree, cursed in our place. Took the punishment for our sins, as God's wrath fell on him. Paid an awful and terrible penalty in full, he declared his work finished, he breathed at his last, and was buried. But on the third day he rose again from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection before ascending to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. And until then He bids us to follow him. Follow him, leave behind your lifestyle of sin. Leave behind your greatest loyalties and treasures. So again, you become a disciple of Jesus by repenting and believing. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus who lived, died for your sins, and rose from the grave. Only trust in Him. There's no way to earn it. You cannot earn a place in heaven with your good works. Eternal life's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. If you'd like to talk more about what it means to be a disciple, talk with me or contact the church through the website. So to finish the prologue and to sum it up, making a disciple simply following Jesus and helping others follow Jesus. That's my very short, overly simplistic definition of it. Of course, it all starts with evangelism, which is stu uh you know sharing the gospel. As I just did from the pulpit, we teach unbelievers to obey that call to repent and believe in the good news. And then after he or she saved, you guide, point, and encourage the newborn saint to grow, you know, commit to a church, get baptized, grow together in the faith. A lot of homework there, right? It's a lot of work that takes a long time, and all of us must do it together. Even if it's hard, right, at least discipling or disciple making is not so foreign to us that we have no point of reference. But we find in Matthew 10, 25, I won't read it, but you can look at it later, that Jesus didn't have to explain this concept from ground up, as if he had just invented discipleship. His audience knew what he was talking about. On one end, there's an authority, right? A teacher or a master. At the other, there's a follower, a disciple, or a servant. It's a relationship with the purpose. Broadly speaking, disciples discipling is as simple as my second child following my firstborn, right? So Nath Daniel at at the table takes off his bib and says he's done with lunch and then Annette takes off her bib and says she's done with her lunch. Right. So I lift up Nathaniel. Annette's like I want that too. You know. Nathaniel runs around and dances. Annette runs around and dances. Just a little bit slower. So it's just as Paul the big brother told the Corinthians, his little sister, imitate me as I imitate Christ. So finally, turning to the pages of the workbook, where lesson two begins, we find that disciple makings all around us today. We might call it mentorship, apprenticeship, internship, some other ship, I don't know. Disciple makings found in the natural course of life. I mean it's already happening all around us, right? The world is decipling our children, right? We're trying to. Parenthood, schooling, church. We just want to do it biblically. We want to do it well and we want to do it better. Now, what's sobering is that if we don't make disciples biblically, we're left with unbiblical alternatives So in the first page of the lesson two, there's a lengthy quote from a man named Chris Roberts. I'm not going to read it, I'll just sum it up for you. So this is a former professing Christian. He's now an atheist. And he's telling us, give up on praying. Don't do that kind of stuff. Stop trusting in God for revival. Abandon his methods for growth and outreach. Don't try those like means of grace or whatever. Turn to worldly business principles. Okay? That's where you'll find ways to grow. That's what he's saying. Focus on man-centered approach to organizational success. That's the way churches will grow. The why is this here? Um I liken this quote to what happened to Hezekiah in 2 Kings and Isaiah. I was reading that the other day. So remember how this guy named Rafshake, right? He's a servant of the Assyrian king. He was taunting the king in Jerusalem. He mocked them, his people, and their faith in God. He did it in their own language, Hebrew, saying, Why do you trust the Lord? Hezekiah took what this guy wrote and he went before God and said he spread it before the Lord. He's like, pray, hear the words of this mocker which he has sent to reproach the living God. So it's kinda like Hezekiah, we're asking that God do something as people are mocking us saying, you know, you can't just grow that way, right? These unbiblical church growth methods, that's the best way to do it. Forget about the Bible, right? So we refuse to believe. That church growth, quote, has everything to do with the human component, magic methods, and glittery glimmics. We turn instead to scriptures, right? That's what we're going to do. Trust that by following his ways, we'll be rewarded for our faithfulness. So based on what we see throughout the scriptures, we see what disciple making is and what disciple making is not. That's what you'll find in the next page. First, disciple making is not a program. More on that in the next lesson, we'll cover in a few minutes. Disciple making is not merely teaching. Teaching is essential, don't get me wrong. But it's not just transferring data and contents. We also try to help each other obey. Remember Matthew 28, right? Teaching them to observe all things that I've commanded you. That means we not only ask, what does this say and what does this mean. We ask each other, how are you and I going to follow it? How are we going to follow up? Disciple making is not merely reaching. Example events. Again, from the Great Commission, it's very important that we go and do this outreach kind of thing It's so important that it appears before the main verb in the sentence, make disciples, like I said earlier. But it's possible to do a lot of outreach in public service without making disciples. We have to ask, are we building relationships that last, that lead to evangelism and spiritual growth? Disciple making is not merely discipleship. Like what's the difference you ask? Um now I feel like I'm splitting atoms here. Um But Tim Potter was saying this point is closely related to the next point. So I'm trying to represent him well here. Disciple making is not bound up in a volume or a class. So kind of put those two together. There's a danger of being too specific with discipleship, limiting it to a book or a class. Like I can't do a discipleship without this book. You know, that's being too limiting, right? Or this class. Or there's also the danger of it being too abstract, right? Including it in a vision statement formula or yearly goals. So we can talk about discipleship in our you know bulletins and our website, but we may not be actually doing it. That's the problem. So, disciple making should not be too narrowly defined or too broadly defined, but it should be understood relationally and dynamically as two or more help each other spiritually. Disciple making responsibility is never placed upon parachurch organizations. Of course, they can help. Campus ministries. Christian colleges, camps, all these things are very helpful. But in the end, we the church are responsible. It's like how school teachers, tutors, awana teachers, and youth group teachers. Leaders, help me parent my kids. They don't parent my kids. Disciple making is not exclusively bound to one-on-one or small groups, so there's that danger again of being too specific Disciple making is not being primarily discipled by someone outside your local church. So back to the earlier point. If it's not up to parachurches, it's up to us, the local church. And it's up to you to tap in to that untapped potential of your congregation. A lot of young people, they seek to be discipled by YouTube streamers and celebrity pastors, I guess. Maybe the older folks are guilty of that too. But how about talking with that brother or sister across the pews? That's what we're trying to do here Now on to what disciple making is. It's a normative local church responsibility that God the Spirit empowers as Christ builds his Church. When we say normative, we're saying disciple making needs to become normal here. Is that normal here or is that weird? That's the question to ask. And how do we normalize a behavior Well, how do you train your kids to brush their teeth every day? Wash hands before every meal. Get your husband to put the toilet seat down I'm not a good disciple at home. Anyway, how did I get my dog to sit, wait, roll over? A few more tricks there, but repeat, remind, redo. So I asked Tim Potter, what if this disciple-making seminar flops? It doesn't work. His answer was this. Do it again. Keep doing it until the church gets it, until they get the message. Okay, Pastor, okay, Carrie, okay leaders, we get it. We want to make a disciple make Culture, I understand. Like keep doing it until they get it. I think maybe something in our church history is just like we try something and just like, oh it doesn't work, forget it. No, let's keep trying it. That's what it means to normalize discipleship so that it becomes normative. Disciple making is each saint shouldering the responsibility to spiritually reproduce themselves. It is the commitment of one life to another life for life. Okay. It requires that the pastor be the chief disciple maker. If the pastor is not personally the most active, then the church won't follow. Okay, I'm on the hot seat here. Okay, so you'll hear Tim Potter in the video saying how he and other leaders confess to their congregation their sin of omission when it comes to disciple making. Right? They even turned in their resignation letters. They admitted that they have not been discipling, and yet they were expecting their church to do it. Basically hypocrisy. Years ago, a few years ago, Dan Peters called me out on something similar to that. He basically asked me, so you think sharing the gospel during the sermon from the pulpit is evangelism? That's like going to fish in an aquarium. So I was challenged to follow 2 Timothy 4 5 to do the work of an evangelist. That's why I called Rich Harrison. I got him to train me. And then more recently, in terms of disciple making personally, the Lord finally granted me a chance to lead and what I call an evangelistic Bible study with a young man at his home, right? So I met him through natural connections. acquaintances and friends. I've been using Christianity Explained materials. Steve Conrad introduced us a while back. I actually have one more lesson with this guy this week. So pray for that. Hoping that this relationship will lead to more connections and more prospects. And obviously I'm praying for this guy to repent and believe in the gospel. So I'm getting I'm really thankful though, you know, whatever the outcome, that I'm getting to do what Paul said he did. And he's told this to the elders of Ephesus in Acts 20, 20. I kept back nothing that was helpful, but proclaimed it to you and taught you publicly and from house to house. Paul taught synagogues or whatever, but he also went to people's homes. But at this point I'm not saying I have like twenty to thirty people I'm discipling, like I'm some disciple-making machine. You know, shame on you. You know, I'm I'm just happy to have like a handful. I'm just glad for like these few prospects. I mean I won't say it but it's like kind of like guinea pigs in a sense. I'm trying, right? And if I really want to increase that number, I have to break out of the mold of programs. I must stop limiting, and you too, all of us must stop limiting the idea of discipleship to Sunday mornings. have to be less programmatic and more relational, and that's the topic of lesson three. Now just want to be clear, because if you just look at the sparse notes, you might think, okay, he's against programs, right? But if you saw the video this morning, it's not that they're against programs, it's just that's not the main focus. Okay. I'm not against programs per se But we must always subordinate programs to relationships. Always at the forefront, at the highest priority, are the individuals. As we'll see next week, the Thessalonian church, they got this, they understood this. Here's what Paul wrote them in his first letter, chapter 4, 9 to 10. Concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you. For you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. And indeed you do so toward all the brethren who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brethren, that you increase more and more. So I sometimes wonder is like do I love to teach or am I taught to love? Right? Like i is am I being taught to love more, right? Right? Because like some people can just kinda like the idea of teaching. It's good. It gives me the benefit of like studying the words so because I have an obligation coming up. But like am I thinking about the people? Right? gonna be benefiting from this teaching, edifying, encouraged, convicted. Okay. Some people love to teach. Not sure if they're really understanding what it means to be taught to love. So, programs contrasted to relationships, let me help you fill in the blanks. You also find the answers in the bottom chart. Again, this is what happens when you make programs the ends, not the means to the ends. Programs have a clean start and an end. Provide measurable accomplishments. Classes 101 to 401 is like a seminary or undergraduate program. Train people to serve for a limited time, typically the length of a program. Consists of a few individuals giving the word to many. Are rarely repeated, constantly have to be reworked and tweaked if they are not a one-time event. Take much effort to garner participation and often end with the realization that no one will participate, result in hollow success, we are left wondering what we accomplished for Christ Now in contrast, what happens when we focus on relationship in process? Success can take decades. Consider the most intimate of all discipleships. For Christian parents like myself and Irene, we're playing the long game with our kids, right? Some of you guys already played this game, right? Um we must model Deuteronomy 6. You shall teach them God's word diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit down in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. Proverbs twenty-two, six, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it. Well that's not going to be overnight, week, or a few months. Unlike teachers and volunteers, parents don't disciple one year for a grade or a for a few years at a club. We're the main disciplers of our kids for close to two decades, probably longer, right? I'm not saying it has to be that long for adults, but we need to stop looking for instant, quick results. So that's why relationship and process trains people to serve for a lifetime. One life to a life for life. Many individuals are training other individuals. Disciples make disciples. Biblical disciple making naturally grows. Again, this doesn't mean instant church success. But over time, faithfulness pays off. The application of 2 Timothy 2. 2. leads to multiplication over time. Concentrate on two to three. And when each of them do the same, we have what, I'm doing some math here, four to nine. And when four to nine repeat the process, there are eight to twenty-seven. You have then what you see on the next page, sort of like an upside-down funnel. A relationship and process results in the first things being fulfilled as described in Revelation 2:4 to 5. Christ's last words are our first command. So where the Ephesian church went wrong or awry is the loss of their first love. And to get back on track, they must repent and do the first works. So amazingly, somehow a church that works very hard, is patient, and is zealous for moral and doctrinal purity are on the brink of being removed from its place of influence. How's that even possible? Well, it's one thing to say we love Christ. It's another thing to show it. So just reminded me of John 14, 23. Jesus himself saying, If anyone loves me he will keep my word. So that's the connection between love and works there Love and obedience, obedience to the gospel, preaching and disciple making. That's what we're trying to do here To help us visualize all this, and I'm not gonna put it up here, but we have three graphics and the binders, right? First graphic, think less programs, less linear, as programs have a clean start and a crisp end, point A, point B Second graphic, think more of a relationship and process, more cyclical and seasonal, right? As is the case with any humans. A Christian matures in various stages of his his or her spiritual life. As a church, I was just thinking, we're probably good at doing this for children, but what happens when you know they graduate from Awana or Children's Church or in high school and college? How can we work together to disciple from cradle to the grave, womb to tomb? Good thing something to think about as a church. The third graphics from an article entitled Jesus Upside Down Strategy. The two pictures side by side say it all. On the left, we have a top-down approach. Disciple makings Primarily event-based. And it's a burden put on a few teachers and pastors and leaders. Many attend, but only a few go out to make disciples. On the right is the discipleship strategy of Jesus. This, by the way, is what Robert E. Coleman calls the Master Plan of Evangelism. Excellent book. Jesus concentrated on the inner three the most, Peter and the Zebedee brothers. He had his twelve, of course, and then the seventy. Of course he had the five hundred later. So the upside down discipleship strategy of Jesus leads to faithful saints who, as we see in Acts, turns the world upside down. So putting everything together, we must focus on relationships more than programs and focus on a few more than many. So here's what we get: more fill in the blanks. Right. Discipling the few is slow, right? This the kingdom of God is a mustard seed and always will be, right? Something starts out small, becomes great later. Discipling the few is hard, right? People are complex. Formation is messy. Discipling the few is limiting. Limiting and rebellion are closely related. Okay. Sorry about that. The discipling of you is limiting. Limiting and the rebellion are closely related. We have been resisting limits since the Garden of Eden. So speaking of this discipleship, Mark Deber, the pastor in Capitol Hill Baptist, once spoke to a missionary who didn't not want to join a church. So this missionary doesn't want to join a church. he works. The excuse was that such a commitment would slow him down. In response, Devra asked him, have you ever thought about how with you joining this congregation? God could use you to speed them up. It's true by limiting ourselves, we're a catalyst for growth and helping others. Discipling the few demands a lot from me. I cannot give what I do not possess and cannot help but give what I do possess. It requires I keep growing and learning. So it will kind of bring back programs and books and volumes again. And That's when because you're thinking about this person and what this person needs. And I think that to give and you gotta be fed to give And in some sense this is a benefit to us because that's how we stay young, right? That's what people say. I've heard of school teachers who speak of their experience, oh those kids keep me young, right? There's a lot of truth in that. Not just keeping up with trends or being savvy with social media, you know, not starting up a TikTok account or something, but I'm saying disciple making can be a life-giving experience for both sides. It's not just great for the disciplee, but it's also great for the discipler. So when we meet Friday, we'll talk about our most precious opportunities for disciple making. Starting at home and our most precious resource of time. Until then, look over the discussion questions at the end of lessons two and three. Talk about them with the family member or a friend. If you have no one to talk with, oh you can talk with me, right? Now another thing I'll add, um if you like, it's not a long book. Read First Thessalonians, right? The entirety of it. Maybe even in one sitting if you have time. Okay? Because that's gonna be the model of discipleship that we're trying to follow as a church. The entire book of 1 Thessalonians. If you want to go on to 2 Thessalonians, that's fine too, but mainly 1 Thessalonians. The point of all this is to get us thinking and talking about disciple making. We don't have a master plan at this moment, right? We're trying our best. I'll end with some personal reflections. Back in June I was formally ordained as a minister of the gospel. Did that change me or my purpose? Not really. No halo formed over my head. Um wings did not sprout out of my back. It did not change my week-to-week responsibilities here. But it did reorient me to what I need to do here as a pastor. Obviously, not just me, but many of us are stressed out about shrinking numbers. We're b definitely in that category of declining, right? We talked about this morning. Our finances are shrinking. Our membership numbers are shrinking. I wrote some of our attendants visitors yesterday, practically begging them to join our channel. church, right? So quantity at at least in our place in church history is important. But so it's quality, right? We always believe that. That disciple making being the quality here. And this seminar is a chance for me and all of us to refocus. Care for the people I have, not the people I wish I had. Advice from some old Apparently not new. A while back I read about an 18th century Scottish minister named John Brown. He wrote as a seasoned mature pastor, he wrote a letter to one of his pupils, a younger pastor, recently ordained to lead a small church. So John Brown wrote this word of advice to the young pastor. I won't do a you know Scottish accent. But I know the vanity of your heart and that you will feel mortified that your congregation is very small. In comparison with those of your brethren around you. But assure yourself on the word of an old man that when you come to give an account of them to the Lord Christ at his judgment seat, You will think you have had enough. Our job, your job, my job as a disciple of Jesus is to make disciples My calling is to be an under-shepherd, working for the chief shepherd. It's Jesus who is the ultimate disciple maker. I can learn from him. He who helps us in our journey, right? It's he who Who teaches us, gives us a model of how to help others in their journey. So he not only gave his life for us, he is with us for life. But as we fulfill the Great Commission, He promises, Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. But He is with us, and it's true what we're about to sing. Through all the length of days, his goodness fails. He is with us where streams of living water flow, where the verdant pastures grow, in death's dark veil, and within his house forever. Lord, we thank you for this reminder that disciple making is not some new concept Lord, it's because your son made disciples that the church was born. And Lord, the mission continues. We thank you that you do not leave us with just No instructions. You gave us your word. You gave us your spirit. So that in power, with knowledge, we can make disciples. Lord, teach us what it means in our church context. But we rely on you. We want to be faithful to your methods and your ways. And we want to look at the brother and sister around us and to really care for them, to fulfill all the one another's. Lord, help us to do that even now, even as we end our service, even as we go another week, to consider one another, to spur one another towards good works. To stir up each other and our love for you and zeal for you. So we pray that you would bind us as a church community. and to really make an impact in our just uh w in this world, in this um place where we are. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.