You don't want to revisit. You'd rather not return there. It's not as if such places are cursed or haunted or anything. It's just that you have to get out of there. Be boot camp early in your military career, might be a terrible work environment, might be a hospital after a bad injury. That reminds me back in 09. It's a long time ago now. Um after I fractured my hip in a car accident, I had to go to surgery, grueling, recovery Over the next few months, my right leg had atrophied due to non-use. I needed crutches to get everywhere, including when I received physical therapy. I mean the addresses and location are blurry in my memory. I do recall clearly I was a seminary student, tight financially and without insurance But the Lord provided a generous donor that paid for my therapy sessions, and eventually I qualified for medical assistance to pay for the hospital bills. So maybe someday I'll pass on to my kids valuable life lessons from that season, from the trials during that season. season. I'll tell them of my failures, but also my growth in faith. I'll testify of how my fears and worries were often overblown. Looking back, God had plans greater and better than the ones I can imagine. I say all this because Abraham or Abraham, like me, had moments of weakness. It's true You may not believe it if you had only read the first nine verses of Genesis 12. But as we go on, you see that even the friend of God made mistakes. Earlier, Abram had built altars to the Lord. He boldly called on the name of the Lord in the midst of the Canaanites. Yet he was timid and afraid of the Egyptians. That's what we'll see. Even so, even in his low moments, we can learn from our father of faith. For example, just imagine what the first readers of Genesis, what they'd learned. The Israelites would learn our father Abram was there in Egypt. He was at this house of bondage and iron furnace. The Lord brought him out with a mighty hand and outstretched arm. With eyes on insights from the text, let's turn to Genesis 12, 10-20. Let's see what lessons are in store for us. Genesis twelve, ten through twenty. Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to dwell there, for the famine was severe in the land. And it came to pass when he was close to entering Egypt that he said to Sarai his wife, Indeed, I know that you are a woman of beautiful countenance. Therefore it will happen when the Egyptians see you that they will say, This is his wife, and they will kill me, but they will let you live. Please say you are my sister. That it may well it may be well with me for your sake, and that I may live because of you. So it was when Abram came into Egypt that the Egyptians saw the woman That she was very beautiful. The princess of Pharaoh also saw her and commended her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken to Pharaoh's house. He treated Abram well for her sake. He had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male and female servants. female donkeys and camels. But the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say she is my sister? I might have taken her as my wife. Now therefore, here is your wife. Take her and go your way. So Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. Before we analyze today's passage, I need to say something about it in relation to some later passages in Genesis. Liberal scholars note the parallels between this account and two others. It turns out Abram lies about his marriage status, not only in Egypt. He uses the same ruse in Genesis 20 at Gerar. Years later, Abram's son Isaac does the same thing with his wife in Genesis 26. Based on these parallels, critics conclude that the three similar accounts are really three versions of one event. But that's not the only possibility. Believe it or not, Abram's a sinner like me and you. He's capable of making a mistake and gasp, repeating it. Old habits die hard. And it's also true that some of our worst tendencies continue in our children. The Bible never claims that Abram or other patriarchs are perfect. They're weak and susceptible to fear of man like all of us. So there's a better explanation of the three passages instead of assuming they're one and the same event. Abram was susceptible to fear of man and repeated So we know that Abram had planned in advance for his self-preservation. He had missed that himself in chapter 20, verse 13. Recalling a conversation with this wife, he said, and it came to pass when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said to her, Sarai, This is your kindness that you should do for me in every place wherever we go, say of me, he is my brother. In every place, wherever, that's how God, um, that's how Abram had planned it. Against God's will there. So Abram formed this plan because he had a pretty wife. She turned heads wherever she went, wherever they went. He knew that and everyone else knew that. In dangerous foreign lands, he figured he'd be targeted. Some violent passionate man might kill him and take Sarai. Gave him reason that it's safer to be Sarai's brother than her husband. I'll talk about the technicalities of that in a moment, but as a brother, suitors would approach Abram for Sarah's hand, but then Abram would come up with some kind of excuse to Refuse their advances. See, the custom of old was that her when the her father is not around, the brother arranges for a woman's marriage, as was the case with Rebecca. And Laban in Genesis 24. So Abram reminds Sarah of this plan they made before going down to Egypt. That's a little bit of the cultural background there. And as we now see in the sermon text, the plan unfolds, but not as anticipated. Here's how things went. Moses narrates in verses 10 to 13 how Abram's plan was framed and formulated as he and Sarai approach Egypt. Next in 14 to 16, as they arrive in Egypt, their plan fails and is foiled. So much for human ingenuity. Praise God in verses 17 to 20, the Lord's mighty hand preserves and prospers Abram as he leaves Egypt. So based on these movements, I say there are three integrity checkpoints during one's faith journey. Before trial, seek God for direction, not scheme for self-protection. That's verses ten to thirteen. During trials, cherish your companion of faith over treasures of earth. That's 14-16. After trials, reflect on your recent failures and receive rebuke. First, before trials, seek God for direction Not scheme for self-protection. Verse ten sets the stage for Abram's travels to Egypt. At this point, I don't think he did anything wrong per se. Circumstances led him down that path. There was not only a famine in Canaan, we're told the famine was severe in the land. Ibrahim had to go somewhere for food, and he wasn't trying to settle in Egypt for the rest of his life. So I think this was And the Lord does not always forbid his people from traveling to Egypt. It depends on the situation. God told Isaac, Don't go He told Jacob, Go. In the Old Testament, the law forbids kings of Israel from going that way. In the New Testament, an angel ordered the family of Jesus to take refuge there. It made sense for Abram to go there in his situation. Geographically speaking it does. was close by after making the long trek from Mesopotamia to Canaan. The distance from Negev, the southern southern south of Canaan, to Egypt and Africa, probably felt like a breeze. Politically, Egypt was stable. Around Abram's time, Egypt was in what's called a Middle Kingdom, according to historians. It was a period of reunification of Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt under strong Pharaoh rule. Agriculturally, Egypt was fertile. There are records of consistently high inundation levels of the Nile River. Abram likely heard about Egypt's prosperity from the locals. Maybe he had flashbacks of river Euphrates in the Fertile Crescent. You have to think fast as food rations were shrinking. So all people went to Egypt. Still there's something missing here. It's as if Abram skipped the step. If James in the New Testament could travel back in time to advise him, he might say this, hey Abe, instead of saying today or tomorrow, we will go to such and such a city, spend a year. Why don't you say if the Lord wills we shall live and do this or that? Loosely citing James four thirteen to sixteen. The missing here in the patriarch's itinerary are altars for worship, prayers for guidance, calling on the Lord's name for help during famine. Abram does not seek God for direction. So he does, however, scheme for self preservation He outlined the plan in verses 11 to 13. Remember, as I said earlier, this was their practice in every place wherever they went. As they approached the border of Egypt, Abram begins to remind Sarai of their strategy in verse 11. Again, Sarai was beautiful. She's ten years younger than Abram, so at least sixty-five years old at this point. But if we take into account the healthier, longer lives of people back then. Sarah, I look probably uh closer to someone in thirties today. In verses 12 to 13, Abram assumes the worst. He figures the only person getting in the way of powerful Egyptians designed Sarai was Abram. Their marriage cut in through his death, and his death could be arranged. But if they think he's Sarai's brother, they'll know negotiate with them to marry her. That seemed a good plan for Abram, even if there's some deception involved. At least there's some half truth in there. It's true that Sarah is his half sister. As he admits later in chapter twenty, verse twelve, Sarah is the daughter of his father, though not the daughter of his mother. But the ends do not justify the means. Now the takeaway here is not merely honesty is the best policy. We don't just look at the lie, but what's beneath the lie. At this integrity checkpoint, we see a lack of faith in Abram. Abram fears man more than God. He somehow forgets the Lord's promise to make him a great nation, give his descendants the land of promise Obviously, that requires Abram to live and not die at this point. But instead of rehearsing his plan to save himself, he should have recited God's word. The promise is given to him. He could say something like what the psalmist would say later, what we read earlier from the writer of Hebrews. In God I have put my trust, I will not be afraid. The Lord is on my side, I will not fear. What can man do to me? It's easy to bash on Abram, but let's not kid ourselves. We make the same mistakes. So this is a lesson for us too. Before trials, seek God for direction, not scheme for self-protection. Next, as Abram and Sarah enter Egypt, so the next movement, there's another integrity checkpoint during our faith journey. During trials, cherish your companion of faith over treasures of earth. In verse 14, the events play out as anticipated. Abram predicted that the Egyptians would admire Sarah's beauty, and they did. Sarai did not have beauty filters or plastic surgery, but she was stunning. Apparently, she was a talk of the town, and her radiance, as we know from 1 Peter, was not superficial. Even if she had arranged hair arrangements, gold wear, fine apparel, she owned something more precious than all awkward adornment. As Peter tells us, it was the hidden person of our heart. Incorruptible beauty, gentle, quiet spirit, very precious in God's sight. Again, Abram knew this would happen, but he didn't expect what happens in the first part of verse 15. Instead of powerful men asking Abram to court Sarai, powerful men praised her in the courts of the Pharaoh. It's one thing for Abram to refuse the advances of those equal to him in status. Of all people, the one taking interest in Sarai is the Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Pharaoh is the one person there who would not take a no for an answer. And Abram dared not say no. He could not find courage to refuse the nation's highest authority. According to the second half of verse fifteen, Sarah was taken into the Pharaoh's house. That likely means as Was the case of Esther. Sarai was identified, brought into a harem, and prepared for months before presentation. Meanwhile, in verse 16, Abram not only lived, he received dowry from the richest man in Egypt. He increased in his wealth, consisting of flocks and herds, beasts of burden and transportation. He even added to his human resources. This is likely when he employed Hagar, who later became Sarai's maid servant. But it's all or any of this worth losing Sarai He's a virtuous wife. Her worth is far above rubies. I imagine that Abram's panicking at this point. It is not going as planned. And again, this plan was driven by fear and self-preservation. The strategy was not for Abram to step up as Sarah's husband, but to hide as her brother. This is not Abram at his best, but at his worst. He fails in the second integrity checkpoint. During trials, cherish your companion of fate over treasures of earth. There's a quick application. We can learn from Abram's poor example, not only in context of marriage, right? But context of the church, fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. We read earlier that when fellow believers are imprisoned and suffering, we should remember them as if we're chained with them. If one member suffers, all members suffer with it, or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Our plan is often self-centered, not considering what's best our brothers and sisters in Christ. We may not care so much about how our choices affect our society either Thus we give poor witness to the world. So we should not be short-sighted. We must see how sin negatively affects us and those around us. And back to the text that's certainly true in the case of Abram and Sarah. No thanks to Abram. Pharaoh had brought upon himself under God's judgment unawares. By taking Sarai, he wore a huge target on his back. Not only that, God's plan to bless Abram. Abram was trying it was getting frustrated. It's a huge mess that Abram made. But we'll see in the last few verses of Genesis 12 that God is greater than our schemes and our rulers. He alone is sovereign over all things. He's in control, and he takes control of messy situations we create. Afterwards, after trials, we also reflect on our recent failures and receive rebuke humbly. That's the third integrity checkpoint in our faith journey You know that part of the wedding ceremony when the offician asks, is if anyone objects to this marriage, speak now or forever hold your peace. Apparently, the tradition goes back to medieval times. The question was asked to check for any legal impediment to a marriage, such as prior existing marriages or even forced marriages. You can assume the Pharaoh of Egypt felt no need to ask such questions, but he should have asked. In verse 17, we have Yahweh, the God of Abram, objecting. He's objecting to this marriage, letting his actions to the talking. As promised earlier in Genesis 12. 3, the Lord curses those who would curse Abram, even if it was done unintentionally. The first readers of Genesis, I mentioned earlier, the Israelites would have perked off hearing this. God had plagued Pharaoh and his household in the past. Just as he did in their time, they be assured that hundreds of years prior to Exodus, the Lord intervened on behalf of his people in Genesis. It happened while they were just a gleam in their father's eye. Evidently, during all this, God graciously made it obvious That the plagues were not merely odd coincidence. Perhaps the Lord did with the Pharaoh what he did with Abimelech later in chapter. 20 verse 3. Maybe God warned Pharaoh in a dream by night that Sarah was Abram's wife. However, it was transmitted. Thankfully, he got the message in time. Then the king of Egypt confronts and rebukes Abram in verses 18 to 19. That was obviously a very close call. The Pharaoh escorts Arai back to her husband and sends them away. As they leave, we see in verse 20 that the ruler makes sure no one else bothers them anymore. In his journey back to the promised land, Abram has many reasons to be grateful. He's wealthier than ever. He has his marriage partner back. You would think he learned his lesson, but as I mentioned earlier, he's gonna make the same mistake later. But again, don't be so harsh on Abraham. We're not that different from him. Often we must learn the hard lessons the hard way. So after trials, reflect on your recent failures and receive rebuke humbly. Here's some closing thoughts, three to be exact. First, here's an observation and an application. It's interesting that in today's passage, technically, we do not hear the voice of the Lord. But I think God spoke through the voice of the Pharaoh of all people. It's gotta be humbling for our hero of faith. It's humbling when it happens to us. As saints who trust in God, we're supposed to do good. We're supposed to put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as 1 Peter 2. 15 says. Very embarrassing when the roles are reversed. At times ignorant and foolish men put us to silence. They make us look foolish Nonetheless, pay attention to lessons from God, even if they come from unexpected sources. And it's in such shameful low moments of ours. The gospel is most precious and beautiful. Takes us to the my second, my second closing thought. You know, when you don't check out as men and women of integrity, turn to God's grace and mercy. When our plans crumble, when we're in shambles, when we endanger other, when we endanger others irresponsibly, it's time to confess our sins. Admit that we do not fear God enough. Rather, we're paralyzed, we're ensnared, trapped by fear of man. Proverbs 29-25 warns of these Next thing you know, we're compromising, lying, breaking other commands of God. So, because of our disobedience, left to ourselves, we're under God's wrath. And there's none righteous. Let me tell you this. No, not one. Not even Abram. Not even you. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And by no means does the Lord clear the guilty. Apart from mercy, all are headed for everlasting condemnation. Eternity in hell apart from God. Praise God, the good Lord did not leave us like this. God first loved us and took the initiative. God the Father sent his Son, Christ Jesus. He's God and man, united in one person. Unlike Abram, Jesus did not scheme to protect himself by giving up his bride, the church. Christ didn't enrich himself at our expense. Quite the opposite, though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor, that we through his poverty might become rich. Jesus loved the church and still loves the church, will love her forever. He gave himself for her. He purchased her with his own blood. That's what happened as Christ bled dying on the cross. Gave up his perfect sinless life so that we might not die in sin. He faced the wrath of God that we should face. He paid in full for sins we committed. He declared his work finished as he breathed his last. He was buried, but on the third day, Jesus rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection for many days before many people He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until then, all must repent, believe in Jesus, turn from sin and self-righteousness. Fear the Lord, trust in Him. Know for certain that you cannot earn a place in heaven with good works. Eternal life is a gift. God saves us by grace alone through faith. Faith alone in Christ alone. Finally, my last closing thought has to do with the life we now live by faith in the Son of God. Goes back to what I said at the very beginning. Is there a place, circumstance, or people that tempt you to act in fear? unbelief. Oh, you may be talking a big big talk among fellow believers at church. But do you shrink when you go out to be with Witnesses go out into the world. If there are people, place, circumstance, what are they? Where, when, or who make you feel? I believe many of us enjoy football and it's the playoffs, so I had to use this illustration. Here's a sports trivia. What do Tom Brady, Joe Flacco, and Roger Staubak have in common? Well, they're quarterbacks with most playoff wins at eleven, eight, and eight, respectively. All three are known for their composure in away games and high-stakes situations, exhibiting calmness under pressure. I have to ask whether we as Christians have that same demeanor in this dark world. Is our faith in God's promises evident during the week away from home, away from church? To find strength and resolve, to win your spiritual battles and fight temptations, look to Jesus. He's the author and the finisher of our faith. Instead of loving your own life, loving the things of the world, look to the love of Christ, who died for us at the cross, intercedes for us in heaven. I have no greater encouragement to offer you than what Paul wrote in Romans 8, 31 to 39. You can turn there, but I'm sure you read this many times. Hope these words resonate in your hearts as we go our separate ways. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, and furthermore is also risen. Who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are killed all day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loves us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to be Come. Nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Are you persuaded? As we close in prayer and sing our final song, let's ask ourselves: what will keep us to the end? Is the love of Christ in which we stand. Lord, we turn to your word. Not in not just as a good story, because It is true, because we are children of faith, and we look at Abram, who is a model of faith, yet he also faltered And failed. And we see that in our lives as well. Lord, it's inevitable as long as we are still Still battling sin here on earth, that we're going to fail at times, but we pray that we would learn from them, that we would look to the unfailing love of Christ. Pray that as we face people, circumstances, places that intimidate us, frankly, pray that we will turn to you. Turn to your word. Turn to your promises. And know that you sustain us. That we will make it to the end. Not because of our efforts, not because we're so great, but because of your grace. Grace and mercy. Pray that that would be fresh in our hearts as we go out this week, as we face work life, as we maybe face relationship trouble, problems at home. Pray that you would sustain us and remind us and empower us. We thank you for your grace. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.