The first snowstorms of 2025 reminded me of the first one back in 2019. It also reminded me that I've reached the sixth year mark here as pastor at Baith Bible. Are you sick of me yet? Don't answer that. Okay, okay. Maybe a better question is this. What have I learned all this time I've been here or what are some of the most valuable lessons as a minister? I can't think uh I could probably think of many. I think one thing I learned mostly by trial and error is that I can't please everyone. Right? My in-law try to warn me if you have fifty people at church You have 50 different opinions about how you should do your job. You might please some. More likely you'll disappoint many. What's worse you may even make enemies Now, I don't think I'd go as far as to say I have enemies, but maybe I do, maybe I don't. But one thing I do know is that I can't be afraid of having enemies I can't make it a goal to be Mr. Popular or never ever offend anyone. Especially if I'm gonna stand up for Christ. That's because as Christ followers, you and I, right, not just me, you and I are guaranteed to face opposition. Our Lord Jesus told The disciples on the night he was betrayed, you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Great Paul warned the Philippians to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Philippians 1. 289. The earlier one was John 15, 19. And Paul also warned Timothy, all who desire to live godly in Christ, Jesus will suffer persecution. 2 Timothy 3. 12. And so like Timothy, I have to accept that as leader, I have foes along with friends. I hope that's an indication I'm doing something worthwhile. Like the apostles, I shall rejoice to be counted worthy to suffer for his name if it ever comes to that. And all of us, our courage under fire would serve as evidence, right? It's a proof of perition to our enemies, a proof of salvation to ourselves, as Philippians 1:29 says. It's notable that even the worldly political leaders, those who live and die for lesser causes uh lesser causes in God's kingdom, they get this idea, right? You gotta have enemies. You can't avoid them. They understand they understand that there's this occupational hazard of people disliking you. Disliking you a lot. I learned a while back that Margaret Thatcher kept an inspirational poem at her desk. It's a short work by Charles Mackay entitled No Enemies. It goes like this. You have no enemies, you say. Alas, my friend, the boast is poor. He who has mingled in the fray of duty that the brave endure must have made foes if you have none. Small is the work that you have done You've hit no traitor on the hip. You've dashed no cuff from perjured lip. You've never turned the wrong to right. You've been a coward in the fight. I mean that might inspire you to keep up the good fight. But what's better than the poetry of a Chartist is the poetry of David. And what's better than being a gritty leader or an iron lady is being a prayer warrior. We'll talk about that as we finish up Psalm 40 today. It's my hope that when you and I are beset by enemies in trouble, that we do the following. Keep calm and read Psalms, right? Now before we read today's passage, here's a quick comment to set the stage. Last time we ended with the prayer of David. Because we continue with the theme of prayer today. It's worth rereading the two verses before 13. Verses 11 to 12 says, hopefully you have your Bible open. Do not withhold your tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me, for innumerable evils have surrounded me, my iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. Therefore my heart fails me. Today we learn more about those innumerable evils that have plagued David. Not only do they consist of calamities and disasters of impersonal nature and They're evils that are personal. I tend to think the hurt we get from people are the worst types of hurts. But on the flip side, there's a great joy in having loyal friends. Fellow saints who share your passion for God We'll learn a bit about them too. So let's read the final few verses of Psalm 40, verses 13 to 17. Be blight be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion who seek to destroy my life. Let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor who wish me evil. Let them be confounded because of their shame, who say to me, Aha, aha! Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let such as love your salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. But I am poor and needy. Yet the Lord thinks upon me. You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. So that's how Psalm 40 ends. Here's a quick reminder about the textual background of these last five verses. I said a few weeks ago when I first introduced this Psalm that verses 13 to 17 are essentially the same as Psalm 70. That has led to speculations. Some think that Psalm 40 is made up of two distinct parts joined together. Others think that Psalm 40 incorporates material from Psalm 70 70 being the earlier Psalm. Still others move in the other direction. They say Psalm 70 came later, taking from the last bit of Psalm 40. God only knows how David put this together. All else is speculation, and frankly, not that important. Okay, that's done. Now on to more relevant matters, what's at the forefront in the text? You see something like book ends in verses 13 and 17, I should say. Deliver me and my deliverer are different words in the original language, but basically the same in meaning. The same is true with make haste and do not delay. Identical in both meaning and wording are help me and my help. So David begins and ends this section of Psalm 40 with an urgent plea for divine intervention. You might call this divine urgent care. That carves out these five verses, but we can go further and group them into two parts. I think it's good to pick out some other repetitions. First I'll call your attention to the phrase who seek in verses 14 and 16. Both instances are parsed as you love these grammar stuff, right? Plural masculine participle. But what distinguishes them is the object of their desire. One group seeks the destruction of David's life. The other seeks God, and they rejoice and are glad in him. So then I think that David, in the midst of all his troubles, got a word for his enemies, and another word for his friends. He's got an imprecatory prayer for the former in verses 13 to 15. I'll discuss what imprecatory means in a moment. Sounds cool saying it in precatory. He got something nice to say to the latter in verses 16 to 17. So then, if we find ourselves struggling in our battles, we're going to need divine urgent care. And from today's passage, we see the following two-step treatment plan. Right. First, channel your vindictive urge towards the justice of God. That's verses thirteen to fifteen. Secondly, cheer up in collective joy for the worship of God. 16 to 17. So the first treatment plan of divine urgent care. Channel your vindictive urge towards the justice of God. Let me let's reread verses thirteen to fifteen. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me, O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion who seek to destroy my life. Let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor who wish me evil. Let them be compounded because of their shame who say to me aha aha. So after the urgent plea of verse 13, you see a distinct pattern in verses 14 and 15. L You see it even in English, let them be fill in the blank. Who does this or that? Behind them are five justib or command verbs that express David's wish. Let them be ashamed Let them be brought to mutual confusion. Let them be driven backward, let them be brought to dishonor, let them be confounded because of their shame. Though using a variety of verbs the psalmist request is the same. They're punchlines that land squarely against his enemies. These enemies are described by three participles. But the ones who are uh who seek to destroy David's life, who wish him evil, who say to him, Aha, aha Putting all these together, these adversaries not only want to hurt David physically, but in every other way possible, emotionally, spiritually. They got not only sticks and bones, uh sticks and stones to break his bones, right? They also have words to ever hurt him. But on David's side is the Lord who delivers and helps him. That's why he can channel his vindictive urge towards the justice of God. Okay, so it's not hard to figure out what the psalmist is saying here, but it might help to back up and address the complex matter of impregatory prayers. Imprecator what? Right? We're talking about asking God to condemn our persecutors. A typical imprecatory prayer wishes our enemies the worst consequences. There may be curses uttered for the utter ruin of our opponents. There's no avoiding them when you read the Bible, many of them in Psalms and elsewhere. And it's not just an Old Testament matter, it's also in the New Testament. There are all the woes that Jesus pronounced, the cities of people. Corazon and Beth Seda, then against the scribes, the Pharisees, hypocrites, and Judas Iscariot. Peter cites not one but two imprecatory songs of David to make sense of what Judas did. and make a case for replacing him. Apostle Paul ends 1 Corinthians with these stern words. If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. 1622. He began Galatians asking that the Lord would curse angels and men who preach the false gospel. And then later in the same letter, he wished that the Judaizers compelling the Galatians to be circumcised would go mutilate themselves. Finally, or one more in the last book of the Bible, we hear souls of martyrs and even a holy angel crying out for justice against the earth dwellers, right? The unbelievers. There's just no way around these impassioned calls for divine judgment You hear them from godly prophets, apostles and martyrs, you hear them from holy angels. Even Christ, perfect God and man in one person, speaks them. So whether we're talking about enemies of Israel or enemies of Christians today, we ask, what do we do with these impregatory prayers? Yea or nay? How do we harmonize them? Can we harmonize them with Jesus saying in Matthew five forty-four? Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Paul basically saying the same thing in Romans twelve fourteen But then again, is there any instance when urgent pleas for judgment against specific individuals are when they are legitimate? If so, when? Is it when we pray about wicked dictators or evil kidnappers? And how do we specifically channel our vindictive urge toward the justice of God I realize these are tough questions, and I don't have easy answers. This week I went back and forth between a few different positions, ranging from never ever say such prayers to maybe there is a place for them. So here's where I landed as my personal view. When we have enemies, I think there is a time and place for imprecatory prayers. That's because deliverance and judgment are two sides of the same coin. At times asking God for salvation from evil necessitates destruction of evil people. Even broadly speaking, every time we pray the Lord's Prayer, you know, your kingdom come, your will be done, we're really asking God to overthrow rival thrones, consume earthly kingdoms, pour his indignation against them. So if you maybe disagree with me, I think there's probably room for agreement and disagreement. I'm probably not gonna put a prayer of implication in the bulletin next week, but I mean anyway, um again probably room for dis agreement and disagreement here. If you do agree with me, uh what I do is conduct this three-point check before praying in preparatory prayers. First, there's a heart motive checkbox. Before you pray for justice Be sure that you're not motivated by personal wrath. Instead, leave for divine wrath. God as judge of all the earth will judge far better than you'll ever do. Very often we realize we need to let him take care of it, let him use instruments of his wrath. They could be secular governing authorities or they could be prophets of the end times. We see in Revelation eleven. Remember, your personal wrath, what James calls the wrath of man, does not produce the righteousness of God. So gotta do some heart checking here. Secondly, there's a hold out hope checkbox. As you pray for justice, hold out hope that God would grant repentance to your opponent. In our prayers, we should by all means speak of God's holiness, justice, and righteousness. But also we need to consider the riches of His goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering. You were once a hardened sinner. Don't forget that. At one point, the goodness of God led you to repentance. Lord could do the same and grant mercy to your enemy. Thirdly and finally, there's the holiness and judgment checkbox. After you pray for justice and God answers you, be assured, just and true are his ways. Here's a good passage to consider, Isaiah 5, 15 to 16. People shall be brought down, each man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled, but the Lord of hosts will be shall be exalted in judgment. And God who is holy shall be hallowed in righteousness. Okay, so that's probably enough on an imprecatory prayer. Hopefully that gets you thinking about how to properly channel your vindictive urge towards the justice of God. I understand there's probably frankly a lot more to discuss. But let me now move on to the second treatment step of divine urgent care. Cheer up in collective joy for the worship of God. Let me reread Psalm 40, verse 16, just 16. Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you, let such as love your salvation say continually, the Lord be magnified. Verbally speaking, verse 16 resembles 14 and 15. They all contain participles and Joseph or command verbs. The two plural participles in verse 16 are those who seek God and such as love his salvation The three justice verbs are let them rejoice, let them be glad, let them say continually. But the contrast between fourteen and fifteen on one hand and sixteen on the other are more interesting. Right? There again, the gap between the two seekers, those who seek David's life and those who seek David's God. And then you get the obvious difference of fates: shame and confusion versus joy and gladness. Now we need to ask why all of a sudden David turns his attention to fellow saints. Well, here's my take. It's in times of trouble and persecution we feel most alone. Our thoughts turn inward, we distance ourselves, we retreat. We go to our dark places emotionally. But we need to recall what God told Elijah. Remember that time when the prophet was discouraged. The Lord informed him that more than seven thousand in Israel have not bowed to Baal. In the same way though there are many who seek his life, David considered many who are like him, those who seek Us too, look at all the brothers and sisters who serve God. They're more than you think. We know they're there, but we also need to hear from them. Like the psalmist of Mockery of our enemies, aha, aha, my ring in our ears, my sting in our hearts. But then David puts his ear elsewhere, and he wants our ears there too. Listen in on those who love God's salvation. Say continually, the Lord be magnified. Listen up and cheer up in collective joy for the worship of God. We hear a lot of junk throughout the week. I'm not only talking about trashy shows, vulgar speech, or raunchy movies. I'm talking about all the discouraging news. And there are bounds philosophy that would cheat us, empty the seed according to human tradition and world's basic principles, ideas and thoughts not according to Christ. We may get caught in the middle of all that noise. Sometimes you can't avoid it. It just shows up at work. We're forced to listen as those of the world speak as of the world, and the world hears them. That's why when we're down, feeling out of place, homesick as strangers and pilgrims on earth. Maybe even as a laughing stock to our enemies, we need to listen to those who say, the Lord be magnified. We need to remember we're not alone in praising and exalting God. Like David, we must not only say how excellent is your name in all the earth, delight yourselves in the Lord, we must also say, as for the saints who are on the earth, they are the excellent ones. In whom is all my delight. Don't be content only to be an enemy of the ungodly. Also say, I am a companion of all who fear you and of those who keep your precepts So the next time you feel like your headspace filled with the din and shrill sound of hate, right? Cheer up in collective joy for the worship of God. Don't neglect this in poor means of grace, corporate worship. Let the voices of fellow saints speak to you and minister to you during worship time. It's not only the voice from the pulpit you need to hear. The sound of singing at church not only primes us for heavenly worship, it helps us prepare and base this week ahead of us. I was thinking this week about the Robert Lorry hymn, How Can I Keep From Singing? Looking at it more carefully, it just it kind of spoke to me. It goes, My life flows on in endless song. Above earth's lamentation, I catch the sweet though far-off hymn that hails a new creation Through all the tumult and the strife, I hear the music ringing. It finds an echo in my soul. How can I keep from singing? Yes, our lives should be offered up to God and worship like a song composition, but there will be difficult times. There will be bleak brooding movements as we feel like we're going solo. But then we remember that we have others. This is a concerto Right. I mean that the sweet hymn of their voices need not be far off, right? The music can wing for us in the worship assembly. During our time together, as we s we can stir up love and good works and exhort each other and anticipate the day. So let's cheer up in collective joy for the worship of God. So let's wrap up this psalm and the sermon with verse 17 after discussing his foes and friends. David brings back the focus to himself. He knows he must first and foremost stand before God, the one who answers his prayers. Now what I find interesting here is that the each line of this final verse reminds us of the gospel we proclaim. It creates a sort of an outline for the good news and encourages our continual humility. So let's proceed in four steps. Start with A. But I am poor and needy. While we confess that the Lord is magnified, we realize that we're rather small and insignificant. And that's okay. Right. We realize that we who we are in and of ourselves, left to ourselves, poor and needy. Without God, we're down in the horrible pit, stuck in the miry clay. We're surrounded by innumerable evils, overtaken by our iniquities. Yes, that's our own sins we're talking about. Not only are we victims of others' evil, our greatest enemy is ourselves That's because our mind is carnal. Death and enmity against God. Out of our hearts proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies, for sinners not only outwardly But sinners to the poor. We deserve all the punishment and wrath of God and eternity apart from Him. That's who we are, apart from grace. Poor and needy. But then move on to the second part of Psalm 40, verse 17, where our need is met. It says, Yet the Lord thinks upon me That means he did not leave us as we are. He took the initiative. For God so loved the world, we read, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. The only begotten Son of God is Jesus, God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life, never once sinning in thought, word, or deed. Though he's innocent and pure, Jesus had, has, and will have enemies. Herod the Great sought to kill him as a child Later Pharisees, scribes, chief priests, and leaders of the people saw his life. They wished them evil, plotted against them to destroy him. They eventually had him crucified, the most disgraceful form of death. He was hung with robbers in public shame. Those who passed by blasphemed them, wagging their heads and saying, aha, save yourself and come down from the cross. But he stayed there for our salvation. For the joy that was set before him, Jesus endured the cross. So there he suffered in our place for our sins and our iniquities, our shame, dishonor, and evil. He paid in full the penalty of sin we should pay. He finished his work, breeded his last. He was buried in a grave. But that's not the end. On the third day, Jesus rose from the dead. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs It was seen by many during 40 days, speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. He ascended and he sat down at the right hand of the Father Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. He'll confuse and confound and put to shame the persecutors of his people. Until then, and before it's too late, you must respond if you haven't already. Jesus is ready to hear you. Say to him, You are my help and my deliverer. Let's see. He'll be your help in the day of salvation. He'll deliver you from this evil age, from the power of darkness and wrath to come. All this help and deliverance of Christ Jesus is yours through repentance and faith. Repenting means return from selfish living and self-righteousness. Faith means turn to Jesus and trust in Him only for everlasting life. Heaven is a gift not earned or deserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And living as followers of Christ, we seek the Lord and love his salvation. We rejoice and we're glad in him. We say, continually, the Lord be magnified. Together we urgently yet assuredly pray, Maranatha, O Lord, come. Or we can say, do not delay, O my God. That's D right there, right? We can sing. Oh come quickly. Hallelujah. Come, Lord, come. Let's pray and sing these words and magnify the Lord together. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. Lord, it does not paint a rosy picture of life in this fallen world, especially for those who seek you and fear you. Lord, it's you did not hide from us what we're about to face if we live godly lives, if we live according to your word, if we stand up for truth. No, you showed us most dramatically what happened to your son as he lived a perfect life. As he shone the light of truth in this world. Lord, how can we expect not to face the same same trouble? We thank you that even in spite of these things that we can seek you, that we can we can pray without ceasing, without losing heart. Make us more fervent to seek your justice and righteousness instead of seeking our own, instead of just fuming up or boiling over in hate. Help us to turn to you. Lord, would you transform us? And Lord, remind us of our need for you, first of all. But how you provide the means of grace to a local fellowship. And even in these times of worship, Lord, as we lift up our voices, may our ears be open. So that we're reminded that you are worthy to be praised and there are others who agree with us. And Lord, that should encourage us. We thank you that we gathered here today, this morning, and we thank you for the love we share through Jesus Christ our Lord. It's in his name we pray. Amen.