Strange convergences, odd coincidences, weird alignments I read about some this week. A couple find themselves in the same childhood photo taken at a beach vacation 11 years ago, so they lived 300 miles apart at the time. Stephen Hawking shares the same dates of birth and death with Galileo and Einstein, respectively. Don Will Spoot's brother saved Abraham Lincoln's son from death. We read of these and find them amusing. But the coincidence I want to talk about now has to do with the convergence of even more disparate elements. 2021, this year when a strong pro-LGBTQ plus president was elected. June, this month's designation as the Pride Month. June 20th, this day, as we celebrate Father's Day, in this hour, 11 a. m. service, as we look at Luke 16, 18. So we have here politics, LGBTQ plus, a traditional holiday of Father's Day, Jesus' teaching on divorce. How do these pieces fit together? What helped me to fit these pieces together was a book by the Presbyterian scholar Carl Truman, entitled The Rise and Triumph of the Modern Self. Cultural Amnesia, Expressive Individualism, and the Road to Sexual Revolution. I've been recommending this book, both formally and informally If you decide to get it, do digest this slowly. I think many of the arguments will help you understand how we got here. Now I don't have time to go through all of the book's details, but for today I revisited two quotes that might help us understand how in one month of June 2021, we have this odd hodgepodge, celebrations of both traditional marriage and gay marriage, Adam and Eve and Adam and Steve. Here's the first quote from Truman. Individuals who disagree about gay marriage might think they are disagreeing merely about the limits of the legitimate identity of the country. Attracting parties, but their actual differences go much deeper than that. They disagree on nothing less than the very definition of marriage relative to its ends. Simply put, people disagree about the purpose of marriage, so they disagree about the spouses or the partakers of marriage, what it means. If marriage is for my pleasure or convenience, then the partners are consumers. If marriage is not a holy matrimony from God, then it's up to us to draft his terms and agreements. Now, to be more specific, something Truman wrote later was remarkable and condemning. It seems that gay marriage as an institution is here to stay. Whether it has opened the door to a general collapse in marriage as a two-person arrangement remains to be seen. Certainly, in terms of its underlying philosophy, there's nothing to stop such an eventuality, but The basic redefinition of marriage did not take place with Obergefell versus Hodges in twenty fifteen. But when Governor Ronald Reagan signed no-fault divorce into law in California in nineteen seventy. I'll repeat that. The basic redefinition of marriage did not take place with O'Burgefeld versus Hodges in 2015. But when Governor Ronald Reagan signed no-fault divorce into law in California in nineteen seventy. Some of you lived through that decision in nineteen seventy and experienced its impact. But just as a review, no fault divorce means divorce without grounds. That is a legally accepted reason. In Maryland, all you need to do for a divorce is either a twelve-month separation or even easier, a simple mutual Mutual consent. As for the 2015 Supreme Court case, Jim O'Burgefell fought for legal recognition as his late same-sex partner's surviving spouse, and he won. And here we are now in 2021, during the Pride month of June. Could the Baltimore Pride 2021 that took place this past week and is ending today be traced back not only to DC six years ago? But to California about half a century ago, in other words Is the current homosexual craze at least partly due to the heterosexual abandonment of traditional marriage Is it important to repudiate false ideas like no false divorce to be effective witnesses for Christ? I believe so. But to be properly equipped for a cultural battle, we must know God's word. Go back not only to the last decade or last Century, but millenniums, first to Jesus' time and first century, then even further back to Moses, and then even further back to the sixth day of the creation week Let's start by reading Luke sixteen, eighteen. Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and whoever marries her who is divorced from her husband commits adultery Now I dislike topical sermons but and because preparing them is hard and even listening to them, but And technically speaking, today's message is not topical since we're moving right along in the current series on the travel narratives of Luke, the middle chapters of the third gospel. But we're going to dig deep into one subject, and Luke 16, 18 is just a springboard into it. There's much to cover and I got a lot of notes for you there in the bulletin, so you might as well call it a topical sermon But I'm still going to contextualize verse 18 with the rest of Luke 16. That's a tough task in itself Remember that most of this chapter deals with money. Verses 1 to 13 was about money as it relates to our friendship, stewardship, and worship. Verses 14 to 17 expand on verse 13 as Jesus exposes the Pharisees and their love of money. Their greed has led them to self-righteousness Exclusion from God's kingdom and neglect of God's eternal truth. We'll see once more in this chapter the grave consequences of loving money In verses 19 to 31. But back to verse 18 and why the prohibition of divorce is there where it is I think that verse 18 is not as closely connected to the love of money as the other parts of Luke. Instead, I think it's better connected to the verses before it, verses 15 and 17. There are two specific key words in those verses: one, abomination, and two, law, that help us contextualize verse 18. First, let's talk about abomination in verse 15. You recall Jesus said, You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is highly esteemed among men is an abomination in the sight of God. How is divorce related to abomination Joe B. Green has a good explanation. Just read along with me. I included the quotes there. In Israel's scriptures, the term abomination can be used to denote, among other things, idolatrous activity in general, but also immoral financial dealings. And the act of remarrying a woman who has been divorced. Similarly, a Quranic text, the Damascus rule, observes that there are three nets with which Israel is snared With each parading as a kind of righteousness or justice. The first is fornication, the second is riches, the third is profanation of the temple As in the Damascus rule, so in Jesus' Invective, idolatry, wealth, and divorce are collocated as manifestations of pseudo-righteousness. Taken together, they are means by which the Pharisees have distanced themselves from the very law they thought to uphold. Unlawful divorce was something that these unlawful Pharisees practiced. That was an abomination in the sight of God, along with their love and idolatry of money. As a quick application, I wonder, do we as a church have proper discernment concerning Christian leaders Can we see beyond the surface? Sure, they may be highly esteemed among men because of their charisma, their oratory skills. Winsome personality, strong leadership skills. But can we see at least partly as God sees into their hearts? What if that charismatic leader has a terrible marriage and sex addiction problems? What if the celebrity pastor has no accountability when it comes to his personal finances and his home life? That's it to say these are real problems today, and it's hurting our witness to the world I'm not saying we need to know every detail, but we should know at least a little bit about their personal lives, especially at home and their marriage. Again, they may justify themselves before men, but God knows their hearts. What is highly esteemed among men is the abomination in the sight of God. Now let's talk about the law in verse 17 and related to verse 18. What does law have to do with divorce? And we'll look at Deuteronomy in a second, but we must first understand this. God's laws not only prevents sin before it happens, but curbs sin after it happens. God's laws not only help us keep sin from reality, but helps us deal with sin in reality. Deuteronomy 24, 1-4 was one of those laws that dealt with sin as it is, sin in reality, and tried to minimize one of the most destructive problems in human relationships. Divorce. The basic function of this law is to protect the wife from being bounced around between husbands and being treated as a mere object, a slave. Also, keep in mind that divorce was not demanded but allowed. Permission is not the same as promotion. Our Lord said to the Pharisees, and this is in Matthew 19, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. It's the same Moses who wrote Deuteronomy. He also wrote Genesis. And there we see God's original intent for marriage. Jesus said, Have ye not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? Instead, for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. Marriage is a divinely established institution between man and woman, ended by death alone. It's not up to us to decide when we're done with it. But some Pharisees thought they could decide when they're done with it. They may not explicitly agree with the modern no-fault divorce, but they would probably try to justify it. In Jesus' time, there were at least two major interpretations of Deuteronomy 24, verse 1. In particular, that phrase some uncleanness, which literally means nakedness of a thing. One school of interpretation, Shammai took a stricter view of the clause, emphasizing nakedness, interpreting it to mean some sort of sexual infidelity. The other school of Hillel emphasized thing and said that this could refer to anything displeasing to the husband, including spoiling his food. When asked for his own interpretation, he refused debate and simply pointed to the scriptures as we read. But you can see that he leans on the stricter side, and Luke 16, 18 does not leave wiggle room. It sounds absolute All the men involved in the divorce triangle would be committing adultery with the second marriage. I got some you guys you see the chart there for you. If man A divorced woman A And he marries woman B, he commits adultery. Man C who marries woman A would also commit adultery We can look at those passages later, but really it's just to summarize: the only way to get out of the two adultery dead ends is to go back to the first door they walked out of. As long as that first divorce is illegitimate, all future marriages with them are illegitimate, no matter who initiated it. Second marriages are in effect adulterous affairs because the first one never ended properly I looked up and thought about what are some excuses people give for divorce these days According to one study, the number one reason was lack of commitment. Not surprisingly, high in ranking was infidelity, and number two. There are others. Number three, too much conflict and arguing. Four, getting married too young. And five, financial problems. There are many illegitimate divorces out there, and for many that get married again. Illegitimate remarriages. Now you may ask Does Jesus have anything specific to say about the uncleanness in Deuteronomy 24, verse 1? Is there any fault that could make the first divorce legitimate I believe so, though it's worth repeating that permission is not promotion. We should do all we can to save a marriage, even if there's immense amounts of hurt and suffering. But I believe there are legitimate reasons to end marriage with the divorce, what I list as three exceptions, and they all start with A. One of the thornier issues in the New Testament studies is the reconciliation of Matthew passages about divorce. With the parallel passages in Mark and Luke. If you only read Mark 10, 11 to 12 and Luke 16, 18 today's passage, you would think that Jesus never ever permits divorce. But Matthew 5, 31 to 32 and 19:9 include the famous Matthew Exception Clause. I'll read Matthew 5:31 to 32 and then 19:9. So, Matthew 5, this is the Sermon on the Mount, verse 31 to 32. Furthermore, it has been said: whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. And whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. Again, we need to note that Jesus is much stricter than his peers, who took the permission of divorce as a promotion of it. But here in Matthew, we see an exception clause except for sexual immorality. So there's a fault that could legitimize divorce. The word for sexual immorality there is pornea, and it's a general and context context-sensitive word. It could mean various things: premarital sex, adultery, incest, bestiality, homosexuality, depending on the context. My view is that contextually speaking, the exception clause primarily has to do with adultery. In other words, adultery is a legitimate reason for divorce. Of course, there are some arguments against my view. One is that there's another more specific word for adultery that Jesus knew and could have used: boikea. Also, since adultery was punishable by death, according to Leviticus twenty and Deuteronomy twenty-two, allowance for divorce appears to be a moot point. My response is this. I think it was in Jesus' amazing foresight that he used a general word, sexual immorality, punea, rather than a specific one. We see today that there is an exponential increase in sexual sins that defy easy categories. Not only are there many ways to commit adultery, there's also the rise of bisexuality and transgenderism I think if a married woman decides to become a lesbian, the husband has reasons to divorce her. This isn't just what happened to a fictional character of the famous TV sitcom Friends. It's happening as we speak. Did Jesus not anticipate such a scenario? Yes, he did, not by spelling out every possible divorce and remarriage scenario, but with his wise choice of the word Punea, sexual immorality. As for the capital punishment passages, Leviticus 20, verse 10, and Deuteronomy 22, 20. Those are cases where both the adulterer and the adulteress are caught in the act or proven guilty. During those thousands of years before genetic tests, it would have been difficult to condemn all the secret affairs that went on. But what would a man do when he discovers his wife to be pregnant if he can't identify the adulterer? In this case, divorce is a viable option. And that's exactly what happened to Joseph when he contemplated divorcing Mary, the mother of Jesus. He found out Mary, his betrothed, was pregnant before the angel revealed the true source of pregnancy, he was gonna divorce her Remember that according to Jewish custom, betrothal was legally binding as marriage. They just haven't consummated their union yet. There was a time to prepare the home and a test period to see if both partners are sexually pure. At that time we read in Matthew 1. 19. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. Nothing that Joseph planned here was unjust. The original verb for put away here is the same one for divorce in Matthew 5 and 19. So my view is that Jesus understood adultery as an acceptable reason for divorce. Again, we must remember that this was much stricter than most interpretations of Jesus' time. Also, note that the disciples found his expectation of marriage commitment so demanding that they said, later in Matthew nineteen, if such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry There's another legitimate ground for divorce, and it has to do with God's kingdom. In addition to adultery, I believe abandonment can lead to divorce. As one begins to despise his or her spouse's faith in Christ. Jesus wasn't joking around when he said, Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace but a sword. A man's enemies will be those of his own household. Following Jesus may require you to leave behind even your spouse. All have to deal with this pastoral issue in 1 Corinthians 7, 12 to 16. I'll just read it for you now. But to the rest I, not the Lord, say, if any brother has a wife who does not believe, and she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. And a woman who has a husband who does not believe, if he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the sancti By the husband, otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. But if the unbeliever departs, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace. Or how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife? Suppose that a couple hears the gospel, but only one repents and believes. In verses 12 and 13, Paul prohibits the Christian from divorcing the non-Christian. Verse 14 doesn't mean that somehow the believing spouse has power to save his unbelieving family. It simply means that that family, mixed as it is, is acceptable to God. The Christian can be assured that he or she is not violating the principle of 2 Corinthians 6:14. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. But what happens if the unbeliever wants to leave the Christian? It could even happen even if the believing husband is sacrificial like Christ. Or the believing wife is submissive like Sarah. In this case, the Christian is not at fault. His or her job is, if it is possible, as much as it depends on you. Live peaceably with all men. Your job is not to forcibly turn someone's will toward God or yourself. I have a pastor friend who suffered from both adultery and abandonment. His wife began cheating on him with a co-worker. She decided to leave. He did everything he could to save the marriage. He begged her to stay And he was even willing to step away from ministry to work on their relationship and fix it. But his wife was done and she was gone. During all the attempts at reconciliation, she was disciplined by the church in accordance with Matthew eighteen. So this turned out to be a case of adultery and then abandonment from someone judged to be an unbeliever. My friend is happily remarried with three children and pastoring at a growing church in Virginia. I believe that he has done all that he can to save his first marriage. I also think he's not out of bounds of scriptures to be remarried and serving as an elder at a church. I hope that there's one more reason for divorce. Abuse. Now, I don't have a direct New Testament passage that speaks of abuse in marriage, but I encourage you to look carefully in Exodus 21, verses 7 to 11. In that passage, there's a list of fundamental rights that cannot be deprived of a spouse. Now won't read it, but it tells us that when an Israelite slave woman marries, even in her low status, Even if she relegated to be the second or third wife in sinful polygamy, she is entitled to three inalienable rights from her husband. Food, clothing, and marriage rights, which I take to be a state home These are basic and essential things without which a marriage partner would be in serious physical danger. And if these essentials are not provided, I believe she's allowed to leave him. Is that to see that what's meant to be a divine institution, holy matrimony? A covenant from which the Lord seeks godly offspring, wings of refuge, a beautiful picture of Christ loving the church. Has become so unstable, even unsafe for some. I know what it's like to grow up in a broken family. I remember the dark nights when my father came home reeking of alcohol, and my mother accused him of adultery. The neighbors complaining because of the loud fights and the shame I felt as they looked at me with pity. Though my parents never formally divorced, they were in effect no longer a couple as they stopped loving each other. Perhaps you too came from such a family background. Father's Day is not a happy holiday, but a reminder of past suffering. Now, just to say I am now a father and this is a wonderful day now, it has a new significance. And another thing about family, I want to say that we're happy to be your extended family right here at Faith Bible Church. But there's something even better than that. It's a relationship with our triune God. We sang about it earlier in the hymn, Arise, My Soul, Rise. Observe how God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit accept you as children of God. You want to look at me with uh look at look with me at verse 4. The Father hears and pray, his dear anointed one, he cannot turn away the presence of his son. His spirit answers to the blood and tells me I am born of God. This is what an everlasting family looks like. Working backwards, we are God's children because Jesus shed his blood. Jesus is God and man at the same time, the Father's dear anointed one, who brings us sinners cleansed before God's throne. He did this by going to the cross as the perfect sacrifice and dying in our place, paying the penalty of our sins with his blood. The Spirit is given to us as assurance of God's promises, spoken by Jesus. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me, I will by no means cast out. As long as the Father, Son, Holy Spirit relationship is permanent, so is our relationship with as God's children. We can call him Abba Father. Come to Jesus in repentance. Turning away from self-indulgence and self-reliance. Trust in Jesus alone, and turn to Him in faith alone. There's nothing you can do to earn your place in heaven and become a son or daughter of God. Such relationship is given to you as a free gift, all by grace. As for my Christian brothers and sisters, as we close, let's sing once more and ask the Lord to help us in our marriages and those we know struggling in their marriages. We need God's help. We can't finish this race, live for God, love our spouses, and be good fathers in our own strength. It must be not I, but the Christ in me. Let's pray. Lord, we're thankful for your word. How it's clear to us. So we want to make things gray. So we want to Make exceptions for ourselves. Lord, we see that you design the marriage to be permanent. Yet we have figured out many ways to try to get around what you have given us as gracious gifts, this holy institution of marriage. Lord, if we as Christians have taken that call lightly to uphold marriage and to be good examples, pray that you will forgive us. Help us to love our spouses. Help us to love our children. Be good fathers and good mothers. We're thankful for your word and we pray that in our lives that you will be glorified in all our relationships. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.