I know I got one song reference wrong a couple weeks ago, but I'm pretty sure they played that before the David Jeremiah race. If someone wants to confirm that, let me know. Oh John MacArthur. Okay, see I need I need correction these matters with music. Well those are the sermons that I would grow up listening to. Um But these days you can find sermon just online, not just from radio. And if you ever open your web browser and go to sermonaudio. com You should look on a page that lists the top sermons downloaded in all time. You won't be surprised to see big names such as John MacArthur, R. C. Scrolls. Alistair Beg, Sinclair Ferguson. But you may not be familiar with the name topping the list at number one with over two hundred seventy-three. thousand MP3 downloads. Paul Washer. The sermon title is well it's not really a title. Um It says a shocking youth message stuns hearers, so shocking the preacher was never invited back. That's the name of the file. And here the setting. It's 2002 in Montgomery, Alabama, with 5,000 young people gather for a conference on evangelism. They were having a lot of fun, but the preacher, Paul Washer, made three observations that caused him to doubt the sincerity of the youth. First, there was an altar call earlier initiated by a speaker who mostly cracked jokes during his message. man shared his powerful testimony of grace about his conversion from Islam. Washer loved it. But the audience Crickets. No response at all. Thirdly, just before Washer took the stage to deliver his sermon, during the praise and worship time The students rush to the front to dance, scream, have fun, and at one point pushing Washer's wife aside in the process Now Washer wasn't looking to avenge his wife. He was just mainly concerned with how the there were thousands of students who pro professed faith in Christ would look just like the world. He urged them to repent, be Christlike, grow in holiness He opened the scriptures to a portion of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. Um you can meditate on it later, and maybe you can listen to the sermon later. And see if it's shocking to you in Matthew seven, thirteen through twenty-seven. I listened to it myself or I at least read the transcript script and his illustration on verses twenty-one to twenty-three was especially memorable. And I'll just read the verses first before I share the uh illustration. It says there in Matthew seven, twenty one to twenty-three Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name. And when then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. And here's the illustration for these verses. Um may sound a bit controversial, but um just try to get the the main import of this Message You cannot enter the White House because you think you know the President. You enter the White House if the President knows you In a similar way, many people claim to know Jesus, but Jesus does not know them. How is it that Jesus doesn't know? That's why they cannot enter heaven, because their professions of faith Are fake. There's no repentance, there's no change, there's no transformation. Washer delivered a shocking sermon Because he simply conveyed the convicting message of Jesus. I turn to you now. If all you have to depend on for assurance of self Salvation is a decision you made decades ago. I would worry about your eternal destiny. If your faith is always invisible and in no way visible, then maybe it's an illusion. I say all this not to frighten you to come to faith. I'm simply asking you to obey Second Corinthians thirteen five, another Passage we should we should meditate on. Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ Christ is in you. Unless indeed you are disqualified. If Christ is in you, it will show We should examine each other and test each other, not in a judgmental, overbearing way, but in a gracious way, to see if we are truly in faith. My former pastor liked to say that the local church is the assurance of salvation cooperative. That is the greatest benefit we have. as members here. And we can point scriptures like this today's passage to each other. So let's turn to Luke eight four to twenty one and let us see how we can examine and test ourselves to see if we are in the faith. The passage is in the bulletin in a printout for you. you there's also the sermon points there and you can turn with me to Luke eight four to twenty one from your Bible as well Luke eight, four to twenty one. And when a great multitude had gathered and they had come to him from every city, he spoke by a parable. Sprang up, it withered away because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it. But others fell on good ground, sprang up, and yielded a crop of the Uh a hundredfold. When he had said these things he cried, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Then his disciples asked him, saying, What does this parable mean? And he said, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest it is given in parables that, seeing they may not see And hearing they may not understand. Now the parable is this The seed is the Word of God. Those by the wayside are the ones who hear. Then the devil comes and takes away the word But the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy, and these have no root. pleasures of life and bring no fruit to maturity. But the ones that fell on the good ground are those who, having heard the word with a noble and good heart, keep No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed, but sets it on a lamp. Lampstand that those who enter may see the light. For nothing is secret that will not be revealed, nor anything hidden that will not be known and come to the body. Therefore take heed how you hear, for whoever has, to him more will be given, and whoever does not have, even what he seems to have, will be taken from him. Then his mother and brothers came to him and could not approach him because of the crowd. And it was told him by someone, Assam, who said Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you. But he answered and said to them, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God. Now before we go through these verses, I just want to point out to you That there are nine instances where we see a form of the verb here. You might ask then, is Jesus teaching on the importance of hearing? Well, of course, faith comes by hearing, but really what we have here is a message that hearing is not enough. At least just the hearing in the auditory. Type. You see, a great multitude gathered from the surrounding cities and they listened to Jesus speak, but that does not mean everyone understood Jesus. It's not that our Lord spoke too fast or too soft. In our sinfulness, just like them, we often want Him to just entertain us, not restrain us. It's not that our Lord spoke in difficult rabbi jargon. It's that this crowd and we often refuse to obey Jesus. So it's my hope and prayer that this morning you will go beyond hearing and I observe four resolutions based on Four main points that Jesus has made in these verses. First, follow Jesus to understand God's kingdom. Secondly, keep God's word to bear fruit. Third, pay attention to God's truth to display it to others. Fourthly, obey God's word to belong to Jesus. So first, follow Jesus to understand God's kingdom. And we see that in verses four to ten. Now, I will talk about the details of the parable under my next point, but for now we should talk about the definition of a parable and the purpose of a parable You might recall that my first sermon here back in January was on one of Jesus' parables from Matthew 13. I will repeat some of the teaching from Matthew. I use the definition of parable from Hampton Keith Deport. Designed to teach a lesson through comparison. And it is true to life. So again, a parable is a fictitious or made-up story designed to teach us Jesus' parables are somewhat like fables, right? In that they teach something symbolic. But because Jesus' parables are true to light, you won't hear about talking trees or fire-breeding dragons. Instead you'll see more commonplace experiences. The purpose of the parable is Twofold. First they are designed so that only those who are truly interested will learn the truths behind them. So only the disciples, only who wants to follow Jesus Jesus will learn the truths behind the parables. You might read or listen to a parable and just walk off, but an earnest audience will want to know the meaning behind each Character, setting, and dialogue. The only way to find out is to delve deeper into Jesus' mind and his heart And then as we see in this passage, uh the second purpose behind the parables is that they're designed to teach truths about God's kingdom. You're gonna have to be a disciple, you're gonna have to be a follower of Jesus to really understand. You will need to fulfill that first purpose I just talked about. about before you move on to this second one. These truths are secrets hiding in plain sight for the public. If they really want to know an interesting That is why you see Jesus telling parables To the multitudes in verse 4, but explaining the meaning only to the disciples beginning at verse 10. Only those who truly follow Jesus are privy to the mystery. Mysteries of the Kingdom of God. The rest, as I say, only hear the husk of the story, not the kernel of Kingdom Truth. Like Isaiah, Jesus was called to teach everyone, those who have hardened their hearts to God's truth, so that they are left without excuse at judgment. But there is a remnant who will believe and listen carefully and follow Jesus. We can just stop here for a moment and consider whether following Jesus to understand God's kingdom is your highest priority. You know, I listen to news podcasts to understand the kingdoms of the world. I spend time in social media so that I do not fall behind in the Twitter burst. That's a real word But we might follow someone on the news like or a book, so that we can pick their brains and learn how to further our own kingdom or influence. But even more important than following your favorite author is to be a disciple of Jesus, to be a student. Only through his teachings can we understand how to enter the kingdom of heaven and live as kingdom citizens. Now as Jesus interprets the parable for For his disciples, the second principle is evident. Keep God's word to bear fruit. Of the four types of hears, and I'm sure you I hope Hopefully you've read over this passage or you've heard this parable before. I'm sure all of us, I hope all of us, want to be like that fourth type of hearers to fit the description of the seeds in the Verse 15. The ones that fell on the good ground are those who, having heard a word with a noble and good heart, keep it and bear fruit with patience. If I'm patiently bearing fruit, I and others who know me have good reason to feel confident in my salvation. Quite simply, fruit indicates there is root. Let me tell you how right away how to get that root through a noble and good heart. Because you can't do it with human effort. Now the Bible talks about God supernaturally circumcised. Our hearts, which means detaching us from our old ways of living, right? From our past, our old man, so that we want to keep God's word. And we can talk all day about this, but if you want to read more about that miraculous work of Christ transforming the heart, read the books of Deuteronomy and Colossians, and we will discuss them at our future sessions. Sunday and Wednesday evening studies. We need God to soften our hearts to His Word. Only then can we have ears to hear And obey. Now many will not go on to grasp these deep, wonderful spiritual truths. That's because many will not keep God's word. So what stops them? Some have hearts like hard compact roads. When God's word fall on them falls on them, it is trampled And the birds pick them up. Jesus explains that the devil comes and takes away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. or preach or teach the Bible to someone. No, it's not about our persuasion. I mean, by all means do your part in preparing and articulating. But it is ultimately God who will try to Transform their hearts. And we are doing battle spiritually against the devil. But we have a God that we can turn to. Stronger than the devil. Even though the devil, as the God of this age, has blinded the unsaved minds to the light of the gospel, we serve the eternal God and salvation belongs to Him. So I say, while we reach people's ears with the Word, God reaches people's heart with the Spirit. The heart condition of other hearers resemble the rock. The word falls on their hearts and their is an initial joy, but that faith withers away without root and moisture over time as temptations arrive like a tempest. How is this evidence today? Well last summer, Barnab Research estimated that roughly seventy percent of high school students Christians who enter college as professing Christians will leave with little to no faith. One major reason is the lack of Christian fellowship amidst temptations of premarit Sex and underage drinking. This is why we must care for those who depart from us by teaching them to value church membership. Do we care whether our children or members join another congregation if or when they leave Faith Bible Church? Ultimately it is their choice, but we should do our part by warning them from this parable And we should not underestimate the temptations of life. You see how cares, riches, and pleasures of life act like thorns that choke the plant and render it fruitless. And you might stop to ask here, is it possible for a Christian to be fruitless? Now, I think there are seasons or valleys where we fall into temptations and and thus become devoid of fruit. But an entire Christian life without fruit? I don't see it. I mean unless he or she died immediately upon conversion. I mean even the thief on thief dying on the cross had bruise to show forth in the few hours and minutes he had left. Here are some questions to consider. Are we saints, sons and daughters of God the Father? If so, where is the discipline promised in Hebrews twelve? Believers saved by God the Son. Where's the conformity to his image discussed in Romans 8? Do Christians possess God the Spirit? Where is the fruit Paul talks about in Galatians 5? A regenerate heart that believes And keeps the word is fruitful. Now, just as we observe uh in nature, fruit in Christian life by necessity benefits others And that leads to the third point. Pay attention to God's truth to display it to others. eighteen. In the next three verses we switch from an agricultural illustration to a domestic one, but the hinge between the two is the Concept of fruitfulness. A lamp is theirs so that uh and uh it could be put on a lampstand. words should be put on public display, whether it's behind this pulpit, across the dinner table to your children, to your to your family, or at the coffee shop with a friend or a coworker. God did not intend that our witness of his truth be kept secret, and he will not allow it either. Jesus used the same illustration in his Sermon on the Mount, and you see that in Matthew 5, verse 16. I'll read it for you. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. That's the Point here. When we understand that our faith is not just a personal private thing, that it should be shared, we change the way we listen to Jesus. In verse 18, Jesus says, Therefore take heed how you hear. That is, when you hear God's word, pay attention so that you can benefit others. Accrue knowledge well so that you can give it away. That is how to take ownership of God's truth responsibly, as stewards of His truth. Jesus explains, for whoever has to him more will be given, and whoever does not have, even what he seems to have, will be taken from him. And this sounds familiar. A false disciple who does not do this is like the wicked and lazy servant in Matthew 25, the one who hid his talent in the ground. He did not understand that discipleship is stewardship. Now if I may add an illustration from From nature, it's a watery one from Oswald Chambers, my utmost for his highest. It's a devotional, and I shared something from September Verse 7. Before I share, I should note that there are two great bodies of water around where Jesus lived. The Sea of Galilee, where fishermen made their business. So it was teeming with life. And the Death Sea, well, as the name suggests, which cannot support life. With that in mind, I quote Chambers, who wrote, quote, We are to be centers through which Jesus Can flow as rivers of living water in blessing to everyone. Some of us are like the Dead Sea, always taking in, but never giving out Because we are not rightly related to the Lord Jesus. Is the picture of your spiritual life the de uh the Sea of Galilee or the Dead Sea. If the latter, please ask yourselves whether you are rightly connected to Jesus, rightly related to Jesus, as the source of life. Such connection between uh Jesus and us is not superficial, but real. Real as family relationships. And that leads to the final. point there. God's um obey God's word to belong to Jesus. Verses nineteen to twenty one. Now please do not misunderstand here Jesus is not promoting works righteousness. Jesus is not contradicting Paul, who taught justification by grace alone. Through faithfulness. In fact, if we think about it, we trust in Christ alone precisely because we heard the word of God and obeyed it. So as I say often, we are saved by faith alone, but faith that saves is never alone. There will be genuine the genuine The genuineness of the faith will be proved by the works that follow. And as long as we trust and obey by God's grace, we are related to Jesus as fast as Now what is remarkable here is that Jesus would prefer his heavenly family over his earthly family. Those who know Jesus' Heavenly Father God are more important than those who know. Who knew his earthly father Joseph? We see from these verses that Mary was not perfect. She was at one time disobedient to God's word. Of God's will. She and her other sons were alienated from Jesus. Mary needed to submit to Jesus and be saved. from her sins by obeying the command to believe in the gospel. Well we also see it self evident here that she was not a perpetual virgin, as Jesus had younger half brothers. Here's what Joseph Fitzmeyer, the famous Catholic scholar who taught at my alma mater, said about this passage and just Mary in general. Quote, there is no indication in the New Testament itself about Mary as a partenas, which means ever virgin. This belief in one form or another can only be a very good thing. traced to the second century AD. So there you go, a Catholic scholar saying the concept of perceptu uh perpetual virginity Is not in the Bible. Such unbiblical beliefs take away from the attention that needs to be on Jesus. And as we hear and obey God's word, we belong to Jesus as family. By extension, we also belong to one another. Brothers and sisters too. Paul exhorts in Galatians six ten therefore as we have opportunity, let us do good to all, especially to those who are of the Household of faith. He tells Timothy in first Timothy chapter five, verses one and two Do not rebuke an older man but exhort him as a Father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, with all purity. You know, growing up without a father as an only child, isolated from my relatives in Korea, this meant Much to me. God sent older, faithful men to help with the irreparable void of an absentee father. At church I had older brothers who kept me straight. Right. And younger brothers and sisters who I have to learn to take care of. Force me to grow in maturity. I lost touch with the relatives of my kin in Korea, but I gained a family of believers from all over the world. And it all started with Jesus who heard. Extended his hands of grace to me in love, as to be part of his family. How can I not resolve to live for him? My Lord And my brother. So again, here are the resolutions. Follow Jesus to understand God's kingdom, to keep God's word to bear fruit. Pay attention to God's truth to display it to others. Obey God's word to belong to Jesus. No, if we're honest with ourselves, whether we have been following Jesus for decades or we just began our walk with him, it's difficult to stay resolute. It probably don't take that long to, you know, fall uh fall away from our New Year resolutions, right? How can we keep these resolutions to to obey and keep um keep God's word And to follow him. Honestly, we don't make enough effort to understand the mysteries of God's kingdom. We are tempted after the cares, the riches, and the At times we act like secret agents or spies instead of ambassadors and heralds. Christ. We sometimes undervalue the family relationship we have with Jesus and with one another. If you are not a believer, let me tell you that we Christians do not pretend to be perfect disciples. God knows we are a work in progress. When we fail, and we certainly do, we are thankful that Jesus is our brother, like we talked about. He is our friend He has secured our place for us in heaven by taking our place on the cross, dying for our sins. And rising from the dead. We can never earn it, but we can receive it by grace through faith. As for the believers, let me leave you with some assurance From scriptures as we fail, repent, and continue to follow Christ. The Bible calls Jesus an advocate, a defending lawyer. When Satan would want to accuse us. As the accuser of the brethren, he points Jesus points to the evidence of the full payment of sins in his scars to maintain My little children, these things I write to you, so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father. Christ the righteous. And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but also for the whole world. Because we have this advocate at the Father's right hand, we will never hear, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice Quite the contrary, we will be celebrating in heaven with Jesus, who is not ashamed to call us brethren, as Hebrews 2, 11-12 says. Until then, let us resolve to follow Christ on earth with sincere faith. That way the world will be shocked by the way we live for Jesus. Let's pray.