Well, it certainly is uh a joy and a privilege to be with you all this morning. Um It certainly was short notice that uh I got the uh the word that you guys are in need for someone to fill the pulpit this Sunday. But uh as As the week went on and um I thought about it and prayed about it, I thought, you know what, why don't uh why not go ahead and do this and uh And about Thursday, the Lord impressed upon my heart a message that I have preached before on a couple of occasions. This message You would probably it i i in in terms uh you'd probably call this a life message. And If you're not familiar with that term, a life message is often a sermon that has really come out of the life of the person who is preaching it. And often a story or a lot of the person's story is infused with the text. And that certainly is the case with the message that we're going to be looking at today. Please take your Bibles and turn to Job chapter 1. Job chapter 1. And while you're turning there, I'd like to read this section from Psalms 27. And so as you're flipping the Job, I'll read this to you. Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me. When thou said, Seek my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. Hide not thy face far from me. Put not thy servant away in anger. Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up. Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain path because of mine enemies. Deliver me not unto the will of mine enemies, for false witness For false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty. And listen to these next two verses. I had fainted unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. I'm beginning this message today from this Psalm of David for one particular reason. In his distress, he turns. To the Lord. And you do see this played out in many of his psalms. When he is at a point of despair, when he is troubled, when he is when his soul is so discouraged. He chooses to turn to God, but surely does he not have multiple alternatives where he could turn to? Certainly, he does. Yet he chooses out of any other all other options. He chooses to turn to the one whom he has committed his life to, the one who has been faithful to him always. How about us when we are in periods of distress? When we are in times of discouragement, How do we respond? How do we look? Where do we turn to? Do we seek out the world's alternatives? to help us with our despair and discouragement? Or do we turn to the one who really can help us? As some of you saw in the bulletin there, I graduated and attended Northam Baptist Bible College. I graduated in 2008. I was able to do the amazing feat of smashing four years of college into seven. And some of that had to do with uh taking some time off. And um in 2005, Miranda, my wife, graduated and we got married Um during that time and then uh we took a year off, just be married for a bit, which it just as a as a as an example, I it was a really good thing that we did that. We didn't make marriage life too complicated that first year. We worked, we survived, and then we went back to college so I could finish. And and by God's grace uh w we were able to do that and I graduated in 2008 with a Bible degree. Best seven years of my life. Well anyway, during a school year at Northland, like many Bible colleges, there are different conferences that take place. And um there were two in uh in the spring semester. One was called Heart Conference, and that was uh typically directed towards pastors Pastors from all over the country would come and get recharged and spiritually fed. And then later in the spring semester, there would be a missions conference And I'll never forget this missions conference. It was my freshman year there, so this is the first one I ever experienced. And um there was uh there was a speaker there. And I'll never forget this message. He was an older guy. He he spoke with such passion. And you could tell that there were years of ministry in his speech. And he spoke about the the need for Christians to be faithful. Faithful in difficult circumstances, faithful, just whatever God calls you to, to be faithful to Him while you do it. He said that if we're going to fulfill our responsibilities as believers, if we are actually going to make an impact in this world for Christ, There needs to be people who are faithful to God, and of course he's directing this to many young college students. One of the illustrations that he gave during that message was of a man, a Christian, a believer, who was on his deathbed, and he was being visited by an old friend. And apparently they had served in the military together, and one said to the other, Semperfi or Semperfadelis, which I had I had never heard that term before. It was the first time. But apparently it is uh a term that the Marines use which is Latin for forever faithful or always faithful. And I really I heard that and and that stuck. It was a powerful illustration. Uh in the midst of a powerful message. And um well, the thing is Is that I as that message was being preached, that was spring semester of that time, I really had no idea what God had in store for me and my family that coming summer. You know, there are defining moments in life, are there not? There are moments in life where you can clearly state that there was life before that moment. And there was life after that moment, and the two are completely different. And truly God was going to send me and my family through a period of time like that. I was 20 years old at this time. I had just come back from my first year of Bible college, and man, I was excited. I mean it was a great time. I had saved up. I was planning on working that summer to save up to go back to the next semester. And um We uh my family had moved in with my grandmother. My grandfather had passed away a few years back, and we were living with her to try and help her out with the the property. It was uh almost an acre of pro of land and obviously a house that you know breaks and needs fixing and needs things replaced and so forth. So we were there to try and give her company and help her out. And boy, it was a great idea. And everything before we moved in seemed fine. But as I got back, I knew that there were there was turmoil back home from things that I had heard and uh while on the phone. And I had hoped that maybe as I was gone that things had settled down, and unfortunately they didn't. I at that time I worked at CVS Pharmacy as a pharmacy technician. And I I think I had a 9 o'clock uh shift that day. And I was downstairs uh in the bathroom shaving, and I'll never forget the moment when my mom came down while I'm in the middle of stroking. And she said to me, your father has just pushed your grandmother to the ground. She's called the police, and they are here now. Obviously not what I was expecting to hear that morning. So I I went up and And there was my dad, and my my grandmother was with the policeman uh on the deck in the back. And the tension in the room, you could just cut it with a knife. And um Upon talking with my grandmother and then upon talking with my dad, the policeman decided that there was a level of instability here. Not really sure what this guy was gonna do next, so they cuffed him and they took him away. Now, up to this point, my dad was a law-abiding citizen, so I don't want you to get the idea that this was Oh, this was just a a string of many things that uh that was gonna no, this is the first time. Shock to all of us Because I knew that my my dad was in a fairly bad place, you know, things between him and I had not really gone well. He really didn't want me to go to Bible college. He didn't agree with with letting me uh with me going there, although he did help me get there eventually, so there was some of that, but He always held some some reservations about me going. As that day went on, and it was an all-day event, I had to call out of work and and and deal with family issues that day. The uh I was hoping that this type of event in his life would really shake him up Would really change him for the better, would really show him, hey, you're not living right. I mean, you you responded this way, you're responding really badly to the rest of your family. This was supposed to be a helpful thing for you to move to this in in with with my grandmother, and now it's worse. Now it's terrible. When I saw him later uh at the jail, um still in cuffs. What I hoped to see was some attitude of repentance, and instead, you know what I saw on his face, and my mom put it perfectly. She said, righteous indignation. Instead of dwelling on how he had wronged someone else, he could only think about how he had been wronged. Now as that day wore on, I I attempted to be strong. I attempted to respond correctly. And on the outside, I think I put on a decent front for a while. But let me tell you, I have to be honest with you. Inside, I was enraged. Inside, I was not responding correctly. Because I could see it. I could see that my family was being ripped apart All the security that I had there was diminishing rapidly. I had a strong sense that my plans of going back to college might not happen And I didn't like it. And with each passing moment, I grew more and more upset. I was responding in sin. I was. I can't put it any other way. I was responding in sin, but up until that point, I hadn't shown it yet. Out of all the life-altering moments that people have faced in history, of all the life-altering moments that people have faced in the scriptures that we see. I think there is one man that experienced the worst shock, worse than anyone else. No man lost more in mere moments than the man we're going to talk about today. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we will dive into this chapter. Father, we thank you for your perpetual goodness to us. We thank you, Lord, that you call us to yourselves, that you desire to have a relationship with you. And yet, often, Lord, we we stray and we we falter. So Lord, I prayed that You would help us to gain encouragement and be challenged by this man Job as we look at him today. And Lord, I pray that you would help me. I cannot speak apart from your grace and your strength. And so, Lord, I pray that your truth would go forth clearly, and would you apply it, please, to the hearts of these good people here at Faith Bible. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So let's begin reading in Job chapter one, and we will read the entire chapter. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eskewed evil. And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she has and a very great household, so that this man was the greatest of all the men in the East. And his sons went and feasted in their houses every one this day, and sent and called for their free sisters to eat and drink with them. And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about that Job sent and sacrif sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and curse God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came um also among them And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth, a perfect and upright man, one that fears God and escheweth evil. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast thou not made an hedge about him and about his house? and about all that he hath on every side, thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thy hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine with their eldest brother's house. And there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing, and the asses were feeding beside them. And the Sabaeans fell upon them and took them away. Yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The fire of God has fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants, and consumed them, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and have slain the servants with the edge of the sword. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are all dead, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. Now it is at this point, it is at this point, after the worst possible news anyone could receive. How would you expect a man to respond? How would you? Well, let's see Job's response Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. This first chapter of Job demands the answer to one question. There's a burning when I read this, there's a burning question in my head. There's a lot here. There's certainly a lot here. We will be focusing mostly on the last few verses. But The burning question that demands an answer is: how could a man who has just lost everything minutes later worship God as his everything? How could a man who has just lost everything worship God minutes later as his everything? I think one of the reasons I asked this question is that I know in my own situation, the the the account that I gave a little bit ago of uh of my own story that summer. My response wasn't anywhere near like this, and my situation wasn't anywhere near as difficult as this. I didn't lose all, and yet that night I did act as though. as such happened. When I got back home without my dad, my grandmother would not allow him to come back in the home. And and totally understandably why. We understand why, right? I, at the end of that night, at the end of that day, when night had fallen, I chose to allow the pressure of that day to finally spill out. All the churning that had gone on inside of me that day finally came out when when I had to say goodbye to my dad. And he was about to go live the uh spend the night in his car somewhere. When that happened, I I responded to my shame. I responded by yelling. By cursing, by screaming, by physically hitting things. I destroyed things in our front yard. I flipped out. And let's not forget, this is the story of a guy who had been to Bible college for a year. You would think, oh Certainly not one of those bright young men full of scripture and full of knowledge and full of spirituality, right? At least on the outside. You know, I found out that night. There were still things lurking inside that I didn't even know were there. My world had been turned upside down, at least to me. And I responded in the complete wrong way. How does that happen? How does a young man with a year of Bible college experience and several years of being in church and being surrounded by the truth, how does that guy respond like an unbeliever when the going got tough? Compare that question with the question we just asked. How could a man who has just lost everything minutes later worship God as is everything? The two responses, Job's and mine, are in stark contrast. Are they not completely different. Well, we will discover the answer to this question. In this chapter. The key to Job's response is found in two things. If you're taking notes, the key to Job's response is found in what was true about Job, number one. What was true about Job and what was true about his God, number two Job didn't quit, didn't give up, didn't flip out, didn't do any of that because of what was true about himself. What did we learn about Job when we went through this passage? We find that Job was a man of astounding character, right? There are four words or four phrases. that are used to refer to Job. He is blameless, upright, fears God, and shuns evil, or excuse evil. Satan believes, when he goes before God, Satan believes that Job is all of these things for one reason. Because God has blessed him. Right? Perhaps Satan makes this assumption based on what he's seen on other people, but God knows the truth about Job. These characteristics are fundamentally true about Job, and we see that it's true about him regardless of circumstance. So let's look at these words, blameless. The idea there, the content of blameless would be undefiled. He is clean. It even has the idea of being complete, finished, with nothing else being expected or intended. It is used to describe in other portions of the Old Testament as when the temple was completed. It's the same word. This next word, upright. Upright is the same idea as righteous It also is used in other situations as being straight or level. But when it pertains to a person, it's usually translated upright or just. When it's referred to God in Psalm 25, 8, it says that that uh God is the standard, that He is good and upright. Good and upright is the Lord, therefore He will teach sinners in the way. The word is also mentioned as upright in Psalm 33, chapter verse 4. So we see that his character is both blameless. And upright. But then we see also his posture towards God. He says here in uh in the word here that it says that he fears God. This as many of you I'm sure have heard before is the same idea of when someone has a deep reverence for God. to be there is a level of fear because you stand in awe of such a mighty and amazing creator. You know, sometimes I like to describe fearing God this way: it's understanding God's rightful place and also understanding one's own place before this God. Then finally here it says that he is one that eskews evil or shruns evil or turns away from evil. He is a person who is marked by removing himself from evil. He doesn't mingle with it. He doesn't compromise with it. He gets away from it. You know, it's it's quite a contrast from someone like we read in Genesis uh with with Lot, who was camped towards Sodom and Gomorrah, who eventually ended up in Sodom and Gomorrah, who eventually saw his family incredibly influenced. by those that were in Sodom Gomorrah. They mingled with evil. They saturated themselves with it around them. Job was not that way. So we see here that Job's life is marked by a close relationship with God that is unhindered and unspoiled. by habitual sin. And you know, it would be really easy to say, wow, Job is really great. I can never be like that. Job is, man, he is just super guy. He's super Christian. He's superman to be able to have those kind of characteristics said about him. I'm never gonna God is never gonna have that kind of report for me. I know myself too well. Well, can I just poke a hole in that type of thinking? Yes, Job's life is marked by incredible character and and holiness. But when you read this entire chapter, let's go back to his response. And let's go back to Satan's accusation, okay? Satan's accusation of Job is that he's serving God because God has blessed him. Satan posits to God, look. Of course. Of course he's like that. Of course he's got this great resume with you. You've done nothing but bless him. Everything he's done has been a success. But you take all that away from him, God, and he will curse you to your face. I guarantee it. And God allows it to happen. Why? Because God knows Job better than Satan does. A whole lot better. But listen, let me ask you this question. Could someone have the appearance of being blameless, upright, fearing God, shunning evil, and yet when this takes place? In his life, meaning everything's taken away, does it guarantee that they respond the same way as Job? Not at all. Not at all. Because as we've seen in many other in many other portions in Scripture, first people that come to my mind are the Pharisees. They lived Not even just by the standards that the Old Testament gave, but they set up their own standards, right? I mean, they had the appearance of blamelessness and uprightness But Jesus has harsh words for them. They did not have a heart that was truly bent towards God. They had a heart that was bent towards righteousness. and appearance and external. So if that's the case, there's got to be something a lot more here with Job than just these characteristics. Can I make a suggestion? We aren't just looking at a man who has impeccable character. We are looking at a man who is obeying the first and greatest commandment before it had ever been given Job loves God with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. With everything that he is, he loves God. And that is the only way he can respond the way he does. His service and his dedication to God has to be pure. Because if it is not, when everything is taken away, then Satan would be right. If he didn't love God with everything, then Satan may have have won his wager. But because Job's And this would be been because Job's lifestyle would have been based on lesser motivation. We would all agree that loving God with all of our hearts Is the most pure motivation, correct, for serving and living for God? It's what God wants. From the Old Testament to the New Testament, God has wanted our hearts. Not just outward duty-driven service. He wants everything about who we are to be dedicated to him. That's what he wants. But when our lifestyle, when our motivations for serving God are based on lesser things, like perhaps good circumstances. Well, then we are tempted to quit. We are tempted to give up We are tempted to throw in the towel, raise the white flag, and we've got all these uh these m ways of saying it, right? Don't miss this, my friends. Don't miss this. This is so critical for you and for me. that our hearts be dedicated and turned rightly to God, that He really is our everything. He really is our everything. This is key number one to Job's response. His heart, he loved God. He loved God. That was what he was marked by. That's what was true about himself. He loved God purely. So that even when everything was taken away, He still had God, right? And for Job, that was enough. Amazing. But you know what? That means that any of us can really be there. Any of us can get there. Will we still have sin? Yes Will we have a track record as Job did? Probably not. Maybe not. But can we have a heart that's rightly turned towards God? So that we are in the process of shunning sin and having this right relationship with him. Yeah, we can be there. So the excuse of, well, I can never be like Job, so I can never respond like that, that doesn't work. It doesn't cut it. We can have a growing relationship with our Father in heaven so that we are right with Him, so that we can serve Him with pure motivations instead of relying on just our circumstances. So let me ask you these questions then. And I ask these to myself on a regular basis. Are we marked by a close relationship with God? Are we living the way we do because of our love for God, of who he is and what he does? Listen, when life-altering events happen in our lives, they reveal to us how our relationship with God God is. And they can also sometimes reveal the true motives behind the way we are living. You know, the most remarkable thing about this, as we continue on here, is how Job responds completely opposite of how you would expect. I would expect, as we were reading through that, I would expect that, well, Job to read something like this. Job arose, tore his robe, shaved his head, fell on the ground, and he gave up. I mean that that would be that would really be a temptation for me, I think, to feel that way. Or maybe, maybe even worse. Job arose, tore his robe, shaved his head, fell on the ground, and turned his back on God forever. I mean, humanly speaking, Naturally speaking, we would expect a response like that, wouldn't we? I mean, all kinds of thoughts. could have gone through his head. He could have thought, well, God must just be really angry with me. Or maybe he would think, maybe God just doesn't love me anymore. So I guess I'll just quit I'm just gonna be done now and go find some hole to live in while I try and get my life back together. No one, no person, humanly speaking, would have faulted Job for just quitting, for just being done. But he didn't. You know, that was the position that I found myself in that summer. I'd like to say that after I responded completely terribly that night, that I got back on my feet and I got back on the right track. But it wasn't right away. I found myself really doubting God. I found myself really wondering if this lead living for Jesus business, if that was really worth it. And for the next two months in that summer, I faltered. I wavered. I doubted. I stopped attending church. I I had the excuse in my head of I just need to focus on my family and make sure that this whole thing doesn't explode. I need to do my part. By the end of those two months, I had to make a difficult decision. With my dad not welcome anymore in my grandmother's home, My family was looking for another place to live. And so during those two months, they were looking for another house. Uh I may have mentioned, I forget if I did or not, but I I I live we lived in Pasadena. At that time, and they finally decided on a place in Harford County. And so that's about 45 minutes away. Beltway and all that nastiness. And um So the question was, I mean I was 20 years old. The question was, do I stay with my grandmother where my job my job was five minutes away at TVS And although I hadn't been attending, it was in my mind that, hey, my church is right here too, so maybe I should just stay. Do I stay with my grandmother or do I go with them? So I decided to stay with my grandmother. It was, looking back, I think, the right decision, but it was a decision that held some consequences The strained relationship between my dad and me got worse at that point because he took it as me siding with her and not with him. Um but even more so i it meant because of the financial strain and and things that I did to help with my money as well, I was not able to go back to Bible college. That following semester. One of the first of a few times of taking some time off. And um It hurt a lot. And that made it even harder. The arguments that would go on in my head. It was during those two months that I really thought about quitting on God. The thought that that would go in my head is if this is how hard it's got to be, it's going to be, it just might not be worth it. Might not be worth it. Life was going to be different. Life was never going to be what it was. You know, the truth is, in my family, there was a lot of love. I have a lot of great memories from when I was a kid. And it's incredible what Satan can do to a family when he gets his clutches on one or more individuals. And he has his way with them. And really that is part of the story of my family. At this point, my my dad's not even in this country. We do not speak. I've done what I can to try and uh do some relationship restoring, but he is not willing. Well, even though I was at that time thinking about quitting, thinking about giving up, thinking about going and just doing my own thing. The trouble was, I was focused in the wrong place. I was focused on the wrong place on the wrong things. Secondly, Job didn't quit because of what is true about God. Job didn't quit because of what is true about God. Let's look at this response real fast again. Job verse 20, there in chapter 1, Job arose, rent his mantle, shaved his head, fell down upon the ground, and worshipped. He says, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sinned not Nor toward God foolishly. So in the beginning there, renting his his clothes, ripping his clothes, shaving his head All that is is the conventional marks of grief and mourning in that culture But in this statement, it's really packed. It's packed full of Job's understanding and his attitude towards his father. He follows adversity with adoration. He follows woe with worship. Job did not give in to bitterness, and he did not blame God for any wrongdoing. Instead, what did he do? He instead focuses on what he knows to be true about God. He trusted God. First of all, we see from this statement that his mentality is that everything belongs to God. Everything belongs to God anyway. It says Job was the wealthiest man in the East. And by his livestock count and all of all that he had accomplished, he was a very wealthy man. But even in that wealthiness, even in that richness that he possessed, all those riches, he did not Claim to own it. He did not claim to hold on to it with a with an iron fist. Like this is mine, mine, and it's my work and it's what I've accomplished. And don't dare anybody take it away. No. He says the Lord gave. And the Lord took away. He says, I enter this world with nothing, I leave this world with nothing. He recognized that not only his possessions really belong to God, anyway, but that they are temporary. They're just part of this life, not the next. Next, in the statement that the Lord gave and the Lord taketh away, we see that Job ascribes goodness to God in this. He doesn't look, he doesn't view as God taking away as something that was terrible for him, awful, like this is a bad God who would do this to me. No. He recognizes that that God is good in this. All of this stuff was never really his to begin with. He saw all of his possessions as good gifts from God's hand. for which to be grateful, but not something to clutch on to that he must have for the rest of his life. And also we see in this statement that he he views God as in control. He sees God as in control, not himself. You know, that's that's a stark contrast for our culture in this day. Often we do as much as we can to stay in control, don't we? Whether it's uh and I'm not knocking these, but whether it's our insurance policies or our uh the different where we where we put our money and and retirement accounts and those things are fine, but you know it's part of our mentality where where we as a people in general want to maintain control. You know the fact is, and and Job is a tremendous reminder of this, control is an illusion. At least our control of situations is an illusion. Because goodness. Anything can happen, right? If we go into a day with a plan and thinking that my plan is going to come out no matter what, that is some faulty thinking. And it and very little things can change our plans, right? In our day and age especially. How about if a tire blows? And you don't have a spare. Or you can't find your keys and you actually can't find them. And you don't know where they are So many things can alter our plans for a day. But we've got to remember, as Job obviously did, God is in control. God is good, and everything is his to begin with. This is here. Job's character reveals his pure love for God. This second point could be summed up by saying that Job's response to tragedy reveals his complete and utter trust in God. Complete trust. In Job 13, 15, you probably remember that what he says there. He says, Though God slay me, yet will I trust him. Well, that is complete trust, is it not? What does our character reveal about ourselves? What does our response to tragedy reveal about ourselves? You see, when tragedy struck in my life, it revealed to me that, and and others in fact, that there were some severe flaws in my character and some severe flaws in my attitude and disposition towards God. Like I said before, this wasn't a this tantrum that I had, this the way I was quitting, the way I was diff having difficulty during those two months, it wasn't as if it suddenly came up. No, all of that was there. All of it was there, it just took certain circumstances to reveal it. I realized, looking back, I can tell, and it wasn't long after that that I could tell that my love for God wasn't a primary motivation for my lifestyle. You know, the problem is we usually don't get a warning when tragedy will strike. We don't get time to prepare. We don't get a little bulletin in the morning when we wake up saying, guess what? It's going to be a really bad day. No, not at all. So that's why it is so important for us to be where we need to be every day. Right? If we go into a day hoping everything will just work out, even if things go crazy, we're setting ourselves up. My friends, I was not ready. I was not ready. Tragedy comes suddenly. If a person does not have a growing relationship with God, one that is at least in the direction of having pure love for God, Will a response like Job's be the result? No. What if a person ha doesn't have a right understanding of who God is? Maybe they don't believe that really everything is God. Maybe in the back of their minds we really don't believe that God is truly good. Maybe we really don't believe that God is in control. If we don't Hinge our faith on those things that we know about God, we will not respond like Job did. The opposite could actually be the result. we could actually embrace a wholehearted quitting on our Creator. You know, as I look at you all, and I've been brought up to speed about some of the difficulties that you've had in the past, I realize that you have been without a pastor for some months now. And the truth is that I don't, as individuals, I don't know your individual circumstances. I do know that you are probably on your way into a trial, in the middle of one, or about to be in one. And we need to have ourselves grounded in the truth about God Nothing can reveal if we have a twisted or a slightly off view about God when a trial comes, when circumstances come that are truly adverse. How we respond to difficult situations is so critical to our spiritual growth and our future. At this point, let me share with you something from my heart to yours. You know, that wasn't the only tragedy that I've had. There have been other things since then. But I can tell you as someone who has dealt with it and God has been good. Don't quit. Don't quit. Do not quit on God. Never, ever quit. God is still good. He is still in control. He is still bringing about his purposes through your life, through the life of this body of believers. Don't give up. Know him. Pursue that relationship with him. Trust him. He is the only one worth trusting. How have you responded to tragedy? How are you, maybe still responding? Have you quit? You say, well, that's a peculiar question, Enrique. I'm here, right? I mean I'm I'm I'm in church and I'm doing the stuff that I'm supposed to do. Well, my friends, quitting doesn't always look like a lack of a church attendance It doesn't always look like shaking a fist in God's face. Honestly, a church, a person can sit in the church services for years and for decades. Seemingly everything being all right, but inside they've actually quit. It is an internal versus an external giving up. How do you know? Well Do you lack a desire to know God? Do you talk with him anymore? Do you have difficulty desiring to be in his word? What is your response to what he says in his word? Or what about this? Are you angry with God? Are you angry with what He has allowed in your life? Maybe what has been taken away? Are there expectations that you had that He hasn't met? Have you lost control of things that you thought you were in control of? You know, with these issues. They place the blame on God, don't they? Friends, the problem isn't with God if we respond incorrectly to tragedy. The problem is with us Job didn't quit. And if he didn't quit, if he didn't quit going through the circumstances that he did, then neither can I, neither can you. You know, it only got worse for Job here. God initially said you can take everything from him but don't touch him physically. And in the second chapter, guess what? Satan says, well of course he didn't curse you. He's still healthy. Take away his health. He'll curse you to your face. And so he was afflicted by by a terrible disease. And not only that, three friends come, right? And they don't offer the best of advice for him. They say, obviously you've done something really, really bad for all this to happen to you. You need to get right, Job. No, really. The only thing that I can see that Job perhaps strayed and did wrong was that he demanded an answer from God for what happened. That's the only thing. We are never in a position to demand anything from God. And he was vehement vehemently Asking God why. I want to know why. You know, Job never gets that answer. Instead, you remember what Job gets? He gets a bunch of questions for him from God, all of which Job cannot answer. Basically God saying. I'm God. You're not. You're trusting me. Keep doing that. And Job comes out of it better than he had been before. He comes out, has a family again, becomes a wealthier man than he was before. God didn't have to do that, but he did. And you know, while we may not recover from tragedy in this life, he may restore us in this life. Whatever God takes away, he may give back in some fashion, some way. But he is not obligated to do that. But I can guarantee you this, my friends, he will restore us one day when we are with him. When we are leaving this place and this life with all its struggles, all of it will be worth it. So again, I say, don't quit You know, it was at the end of August, the beginning of September. I was facing a year of loneliness. I still had not been back to church. I was just trying to get back into the into the swing of things. My parents had finally moved up and I was with my grandmother and I had a I have a brother and a sister and so there The fellowship that I had with my family wasn't there anymore. And so I I was saddened. I was really not sure what was going to happen, but God was working on me. And he gently would remind himself about me. And the truth is, God had me exactly where he wanted me to be. Going through a parking lot one day, you know what I saw for the first time ever? I was going through a parking lot, I saw a bumper sticker. I'm sure you've seen many of these bumper stickers too. You know what it said? Simplify. A little bit later, I told you I worked for CVS and I was ringing a customer up And he wanted a prescription and so I went and got it for him. I was ringing him up and you know what I saw tattooed on his forearm? Simplify. God was reminding me about something that I had learned that I forgot. It wasn't too long after that, on a Monday or a Tuesday, that a man from church called me. And said, Hey, how about you come with me to Wednesday night? And I said, Yes. And thanks be to God and to his graciousness and mercy, I've not looked back Since that time. You know, one thought lodged itself into my head during that time. God is faithful. He is trustworthy. How can I be unfaithful to him? It just logically didn't make sense. You know, I don't have all the answers as to why God allowed what he did. Not at all. But I do know that God has used it. I do know that God continues to use all of that There are many other guys out there with families that are broken and families that are that struggle. And I know that there have been times when God has been able to use some of my experience and his truth to help other people. But even if it wasn't, even if that never happened, It's still worth it. It's still worth it. And I believe it'll be worth it ten years from now, just like it was ten years ago. Let me close with this poem. Though he lose many things, though pressed on every side, though he lose everything, though overwhelmed by the surging tide, he does not quit. Though confused seemingly for countless ages, though God seems far away, though the storm continually rages, and he does not know how much more he can take, still he does not quit. Though it is sometimes hard to bear, though he has made some mistakes, though it seems that no one cares, and his heart forever aches, still he does not quit. Though he tries with all his might to no avail, though he does not want to get out of bed, though at the end of the tunnel seems to be no light, for he cannot see that far ahead, still he does not quit. Though now he is tired and old, and his head is mostly grey, although he wonders if he should have been more bold, for he does not know long how much longer he will stay, still he does not quit. He was a man who accomplished much for the Lord by sharing the gospel and proclaiming his word. One asked at his funeral, how did this man do it? Was it just plain grit? No, it was God who worked in him, a friend replied with a tear in his eye, and he simply never, ever quit That is my heart's desire. Through the power of God, I want to never quit on him. How about you? Do you see signs of a queer spirit Or maybe you already know you have quit on him. Come back. Don't continue down that path. Don't quit. Let's pray. Father. We thank you for your graciousness to us. You are a good God. Help us to rely on the truth that we know about you, that you are good. that everything does belong to you, that we are merely stewards of what you've given to us, and that you are in control. Help us, Lord, to not hold on to our lives and the things in our lives too too hard so that we would never want them taken away. Lord, help us to hold our, hold what you've given to us, whether it's people or possessions, loosely, offering them to you. Lord, we pray. I pray for Faith Bible. I pray that you'd give them encouragement. I pray that you continue to work in them and through them. Lord, if we're here, we know that you want to use us. And so I pray, Lord, that you would use them mightily. I ask, Lord, that you would provide a pastor for them in the near future. Lord, I ask as we close that these truths that we've looked at this morning would not soon pass through our hearts, but that they would become a part of who we are. Lord, help us to love you rightly, help us to trust you fully. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen