It makes you feel like a kid again, doesn't it? Makes me remember my childhood days or even teenager days as helping out with BBS at Maybe you remember having toys growing up and I didn't have a ton then, so I just enjoy playing with things around the house. Just out of curiosity, I'll take a device like a simple calculator or a clock, unscrew it, look inside, make a guess on what the parts do, and then close it back up. I recall being afraid to go further in my amateur experiments. I fear breaking the device. Like if I had a teacher who understands electronics, my hobby would have been a lot more enriching. But still I enjoy taking things apart, putting them back together. And even without the details, I know that diverse parts unite to serve. A useful purpose. Back to the present day, at this point, I admit my kids enjoy taking things apart more than putting them back together. But there's still some progress. My son's favorite project Anything that remotely looks like Noah's Ark in the end. So where am I going with all this? It's a bit of an analogy I came up with. These days you and I are studying something simple on the surface, but complex in its inner workings. The church. And by study, I mean something like that simple childhood activity. Take it apart, put it back together, apart, together, open, look, shut. You'll see this kind of study encouraged in today's passage, in the back and forth between many and one, one and many. So when we do with the church what I did as a kid with devices, we'll understand the body better, the body of Christ better. But unlike me as a child, we have a guide in Paul. Let's turn to his letter, 1 Corinthians 12. I'm going to read from verse 12 to almost the end of the chapter, stopping at the middle of the final verse, verse 31. I think this final sentence belongs better with the next chapter, the famous love chapter. So that's why the reference is 1 Corinthians 12, 12 to 31A. Let's read. For as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves are free, and have all been made to drink into one. to one spirit. For in fact the body is not one member, but many. If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, and I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where would be the smelling? But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body just as he pleased. And if they were all one member, where would the body be? But now indeed there are many members, yet one body, and the I cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet. I have no need of you. No much rather those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary, and those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, on these we bestow greater honor, and our present unpresentable parts have greater modesty, but Our presentable parts have no need. But God composed the body, having given greater honor to that part which lacks it that there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same concern for one another, and if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now you are the body of Christ and members individually. And God has appointed these in the church, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, after that miracles and gifts of healings, helps and ministrations, variety of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? Do all have the gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? But earnestly desire the best gifts. So before we work through this passage, I'll make two broad remarks. First, I want to discuss how the passage relates to itself internally and structurally Secondly, let's see how the passage relates to the parallel passages about Christ's body. That is externally and comparatively. First, as I often do, here's a word about the text structure. Verse 12 is important. It's like an outline, a preview of what's ahead in three parts. Look at Paul's words up to the first comma. For as the body is one and has many members. That's the idea of one formed by many. It's the focus of verses 12 to 19. It's that stage of the experiment when you open up a device to look at the parts inside. Paul continues, but all the members of that one body, being many, are one body. That's the idea of many forming one. It's the focus of what you'll see in verses 20 to 26. That's like the stage of the experiment when you close up the device after looking inside, looking at all the diversity. Finally, it says, so also is Christ, that's the doctrine of the church, the body of Christ. That's the focus of verses 27 to 31A. With all that said, we have three parts of today's passage, verses 12 to 19, 22 to 26, 27 to 31a, and we'll come back to this a little bit later. But here's a second broad question I bring to this passage. How do these verses relate to the parallel passages on the same topic of church body? I won't read them all, but the key ones are Ephesians 1. 22 to 23, 5. 23, Colossians 1. 18. They all make the same essential point that Christ is the head of the church and we are his body. That's the key doctrine of the church. As the head controls the limbs and the organs, so Jesus also rules over us. But now, as Bible as this truth is, the focus of today's passage is a bit different. It's not so much about Christ as the head of the body, but on the church, the body of Christ. How do we know? If well if Paul wanted to focus on Jesus as the head, he would not have said what he says in verse 21. The I cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. And here we go. Nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. Why speak of the head of the body this way if he wanted to equate the head to Christ? So in this sermon text, Paul's not using the body imagery to establish hierarchy per se. The stress is more uh interconnectedness, less on ranking, Paul is allowed to take one particular illustration and approach it in different ways in different contexts. We can let each way have its way. So here the main focus is on the parts that form the body, not the parts to submit to the head. Now don't get me wrong. It's not as if Paul does away with ideas of authority and rankings completely. You can never take a purely horizontal view of the church. Okay. There are vertical dimensions. There's always divine power above the church. God is sovereign over it He saturates us through the Spirit. He sets members in the body and composed it. He appointed gifts in the church and yes, he does rank them, as we'll see later. And we'll see how and why as we continue. Now to get back to the outline and to the point of today's passage, I want to ask this big question: what is Paul trying to teach us here? I mean the easy answer is he's teaching us about the church. Yeah, but we can be more specific. I propose the following. It's an anatomical study of Christ's body. The anatomical study of Christ's body inspires worship and unity. The one who fearfully and wonderfully makes the human body, the one whose works are marvelous. Has done, is doing, and will do great things through Christ's body. So let's observe the church, be in all of it, and be part of it. For that end, we have three anatomical lessons from the body of Christ. One, one body is formed by many parts, so unite in spirit and value diversity. So it's a little bit long. I'll repeat it. One body is formed by many parts. So unite in spirit and value diversity. That's 12 to 19. Two, many parts form one body. So avoid division and care for one another. Many parts form one body. Okay. So avoid division and care for one another. That's verse twenty to twenty-six Three, we are the body of Christ. So desire the best gifts of all and for all. We are the body of Christ. So desire the best gifts of all and for all. And that's 27 to 31A. First, one body is formed by many parts, so unite in spirit and value diversity. That's how we learn that the Spirit manifests himself through his gifts and distributes to each one in the church as he wills. And it turns out what he wills is some kind of order and purpose. There's no better illustration of order and purpose than a healthy functional human body. We feel it when it's out of order. Okay? But when it's in order, it's great, right? Now we say such things and take for granted how strange and wonderful that is. Individuals from a huge variety of backgrounds and cultures become one, not just one flock or one mass of people as in a crowd, but one body. How does this happen? Well, just as Paul did earlier in this chapter, he takes us back to our beginnings, to our common conversion. confessional experiences. Back in chapter uh back in verse 2 to 3, Paul reminded the Corinthians, the indwelling spirit enabled them to confess together that Jesus is Lord. Now in verse 13, we see how the Holy Spirit takes believers and unites them with other believers by means of spirit baptism. We are placed into Christ's body. Now what is this baptism of the Spirit? A quick survey. We start with the Gospel and the Acts. John the Baptist predicted it as a ministry of Christ. Jesus promised and delivered on the day of Pentecost. Peter preached then that the Spirit would also be given to other believers. Later believers. He saw it confirmed in his fellow Jews, and much to his surprise, to the Gentile saints too. And more on that in a moment. As for the exact operation of the spirit baptism, it helps to picture the ordinance of water baptism. Someone steps into the pool, he or she is immersed, and then he or she comes out. By this act, one baptized has declared his or her new identity. This is how one publicly identifies as a disciple of Jesus. Now, with water baptism, we're dealing with symbols sometime after being saved. With spirit baptism, we're dealing with reality at the very moment of being saved. So the baptism of the Spirit's a key facet of the gospel. It must be studied along with regeneration, justification, redemption, adoption, positional sanctification, and various other truths of salvation. But spirit baptism is more than a classroom exercise. It's the unifying experience of the church. Continuing verse 13. Spirit baptism bridges the gap between Jews and Greeks. That's the ethnic divide Right. Spirit Baptism bridges the gap between slaves and freedmen. That's the social divide. Divisions are gone because we've all been immersed. And we drank of the same spirit at Spirit Baptism. One body is formed by many parts, so unite in spirit. So in verses 12 to 13 we see how there's one body by means of one spirit. Now in verses 14 and 15 and all that's in between Paul tells us what the body is not. The body is not and cannot be formed by just one member. So we must value diversity. Now among us uh conservative circles, the word diversity gets a bad reputation these days. But don't let the fallen world ruin what's beautiful in God's eyes. There is a biblical diversity. We see it in creation. We'll see it in heaven. But we don't have to wait until heaven to see God glorifying diversity. The church can display unity and diversity today. For the next few verses, Paul argues that the Corinthians should value diversity more than they currently do. For that purpose, the apostle surprises us and shows us his funny side. Yes, it's true, Paul's got jokes. Now I understand elsewhere is mostly like dark humor. He's like sarcastic and facetious. But this time Paul's silly and it's effective. I mean some of the stuff he says, I mean he says here could be in that old far side cartoon series by Gary Larson. I don't know if you guys know that Okay, I feel old. Alright. But seriously, uh look at Paul's humor in verses fifteen to sixteen. We got a foot with the mouth, not foot in a mouth. It's got self-esteem issues Envying all the applause the hand gets. The foot feels like a footnote. Next there's an ear. It feels as if it's complaints falling on deaf ears. Why does everybody look at the eye and not me? But even if the foot and the ear could talk like this, they'd still be part of the body. Now hearing these parts, body parts talk is weird enough. Try to sketch verse 17 on a drawing pad or your bulletin. Right. Imagine a giant eye rolling around. I mean, it's nice to have our sight, but you'd be sad to miss out on the beautiful sounds of nature. Or picture a giant ear wiggling around. It's wonderful to hear all the pretty music, but what about the nose, right? The scent of a flower, fragrance of coffee, the smell of bacon. Sounds like my perfect breakfast. Coffee and bacon. Okay. Paul by being silly exposes how silly we can be at church. We're different from each other, and that's a good thing. God arranged it that way. As verses 18 to 19 says, now God has set the members, each one of them in the body just as he pleased. And if they were all one member, where would the body be? That's one body by means of one spirit. And that body is not formed by one single part. The body is formed by many parts. So unite in spirit and value diversity. So let's move right along to the next anatomical lesson. Many parts form one body, so avoid division and care for one another. In verses 12 to 19, Paul has diversified what is monochrome in perception, as if he's painting it with some palette. In verses 20 to 26, he's going to unify a disjointed diversity. Remember the opening illustration. It's good to open up a device to observe its complexity, but eventually you must put the parts back together and make it a whole. As Paul says in verse 20, now indeed there are many members, yet one body. Then the comedy bit with the talking body parts continues in verse 21, but we see it from a different angle. We heard the foot and the ear earlier. Now we hear the eye and the head. Whereas the foot and the ear suffer from low confidence, the eye is lofty, is prideful, it has a halty look. The head is big-headed and conceited. So the eye and the head up here, literally look down to the head and the feet down there. I have no need of you. Paul saying you can't say that because many parts form one body. From verse 22 to the middle of verse 24, Paul gets a bit more general. The burst numbering is a little bit unfortunate here, but um like what exactly but what exactly are those members of the body which seem to be weaker but necessary And those we think to be less honorable, but we still greater honor? Like what are we talking about here? Are we talking about the heart or the liver? We talk about the soft organs and tissues as opposed to the hard and tough bones and muscles. I mean it's true that God has designed our body. To hide and shield those fragile vital organs at all costs. That seems to be the idea behind bestowing greater honor to certain parts It's easier to guess what Paul's saying from the middle of verse 23 to the middle of 24. He's likely speaking euphemistically. He's probably referring to private parts that ought to be covered for decency's sake. Paul could go on and on, but he summarizes his point from the middle of verse 24 to the end of 25. God composed the body, many parts form one body, so our goal should be to have no schism in it, and members should have the same concern for one another. To be practical, we care for one another by doing two things. Suffer together and rejoice together Lest we forget God put our body together so that if so-called insignificant member suffers, the whole body will be put to on put on alert Our very own being testifies to this truth. When you stub your toe, your brain doesn't just go, that's your problem, Foot. Though your eyes activate tears, your mouth opens to howl, hopefully not saying mean things or nasty things. Your hand reaches for the wound. As it says in verse 26, if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. The same is true in a positive sense. When the head is crowned, the eye is guarded, right? The hand is bandaged. the entire body knows it. If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. So let's review here. One body is formed by many parts, so unite in spirit and value diversity. Many parts form one body. So avoid division and care for one another. And that builds up to the conclusion we are the body of Christ. So desire the best gifts of all and for all. Now easy to it's easy to pass by verse 27 quickly, but don't miss the significance of it. Paul's calling this particular church at a particular place in a particular time the body of Christ. He doesn't say here that the Corinthian church is incomplete as if it must go and join another body, a greater body. The Corinthian church itself is the body of Christ. Is no less a body of Christ than the universal church. That's why each congregation is autonomous, meaning possessing its own authority. Even if we were to voluntarily join a co-op and association or denomination or network, it wouldn't change the fact that we as Faith Bible Church is the body of Christ. As one commentary correctly observes, quote, each church is a sort of a microcosm of the entire the whole church Each church is a sort of a microcosm of the whole church. It's one of those mysteries of the Bible. The body of Christ is both universal and local. What is not a mystery is God's appointment of gifted individuals in verse 28. As Paul begins to list them. Remember that no list in the New Testament's meant to be comprehensive. Now what's unique here is with this list is that there's concern for ranking. Right? That is while all believers are equal in dignity and share in the Holy Spirit, some gifts are just better than others, right? They're more important. That's not because the best gifts glorify the gifted. No, the best gifts glorify God the Giver, and they are broadly edifying impact. That explains why Paul highlights the top three gifts like gold, silver, and bronze medals. So we begin. Why is apostleship the gold standard? Well, it's not because only the rigid qualifications such as being an eyewitness of the risen Lord, being directly called by him. It's not just about performing signs, okay? True apostles take the gospel both to Jews and Gentiles and reveal God's truth to churches. That's why they're foundational in their example and teaching. Doctrine. So that's why for 2,000 years we've been studying their inspired writings in the New Testament. Next up are the prophets, second only to the apostles. As I mentioned last time, prophets deliver the infallible word of God. They not only speak for the present, they predict the future. Best known to us are apostles who are also prophets, like Paul and John. We know little of individuals who were just prophets in the New Testament. There is Agavas in Acts. He and other prophets used their gifts to predict the widespread famine. Okay. They brought together different congregations for relief efforts. Later Agavus would help Paul brace himself for his upcoming persecution. In the third place are teachers. Now, unlike apostles and teachers, my belief is that teachers are still here with us today, and gifted teachers take apostles and prophetic material and explain them to others. The ability to teach is required for eldership, but it's a gift that's widely available, even for those not holding a formal church office. So the top three in order are apostle, prophet, and teacher. I'll get back to why these three are prominent, but let's go through the other five first. They seem to be lumped together from middle of verse 28 without numerical rankings. Okay? It's as if they're in a mixed bag. Miracles and gifts of healings are pretty self-explanatory. Health is a gift befitting a deacon. It likely refers to helping those who are weak, such as the poor, the ill, widows, orphans, sojourners, and outcasts. Administration in the original language related to nautical titles of helmsman and shipmaster of seafaring. Just as guiding a ship safely to the shore requires skill and wisdom, same kind of leadership gift is required in the church. Finally, at the end of verse 28, Paul mentions the variety of tongues, the supernatural gift of speaking foreign languages, and we'll talk more about that in the later chapters. Now Paul takes this one list and derives two lessons from it. The first lesson is that not everyone has the same gift. Okay, this is a direct application of what's said earlier. Not everyone's an eye, not everyone's an ear. Notice the repetition in verses 29 to 30. The questions that begin with are all or do all. In the blank. The second lesson is that not every gift has the same value in the church. The first half of verse 31 says it straightforwardly, earnestly desired the best gifts. You don't have to guess what those are. What's the top three in verse twenty-eight? That may not sound so controversial, but keep in mind That the Corinthians were fascinated and more enamored with the gifts lower in the list, miracles, healings, and tongues. They may have found Paul's ranking surprising. But the goal of every church gathering is edification. And the best way to edify is stress the teaching of the doctrines of the apostles and the prophets. You personally might find such gifts boring, right? But remember we are the body of Christ. So desire the best gifts of all and for all. So again to review here Paul's three anatomical lessons. One body is formed by many parts, so unite in spirit and value diversity. Many parts form one body, so avoid division and care for one another. We are the body of Christ, so desire the best gifts of all and for all. Have you thought about these truths before? Have you thought about unity and diversity? Do you care for fellow saints? Sympathize and rejoice with them? Do you rather be a church hopper than a church member? Are you committed to the local body of Christ? Not just you as if you belong to the universal church? Or maybe you're still vain. You probably think this church is about you, don't you? This is a great opportunity to talk about the gospel, rehearse the gospel. You're hearing this and you're not a Christian. Let me admit to you, even true Christians struggle with commitment to each other. Sympathizing and rejoicing with others. Apart from God's grace, we cannot attain unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is a perversity in each of us. We sow strife. We're whisperers. Instead of seeking love and covering transgressions, we repeat matters and separate friends. We're divisive, we're quarrelsome, even say to each other, I have no need of you. That's who we are in our fallen, sinful nature. But the Lord did not leave us like this. God, the Father, sent his Son. The Son is before all things, and in Him all things consist, upholding all things by the word of His power. But he became man, divine and human in one person, Jesus. He lived a perfect life proving that he is the promised Christ. He showed the world that he and his father are one, that he is in the Father, and the Father is in him. But God's greatest work in Christ was at the cross. At Calvary, Jesus, through the eternal spirit, offered himself without spot to God. He suffered as our substitute, paying the penalty of sin we should pay the wrath of God, hell itself He declared his work finished. He was broken to unite us. He died. He was buried. He rose from the grave. He gave ample proofs of his resurrection for many days. He ascended to heaven. And someday he'll return. When he returns, he'll set up his everlasting rule. He'll establish it with judgment and justice The kingdom of God is righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. For those outside, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So make sure you get in. You can enter the kingdom of heaven today. Being born again. That means repent, turn from selfish living and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus, trust in Him only to live forever. Eternal life is not a work to be earned, it's unmerited, it's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone. in Christ alone. And when you believe, you are baptized by the Spirit and placed into Christ's body. Through the love of the Spirit, we strive together in prayers. Now the same Holy Spirit who binds us as one in Jesus But leads us outward too. So let's think about that as we sing our final song. By faith the church was called to go in the power of the Spirit to the lost. To deliver captives and to preach good news in every corner of the earth. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for calling us into one body. Or this is sometimes underrated or not talked about enough. Yes, we think about our relationship with you, and rightly so. We think about our eternal destiny. Lord, these are very important truths. No day is guaranteed. We need to get right with you. But Lord, remind us again. And when we get right with you, Lord, we were placed into a church family, a body. Lord, in your sovereign will, you saved us and you placed us. And it was no accident that we were we live around here in America. Help us to discern why you placed us in this area, in this state, in this county or city. or whatever, and help us to unite and have concern for each other, to sympathize with each other and rejoice together. To really not just say hi, not just recognize each other's faces, but to really bond together, to go through life together. Of course, we start with worship here on Sundays, but we want our lives to be intertwined in a beautiful tapestry that glorifies you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.