So many know William Carey, that famous missionary to India. Maybe not as many know that Kerry had a good friend in Andrew Fuller Both share this conviction that evangelism and missions must be cross-cultural. But while Kerry went overseas, Fuller served at home. As the president of the Baptist Mission Society. Fuller raised funds, preached the Great Commission at local churches, and allowed those abroad to concentrate on their work. Now before Kerry left for India, he famously told Fuller, I will go down into the pit if you will hold the ropes. I will go down into the pit if you will hold the ropes. It's likely that most of us will be among those holding the ropes. By no means does that lessen the urgency or the importance of the unfinished task. I was reminded this week that pastors hold the roast by building a missions culture. developing a strong missionary care. And with those reminders, it's true, holding these ropes is not my privilege alone. Right. Today's passage will help all of us strengthen our grip on these ropes. We're in the final stretch of our coverage of First Corinthians. of chapter sixteen is the last chapter of this letter. It might seem a bit anticlimactic after chapter fifteen, where we find the glorious doctrine of the resurrection But we at Faith Bible are committed to expository preaching from the pulpit. That means we do not skip over parts of the Bible just because it's not as exciting as others. So now on to chapter 16. In the first verse, we find a familiar phrase now concerning. Recall this phrase helped in outlining this letter from chapter 7 onwards. Some major topics Paul covered include marriage and singleness in chapter 7, idols and eating of things offered to idols, chapter 8, the use of spiritual gifts, chapter 12 In chapter 16, you'll see the marker phrase now concerning twice. First in verse 1, there's the collection for the Saints. Secondly in verse 12, there's the letter of there's a brother Apollos there, right? If 1 Corinthians 16 was a business memo, the subject line might read Financial Resources. And human resources. The fact is, healthy churches need both. And I've been saying that when it comes to our finances or our attendance Our membership roster. Numbers aren't everything, but there's something. Numbers aren't everything, but there's something. That's not just a clever axiom, right? It's something to consider carefully in preparation for our third quarter meeting, Lord willing. Now lest you think I'm just acting like some CEO, C O O C F O, I want you to see what Paul says to the Corinthians about money and people. Maybe our look at first Corinthians sixteen will lead us to do something. Maybe we'll actually open the financial reports for now to send through email. You know, or maybe we'll look at the directory, you know, read over our prayer lists and guide and intercede for our members and our supportive missionaries. Maybe over time we'll realize that stewarding financial resources, shepherding our human resources. Accounting for money, accountability for people are really biblical concerns of a healthy church. Can only hope is I read and expound 1 Corinthians 16, 1 to 9. So let's read that now. 1 Corinthians 16, 1 to 9. Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given orders to the churches of Galatia, so you must do also On the first day of the week, let each one of you lay something aside, storing up as he may prosper, that there be no collections when I come. And when I come, whomever you approve by your letters, I will send to bear your gift to Jerusalem. them. But if it is fitting that I go also, they will go with me. Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia. Macedonia and it may be that I will remain or even spend the winter with you that you may send me on my journey wherever I go For I do not wish to see you now on the way, but I hope to stay awhile with you if the Lord permits, but I will tarry in Ephesus until Pentecost, for a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. The last word of chapter 15 may not seem so relevant to the first words of chapter 16 Paul held up our eyes to glory, our spiritual bodies, the Lord of heaven, victory over death and Hades. Now he has our eyes below on the day-to-day, week-to-week church giving and administration. That is by no means flashy or extraordinary, but it's necessary. So, as much as we abound in those attention-grabbing works of the Lord, we must also measure in the less glamorous work of financial statistics and travel logistics. Now, the principles we'll derive from this passage are fairly simple, even if they might be overlooked. But before going on to these principles, we need at least some study of background and geography. So bear with me as and allow me to talk a bit about four places and three plans. Okay? They'll help us to see where Paul is and where he's going. Four places are as follows. There's Ephesus where Paul's writing this letter. There's Macedonia, the first European province Paul reached as a missionary. Next there's Corinth, where the letter is headed, and soon where Paul himself is headed. Okay, finally there's Jerusalem. Let me focus on Jerusalem. Why is Paul fixated there on there? Well simply put, they needed financial help. And the thought of Paul wanting to help the poor of Jerusalem and they needing that help, nothing new. Years ago He and Barnabas delivered a famine relief fund to the brethren dwelling in Judea, as in Acts eleven. When he met the Jerusalem leaders during that trip, Paul revealed how he's just as eager as them to remember the poor. Find that account in Galatians 2. And the saints of Jerusalem needed every single penny Paul was Paul could bring. The earliest Jewish Christians there faced immediate persecution from their own countrymen, Paul would know. He was one of those persecutors. Saints were put out of synagogues, thrown into prison, dragged to court. Add to all this, there were widows and orphans in need of desperate support. The problem's obvious, but now the question is how Paul's going to raise the funds. Well it's not as as obvious in today's passage, but fast forward towards the end of Romans you'll get more details. FYI by that point Paul is at Corinth and he writes in Romans fifteen, twenty-five to twenty. But now I am going to Jerusalem to minister to the saints, for it pleased those from Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor among the saints who are in Jerusalem. It pleased them indeed, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister to them. them in material things. Therefore when I have performed this and have sealed to them this fruit, I shall go by way of you to Spain. So Paul's basically eager to gather material blessings from Gentile believers and distribute to Jerusalem believers who bless the Gentiles with their spiritual blessings. We learn from various passages that the generous donations come from three major regions, Macedonia, where Philippi, Thessalonica, and Berea are located. Achaia, where Corinth's located. Galatia, where Derby and Lystra are located. From these various churches Paul amasses a sizable sum and takes with him representatives. From Corinth he departs to Jerusalem to bring alms and offerings for the people. people. So now these places, Ephesus, Macedonia, Corinth, and Jerusalem are easy to identify. But what's constantly in flux are Paul's travel plans, and it helps to summarize his itinerary in the following manner. Paul had travel plan A, changed of travel plan B, plan B falls apart, so he ends up back in plan A. Has this ever happened to you? I don't know. So uh plan A can be summarized with three letters, okay? M C J M's for Macedonia, C's for Corinth, J's for Jerusalem, that's all good. But then Paul changed his mind and resorted to plan B. CMCJ, right? You can read about this plan in 2 Corinthians 1, 15 to 16. sixteen he says there I intended to come to you before that you might have a second benefit to pass by way of you to Macedonia to come again from Macedonia to you and be helped by you on my way to Judea. So the two C's there meaning he wants to spend twice time with them twice. So that's the double benefit Paul intended for the Corinthians in plan B. He desired to spend time with them. With them twice. Well, Plan B didn't work out. The first C or the first visit to Corinth was so bad that Paul did not want to see them again for some time. He rather spared them of another painful visit. Okay, he abandoned plan B, uh the CMCJ plan for the moment. So um basically this is what happened. Okay what was supposed to be a commute from C to M, turn to C to E. That is Paul returned to Ephesus. He followed up with a tearful letter sent to Corinth to Titus Okay, so buying some time for their sake and his, he decided to visit Macedonia first, so back to plan A. After failing to rendezvous with Titus and Troas, Paul eventually located him in Macedonia. All of these details in 2 Corinthians. But Titus brought good news. The Corinthians responded well to that terrible letter. They repented in godly sorrow. This was such good news to Paul that he immediately wrote what we know as 2 Corinthians. In response, and he eventually does make it down to Corinth. So it turns out during his third missionary trip, Paul makes his second and third visit to Corinth. He spent three months there in winter before departing for Jerusalem. He would have sailed right out of Greece, but that's plan didn't change it. That plan had to change as well, but that's a story for another day. So I know that's a lot, but I hope this talk helps us to sketch the big picture. Four key places, Ephesus, Macedonia, Corinth, and Jerusalem. Paul had travel plan A, changed the travel plan B, plan B falls apart, so it ends up back in plan A. Okay, so that's Paul's itinerary and that's good and all, but what's there to learn from all this? I think I observed two lessons based on the structure of 1 Corinthians 16. The hinge, I think, is at verses four and five. Paul speaks of accompanying the Corinthian representatives to Jerusalem. That gets them to back up a bit to talk about how he'll get to Corinthians. First. And looking at the parts, two parts carefully, I you could say verses one to four have to do with financial presence, verses five to nine about physical presence. Right? So I observed two ways. The budget are two precious resources. Spend money for needy saints with intention and integrity. Spend time discipling saints despite challenging circumstances. That's verses five to nine. First, spend money for needy saints with intention and integrity. As Paul turns to the matter of giving, there's some precedence to consider. Before asking money from the Corinthians, Paul had already asked from the Galatians. Okay, um you might have guessed already, but I take Galatia to mean the region. Paul and Barnabas visited in Paul's first mission trip where Titus, I'm sorry, where Timothy and certain Gaius had lived. Now even if you disagree with my view on Galatia, we can agree that Paul has known the churches of Galatia longer than the church of Corinth, and he's been teaching the Galatians things like let him who is taught the word share in all good things with him who teaches That's chapter 6 of verse 6 in Galatians and verse 10. As we have opportunity, let us do good to all, especially to those who are of the household of faith. Evidently, Paul's been teaching various Gentile churches not only the importance of giving, but also the performance of giving. The performance of giving is what we see in verses 2 and 3 in today's passage. Verse 2 has to do with what the Corinthians must do before Paul arrives. Verse 3 has to do with what the Corinthians must do after Paul arrives. First, before Paul arrives, they must get into a weekly pattern of monetary giving. The first day of the week speaks of Sunday, the day saints gathered for worship. And before they met, each church member at home had to think about giving. See the command there in the middle of verse 2 is singular. Let each one of you lay something aside, Paul said. That's why we give out these envelope boxes so that you guys can think about that before you arrive here. Now it's interesting what Paul does not say here There's no specification of amount, no percentage, though I argue that tenth is the standard. The apostles are aware that one's life situation can differ widely from another. Perhaps one may not be able to give. weekly as income fluctuates. So that's why he adds this qualification, storing up as he may prosper. That allows for some liberty in giving, so that one may give cheerfully, not grudgingly, or of necessity. Still there's need for a regular pattern, right? Established while Paul's still weeks and months away from arrival. And the intention of this performance of giving and collecting before his arrival is stated at the end of verse 3, that there be no collections when I come. In other words, that because the church would have been giving weekly in advance, there's no large charity drive, huge fundraising event, chasing down those who made pledges. Paul has more pressing matters to address upon arrival. Whatever he can preclude beforehand, he'll do so now. Now, it's not necessarily wrong to make a big splash in-person fundraiser, but Paul's not interested in pushing people to give, especially since the need is obvious and well known. Every Christian should know already the basics of giving. Remember the words of Jesus who said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. So we too should spend money for needy saints with intention. Now if verse 2 teaches us to be intentional about giving, verse 3 adds that we must have integrity too. Paul won't say he'll take the collection from their hands and deliver it himself. He doesn't say, trust me. Me. I'm an apostle. Just give me the bag. He says rather, when I come, whomever you approve by your letters, I will send to bury your gift to Jerusalem. Here's a quick note on the translation of verse 3. It's gonna get a little bit complicated, but hopefully this visual will help. In your print Bibles you'll see that the first instance of your right The one before letters is italicized. That indicates that the editors added that word in there. Your is not in the original. They're assuming that the letters are written by the Corinthians. But most translations, I think, correctly assume that these letters will be written by Paul. The letters, grammatically speaking, are attached to Paul's sending rather than the Corinthians approved. Okay, so again this is the visual. Pay attention to where the brackets are located. It's not when I come, whomever you approve by your letters, I will send to bear your gift to Jerusalem. But instead it's when I come, whomever you approve by my letters, I will send to bear your gift to Jerusalem. So Paul's letters become apostolic stamps of approval. They add weight to the givers and their giving. So back to our point, right? Whoever wrote these letters and whomever the Corinthians choose as gift-bearers, there's a concern for integrity. This is why it's not only because having multiple people carry the money provides safety in numbers. Okay. It's no ATM, right? back then. It's also wise because Paul's refusing to overreach. He's not picking his favorite people in the audience or the Corinthians as gift bearers. That would draw suspicion that Paul's taking a share of it. See how Paul's concern for good testimony and sound financial practices Like him, we too must spend money for the needy saints with intention and integrity. Okay. Um I'll wrap up this point with verse four. As Paul transitions to logistics, he entertains the possibility that he'd accompany the Corinthian gift bears. It was I was looking up the word fitting here. In almost every other instance of it, it's translated as wordy. Then perhaps it should be translated, but if it's worth it or worthy that I go also, they will go with me. Right. So what exactly is worth it or worthy? It sure sounds like he's talking about the total amount. I think whether Paul joins the gift bearers or not depends on how much is collected. If it's a lot, then Paul should be with them during the presentation of the gift. After all, Paul is the founder and planter of the Corinthian church. It's like to say we as a church are attending a big conference with various churches. During the event our representatives will present a donation on stage. You probably want a pastor or the founding pastor if he was still alive to like hand the check. It's not because it has to be that way, but just because it seems appropriate. Now I barely anything's collected, say only a few cents and dollars. uh a paltry stump on Corinth, then it's unnecessary for the apostle to go with the bears. Now I'll be clear that this is not because Paul has an ego or pride or cares too much about how he looks It's just that how a ministry and its minister looks in public sphere is in fact important. And if there's an opportunity to advance the gospel, there's no need to apologize. Or be shy about promoting the good work of the Lord and publicize it. Take it from Paul himself in Romans 11, 13. In as much as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry. If by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh and save some of them. By any means, might include this: magnifying gospel preaching by pairing it with magnanimous giving. If Jewish unbelievers in Jerusalem would see Paul's ministry and its fruit, its quality and quantity. Christian character and Christian charity, they might pay more attention to what Paul has to say. There's nothing wrong with that kind of strategy As for the believers in Jerusalem, he says, and Paul says in 2 Corinthians 9:10-13, that in addition to supplying their needs, much thanksgiving, praise, and prayers might result from this giving. But at this point, it remains to be seen whether the Corinthians step up and donate a sizable sum. For those who are optimistic. Remember, we did read earlier in Romans 15, 26 that those from Achaia made a contribution. On the side of the pessimists, some clues indicate hesitation. And in Acts 20, verse 4, no representative of Corinth is listed. So in the end, we're not sure exactly how much Corinthians gave, but what is certain is this, right? We should spend money for needy saints with intention and integrity. So that's how the church should be spending money. But there's another precious resource we should be stewarding well. It's time. It's not just time in the abstract, but time well spent. Time well spent in ministry. Outreach and inreach. That gets us the second spiritual budgeting practice, right? Spend time discipling saints despite challenging circumstances Factors that shape Paul's itinerary include spending money on people and spending time with people. Remember the plan that he had at the beginning and returned to the inn was to go to Macedonia first and then visit Corinth. But on Corinth there are some challenges that limit travel. I know these days we're accustomed to traveling around Thanksgiving or Christmas. But that wasn't so easy in the first century. It's dangerous to travel by sea from September to winter months. Paul knew this well as a seasoned m maritime traveler. Take a look at Acts 27. So that knocks out some months of the calendar in the year, right? And then looking at the calendar again 1 Corinthians 16, 8 gives us a hint that he's writing in early spring. Until Pentecost probably means that it's after Passover. Paul's thinking about the next major holiday in the calendar. The closest parallel I can think of is this. Imagine if I said a week after Fourth of July, I'll stay where I am until Labor Day. This so gives us a sort of a time frame. So Paul's writing sometime within the fifty days between Passover and Pentecost, we're thinking about April or May. Combined that with this seafaring limitation I just mentioned starting in September, that amounts to about four months in travel time, which isn't that much. Remember, this isn't a world of red eyes, direct flights, and bullet trains. But despite challenging circumstances, Paul spends time in discipling efforts. Since the churches in Macedonia, Philippi, and Thessalonica are not his problem children, he'll budget less time with them. If Paul's going to be stuck anywhere for three winter months, it should be at Corinth. Bound to be a lot of tantrums and discipline at the church in Corinth, but with whom I nicknamed Corey throughout this sermon series. But some kids just need that kind of extra attention. I think you guys know that, right? So that kind of calendar planning is what guys Paul's thinking here in verses 5 to 9. Verse 5, Paul's definitely going Macedonia, he repeats that for emphasis. Verse 6, he's going to arrive in Corinth and he hopes to spend three months there. Then when seafaring is safe, he'll be on his way. Verse 7, he doesn't want to make a quick stop at Corinth. He wants to stay a while, but of course he has to maintain a loose grip on these plants. Now, as far as where Paul's at the moment, you look at Acts 19 and you'll see all the excitement taking place in Ephesus. And that corresponds to First Corinthians sixteen eight and especially verse nine. There's some highlights at Ephesus. Paul has some tough times at the synagogue, but he got a great core of disciples, graduates of the school of John the Baptist, right? He also got a great place to disciple daily in the school of Tyrannus. The result? This continued for two years so that all who dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Really good news. A lot of good things happening. There's more as you continue. As God worked unusual miracles by Paul's hands. And cheap impersonations of his ministry were exposed. Luke reports the following. Fear fell on all Jews and Greeks dwelling in Ephesus and The name of the Lord Jesus was magnified, and many who had believed came confessing and telling their deeds. Also many of those who had practiced magic brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all, and they counted up the value of them, and it totaled fifty thousand pieces. So the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. That's quite a remarkable ministry in Ephesus. You'll see why Paul says in 1 Corinthians 16:9, a great and effective door has opened to me. That's how the gospel reached places like Colossae. But also says there that there were many adversaries You continue in the second half of Acts 19. Around the time that Paul determined to go through Macedonia and Achaia on the way to Jerusalem and Rome, Luke reports that there arose a great commotion about the way, that is, the Christians. A silversmith named Demetrius was suffering financially. That's because where true Christianity prospers, the business of idolatry suffers. He voices concern to his guild of those in the similar occupation as he. They formed the mob, grabs Paul's travel companions. Paul was safe, but and the mob disbanded. But that's the taste of these challenging circumstances in Ephesus. But despite difficult travel and difficult people, ministry opportunities. Are all worth it. There are opportunities to evangelize, opportunities to edify. That's why we should spend time discipling saints despite challenging circumstances. So let's review and close. Why are great expenditures of money and time worth it all? What motivates men like Paul to endure challenging circumstances, adverse conditions, and adversarial people is the gospel, right? The gospel is the good news of Jesus, the power to save. The message begins with the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy, but we worship and serve the creature rather than the creator. We became halty, trusted uncertain riches, coveted, stolen, sinned in thought, word, and deed, offended our Lord, our guilt is great, and so is his wrath poured out on us. But God did not leave us like this. The Lord is good, ready to forgive, abundant in mercy to all those who call upon him. And he didn't wait until we start seeking him, because of course there's no one who seeks after God. He took the initiative, he sent his son Jesus Jesus is God made flesh. Consider what he gave up when the Son of God became the Son of Man. He made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, coming in the likeness of men. Though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor, that we through his poverty might become rich. He made the ultimate sacrifice as he gave up even his life. He did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. He shed his blood at the cross He became our substitute. Pay the penalty of sins we should pay. He died and he was buried with the rich as a sign that he's innocent. Done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. But that was not the end. He rose from the grave. He proved to many beyond doubt that he truly has resurrected. He became our great high priest who has passed through the heavens. He ascended on high, led captivity captive, gave gifts to men. And while there are many gifts, right, the greatest, the most indescribable gift is the gift of heaven. The wages of sin is that, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. You can claim it as yours. As Puritans used to say, you can close with Christ. Close the deal with Him. The exceeding riches of God's grace and his kindness are yours, not by works, but by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. As we live by faith in the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us, let us move, be loving and giving for the sake of others. We want to be like Jesus, right? As impressive as Paul might be, right? But that kind of imitation requires humility from above. So let's make our final song A praise and a prayer. Thou who was rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake became as poor. Later in that same song, Emmanuel, within us dwelling, make us what thou wouldst have us be. Let's pray. Though you are powerful and you do all things, that you allow us to have this joy of giving, the joy of love Or when we supply the needs of others, when we're able to provide, when we're able to spend time, or there's great joy in discipling, there's great joy in helping those in need. So such joy is something that comes from you as a gift, even as we give gifts to others. Or as we reflect on the kindness that has been shown to us. Ultimately from you. And greatest of all, the kindness of your son. And just uh the love that we have from you. And even the gift of the Holy Spirit who abides in us. Pray that we would see how much we receive and see that it's more blessed to give and to imitate You, our loving Father, and your Son, the sacrificial Jesus Christ. And Lord, as we think about the various applications that may come from this, Lord, how we spend our time and money. Lord, we pray that you would have these thoughts linger with us this week. As we check our bank accounts, as we uh just think about our next paycheck. Or what can we do to spend time and money to bring you glory to Further your kingdom. Lord, answer those questions, Lord, please, as we meditate on your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.