Thank you again for attending our Christmas Eve celebration tonight. And one of my favorite things about this season is the chance to sing these beloved Christmas carols and hymns. I've been singing them since I was a kid. First learned Silent Night, Holy Night in Korean when I was just six or seven years old. I'm going to sing it again with you guys in English after this, and now I'm 43 years old. And there's so many other songs, even newer ones I appreciate, to help us remember Christ's birth. It's fun to teach them to my children and for many of you, to your grandchildren, and maybe your students. Your nephews and nieces. And of course you don't have to wait until December to sing them. No one will stop you from singing them all year round. Now here's another thing about hymns. Which we sing at our church. And some hymns, not one of those traditional Christmas ones, but others unexpectedly point you to the beauty of Christmas. I was talking to a pastor from Virginia who said to me once, he thinks William Cooper's There is a Fountain Filled with Blood is one of those Okay, it's because of the first line from the first verse. I'll say the whole thing for you, just the first verse. See if you recognize the Christmas truth in it There is a fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners, plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. I'll talk about sinners and guilty stains later, but first back to the top. We see that this famous song starts with the typical cleansing motif throughout the Bible. We see it, and we reinforce it in our singing tonight. There is a fountain filled with blood. What what arrests my attention is the name of Emmanuel. It's another name of Christ, and it means God with us. That's what we celebrate in Christmas. Taken by itself, Emmanuel is appropriate here on a day like today, as we discuss the fulfillment of Isaiah 7. 14, the virgin birth of Jesus through Mary. But the fact that God with thus is set to have veins with blood coursing through them may sound strange to some ears. As we consider how the uncreated one, set apart from creation, became part of creation, we must think about his body and blood. The one to be feared above all, the maker of all things, performing great wonders, was fearfully and wonderfully made. Strange mystery. Through the Son of God are all things, and through him we live, yet he became Son of Man. He experienced the formation of inward parts as he was covered in his mother's womb. His little heart started beating, pumping blood and in and out of his chambers. I could go on and on, but I would have to double check with my medical professional wife. But leaning on the scriptures, we know that like every child, Jesus grew from conception until the day he was born. Unlike every other child though, he was born of a virgin without original sin So the miracle of conception and birth is amazing enough in itself, but to say God experienced it all baffles the mind. It's a profound mystery, the incarnation of Christ. But what is understandable is this, when the body of Jesus filled with blood, it wasn't just to sustain his human earthly life. No, it flowed in his veins so that someday he might suffer and give us divine heavenly life. His blood will be the price needed to pay for our sins and cleanse us. We read earlier from 1 Peter 1, 18 to 19 about Christians are not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from aimless conduct received by tradition from our fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Not only did we read about it, we heard it in the music, sang about it, precious Lamb of Glory, Love's most wondrous story, Heart of God's redemption of man, worship the Lamb of Glory. See in yonder manger loaf, born for us on earth below, see the tender lamb appears, promised from eternal years. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away our sin, the life and light of men, who died and rose again, who comes to take away our sin. And finally, just as I am, and waiting not to rid my soul of one dark blot, to thee whose blood can cleanse each spot, O Lamb of God, I come To put it together, all together, God with us is the Lamb of God. We need him. We need the wonderworking power of his blood. That's because there's no part of us that's unaffected by sin. We transgress the law, so we're unclean. We pollute ourselves and our land with idolatries. There is in us the overflow of wickedness, the Bible tells us. Even our so-called righteousness is like filthy rags So we deserve nothing but separation from God, eternally apart from Him in hell. We can't hope to stand before Him. His eyes are too pure to behold evil and look on wickedness. But unlike us, Jesus lived a perfect life. God's Son is his holy servant, as one of us, he sympathizes with our weakness, as he was in all points tempted as we are, yet he was without sin. He committed no sin, nor was his seat found in his mouth. For these reasons he can save us. is qualified to be the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, but that requires his blood to be shed and applied to our hearts through faith. The perfect lamb had to become the lamb who was slain. That's why Jesus went to Jerusalem. There he should have been received as is King of Israel, but instead they rejected him. They led him to be crucified. But this was all part of God's plan. As many lambs were slaughtered that day about 2,000 years ago, they were all pointing to the fulfillment of God's promise Is the promise of forgiveness through a substitute? That's why Christ died on the cross to pay the penalty of sins that we committed. He died in our place. Having paid the price in full, he declared his work finished. He breathed his last and he died He was buried but rose from the grave on the third day. After showing many proofs of his resurrection, he ascended to heaven. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. This good news of Jesus calls for your response, and we sang about that. God desires that the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanse you from all sin. So will you humble yourself? Will you enter that fountain just as Naaman entered the Jordan River? Will you repent, turn from selfish living and self-righteousness? Will you turn to Christ and trust in Him only for everlasting life? That light he offers freely. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So I hope you see how precious is the blood of Jesus. If all this sounds very new to you, please talk to me or one of the people who goes to this Church-Baith Bible church. Or if this is something you've already known. I hope that it encourages you this Christmas season. Know that the blood of Christ is worth more than all the money in the world, silver or gold. Worth more than all your cherished traditions? Without the lamb being slain to save sinners, there can be no book of life. Had he not risen from the grave, we could not rise out of filth Had he not ascended to heaven, we could not sit together with him in heavenly places. Now we saints enjoy Christ as Emmanuel. Because he is with us, even as we go and make disciples of all nations. All because of that blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins. So let's remember that as we pray and close and sing about the night of his birth, silent night, holy night. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this mystery that just baffles our mind and will never fully grasp. But we're thankful because as we behold this wondrous mystery, as we think about your son becoming flesh, it was to redeem us. It was to shed his blood one day. And we recall that even the the cradle that pointed to the cross Even as he was born, there were foreshadowing of what would take place about 30 years later after his birth. And Lord, now we stand about 2,000 years later, and we look forward to the great kingdom ahead. Look forward to the second advent. And until then, may we celebrate and may we understand, may we ponder in our hearts what it really means to trust in your son, what it means to be born again. What it means to be destined for heaven. So we thank you for Christmas. Lord, remind us as we sit around the tables with our family and friends that it's not about Gifts and Santa, but remind us that it's the greatest gift that you gave to us, the precious gift of your only begotten Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.