Not like some features like to come up and during the sermon, maybe like tell people to say something to the person left or right of you. Like, you know. I never like that, but I'm gonna make you guys do it today. So Try to say it as gently as possible, but turn to the person to your left and right and say, What's wrong with you? Now if you're you know I don't know having some relationship trouble in your marriage, just again tone down the the rhetoric, tone down the uh the belligerence, but but also as what's wrong with me? Right? You could ask, what's wrong with us? What's wrong with the world? And what's wrong with the world is not only a good question It's the title of a book by G. K. Chesterton. In it, he talks about mankind's essential problem. Man, he says, quote, has always lost his way. But now he has lost his address. Man has always lost his way, but now he has lost his address. Not only are so it's saying basically, not only are we wandering aimlessly, We don't know where we were. We don't know where we're headed. The right instinct, when lost, is to stop and retrace our steps To do that we turn to the book that reveals our origins, the Bible. Even John Steinbeck, a nominal Christian at best. and an agnostic has turned to his first chapters to study human evil. He found that phrase East of Eden Act for the title of his tragic fictional novel. But East of Eden is also a fitting description of a real problem, real tragedy. Our main problem is that while we once lived in Eden, now we live east of Eden. No matter where we are physically, outside of Eden is where we are spiritually. All of our problems, estrangement from ourselves and from each other, stem from our estrangement from each other. God. We learned that especially in Genesis 3, which we've been going through slowly. But the Bible doesn't just point out problems, it offers a solution. For example, Genesis 3:15, we told the prophesied defeat of the serpent. It's what's called the proto-evangelium, the first gospel. So even at the lowest of lows, there's the highest hope for man. And woman. Even while speaking of the fall, there's a talk of redemption. In a chapter of deadly thorns and thistles, there's a life-giving seed of the gospel. It's no wonder that famous Anglican J. C. Riles said once, quote, The Old Testament is the gospel in the bud, the New Testament is the gospel in full flower. Again, the Old Testament is the gospel in the bud. The New Testament is the gospel in full flower. This reminded me of how my son diligently cares for a small green pea plant. He wonders at how much it grows even overnight. Little tendrils coming out. I'm amazed too, right, just how much it grows. And it's one thing to see a plant already fully grown. It's another thing to see it mature incrementally and gradually. In the same way, we benefit from tracing the development of God's plan from the beginning to the end. End, right? From creation and fall to redemption and consummation. Along the way we learn not only what's wrong with us, but how God will make all things right Let's get to it. Let's finish out Genesis 3. Let's look at the final five verses of it. Genesis 3, 20 to 24. And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. Also, for Adam and his wife, the Lord God made tunics of skin and cleaning Then the Lord God says, Behold, the man has become like one of us to know good and evil. And now lest he put out his hand and take also the tr of the tree of life, and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out of the garden of Eden to till the ground from which he was taken. So he drove out the man, and he placed cherubim at the east of the Garden of Eden, and a flaming sword which turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. I could summarize today's passage in three words that correspond to three lessons. They all begin With the letters EXP. The first lesson from verse 20 concerns expectation. I believe that when Adam named his wife Eve, he showed faith. He was confident in God's promise of her seed, mentioned a few verses ago. Through her childbearing and her seeds bruises Bruising, there's hope for mankind. Again, the proto-Amangelium. But while mankind waits for the promise deliver, they must meditate on the idea of sacrifice. So next there's some foreshadowing concerning expiation. I'll come back to this big word expiation and two other words. Atonement and propitiation when we look at verse 21 closely. But for now, I'll just say that God is teaching us about the cost of sin. There's a cost to cover up the shame of man and woman. It's life for life. It's literally skin for skin. This is a miniature lesson on how the sh without shedding of blood, there is no remission. If you think that's cruel, take it from the Lord Himself. He's the one who slay the animal, made the tuna. This was not only a general provision of a father. He not only promised a victorious sacrifice by the woman's seed He got us looking ahead to the vicarious sacrifice by God's Lamb. But with all that said, while eagerly waiting and expecting, they must endure the effects of the ball. In the rest of the passage, verses 22 to 24, we hear of Adam and Eve's expulsion from Eden. We return to those two trees of the garden, the forbidden one of knowledge of good and evil, touched and eaten. Now even the tree of life is forbidden. This one cannot be touched or eaten. Man is driven out of the perfect workplace to work the ground. He can never return to the path of life as angelic guardians and weapons block the way to Eden. So that's a quick summary of the passage. I'll go through it again at a slower pace, but I'll keep as headings three lessons. First, we must exhibit expectant faith in God's promises. That's verse 20. Secondly, we must ponder the provision of God's covering. That's verse twenty-one. Thirdly, we must lament what's lost under God's judgment. That's verses twenty-two to twenty-five. First lesson, exhibit expectant faith in God's promises Let me reread verse 20 while the points are still up there. And Adam called his wife's name Eve because she was the mother of all living. Now you may find this to be a strange response to what the Lord has just said. L He has just declared the ground cursed. Thorns and thistles will prick and tear at their skin. Sweat will drench our faces, and all that to end in death when man returns to the ground as dust. But then what's this response of Adam? We're called here, just to analyze it, is an authoritative act. In chapter one, we saw the word five times. God called the light day, the darkness night, the firmament sky, the dry land earth, and the gathering of waters sea. In chapter 2, on the sixth day, we see the same word call, but now Adam is the one who calls. Before the Lord uh Brought him a helper comparable to him. He brought him cattle, birds of the air, and beasts of the field. It says in verse 19, whatever Adam called each living creature, that was his name. Not only did this work intensify man's longing for a companion, it proved that he was superior to these animals. And even with his uh fellow human image bearer, the Lord designed man to have authority over woman, that's why Adam also names his wife, he does so twice in these two chapters at the end of the day. Chapter 2, Adam says she will be called woman. At the end of chapter 3, he gives her another name, Eve. She's called woman because, uh, and we don't have to guess what these names mean, and she's called a woman because of her origin. She was taken out of man. She's called Eve because of her future. She would be the mother of all living. Now by itself, verse twenty is a pretty verse about a pretty woman with a pretty name. Eve in English, Hawa in Hebrew. But look at the context. See how Adam just before this speaks of I mean Adam speaks of uh mothering life just after hearing about dying in dust in the previous verse, nineteen. It seems to me that man has his sights on God's life-giving promise. And that promise is that though his wife was deceived, she will someday conceive, and from that conception there will be the seed who will be Sadly, it appears this is like the first time in Genesis that man actually asserts godly authority. He did nothing to impede the progress of the slithering serpent, nothing to stop the ears of his wife. as the tempter hissed and seduced her. He did not hear God well the first time out, evidently. He does hear it better this time. His naming of Eve shows his hope of life beyond his own and beyond his fall. Like Adam, we must exhibit expectant faith in God's promises. Not only did the Lord give Adam and Eve something or someone to expect by faith. He immediately provided for their immediate need to cover their shame. So we go on to verse 21 for the second lesson. Ponder now the provision of God's covering. So let me reread the verse. Also for Adam and his wife, the Lord made tunics of skin and clothed them. God's gracious to create garments for the couple. We don't have much visual detail about the outfit. Next time we see this word for tuning in Genesis 37, referring to the Joseph tunic of many colors. And then after that there's in Exodus 28 the priestly tunic tunic skillfully woven. Here for Adam and Eve, I imagine, God made a simple loose garment from shoulder to knees. But more important than the shape and design, we must ask about the material. Why didn't the Lord just use cotton? Or linen, something from plant. Why did it help to why did it have to be leather, right? Skin of an animal. Not the tune it be medit made without costing life. If the purpose of this act was to merely provide covering from heat, cold, germs, cutsure, there's Better material. But there's another greater purpose. There's a lesson here. It's not only that our clothing, food, shelter come from our Creator On top of that, the covering of our naked shame come from him as well. So we ponder the provision of God's covering. Now I want to be clear that this is a very basic lesson. I would say it's more thematic. It's like learning to count to 10 before learning to add or subtract. You know, I have this beautiful uh four book set of Tolkien's Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings trilogy. I would love to have my kids read it, but I should probably teach them the alphabet. First, you think you know just gotta start with the basics. Likewise, at this point, Adam and Eve are learning simple yet foundational gospel ABCs. They do not yet have the law as their tutor to lead them to Christ. They're not under Moses who show them the blueprint, copy pattern, and shadow of good things to come in Jesus. But even so, there's much they can learn as God Himself sacrifices an animal and clothes them with this hide. I think they're getting an object lesson about three key concepts. One idea is extation, I mentioned earlier. It's related to two other terms, propitiation and atonement. I know that these are not words we use every day, not common parlance. Even at churches, we might like sort of furrow our eyebrows upon hearing these terms. But once we properly define them, and I'm trying to do that here, I don't think it will be that bad. First start with atonement, which simply means covering. To be more specific, our sin and our shame need covering. You cannot forget about sin, deny it, exists. Make up for it with you know make up for your bad works with good works. Or maybe just wave a magic wand over sin and hope that it'll disappear. That's not how sin works. Life must be given for life. Blood is necessary. Adam and Eve, I think, discern that truth here. There are hints of the gospel, again, in even in a chapter about the fall, right? The need for penal substitutionary atonement And when true covering provided by God takes place, there results expiation and propitiation. It's useful to treat these two ideas together, as I do here. Together, expiation and propitiation are the result of atonement. Expiation is the cleansing of sin and removal of guilt from us. The focus is on the sinners who offend God. The focus of propitiation then is on the one offended, God Himself. Propitiation is the appeasing and satisfaction of God's holy and just wrath. So the seas of all three ideas, atonement, which is the most general term, expiation. And propitiation, the results of atonement, are there in Genesis 3:21. Here we have, again, as I said earlier, gospel in the bud, not gospel in full bloom. There's just enough here for Adam and Eve to make an educated guess of what Christ will do in the future. Put faith in God's promises. Of course, as New Testament believers, we know exactly what Christ had to do. We have a lot more light, right? We have a lot more understanding. We do see that gospel in full flower, in full bloom. We read in Hebrews 10:4, since it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins. We know that Christ had to give his own blood. Only He can make lasting atonement, only He can clothe our shame, only He can back the assurance, the pardon we read earlier. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. I'll explain later how all of us can be clothed in Christ and covered by his blood. But let's first finish this passage, today's passage. After all, we'd appreciate mercy far more once we realize how far we've fallen. God's loving embrace is sweeter once we understand we've been pushed away. So here's the lesson about expulsion. We must lament what's lost under God's judgment. And we're so we're sort of wind winding down Genesis 3. We hear our one God and three persons speaking to Himself. He did this back in chapter 1, verse 26. While speaking of the creation of man. Now there's another inner dialogue in the Godhead, the Triune God, concerning the fall of man. So verse 22, then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us to know good and evil. And now lest he put out his hand and take also of the tree of life. and eat and live forever. To complete that thought, the free access to the tree of life must be denied. Now you might ask, wait, back up, what's so bad about knowing good and evil? Well, the knowledge of good and evil in this context is not some moral maturity. It's not discernment not yet attained by our little ones. It's ungodly moral autonomy. It's a human-centric way of living. I do what I want. I say what's good. say what's evil. It's really just self-idolatry. Making ourselves gods in place of the one and only true God That famous preacher, Donald Gray Barnhouse, illustrated how foolish our self-deification is like this. Imagine that while a plane's 20,000 feet in the air, a man somehow gets out. He walks on the wing. He then leaves off without a parachute. The pilot sees this whole spectacle, this man falling, and says, This, why, that man has become like one of us, knowing altitude and gravity. In the same way, mankind has climbed the heights of knowledge, but they're now in a free fall towards destruction. It's not right to give them in their sinful state access to the tree of life. The indwelling sin must be eradicated. First, the fallen man must not eat of the fruit until he's been redeemed. I imagine that if he did eat it, he'd be trapped permanently in his fallen condition. He'd be like some undead, condemned to dwell in his body of death. That's why the Lord guards the path to this tree. And later we'll see. He's okay with the tree being destroyed in the flood, it seems But there will be another tree of life later in the future. It's found in the paradise of God. Talk about it in the book of Revelation. It'll be there in the eternal state, in a world where sin and death no longer exist. Until then, we lament what's lost under God's judgment. And not only is man denied access to the tree of life, he's kicked out of the garden, he's no longer an employee at Eden. Right? We read in verse twenty-three, Therefore the Lord God sent them out of the garden of Eden to till the ground from which she was taken. What's lost was a perfect job in a perfect work environment. Remember that in the garden, God made every tree grow that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. There's even a river to water it. Now his next workplace will be the cursed ground with thorns and thistles, away from the abundance of Eden And finally look at verse 24. It's as if Adams not only fired, he's not only told to clear out your desk, right? He's escorted out of the workplace, right? With security seeing him out. Verse 24, so he drove out the man, and he placed cherubim at the east of the Garden of Eden, and a flaming sword which turned every way to guard away to the tree of life. Robot is as violent as it sounds. In the next chapter, this verb is used to describe Cain's punishment after murder. He becomes like a fugitive or a vagabond, driven out from the face of the ground. Chapter 4, verse 14. Later in chapter 21, Sarah demands that her husband Abraham drive out Hagar and Ishmael, lest Isaac, their true heir, is threatened. In other places, drive out is the language of military displacement and marital divorce. In case Adam and Eve didn't get the message, angelic sentinels are stationed to feed them out. They're cherub in singular, cherubim in plural. The one of the classes of angels. We sang about it in our first song. We don't have much details about their looks here You need to turn to Ezekiel and Revelation for fuller description. Not gonna talk too much about that, uh how they look and all that, but Just moving on. Assisting the cherubim is a flaming sword. Just pictures a sword just floating around, moving on its own. The verb turned every way is sort of interesting there. It's found in Judges 7. And Job thirty seven. It's used to describe that dream, if you remember, predicting Gideon's victory over the Midianites, the sword tumbles around, kinda like that giant loaf of barley bread big enough to destroy a tent. It was in a dream there. If that sounds a bit weird, here's something more common, something you might see maybe today, but like a flaming sword also circles like a swirling storm clouds of the sky. Admittedly, we don't know much about the angels or the sword, but their purpose is very clear. The cherubim stopped the humans from returning to the garden, the sharp blade prevents the way to the And what does this do? How does this make us feel? Like just just thinking about this Illustration I made up on my own. Imagine you're walking over to my home at the parsonage there. You knock on the door, it opens, but you don't see me with the smile welcoming you. You don't hear the warm greeting of my wife or the footsteps of my children? You don't get my friendly dog jumping and spinning for your attention. No, instead you immediately get the hot sharp edge of a blade aimed at your throat. You're told one step further, and that's your life. Don't see my face. We're not only strangers, we're enemies. That's what happened between humanity and God God. Gone are the days of sweet communion. He no longer walks with his own as he did in the garden. To go there would be trespassing. It's as if there's a big danger. Keep outside. One inch further, we'll be struck down, cut down, skin and bones, maimed and decapitated. That's what went wrong. We lament what's lost under God's judgment. Great is this hostility that stands between us and God Should not minimize this gap. The world wants us to. It's not that bad between us and God. We turn to this image. We turn to Genesis 3. We see that the distance from God's holiness and our sinfulness is an infinite chasm. Is there a way back? Can the flaming sword be sheathed? Can the cherubim turn into greeters? Can the way to life be opened? There is a way back, but first we must realize what we lost. We have to accept that we deserve condemnation. We rebelled against our holy Creator. We've broken his laws. We coveted, we lied, we lusted, we blasphemed. Our destiny is rightly expulsion, alienation from God. Left to ourselves, we ought to be driven out into the outer darkness where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. Our part is, again, as sinners, in the lake burning with fire and brimstone. Which is the second death. But again, there is a way back, and it's through Jesus. He's the way, the truth, and the light. No one comes to the Father except through Him. As the seed of the woman, he'll bruise the head of the serpent, but he had to be bruised as well. After living a perfect life, he offered himself as perfect sacrifice. He is a lamb without blemish, without spot. His blood will be the fulfillment, would be the payment for our sin. Isaiah teaches us about the sacrifice. I'll just read a few verses from fifty three, chapter fifty three, five to seven. He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement for our peace. was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was led as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shears is silent. He opened not his mouth Jesus was stripped so that we might be clothed. Jesus took our place on Calvary to get us a place in paradise. The innocent one died for the guilty. It was as if the flaming sword of God's wrath fell upon him. We sang earlier, O Christ what burdens bow thy head. In one of the verses, I believe it was It was verse five. Jehovah bade his sword awake, O Christ that woke against thee. Thy blood, the flaming blade must slake. Extinguish, quench. Thy heart as sheep must be. All for my sake, my peace to make, now sleeps that sword for me Jesus paid the penalty of sins we should pay. He finished his work and opened the way to life. The veil was torn as his body was torn. The flaming sword was extinguished as his blood was shed. He died and he was buried. But because he's worthy to be our Savior, the great could no longer hold him. He rose on the third day. He appeared to many for forty days. With infallible proofs of his resurrection, he ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Someday he'll take his own to New Jerusalem. Someday his saints will see the pure river of water of life. They'll eat from the fruit of the tree of life. I hope that all who listen to this will be there. But my hope is not enough. You must make the decision yourself. Repent and believe in the gospel. I can't do that for you. Please lament what you lost. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Only trust in Him for eternal life By faith in him, you can be children of God. Put on Christ and be covered by his righteousness. You cannot earn or deserve a place in heaven. gift. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So we're gonna sing up this truth, this wonderful gospel truth now His robes for mine, a wonderful exchange. Clothed in my sin, Christ suffer need God's rage. Draped in his righteousness, I am justified. In Christ I live, for in my place he died. Lord, we thank you for just our study of Genesis. Lord, it did not take too long in the story to see how much we've fallen. The doctrine of the fall is that early parts of scriptures. Well, we pray that we would realize that even in a perfect environment like Eden, Or our eyes wander from our wonderful and blessed Creator to covet things that are not um should not be coveted. To listen to the voice of the tempter, to be seduced by him, to fall from grace. But Lord, we're also thankful that even in dark times of human history, you provided hope. You provided the hope of the seed of the woman who will someday crush the head of the serpent. But we also see that he himself would be bruised. We see that he would be the sacrifice for our sins. He would provide the covering we need for our nakedness and our shame. And Lord, we're grateful that He bore the shame. He himself hung on the cross naked before you. And that the your wrath fell on him so that we might be reconciled. We pray that we live in gratitude each and every day because of of this truth. Lord, help us to see. Help us to have hope. Help us to live with expectant faith that someday we will Be back in the garden, be back in the kingdom, be back in just that uh a perfect world, a perfect environment. But until then, when you proclaim this truth May we not compromise the truth of our sin so that all the more your grace and mercy will be magnified. We thank you for that grace and mercy that's found in your Son Jesus Christ. It's the name his name we prayed. Amen