Amen. You may be seated. All right. Let me get you first to turn to First John. And you're going to end up back in 1 Corinthians. But for now, turn to 1 John. In a moment, we'll be looking at chapter 2. But we're going to look at a number of different passages this morning. Change is a part of life. Politicians use that word to demand that something new happen in government on different levels, state, local, and national. But we all know personally in our lives that change is inevitable. How's your back feeling if you're over the age of 40? What's your bank account look like if you have kids in college or if they're still in diapers? What's happening to the technology that you're using on almost, it seems like, a monthly basis? What about your car? Does it need new tires? There's always something that has to be done, something that has to be changed. And then there's the broader context of our lives, culture, what's happening in morality, in our country, what's happening. With our neighbors, their belief systems. I mean, what did you ever think there would be a day when when there would be so much of a cultural shift in our country when I just read last week that a majority of Americans now believe that Jesus was a sinner That there are many, many, many atheists in our country, many more than even 20 years ago as well. Statistically The divorce rate is going down, but that is only because couples are living together and it really doesn't matter whether you're blue collar, white collar, whether you have a PhD, whether you're a mechanic in the local Auto shop, it's happening all across the demographic range. We live with constant change. And what's the future hold? The question that I'm raising this morning is where are you going to take your stand, Christian? If you're here today as a born-again believer, where are you going to take your stand? I want to propose to you today that you should not take your stand in a political ideology. That you should not primarily do that. That you should not primarily take your stand in what you are against, although certainly you will be against certain things and for other things. Politically. You should and I should, as Christians, take our stand in the gospel: the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. In 1 Corinthians, Paul writes to them and tells them in chapter 15, this is what I delivered unto you, this is what you believe, and herein you're saved, this is where you stand. Before we get to that, I want us for a few minutes to see the contrast between the gospel and what people out there in life are taking their stand in, sometimes by drawing a stark contrast between Christ and His ways. and the world and what's happening out there. We get a firmer sense of who we are and where we should stand. And that's why I've directed your attention first this morning to 1 John chapter 2, to a well-known passage in verses 15, 16, and 17. In these three verses, we have what we commonly think of as a definition of the world. The world here, love not The world. Verse 16, all that is in the world. Verse 17, and the world passeth away. It is talking about a system It's talking about something that is recognizable because it contains certain things. You see the world when you see these things. As Christians, we shouldn't love it. Because we know, verse 17, that it's passing away in all the lust or the desire of it. But he that does the will of God abides forever. What is in the world? Now here's what I'm going to do. I want us to just look at some statements and figure out where people who are outside of Christ take their stand? What is it that's holding them together? How is it that they can make it? And do you remember before Christ, your life? All the chaos, all the change, how you dealt with change in your life before you became a Christian. Well, one of the one of the ways we know that People who are outside of Christ deal with life is to love the world. What is that? The world, the system. Verse 15, well we see here that we are in love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. So there are these things that are in the world. Now you and I talk about things such as cars. that we put in our garage or a crib that we put inside our child's room. And we would tend to think that these are objects. Like I shouldn't love My television set, or I shouldn't love my car, or I shouldn't love my phone, or this. But when we get to verse 16, we we see that these things are framed up more in terms of desire and attitude. Look at verse 16. Here's what's in the world, for all that is in the world, the lust, or it could be translated desire of the flesh. And the lust or the desire of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. Now you could summarize those two statements, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes, as desires That are out of control. They are statements of desire. Lust is used twice. Desire is used twice. There is the flesh Which typically in the New Testament is referring either to your physical form or that sinful part of us that we are born with. All are born in sin. Outside of wedlock, but we are all born as sinners, and so we have the flesh within us, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God So that is probably what's being talked about here, although you could make an argument that people are just living for the desires of their own bodies, whether it's food and sleep and so on, but it is desire. So there's this world out there, this system. You recognize it when you look at what people want. You see it in the direction of their eyes. They're watching television and the advertisements are on and they're riveted. They're at the mall and they're looking. Now, Christians look too, right? We go to the mall and we buy clothes and we go to Walmart, I guess, or wherever. We see, we have eyes. But in this case, something is wrong. Something is happening in the world that we are not to love. There's this desire that seems to be out of control. Secondly, if you look at verse 16, this world, the things that are in it, desire, and then it says the pride of life. I'm sure maybe you've heard of the joke about Muhammad Ali, and I've used this before, but it is kind of funny. He's in an airplane. And the stewardess comes up and says, he doesn't have his seatbelt on and they're and they're about to take off. And uh so she says, sir, you have to put on your your seatbelt. We're about to take off. Put on that on, please. sir. And he said, Superman don't need no seatbelts. And the stewardess looked at him and said, yes, but Superman doesn't need any airplanes either. And he went, that I don't know if that's true, it's probably just an urban legend. But have you ever seen a sports figure flaunting his strength in the face of someone else? You know, they used to let pound those balls in the end zone. I guess they don't do that anymore, but but the I'm number one in this case It's this rebellious pride. It's people who look at authority and do not care, who look at another individual. and view themselves as superior to that other individual. Now think of this now. Try to stay with me. There is there are individuals, there's the system, this is recognizable, it's everywhere. And they're looking and desiring. And this this desire is they're just looking and wanting. And then they're also looking and they're judging and they're they're saying, I am superior to you. There's this thing that's happening in the world. Now, the Bible says right here That he who does the will of God abides forever. And that this world system will eventually pass away. But the question I'm raising right now is: how do lost people stand on that? There's this fluctuating desire and this proud attitude. It's everywhere. Where do you stand on that? Doesn't it move? Doesn't it kind of roll through our earth and our communication systems? Isn't it something that's here today and gone tomorrow? I mean, wasn't it only a few weeks ago when the internet was on fire about, if I read this correctly, and I didn't look into this, but something about a dress, whether it's one color or another color? How many of you heard about that? Wow. Isn't that an example of how changeable and fickle our world is? Who cares about a dress? Okay, ladies, maybe you do. Maybe you care about the dress. I don't. But it what's next week? What's going to be trending next week? What's going to go viral next week? I mean There's got to be a better cat video or dog video, a better political rant, a better spoof, a better humorous piece on YouTube. I mean it was there yesterday, but it's Gone today, so we're looking for something tomorrow. I mean, I want this, I want humor, I want drama, I want money, I want some hope You can't stand on that. It's so worthless that the day will come when it's put aside. The world, look at verse 17. The world passes away. and the desires thereof, this out-of-control desire, it's going to be gone one day. It's not eternal. Now you say, preacher, are you preaching against YouTube and the correct use of media? No, I'm not, okay? I'm not saying you're a sinner if you look at YouTube. But there is this out-of-control desire. Well, there's the system, and now turn to Ephesians 4, back in your Bible. I'm going to remind you of a few things that I preached on not too long ago, Ephesians 4, verse 17. Alright, so there's this the system, but what makes up that system? Well, it's made up primarily, if I could put it in the terms that Paul used in Ephesians 4. of a certain conduct or behavior or walk. People act a certain way because of who they are internally. It's kind of like behavior. that results in a lifestyle that lots of people have, that results in the system that we see in every culture that's similar, whether you're in Africa or Asia or South America. There's this out-of-control desire and this rebellious pride. It's everywhere. Look at verse 17. This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord that she henceforth walk not. as other Gentiles walk. So that word walk has to do if you go down to verse 22 that you put off concerning the former In the King James it says conversation, the old man, but as you go through the context, he's talking about behaviors. You used to steal, you don't do it anymore. You used to cuss and Tell all this stuff. You don't do that anymore. So there's the change in behavior and lifestyle. So here's where people take their stand. Look back up again. I'm just not going to preach that whole message. Again, but look at verse 17. First there's a mind that is empty. That doesn't mean stupid or ignorant. But when it comes to the things of God, there's a hole, a vacuum, a zero. There's no reference to those things. There's no care over those things. This week, when you go to work, do this. I don't know if you work in a big area with lots of people, if you're on a floor in an office area with hundreds of people. But before you walk into your building or while you're in your office area, just kind of look around and think to yourself, how many of these people have even thought about the true and living God within the past 24 hours. How many of these people has that even entered their mind? How many do you think? I did that once. I was working for a company that was a production facility that had thousands. I looked up, and I only knew, out of all these people, and I knew a lot of them, I only knew one other Christian. And everywhere I turned, there was this empty, this vain mind. This mind Wants to understand, but verse 18, there's a misunderstanding, a misapprehension. The understanding is darkened. Why? Because they're alienated from God into the life that's in God. There's behavior, conduct in a system, and there's separation. There are all these people, and they're far from God. And so they're trapped. They're trapped in all kinds of look at how it's described in verse 19. Their past feeling. They don't have any conscience. Their conscience has been so dulled that they just Give themselves over to lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. I mean, they have no reason to live. So pleasure is where you're going to go. Let's eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow. And that's what they do. And so you have a bigger thrill, a bigger pleasure. What is on the agenda today? And so you have reality TV shows where it all begins with, what was it, Survivor? Was that the first reality TV show? Anybody remember? I don't know. But now you have reality TV shows about everything. And you know, people are jumping out of airplanes. They're doing dangerous things. Because the thrills level has to go up and the pleasure level has to go up. So whereas soap hoppers of the past showed this, now we're way out here with multiple wives or husbands. I mean, it's not enough. One is never enough. It's just lasciviousness that's out of control. But look at verse 20: you have not so learned Christ. Now this this is the point and why I'm bringing all of this up. You can't stand in that. It doesn't work. It's like quicksand. I mean, think about all your neighbors and they're trying to build their life on that. The context is the cosmos, that system. Their behavior and lifestyle is based on misunderstanding and vain thoughts. They're out-of-control pleasures because they have no life with God. They are trying to build a life on that. If I were to ask you today, could you think in your mind of one person you know who tried to do that and you've seen them tank Maybe it's a co-worker and they're going through their second divorce or their third divorce. I've worked with guys who are on number three. And they're hoping that this will be the one. The first one I didn't get right. The second one I was in a hurry because I didn't want to be alone. Now the third one, it's going to work. Now look, if if you're in that boat and you're here today, I'm not picking on you. But I'm only trying to point out that that there's Christ, and then there's this Folks, don't believe the lie. Don't believe the lie that there's anything worthwhile in that mess. There is not. There is nothing that any Christian in this world wants in the world or in all the way of the Gentiles, the walk of the Gentiles. It's worthless. It's an amazing contrast to you and I. Take a believer like Samson, who pursued women like crazy, and he ends up in a false temple dying. He was called of God to the Nazarite vow, but because he gave himself away to his own desires, he ends up killed by the Philistines. Take a David who was bored one day and up on his castle top, and there he sees a woman and he takes her and commits adultery. Look at what that did to a good man. It's possible that someone in this room Would dare to believe that there's something worthwhile in the old ways, in the old lifestyle. Please. Don't believe that. It's not true. Now turn to 1 Corinthians as we transition into where we take our stand. First Corinthians 15. We reject the world system, we reject the walk of the Gentiles and the conduct of the Gentiles. And now, what do we have as Christians? What do we stand on? I'll read, this is 1 Corinthians 15, verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, that is, formerly he preached it to them. Which also ye have received. They had received it and are still holding on to it. And wherein ye stand, they're currently present tense standing in this. by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures What is it that the Christian stands in? Number one, good news. Verse 1: Brethren, I declare unto you the gospel and the word means good news. Now, here is the good news as it relates to the world. The preacher said, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. It's true, that's the world. But Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. The meaning of life rests in Christ. The good news is that someone can be lost in that mess and find Christ and meaning and purpose. Desires can be controlled and brought into the designer's ways. When I say designer, I mean the way God designed us We can live a life of joy that is not dependent on the next drink, the next thrill, or the next pleasure. The message of Christianity is at its root good news. Something that we can share and be proud of in that sense. Something that brings joy. What are the messages of other religions? Do they also claim to have good news? I think often that's the case. Wouldn't you say? Wouldn't you say that the Buddhist with a smile in his robe would s pretend to offer something worthwhile and good? I'm not sure about the Muslim. Maybe there's something there that That I haven't studied it enough to say that there's an attractability to something good there. But doesn't New Age philosophy say that there is something good to it? Well, but the gospel. Is so much more. And that brings me then to the second point. If you look at verse 3, he says Which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins. Now, there are two people involved in this good news. Christ and you. And there's a problem. Sins. And there's a solution. Death. Christ died for our sins. So let's think for a moment about Christ In the Gospels, he's a good man, certainly. He does not sin, contrary to what the majority of Christians, not Christians, but lost folks, people in America. Think that Jesus sinned, but he did not. He was without sin, the Bible says. He was good in that sense. He certainly was sacrificial. He went around Jerusalem and he helped people and he was kind to people. But he also performed miracles that were seen. And he rose from the dead, and that is what Paul is pointing out here over and over again, because you see in verse 5, he was seen after his resurrection. You see in verse 6, He was seen. You see in verse 7, he was seen. You see in verse 8, he was seen. One of the emphasizes the emphasis of the New Testament is That the miracles of Christ were seen. 1 John chapter 1 in the prologue, John said, that which we have handled and seen, this is what we declare unto you. Peter says that he has not followed cunningly devised fables, but what he was an eyewitness to the majesty of Christ. So Christ is not just the story about a good man, but there are all these other people who said, we saw him do miracles, and ordinary good men cannot do miracles. There is that which is natural, and there is that which is supernatural. Now, what did his miracles teach us about him? Well, Steven Spielberg, and I'm dating myself because he's a 1980s director who still somewhat directs now. didn't write the gospels. What kind of miracles would you all know who Steven Spielberg is? Everybody raise your hand and all right, I guess. If he had written the Gospels, what kind of miracles would he have given us? Oh, wow. Cool miracles. Lightning. Power coming out of Christ's fingers, maybe red or white light, maybe clouds darkening and lightning bolts. But that's not what we see in the Gospels, is it? We see Christ touching the touching lepers. We see Christ embracing children. Raising the dead. And it's written in such a way that the emphasis is not on special effects It's not written as mythological literature. It's written as a simple account of what he did miraculously here and here and here. He healed people. He didn't levitate houses. He didn't blow things up. He wasn't destructive. He healed and loved and loved and healed and proclaimed the gospel of the kingdom to people And it reveals to us his heart, and it reveals to us who he was and is, and he is the Son of God. And God the Son. And that's what people came to believe that he was and is, his disciples, his apostles and others, the people in the 120 in the upper room, and the gospel that they declared in the ancient world. was that he was not just a Jewish rabbi, teacher, philosopher, but that he was the Christ, the Son of God, and God the Son. He was in fact God, come in the flesh. And so the Apostle John writes in 1 John chapter 1 That in the beginning was the word. That's the word there for Christ. You read later in the chapter, he's referring to Jesus. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And so we find out that Christ was God. He was a good man. He was a teacher. He was a rabbi. He knew the Old Testament Hebrew Bible like the back of his hand, but he was also God. And in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 3, what did he do? He died. Why would he do that? Well, the Bible says that we all sin, not at the same level. I'm sure your sins are worse than mine. Have you ever thought that? That guy's sins are worse than mine. I wasn't serious about that, okay? I was joking I mean, maybe the guy next to you, maybe their sins are worse than yours. Certainly, well, I won't go any further than that. But we don't all sin at the same level. But we all sin. In our thoughts, in our words, and in our deeds. The offense of the gospel. Listen, please try to hang in there. The offense of the gospel. People don't like to be told this. Is that there is going to be judgment because of our sins? And that God cannot allow people who do not have righteousness into heaven to be with him. He says, what fellowship has light with darkness, or the house of Satan with God? Good and evil, they don't go together in God's economy. So he is holy and just and right. And so He must punish sin and sinners. It's not like, I wish it was like this. Here's my sin. Here am I. Punish that God. And you've heard expressions like hate the sin, but love the sinner. But right now, what I'm focusing on is that there's no way to separate it. I can't take my sinful actions that I did yesterday and say you. There they are. They're on my record. They're on your record. And so the Bible says that the wages of sin is death. There will be that payment. But the good news is that Christ died in our place. Look, how much do you value your dog or your cat? How many of you have cats? Tess up. Okay. How many of you have dogs? Yes, dog people are a little more than cat people this morning. That's good. No, I'm just kidding. Cats are wonderful too. How many of you have gerbils? Fish? Alright, fish. I like fish. Alright. I'm trying to keep you awake and I'm doing a lot of talking. So so here's the thing. I just read two weeks ago that there was this couple who had a sick goldfish, had cancer. Did you read this? So they they got a vet and they paid, I know it was over $500 for the vet to do a very special fish surgery. To remove the cancerous tumor from their large goldfish. And it was six, aren't you glad it was successful surgery? The fish survived. Awesome, right? Hallelujah. Living fish. Those people really valued that fish. People today value all kinds of odd things. I like fish too. I'm not sure I'd spend that kind of money on my fish. I know that a lot of my fish have met a watery grave. uh through the years. How much do you value your child? Folks, you and I would never sacrifice a pet for someone else. I mean, we would rarely do that. If they were our enemy, would we do it? Would we sacrifice a son? Here's how good God is. He is so extravagantly and ridiculously generous. Think about this He sent his one and only unique Son to do the work of salvation. He parted with the one that he was closest to. There was no other relationship between him and Christ. That God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit, they're all part of the Trinity in the closest relationship ever, or that there ever will be. And God the Father was willing to separate from his son, if I could use that word, and send him down here to do the work. And the reason is John 3. 16, love. He loved you that much and me that much. John 3:16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only, his one and only unique Son You don't love yourself that much. And you really love yourself. But space it we all love ourselves, typically. Christ was sent to die for your sins. Now, can you take your stand in that today, Christian? Would you be willing to kind of push aside all your worries about politics and in our nation and just get right down to the foundation and say, here is wherein I stand. I am a sinner saved by Christ. Grace, the gospel of Christ, He died for me. I believe it. It's according to the Scriptures. And finally, not just that, verse 4 But that he was buried and he rose again the third day. The resurrection of Christ is the final proof that he was indeed the Son of God. Not just a philosopher or a teacher, not Aristotle or Socrates, but God come in the flesh. And so he was and is. Folks, this morning, what's at the bottom of your personality? Where do you get your stability from? Have you been spending too much time dwelling on the old life, the slippery slope, the house built on the sand? Maybe this resurrection day would be a great time for you to just sweep all that aside and say, you know what? Father, please use the gospel in my heart and life today. That's where I'm building my life on the gospel.