What a crowd this morning. You look like a crowd. Well, you know, this is this is actually pretty nice. I've been reading a uh recently I read a uh a biography of John Wesley that focused on particular aspects of his life and ministry and I was struck again by how the people in that time in the eighteenth century in England uh Experienced a hunger for the Word of God in a way that they hadn't for many years Uh I would say that that period of time was actually when the Reformation really took hold in England. And the writer of the of this particular biography, uh Ian Murray, a man I know who's in his eighties and living in Scotland, he talked about the fact that John Wesley would mostly preach out in the open air because the Anglican Church, he was still a minister of the Anglican Church. John Wesley never officially left the Anglican Church. A lot of people don't know that. But uh the Anglicans wouldn't let him preach in their sanctuaries. And so he'd go out and stand up in a hay wagon in the middle of the field Uh I forget how many hundreds of thousands of miles he rode on horseback in his lifetime. But Many times people would gather out in the open and John Wesley would preach to them in a rainstorm. We've got it nice this morning. We've got it really nice. You don't have to listen to me preaching a rainstorm. I'm glad for that. I'm hoping that too. Well this morning I'd like to call our attention to uh Paul's epistle, first epistle to the Thessalonians. And the reason I want to focus our attention here for the next few minutes in this short little book is that we find many, many parallels to our own time. The Word of God is certainly up to date. Word God is timeless. And we find much in the condition of the church that existed and thrived then that's very much like the situation in our own time. The city of Thessalonica was in many ways like many cities today At the time Paul wrote to them, the city of Thessalonica had a population of about 200,000 people. It was not a small place. It was one of the larger cities. of the Roman Empire. It was the capital of the Providence, of the province rather, of Macedonia in the Roman Empire And Thessalonica was a port city. Thessalonica had in previous centuries also seen a considerable influx of people because it was a port city. From other parts of the Roman Empire, people who came there to live. It was a very cosmopolitan city. There were also people who had been moved there in previous centuries by uh Roman emperors and also by others who controlled that territory before the time of the Roman Empire, mainly Jews Who had been taken into captivity in Babylon and were later moved eastward or westward, I should say, into that part of Asia Minor. There were many different languages spoken in Thessalonica. Archaeologists have found things in many different languages there. There were many different cultures that were represented there. You could find every kind of religion, you could find every kind of pagan philosophy, and because it was a a port city, you could find every kind of immorality as well, and also because it was a pagan place. Because immorality was often part of the pagan worship. And so from the standpoint of the Christian church This little church that grew up in Thessalonica. There was every kind of pressure working against these people who had come to faith in Christ, everything working in opposition to those who desire to live godly lives in Christ Jesus. And we read in the 17th chapter of Acts, we're not going to turn there this morning, but We read about Paul and Silas first coming to Thessalonica in the 17th chapter of Acts. And the strongest opposition to their preaching. Came from whom? Came from Jews. Came from Jews who had been part of that migration, that forced migration in previous centuries The descendants of those who had been taken to captivity in Babylon who never returned to Palestine. And these Jews Gathered a Maub and started a riot, we read, and Acts chapter 17 And they attacked in particular the house of a of a man named Jason who had uh apparently given lodging to Paul and Silas while they were there and and had become a believer himself or may have been a believer before they came. That's not clear. But the situation was so bad, and Paul and Silas's lives were so threatened that the people there who had believed Paul's message. And had become Christians in Thessalonica, they immediately, during the night, sent Paul and Silas out and said, you need to get away from here, because your lives are in danger. And so they went to a place called Berea, where they were treated with much greater respect, we're told, in Acts 17. That the people of Berea were much more fair-minded, we're told, than those of Thessalonica. But out of these seemingly adverse beginnings. A faithful witnessing body of believers in Christ had sprung up, and now the Apostle Paul is writing his first letter to them. And I appreciate it so much the hymns that were selected this morning. And one that's coming that focuses on the aspect of our Lord as a shepherd. Because I really think that is what we find in this first epistle to the Thessalonian Church. We find a man, the Apostle Paul, Acting and working in the name of Christ, acting as a shepherd toward these people, even though he's distant from them. He has the heart of a shepherd for them. That's what we see here this morning. And we know that Paul never wrote a letter to any of the churches that he wrote to, or individuals that he wrote to. without a clear set of purposes. And so this morning what I'd like for us to take up is this question: what were the things that Paul said were important? What were the things that were important about this church as he wrote to them? And we find that as we look at this epistle, that these things fall into two categories. And the two categories we could sum up in two words. There were things that were commendable in the church at Thessalonica There were things that were correctable. There were things that needed correction. So that's what we see this morning. There were things for which Paul could readily commend this church. But yet there were still difficulties, there were still problems, there were still matters of the old life. if you will, that had to be dealt with. I think it's the first Saturday in May I'm I'm scheduled to speak. I was asked to speak at the seventy-fifth anniversary commemoration uh of the church in which I was saved. Uh it's a church that no longer exists by the name that it had at that time. South Baltimore Bible Presbyterian Church. It's no called Cub Hill Presbyterian Church. They moved uh in the 1960s. South Baltimore Bible Presbyterian Church was at 1630 South Hanover Street uh which today is almost in the shadow of Oriol Park and M and C Bank Stadium, that that part of Baltimore, uh you may some of you may be familiar with that part of uh South Baltimore. And uh there was a little church there which was a converted firehouse. uh which was started seventy five years ago this spring uh by uh a very godly man named Dr. Arthur Slatt under whose ministry I came to know the Lord. And as I was thinking about, and and by the way, that church in 75 years, they've really been blessed. They've only had three pastors in all that time. It's pretty amazing. They had one pastor for I think forty four years. Uh an amazing record. And his wife, he he passed away a couple of years ago. He was emeritus pastor for a number of years. His wife is still there. But uh One of the interesting things, talking with the pastor, talking with some of the elders there, uh, talking about the history of the church. Again, it came back to But some of what they said about the church was, yeah, there's a lot that's commendable. There's still a lot where we know even after seventy-five years. years we still have a long way to go to meet the Lord's standard. And so I'm grateful for that kind of a heart in a church. And And I guess uh Faith Bible Church, well, what was it, 1956? I can't remember the exact year when Faith Bible Church was started. I know it was in the middle fifties. Fifty fifty seven. Fifty seven. Uh uh That's a lot of years. I'm not gonna do the math. But I mean I can do the math because I have a sister-in-law who was born in fifty-seven. I know how old she is But uh anyway, uh this is a church that's been going on for a long time. And this is a church in which I'm sure if we were to talk about things uh you would perhaps categorize them in those two categories of the commendable and the correctable, even in the life of the church. as it exists now. Well, as we go along this morning, I'd like for us to look together at some of these things. And we begin at at the beginning, uh the first five verses of This chapter, the Apostle Paul writing says this, Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ breaks to you in peace. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you all in our prayers. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love. and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. Knowing beloved brethren your election by God, for our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power. And in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance. As you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. Paul referring back to that sign that's recorded in the 17th chapter of Acts when they experience such opposition The preached word of God had been living and powerful at Thessalonica among a relatively small group of people, apparently. It had produced this small but growing body of people who sought to be faithful to the Lord. They were motivated, Paul says, by love, and they maintained their hope in Christ despite opposition. Which must have been pretty intense. And through these things the Holy Spirit had given them great assurance of their salvation. Great assurance of the truth of the Word of God. This wasn't about feeling good. If it was about feeling good, they would have continued in their pagan ways, no doubt. That would have been the easy way. That would have been the feel-good way. And they recognized that It was about the word of God. And Paul says, not on word only, but in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance. And Paul talks about this later in this epistle, but what was really important in their conversion experience, he talks about this Later in chapter two, what was important in their conversion experience was their recognition that this wasn't simply about feeling better or about anything else. It was about a body of doctrine. To be believed. That was what was important. The pagan religions could make you feel good. Only Jesus Christ could save your soul. And so Paul commends them for this. He commends them for the fact that As they saw how Paul and Silas had responded to opposition, that they had responded in much the same way. That they had responded in a godly way. So that was the first commendable thing. The second commendable thing about this church was, Paul says, you're witnessing people. You're witnessing people. Beginning at verse 6, he says, You became followers of us and of the Lord. Having received the word in much affliction, receiving the word of God was not an easy thing. But they stayed with it, with joy in the Holy Spirit, so that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaea who believe. For from you the word of God has sounded forth not only in Macedonia and Achaia but also in every place. Your faith toward God has gone out, so that we do not need to say anything. For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus. Who delivers us from the wrath to come. Now, in order to really understand the importance and the weight of these verses, we need a little geography lesson. In verse 8, Paul mentions Macedonia and Achaia. And he's speaking of regions beyond those areas, even. Now, I've never visited that region. But I know people who have been there. And they tell me that to get from Thessalonia, from Thessalonica, to get from Thessalonica through Macedonia and into Achaea. Requires that you cross cross two very difficult mountain ranges. And even in modern times, traveling from what in modern times is known as the City of Thessaloniki. Traveling from there by road into the region of Achaea is a difficult, it's a time-consuming journey. Up and down mountains, hairpin turns. It's the kind of journey you really don't want to make, I understand, in anything but the best weather. And if you think about this time in which Paul is writing this 2,000 years ago, No automobiles. No really good roads, although the Romans built better roads than had been built anywhere in the world up till that time Mostly cart traffic, foot traffic, some people on horseback. Journeys that took not a matter of hours, but days, difficult days. It's a remarkable thing that this testimony of this small band of people, Christians in Thessalonica, that that testimony would have spread. You would think that it would have remained isolated. But it did spread, Paul said, verse 8. He said, the word of God has spread with such force and such effect that When we come into these other regions and into these other cities, it's as though we don't really need to say anything. Why? Because these people already know That you have turned from pagan idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for the return of Jesus Christ, who's been raised from the dead and who's delivered you from the wrath to come. The Church of Thessalonica had this powerful testimony. So they were a witnessing church. Second point of commendation. Third point. Paul commends them that they had endured persecution and they remained faithful. And they were a persecuted people. As we look at chapter 2, verses 13 through 16, we read this about them. Paul says this. He says, for this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us, You welcomed it, not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which also effectively works in you who believe. For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. For you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, just as they did from the Judeans, who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets and have persecuted us. I just want to stop there. I think it's interesting to think about the fact that Paul was once one of those persecutors. He's actually here talking about himself as much as anyone else. And he goes on, he says, they do not please God, they're contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved. So as always to fill up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. The Thessalonian believers, like the believers at Ephesus, like the believers at Colossae and other other parts of the Roman Empire. They'd experienced persecution because of two forces that were against them, two forces. These believers were a small minority. They were a small remnant of God's people among a vastly pagan majority. If you gathered up all the Bible-believing churches in the Baltimore metropolitan area and put them in one place this morning. From the largest to the smallest, if you put them all together in one place this morning, we believers in Christ would be a small remnant among a vastly pagan majority. It's still the same today. And so they experienced persecution from their own countrymen. They also experienced persecution from the Jews that had been resettled in that area in previous generations. And their ancestors had been taken captive at the at the time of the Babylonian captivity hundreds of years before, and and and now some of those Jews who had been moved into This area of the Roman Empire had become believers in Christ. But others of them became persecutors of the church, became false teachers. They were telling the people that they needed to keep the Jewish ceremonial law, that they needed to practice circumcision in addition to believing on Christ in order to be saved. And so the Thessalonian believers And believers in the other churches in that region experience two kinds of persecution from two different sources, from Jews and from Gentiles. And yet Paul says, you've endured. You've endured. And so we have three things that are in the category of the commendable in Paul's epistle. He's commending them for the fact that they had Strong faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they were a witnessing people, and that they were enduring under persecution. How did Paul found out these things? Well, we read that Paul, with the heart of a shepherd. had wanted many times, he says, to this church, I wanted many times to come to you. Satan prevented us And finally, I just couldn't stand it anymore. I needed to remain in Athens. That was clear. But I sent Timothy to see how you were doing. And Timothy reported back to me these things. Timothy reported back to me your faith, your witness, your endurance in persecution. But Timothy also reported back to me some things that are correctable, that need correction. The Thessalonian believers weren't a perfect people. They needed to grow in sanctification, they needed to grow in sound doctrine. And so Paul takes up these matters in the fourth and fifth chapters of this book. Paul didn't want the Thessalonian church or any other church that was under his care to be on a spiritual starvation diet. Now many self-described evangelical churches today have their people on a spiritual starvation diet. And that begins at the beginning. Many churches today effectively affirm people in their sins. They don't confront people, or I should say more accurately, they do not allow Scripture to confront people with their natural state. Their rebellion against God. And the fact that they need true repentance and faith in Christ to be delivered from the wrath to come. They don't confront people with the biblical teaching that those who are truly born from above, although they're not perfect people, they are desiring and striving to live changed lives. Because the Spirit of God is within them. And often there's this focus on affirmation and acceptance. The church turns a blind eye to man's total depravity, the eternal consequences of sin, and therefore the immense price that had to be paid for our sin is trivialized so often. And the clarion call of Scripture to faith and repentance in Christ is replaced by a therapeutic gospel that leaves people feeling better about themselves but eternally lost. Religious bookstores. I'm I'm glad in one sense that we're in in in in my lifetime I'm glad in one sense that we have experienced to a large degree the disappearance of what I'll call religious bookstores. I think it's a It's it's miles and miles too far to call them Christian bookstores today Because the ones that are left are full of books that supposedly present the gospel of God's promise of salvation from sin for eternity, but what do they really present? They present psychological self-help For the here and now, and they leave people in a lost condition. Occasionally I Become involved in counseling with people who were in various kinds of difficulty In some cases over the phone, people from different parts of the country, I have some of those kinds of things on the schedule this week. Some people come to the office. Uh but The important thing is that these folks need to be counseled from the Word of God. And one of the first things that I I tend to do in all honesty, and I think it's absolutely necessary in counseling with people, is first of all to ascertain if an individual is truly a Christian. Are you truly born from above? And I will not hesitate to tell a person who is not born from above who comes into my office. This is what I have to offer. What I have to offer is Jesus Christ. What I have to offer is Holy Scripture. That confronts all of us with our condition as we are. And if an individual was not willing to accept that My response to them quite honestly is, I can't help you. There's a psychologist next door to me. Go see him. Go see him. He's he's he's not a believer, he's a Roman Catholic, staunch Roman Catholic. But he will give them that kind of Freudian psychological health. We we had conversations about that from time to time But we cannot, as believers in Christ, as the Church of Jesus Christ. Live in the realm where we simply say, oh, we've all made mistakes. We've all made some poor choices in life. Nobody's perfect. Some of us are making poor lifestyle choices. That's the language of psychology and psychiatry. The language of the Word of God is living godly in Christ Jesus. And that's what the Apostle Paul is about here. I heard not long ago of a well-known megachurch in the Midwest that is built on the purpose-driven church church model and they were having they were having difficulties and they the the leadership of the church wondered what was going on. So they conducted a confidential survey of their membership which Which I think in the case of that church is about 7,000 people. And here's some of the things they found. They found that 91% of the people stated that their highest Value in life is having a deep personal relationship with God. Just in those generic terms. But they also, in the same survey, found out that 25% of the church is single, 40% of its single parents, and over 40% of its divorced members admitted to having illicit relationships with Outside of marriage within the last six months. The leadership of the church was shocked and surprised. I was reading an article where the leadership were expressing their shock. But they shouldn't have been shocked, because if you look at the history of that church, they had stopped preaching the gospel long ago. They had started doing what Paul warns against in 2 Timothy 4 long ago. They had appealed to those who had itching ears. They weren't preaching the gospel anymore. They were teaching postmodern fables. And in writings of the Thessalonians and in all of his letters, the Apostle Paul will not have any of that kind of thing. And there were those kinds of things in the first century in the Roman Empire. They weren't called psychiatry or psychology, they were called Gnosticism, they were called by other names. But The effects in many cases were the same. The Apostle Paul's emphasis was always in his epistles: right doctrine produces right living. Right doctrine produces right living. Now time doesn't permit us to read all of chapters four and five this morning, but let me summarize for you the things that Paul focused on based on the word he got back from Timothy about what was correctable, what needed correction in the church. And Paul does this with a shepherd's heart. A shepherd's heart. In chapter 4, verses 1 through 8, we read that there were problems of immorality in the church. The problems of the flesh that were a holdover from their former pagan lives. Promiscuity had been a way of life for these people before they turned to Christ. Acts of immorality were an integral part of the worship, the pagan worship of that time. And this, of all sins, is one of the hardest to put to death. It's a deep problem in the postmodern evangelical church as we just saw. But the answer is not postmodern psychobabble. The answer is the truth as we find it in Christ and in his word. That was Paul's point to these people. In chapter 4, verses 9 and 9 through 12, we find a second correctable situation, a situation requiring correction, and that was that there were there were problems of sloth or laziness among some of the Christians at Thessalonica, people who weren't doing what was necessary to earn their own living, provide for their own needs. And this was becoming a bad reflection on their witness to the watching world. And so Paul warned them about this. He exhorted them: lead a quiet life. Mind your own business. Work with your hands, and thus bear a good testimony to the unbelievers around you. Very practical. And very much the heart of a shepherd. And then in chapter 4, beginning at verse 13 through chapter 5, verse 11, we read that there were misunderstandings about the second coming of Christ. Misunderstandings about the state of Christians who had already died. Many of the Thessalonian believers 2,000 years ago thought that Jesus should have returned by now. I often think that too. I wish he had. In my heart, I wish he had. So they were in some ways discouraged. This promise hasn't come yet. Jesus hasn't come back yet And some of the church were teaching things about the second coming that were simply not true. Some were teaching that Jesus had already come. He'd already come back a second time. You missed it. Others were saying other things. There was great confusion about this point of doctrine, about what we call often called eschatology or the doctrine of the last things. There was confusion about that at Thessalonica. Paul endeavored to set them straight. He explained to them what's going to happen when Christ comes. And his reason for this was not simply to give them information. His reason for this was to give them comfort. His purpose was to encourage them to watch and wait for the second coming of Christ. It may not come in your lifetime, but he is coming. Lead godly lives while you're waiting, so that you won't be ashamed if Christ comes back in your lifetime. Can anything less be said to us today? It's exactly what we need to hear today, what we need to do. I've heard a lot of confusing things, and I'm sure you have too about the second coming. I've actually heard deacons In fundamental churches say, well, we don't have to worry about paying off the mortgage on this building, or we don't have to worry about the fact that we're behind in our mortgage payments. The Lord's coming. It's gonna all be taken. I've actually heard that. I've actually heard that. And this past week, after the death of Billy Graham, they were actually Some people on the internet and on the radio and on television saying that the death of Billy Graham was a prophetic sign of Christ's imminent return. Tell me where you find that in the Bible. Now Paul was dealing with the same kinds of things in Thessalonica 2,000 years ago. They went by different names. But it was the same kind of confusion. Problems of the church today aren't new problems. They're the same problems that Christians have faced over and over and over again. On the way down here this morning, I was listening to a message by Dr. Martin Boyd Jones. I guess it was out of Colossians, first chapter of Colossians. And he was talking about this matter of doctrine, and that we must be focused on doctrine, not dry theology, but doctrine as it affects our lives. And he said, some people have said to me, Do you mean? as they would put it I've got to commit intellectual suicide and I've got to go back to the first century and I've got to believe this book a lot of a lot of it having been written in the first century, none of it having written after it been written after that time, then I've got to go back to that, that I've got to ignore all the religious developments that have happened since All the thinking of man about these things. And he said, yes, that's absolutely what I'm telling you. Because that was revelation. That was the word of God and not the word of men. And we haven't had the Word of God since it is complete. And it is appropriate and accurate and applicable to our time just as it was to that time. And I appreciated that so much hearing that. That was an encouraging thought And then in the last part of chapter 5, having covered the commendable and the correctable, Paul finishes this epistle by giving some very pithy exhortations. Very short sentences and phrases. Beginning of chapter 5, verse 16. He says, Rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Jesus concerning you. And in the original language, it's one continuous thought. Rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks. These three things go together. They're inseparable. Why? For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Well, what did these believers have to rejoice in? Well, they had to rejoice, first of all, They had rejoicing because of their deliverance from paganism. You turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. That beautiful, concise statement of the gospel right there. And they had reason to rejoice in the power of the Word of God, chapter 2, verse 13, that You received the word of God which you heard from us. You welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God which also effectively works in you who believe. And they had reason to rejoice thirdly in the fact that Christ is coming again. The end of chapter 4, and then on the beginning of chapter 5. Those who have gone before you, Paul says, they're the dead in Christ. They're with Christ And you can rejoice in the fact that those dear friends and loved ones are safe with Christ forever, as you will be. And they had reason to rejoice also in their deliverance from judgment. Chapter 5, verse 9. Paul says, God did not set us or appoint us to wrath, to hell, to damnation, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Who died for us. That whether we are awake and watching or we are sleeping in Jesus, we should live together with him. Rejoice in this, Paul says. That should be our attitude as we come before God in Christ in prayer. We should constantly rejoice in the fact that we're no longer under condemnation, that we've passed from death to life. We have in in our office we have a uh a a daily prayer meeting four days a week. My other helpers in the office, most of them work a four day week. Monday through Thursday. And we have a prayer meeting in the mornings, every morning. And one of the things that I'm more and more conscious of as I lead in prayer is to begin not rushing into the throne room of God with their laundry list. But first taking time to express our rejoicing for who the Lord is, for what He's done for us in saving us, for what He's doing in and through the ministry. To rejoice in those things So that's that first pithy statement that Paul gives. And then in verse 19, Paul gives them an exhortation regarding life. He first gives them an exhortation regarding prayer. Then he gives them an exhortation regarding life. Verse 19, quench not the spirit. Literally. What it's saying is, do not throw fire, or do not throw water upon the fire of the Spirit. Do not throw water upon the fire of the Spirit. Did you know that we can do that? God's word tells us that we can How do we do that? We do that by not heeding all the warnings that Paul has given in this epistle and elsewhere We throw water on the fire of the Spirit by remaining uninstructed in the Word of God. We throw water on the fire of the Spirit by remaining complacent in sin. You're the temple of the Holy Spirit, Paul says over and over. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God, he tells the church at Ephesus, by whom you're sealed for the day of redemption. And then Paul goes on to give the Thessalonian believers an exhortation regarding the word of God. Chapter 5, verse 20. Another pithy statement, three words in English, it's despise not prophesying And this is a very short but a very rich statement in the original language, if we were to use the modern term, if we were to unpack it. It would be like this. Paul is saying, don't treat any authoritative word from God as something that you can simply take or leave. And don't treat the faithful proclamation of the Word of God like that. Take it in, take it straight Seriously, take it to heart. This is your spiritual food. This is your spiritual meat and drink. This is for the building up of your souls. Despite and not prophesying. And then finally. Verse 21, another pithy saying. This one concerning discernment. Paul says, prove or literally test all things. Hold fast to that which is good. That word prove has to do with proving the genuineness of all things. And the word here is the wording is very emphatic. It's very urgent. It it's it's something that's hard to get across in English. I have a I have a sister-in-law who's from Thailand. And in the Thai language A word can mean different things, as I understand it, depending on your inflection, depending on whether your voice rises at the end of the word or trails off at the end of the word or what other kinds of emphasis are put into a word And we we have some of that in English too. I I have a nephew who's who's now married named David. And I can remember his parents, depending on what was going on, if it was a matter of David needing to listen, there might be this quiet voice that just said, David, if David was about to do something really bad, And get into trouble or put himself in danger. It might be David. This is a David here in this passage. Prove all things, test all things, emphatic, imperative. Hold fast to what is good. Get possession of what is spiritually good. And hold on to it for dear life. That's what Paul's saying here. Don't let go of it. Take hold of it as though your spiritual life depends upon it. And living godly in Christ Jesus does depend upon it. Well, let me, in view of these things, ask a few questions this morning. Where do we stand in relation to these things ourselves? If Paul were writing this letter to you, could he write those words in verses 1 through 5? Could he rejoice that you're in Christ? Could he rejoice in saying that the gospel has come to you not in word only, but in spirit and in power? Could he say that of you? If Paul were writing this letter to you, could he write the words that follow in verses 6 through 10 of chapter 1? Could he rejoice in knowing that you're a witness for the gospel? Could he say you're such an example? Of a genuine Christian, and your witness and testimony are so are so intense But when I come into places where you live or where you work or where you go to school, I don't have to say much because your witness for the gospel is already there. It's already at work. Do we have that kind of witness Are we living, breathing, walking, testimonies of what God has done for us in Christ? That's conviction. And there's more in 1 Thessalonians. Another crucial question: are there areas in which we need to be more fully instructed in sound doctrine? As the Thessalonians needed to be instructed, and certainly the answer is yes, always. Many times as I study the Word of God, I wish I had a thousand lifetimes. I wish I had a thousand lifetimes because I I I I don't feel like I've gotten to kindergarten yet many times. I just don't feel like I've gotten to kindergarten yet. We're each a work in process. God saved us once for all by the blood of Christ. He is sanctifying us over the course of our lives by His Spirit. He will glorify us when He comes again. And for those reasons Paul said this to these very imperfect people in Thessalonica, these people who still, even though they had turned from Pagan idols that serve the one living and true God. They still had problems with the old life. They still had problems about misunderstanding the scriptures. They still had problems of of sloth and laziness and other things going on within them. And within the church. But Paul the Shepherd says to these very imperfect people, chapter 2, verse 19, he says, What is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming? For you are our glory and joy. You're not a perfect people. You have much to learn. You have a long way to go in this world before Christ takes you home. But you are power, glory, and joy. And dear friends, that's what your Lord and Savior says of you today, no matter where you are, if you are in Christ. We read in Hebrews chapter 2 that the Lord Jesus, the captain of our salvation, is bringing many sons to glory. I think one of the hymns that we sung this morning spoke of that Or perhaps it was mentioned in prayer. But the writer to the Hebrew says that both he who sanctifies the Lord Jesus and those who are being sanctified are all of one, for which reason he sanctions. He's not ashamed to call us brethren. Because he knows that in the end he is going to make us like himself. I mentioned Dr. Arthur Slatt, the pastor under whose ministry I was saved many years ago. One of the messages that he preached is one that just sticks in my mind so often from 1 John. He preached on that little phrase, we shall be like him. And that was actually just a few months before he went into the presence of the Lord. Uh but that's always stuck with me. We shall be like him And so Paul exhorted the Thessalonian believers. He said, He said this, chapter 5, verse 6. He said, Therefore, let us not sleep. As do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep, sleep in the night. They that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet the hope of salvation. For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. And so Paul says Chapter 5, verse 11, he says, Therefore, comfort each other, edify one another, just as you are also doing. We should be constantly asking ourselves these questions. Is this church a place of comfort Is this a place of edification? Are we, all of us, truly a regenerated people? Are we a witnessing people? When opposition comes in various forms, in various ways. And I believe that we're entering into a time when there will be stronger and stronger opposition to the truth Church of Christ in this nation. I don't care how many prayer breakfasts they have in Washington. What a mess. Yeah. Those prayer breakfasts are the worst kind of spiritual opposition. They really are. They're so contrary to the word of God. So much that is said is so contrary to the word of God. It's an opposition to the word. You stand against what are said in those kinds of gatherings and people think that you're just an intolerant nut. But opposition is there in various forms. We may experience it individually within a our families, we may experience it on a more uh widespread basis But we need to keep on saying, as Peter and the other apostles said in the book of Acts, to the religious leaders of that day, they said, we must obey God rather than men. And as we look at ourselves, as we find that there are those things in our lives and in the life of the church that are correctable, in the same way that the Apostle Paul put his finger on these things that require correction in the Thessalonians. Church, are we willing to take to heart the correction of the Word of God? Immorality. No church is immune. Poor testimonies in various ways to the unbelievers around us. Some things Some things that can happen in a church and we don't even realize. A church doesn't even realize that the church has slipped into a pattern that is a poor testimony to the Word of God. To the watching world. Doctrinal matters. I believe that one of the things that holds back revival is when a church Doesn't approach doctrine correctly. We need to be focused upon doctrine. Because every bit of this book is doctrine. But at the same time We need to be careful that we don't overemphasize issues of doctrine that are not central and essential and of which people may differ. In the way they interpret Scripture. And to do that in a way that cuts us off from fellowship with other believers, we need to maintain a balance. And in the light of these things in 1 Thessalonians, we need to ask ourselves other questions. Are we rejoicing? Are we continually before the face of the Lord in prayer? Are we truly thankful as we do this? that. One of the key indicators of unbelief, Paul says in Romans chapter 1, he says, one of the key indicators of unbelief is unthankfulness. He gives that whole list of sins and he says, in addition to that, neither were thankful these people, these unbelievers, these people who shook their fists at God. In the opening verses of Psalm one oh seven David, many centuries ago said this. He said, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Whom He has redeemed from the hand of the enemy and gathered out of the lands from the east and the west and the north and the south, he satisfies the longing soul, fills the hungry soul with goodness. And another crucial question, are we careful not to quench the spirit? Do we think about the fact that we can do this, that we can throw water on the fire of the spirit in various ways? The spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead, the spirit of wisdom, the indwelling spirit, the spirit of adoption, the spirit of holiness, the paraclete, the comforter. We can throw water on the fire of the spirit. We can quench the spirit by despising or taking lightly the faithful proclamation of the word. We can quench the spirit by not testing everything that we hear and read and see against the standard of Holy Scripture. And we can quench the Spirit by being a prayerless people instead of a praying people. We can quench the Spirit by compartmentalizing our lives and saying that God's word can only come this far and no further in my life. There are these things that I want to hold on to that I don't want to give up to God that I know are wrong Putting up barriers to the work of the Word of God and the Spirit of God to conform us more and more to the image of Christ. Now, I know that I haven't said anything new this morning. These are things that you know Because I know that this has been a a well taught church over a long, long time. I was thinking this morning about I I don't think I stand down in this part of the building since the dedication services Dr. Merrillunger preached, I remember that. Uh I remember being down here for refreshments after that, but I think that might have been the last time, believe it or not. We need to take the word of God to heart. We need to be careful. And may each of us, each of us not sleep, not let down our guard, but be sober, put on the whole armor of God, as we have heard and as we even sung this morning. Because we are part of his chosen remnant in this evil time. And just as God accomplished great things through a small remnant at Thessalonica, he can accomplish great things to a small remnant of Faith Bible Church. We may not see those things. The people at Thessalonica wouldn't have known about what was going on in Macedonia and Achaia probably if Paul hadn't told them. Ever these things going on miles and miles away because of their witness, because of their testimony that they didn't even know about and other things that they probably won't w didn't know about until they got to glory. And it's the same for all of us. But may this church be a church through which Christ is glorified. May this be his faithful church. Amen. Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Our Father, you have been so merciful and gracious as to give us your son, the great shepherd, the good shepherd, who laid down his life for the sheep. The shepherd who feeds his flock. Father, right now this church is lacking a permanent full time under shepherd. In such a time as this, Father, I pray that Christ Himself would especially the the shepherd of this flock. Feeding them, nurturing them Comforting them. Dealing with those who go astray. Going after that one Lost sheep. Thank you. That we can trust in our great Lord for the things to pray in his name. Amen.