Well it's a definite joy to be here today and I want to thank uh Faith uh Bible Church for allowing us to be a part of your family uh this morning. One of the great blessings that I've enjoyed as a pastor is the uh the fellowship of like-minded pastors in the greater Baltimore Pastors Fellowship, pastors like uh Dan Fox here at Faith Bible, and uh Steve Fleck from uh New Southwest Baptist Church have been a great gift and a blessing uh to me personally, and uh that our congregations can uh meet like this together uh today is uh just uh a little bit of practice before we get to heaven because we're gonna have to see each other then anyway, right? Uh so we might as well get used to to seeing each other other now and it's uh it's a joy that the uh the roof hasn't caved in yet. uh like it did over at uh New Southwest uh Baptist. Uh some people said it was because of my drums, but I'm not convinced that that's the case. So uh So we'll see if we can uh can hold the place together uh today. Uh but it's uh a great joy uh to be here. And uh uh this morning I want to uh encourage and exhort your pastors I want to encourage and exhort your pastors. Usually your pastor is on this side of the pulpit, but this morning, what we want to do is to preach to your preachers. uh to preach to the preachers. This is a a message for for preachers, uh, but that doesn't mean that the rest of you get to check out uh this morning because what I'm going to share is every bit as applicable for all of us uh in the congregation as as well. Uh because uh what we find in the the book of of Titus, uh which is where we'll be this morning, so you can open up your Bibles to the book of Titus of Titus. The book of Titus was meant to be read by the entire congregation. You know, the books of 1st and 2nd Timothy and Titus are known as pastoral epistles. So they're written to uh to pastors of churches, to leaders of churches, uh, but that doesn't mean that it was meant only for the leaders of those churches. Uh if you look at uh Titus chapter one, In verse 4, it lets us know that Titus was who this letter was addressed to. It says to Titus, a true son in our common faith. So we we realize right here that Titus is who the letter was addressed to. But if you flip down to chapter 3, look at verse 15. It says, All who are with me greet you, greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you what? All. Grace be with you all. Amen. Paul expected the entire congregation to be reading the letter of Titus. Grace be with you all. He's not talking to one individual. He's talking to everybody at this point. This letter was addressed to Titus, but it was meant for the entire congregation to benefit by. So the book of Titus was meant for the entire church. Secondly, the instructions that are given to elders were meant to be an example to the rest of the church. An elder was not to be an exception, but the example to the rest of his congregation. For example, Titus is specifically called on to be an example of what he taught if you look at uh chapter 2 and verse 7. Uh speaking to Titus it says, in all things, showing yourself to be a pattern of good works. And doctrine showing integrity, reverence, and corruptibility, so it goes on to talk to Titus about him being an example for the rest of the church. So uh the the the instruction that's given to leaders are not meant just for leaders. It was meant for uh the entire church to be a pattern uh of what uh was expected in the entire uh congregation. Uh it was uh yesterday I uh uh uh had a conversation with my brother-in-law. Uh went to a funeral uh in New York for uh for uh Jennifer's aunt and uh we spent some time with some fam family members there. And uh while I was in the car with uh my brother-in-law, he said uh he asked me why why do uh why do people who work at churches or who are hired by churches, you know, you know, what difference does it make whether or not they're Christians? And he says, you know, uh, what difference would it make to teach the Bible if you really didn't believe that what the Bible said was was true? You know, what if you just, you know, you enjoyed the stories? Uh you studied the history. He says, you know, what would prevent me from teaching the Bible in a church? And there's a lot of ways that I can answer that. But one of the ways that we could simply answer that is that Teachers are to be an example of what they teach, right? They're to be an example of they don't just say, you know, do as I say, but do as I do And the the p pastor was supposed to be an example to the rest of the congregation, uh not to be somebody that's isolated from everybody else, but to be the pattern for everybody else so that they could walk in their footsteps. So uh you can't tell me how this message's gonna be can change your life uh if the message hasn't changed your life, right? Uh so as a as pastors, as those who uh give away the the word of God We should be examples of those who are also patterning our lives after the Word of God. So the elders should be a pattern of good works, but it's for the purpose that the rest of the congregation would also pattern themselves after the good works that we find. So the qualifications that we're going to take a look at today aren't meant just for elders. It's meant for every one of us. So we could take a look at this list. in Titus and uh see some of the things that we're supposed to be patterning our lives after. Uh so this message is being sent to your pastor uh but I'm copying everybody else on the email uh so that we can all read it, that we can all understand it, we can all follow uh what we have here in the book of Titus. So let's take a look at the book of Titus starting at chapter one at uh verse five. I'll read from verses five down to verse nine. For this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the things that are lacking and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you. If a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of dissipation or insubordination, for a bishop must be blameless as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick-tempered Not given a wine not violent, not greedy for money, but hospitable, a lover of what is good, sober-minded, just holy. Self-controlled, holding fast the faithful word, as he has been taught that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convict those who contradict. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh uh thank you guys so much for uh the opportunity to take a look at your word once again. Uh Father, we know that uh your word is sufficient, uh that your word is powerful, uh, that your word speaks uh truth to us, and we pray that We would not just uh read these words on the page, but that we would pattern our lives after it, that we wouldn't be like those that uh behold their face in a mirror and uh turn away unchanged. My Father, I pray that our lives would be different as a result of what we understand in your word today. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen Titus was uh tasked with this serious responsibility of selecting spiritually mature men who could be trusted with the responsibility of leadership in Christ Church. And uh the word overseer or or bishop, uh as we find it there and um uh in the in the in the passage here, the the word for overseer or bishop. Um it's it's really just a word that means somebody who watches over other people. Uh I'm not sure where we get this idea that you know the bishop is supposed to be some high-ranking official that you know has all these kind of churches underneath. uh his control. Um that's not what the word means. Uh the words used for spiritual leadership are really uh interchangeable. Uh an elder Uh that's what he's called in uh verse five, uh point elders in every uh city as I commanded you. Uh it's the same uh person that's being spoken of in verse seven for a bishop must be blameless or an overseer must be blameless or uh above reproach. So the elders, the overseers, the bishops, they're all just talking about the same person. It's just talking about different facets of the one office. So as an elder Uh a person is supposed to be spiritually mature, be an example uh in his life, as a pastor, he's supposed to feed and care for the the sheep. Uh that's the the word for uh for pastor is just the word for shepherd, you know, the the shepherd of ten four flack and overseer bishop shows that he watches over or protects the the sheep. So the same man fills all three roles within the church. So uh what you call the person who stands behind a pulpit isn't the big deal. Uh what he is must be the big deal. His his character must be the the big deal. And here it says that that certainly That this person is supposed to be blameless. This person is supposed to be blameless or above reproach. And what that word means, blameless, it doesn't mean that he's perfect. But it means that he should be free from accusation, without charge, unreprovable, blameless. So not the sense that he's perfect, but there's no serious charge that could be uh cast against that person. Uh he gives us a good reason to trust him. It's basically what the word means. He gives us a good reason to trust him. And the gospel needs to be in the hands of people who can be heard. People who can be listened to. Their witness needs to be believable. Their testimony needs to be credible. And their lives can't be a distraction from the message that they preach. And is that only true for pastors? The answer is no. That should be true for every one of us, right? That we should live the kind of life where when we speak the gospel of Jesus Christ, that people actually want to listen to what we have to say because the gospel has actually made a difference in our lives. Like I said, don't tell me how great it works if it's not working for you. Is the gospel working for you? That's the question. And really throughout the book of Titus, this is really the uh the message that comes across throughout the book of Titus. And it's really heightened because of the background of the book. Titus, most scholars believe, was written between Paul's first and second imprisonment between 63-67 A. D. And at this time Paul's life and ministry are about to come to an end. He's quickly approaching the end. of his life. He's already described himself as Paul the aged in uh Philamon verse nine. Uh and by the time he writes the book of Titus it's even like f uh four or three three or four years beyond that. So he's already described himself as I'm I'm aging. I'm on my way out. And now what he has to do is he has to pass the baton to faithful people who can carry it on after him. He knows he's on his way out. Who are going to be the faithful people that are going to hold up this gospel baton after I'm gone? And this is why we need people that have lives that can actually be listened to, people who can be followed, because the gospel is so important. The gospel is what's important. Sometimes I talk to people and they say, you know what, I don't care what people think about me. You never ever hear that? Or uh you know they they might say it like this, you know, only only God can judge me. You know, they they they really don't want anybody meddling in their lives, examining their lives. Only only God can judge me. And uh to a certain degree, you know, you want to kind of say, yeah, but right? Yeah, I mean I I know that God is the ultimate judge and we want to recognize that. Uh we understand that God gets the last word on every one of our lives, right? In uh the book of uh first Corinthians, if you want to flip over there, first Corinthians uh chapter four The Apostle Paul, again, he lets us know that God really has the last saying in any one of our lives. You know, that the ultimate judge isn't us. It's not you, it's not your neighbor. The ultimate judge is God. First Corinthians chapter 4, look at verse uh three and four. Look at what Paul says here. He says, But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by a human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself, for I know of nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this, but he who judges me is the Lord. God is the one who judged me. God is the one who gets the last word on my life. So we shouldn't seek men for approval. We learned about that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. In verse 4, that we speak not as pleasing men, but God who examines our hearts. We understand that it's God who examines us, so we don't live for men's approval, and we don't fear man's disapproval. If man doesn't approve of what we do. In Galatians chapter 1 in verse 10, Paul says that if I were trying to please men, I wouldn't be a servant of Christ, because there's some things that I'm going to have to say that you're not going to approve of. I'm a servant of Christ. I gotta please him. I gotta fear him. So regardless of if you approve of it or disapprove of it, I'm a servant of God. I've got to say what God gives me to say But uh to say that I don't care what people think about me is like some kind of absolute statement isn't right. First of all, because it's just not true, because you do care what people think about you, right? I mean usually people say I don't care what anybody thinks about me as some kind of like scapegoat so they can hide behind it because they really do care what you think about. They just don't want you to say anything to them, right? It's like oh I don't know I don't care what people think about me, like shut up, please, don't don't say anything, right? Another reason that we shouldn't use this as some kind of absolute statement is because it's just not biblical. It's just not biblical to a degree. We need to care what other people think. Not because we're so worried about ourselves. It's because we're worried about the message that we give, right? In Acts chapter 24 and verse 16, Paul says, I also do my best. To maintain always a blameless conscience, both before God and before men. I want people to see that I'm living my life above reproach. That that I have a clear conscience in everything that I do. I do care what other people think about me. Good to have a good reputation. Proverbs twenty-two verse one says a good name is more to be desired than riches. Favor is better than silver and gold. So even though you might not care what people think about you, you should care what people think about the gospel. You should care what people think about the Word of God. You should care what people think about God Himself. And your life is always on display. You know, I I don't really care too much for those uh TV reality shows because you kind of get to see like the worst of humanity just kind of put on the screen. It's like like why do we want that? It's like we already know people are bad. Why do we want to see them behind closed doors, right? But um and and and one way your life is like a reality show and the camera's always rolling and people are making their opinions on church, Christianity, God, the gospel based off of what they're seeing. in your life. That should be something that weighs heavy on you. I know as a as a pastor for me that weighs heavy on me, that people, you know, make their opinions based somewhat off of my life and what I say. But that should be a a weight that we all feel. That I want want to make sure that that people think well of my savior because of what they're seeing in my life. And the theme of Titus could really be found in the phrase in chapter 2 and verse 10, where he talks about adorning the doctrine of God. We want to make the gospel of God look good. We want to make the gospel of God look good. And the book of Titus is really concerned with the practical application of truth, and that's not just for uh elders, it's for for the women in chapter two and verse five. It says that the word of God may not be dishonored. They they need to live in a certain way so that the word of God isn't dishonored. Chapter 2 verse 8. It's for all men so that they they may have nothing bad to say about us, you know, but by the way they look at our lives. We should be ready for every good deed in chapter 3, verse 1, and uh that we should be engaged in good deeds in chapter 3 and and verse 8. So uh so the question is, what difference has the gospel made in your life? before you decide to give it away to somebody else. And as Christians, we should all feel that. There's three main categories that Titus gives us as an example, family life in chapter 6. uh not chapter six, verse six of chapter one, uh, where it talks about uh the way that uh uh an elder is to treat his wife and his children. You know, so the the family life is examined, personal life is examined in uh verses seven to eight. And also the public life, you know, the heralding of the Word of God being sound in doctrine, exhorting and convicting with the Word of God is in verse 9. So we have kind of those three main categories, family life. personal life and uh public life, you know, the public speaking life of uh of an individual. But today what I want to focus on is just the character, okay? So uh if this sounds like a list It is. All right. So we're just going to kind of work our way through the qualifications of Titus in verses 7 and 8 of chapter 1. And uh first we kind of start with this. It's it's 12 characteristics of the life you can listen to if you want a title for this. Twelve characteristics of a life you can listen to. So uh what we're gonna do is we'll just start at the at the beginning. Look at verse 7 again. For a bishop must be blameless as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick-tempered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money. And uh verse 7 kind of talks about the things that we shouldn't be. But first of all, let's talk about that that first term there, blameless or trustworthy, being a above reproach. There should be no suspicion about the life of those that Peril, the word of God and um a steward. It talks about those that are that are bishops or overseers, they're they're stewards. um of the gospel of of God, they're they're stewards of of God. So what they take care of aren't the things that belong to themselves. They're taking care of something that belongs to somebody else. You know, as pastors take care of the word of God, it doesn't belong to them. You know, we're not the chefs. We don't kind of cook it up and, you know, kind of craft it. All we're we are is just the waiters. You know, we just want to bring it out without messing it up. You know, that's why we do expository preaching because we want the message that we give to be the message of the scriptures. It's not our message. It's the message of the Bible itself. So the first thing it talks about here is uh uh bishops being blameless. Above reproach or trustworthy. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 2, it says, In this case, moreover, it is required of stewards that one be found faithful or one be found trustworthy. A person whose life can be heard is as a person who's trustworthy. Number two, a person whose life can be heard is a person who's sacrificial. Sacrificial. If uh you look there again in uh in verse seven Not self-willed, as a steward of God, not self-willed, or arrogant in some versions of uh of the scriptures That's the word uh authadace in Greek, our English word uh auto actually comes from a part of this word when you think about that word auto. Uh automatic is actually self-thinking. You know, when things kind of happen by themselves, it's kind of self-thinking. Automobile is something that's self-moving, and this word here that's used in the Greek author dais means self-pleasing. Pleasing themselves. Somebody who's all in it for self-gratification, pleasing themselves, a person who's consumed with his selfish desires. And that's the death sentence on any kind of true biblical evil. leadership, isn't it? If you think that a leader is in it for himself. You know, that all he's about is living for himself. So if you suspect that uh uh leaders are just in it for them, uh they're not people who are worthy of being followed. John MacArthur says, how does a leader build trust when people are convinced that you'll do everything in your power for their good and nothing for their harm? A true leader is someone who demonstrates to everyone around him that their interests are what most occupy his heart. And that's the way that people should look at your life. That, you know, this person isn't primarily concerned about themselves. They're concerned about me. They they have a love and a care and a concern for for me. That's the thing that people should see in your life in uh first Kings chapter twelve. You don't have to turn there, but in uh first Kings chapter twelve, if you remember uh After Solomon, there was another, his his son uh Rehabom took the throne. And uh one of the things that the people called out for is like, you know, hey, Solomon had all these building projects. Can you give us a break, please? You know, they came to Rahabom and said, please, you know, can you give us a break from all these challenges? We've we've worked hard for your father. Can you give us just a a break? You know, all we're looking for is like a vacation, right? And uh so the people are asking for some kind of relief. The elders come to Rayoboam and said, you know what, it's it's a good thing that the people are asking. You know, you need to show them that you're you're here for them. You know, that you're you're governing them, that you're over them, but it's it's not just for your good, it's for their good and benefit as well. But instead of uh Rahboam listening to uh the older people, you know, who had some wisdom, the gray hairs, he listens to the to his buddies. You know, people that that are his age. You know, this is kind of like the same plight that we find with a lot of our young people today, instead of coming to the to the people who have a little bit more wisdom, a little bit more years, you know, they want to go to their friends in school. For what? You know, they're they're at the same stage that you are, but they want to go to their their buddies and ask them for, hey, what do you think I should do? And uh here uh Ray Abom goes to his uh his younger friends for advice and uh they said, you know, you need to to let the people know who's in charge. And say, yeah, my father might have whipped you with whips, but I'm going to whip you with scorpions. I'm going to make it like twice as hard for you. And uh what the people responded to him and says, you know, well Leave it to yourself. You go and do it yourself then. And they left Ray of Bomb. They you know dropped their tools and and left. And uh what people need to know in leaders is that you know you're just not in it for you. That you're actually after our benefit and good as well. Number three, uh a leader and persons who can be listened to are also patient, not quick-tempered. Easily angered. The person who can be heard doesn't have a short fuse. Remember you used to play with those, uh, I know I used to play with them as kid as a kid, you know, those little fireworks? You know, you used to throw them on the Fourth of July, those I forgot what they were called, but they were like these little poppers or whatever with a little string and you light it up, but sometimes you you lit it and it didn't go all the way back to the to the firework, so you're having to light it with a shorter fuse and a shorter fuse and pretty soon you didn't want to light it anymore. 'Cause you don't know when this thing's gonna go off. That's that's the kind of word that's used for for being angered. To It's it's having a short fuse. You don't know when this thing's gonna blow. And that's how how some people are. And uh some people try to justify them their their anger by saying, Oh, it's righteous indignation. You know, I'm I'm I'm I'm angry for the right reason. Well, let me give you some help with that. First of all, righteous anger is against a real wrong, okay? It's not just something that you perceive to be wrong, it's a real sin Secondly, righteous anger focuses on God and his kingdom, not you and your kingdom. Often we get angry because we're personally offended. We're not offended because of God We're not saying, oh, I want God to be honored. I'm dishonored. You know, I feel like I'm slighted. So it's uh it's for ourselves. And also, righteous anger is also accompanied by godly qualities If you're really righteously angry, it's going to exhibit itself in godly behavior. You get that? If you're righteously angry, it's going to exhibit righteous behavior. You know, oftentimes when we're angry, it's it's anything but righteous behavior when we get upset. A person who's going to be listened to isn't a person who blows his tap quickly. It's not a person who's uh who's who's offended easily uh and wants to be be honored and and uh and looked at as uh you know something to be approved of. Fourthly, person who's going to be listened to is the person who has sober judgment. Sober judgment. Look at verse 7 again. Not given to wine. And uh this is a a different word for than for for drunk. Uh it's a word that means to to linger long by the wine. You know, you're just hanging out long by the bottle. You know, it's it's just the the impression that you give. It's not even that you're drunk yet, it's just like you just you just want to hang around. You you just have like this this kind of stigma about your life that you're always like right on the edge. You know, you may not be there, but you're right there hanging around the bottle. Uh and again the issue is trust. How how can I trust somebody and and usually the the person who was uh known as being who lingered long by the bottle, uh he was known for having impaired judgment. He didn't, you know, when you came to him with something serious, you didn't know if you're gonna get a right answer or not You know, sometimes uh you know you talk to some people, you know, they're you know on the street and uh you know you want to share the gospel, it's just like, okay, who am I talking to here, right? Am I talking to the real you or am I talking to the bottle that you just drank? You know, you're just kind of kind of unsure, you know, where you are. Uh the person who can be listened to is a person that you can Trust their judgment. They're not violent. They're not acting out of character. They're people who have sound and sober judgment. Number five, a person who can be listened to is a person who's gentle. Gentle. This is a person who's not eager to fight. Again in verse 7. Not a violent. Not a violent person. A person who's not eager. to fight. Literally the the word here for for violent or eager to fight is a the word for a striker. You know, somebody who who handles disagreement. physically, you know, with their fists, you know, if if they they have to. It's a it's a you know kind of a a a real violent way to to to handle disagreements. this kind of intimidating you know type of approach, you know, slamming fists, yelling, you know, there's other ways other than than actually hitting somebody that you can be a striker. You know, you can strike out with your words, you know, by how you use your your language. you know, being argumentative. I I remember I I heard a story in seminary about a a pastor who was at an elders meeting and he was you know arguing for you know a certain position or whatever and uh it was it was even the right position. It was the right position that he was arguing for. But in the middle of this elders' meeting, he just kind of slammed his fist down and says, this is not going to happen! And at that point he lost all credibility. Right? He lost all credibility. And he he understood that he lost his voice among his elders. There's nothing else that he could say after that point that would make any sense You know, that they'd even want to listen to because they they saw the way that he responded. And uh we need to to make sure that we're watching uh the way that we uh handle uh disagreement. Sheep are are led, not driven, right? Cheaper lead. You need to lead by your example, not by intimidating people, you know, with your voice or your language or you know your body movements or whatever else. Uh I remember one guy he said uh He said he wanted uh to to get rid of uh um of a tenant in a building. So he said uh just kind of wanted to bring his sword with him. He says, let me tell you what I'm not gonna do. Um I'm not gonna cut you with the sword, you know, but it's just like this intimidation factor. You know, I'm just gonna hold it here and and uh tell you that you need to leave. It's just it's just crazy. I mean and there's things that people do to just intimidate you, to make you think, well, you know, I don't know where this person's gonna go. Do I want to trust them or not? That's not the kind of person that you want to hear the the message of of Christ from. Also, a person who you can listen to is not a person who's a lover of money. Not a lover of money. It's a person who's content. Again, back in uh in verse 7, again, not greedy for money. And if there's anything, unfortunately, that preachers are known for today, it's loving money. You know, preachers dancing around on their pulpits and piles of money. For what? It's just it's such an embarrassment. For the for the name of Christ, you're out here dancing on money and uh you know the the the the messages are all about you know getting rich and you know God's gonna bring your blessing and It's all about money, material wealth. That is not what the Church of Jesus Christ should be about. That's not what the Church of Jesus Christ should be known for. We should be known for being content, especially as uh ministers of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The only time we see a physical demonstration of anger and we know that Christ was always controlled in everything that he did. But the only time that there was a physical demonstration of anger uh was when Christ was dealing with the money changers. Remember that? When Christ actually, you know, sat down to construct a whip. To physically drive out the people who are taking advantage of other people. This is the only time when we see Christ just physically outbreak of anger. Scattered coins, flung tables, and and welted backs to make his point. But you don't take advantage of of God's people. And uh people who should be listened to Or people who uh who don't have a love for money, they're content with what they they have. So how are we supposed to believe somebody is really concerned for our well-being if he's not trustworthy? But he's blameworthy. If he's not sacrificial, but he's self-willed. If he's not patient, but he's quick-tempered. He's not sober in his judgment, but he's long at the bottle. He's not gentle, but he's eager to fight. He's not content, but he loves money and anything that he can do to get his hands on it. Would you be eager to hear a trustworthy message? The gospel is a trustworthy message, right? Worthy of all acceptance, the message of the gospel. Would you want to hear the trustworthy message from somebody who's not trustworthy? Would you want to Would you want to hear the most sacrificial message, the message of Jesus dying for sins from somebody who's not sacrificial? Would you want to hear about a God who's eager to move his wrath from those that would turn to trust in him from somebody who's eager to show you and demonstrate his wrath? It doesn't agree. It doesn't make sense. There's an old saying that says, your life speaks so loud that I can't hear what you're saying. Because your life is just so overpowering, so overwhelming that I can't even hear the message that you're coming to give We need to make sure that we watch our lives. An old Puritan author, Richard Baxter, said, oh brethren, watch over your own hearts. Keep out lust and passions. Take heed to yourselves, lest your example contradict your doctrine, lest you unsay with your lies what you say with your tongues. And be the greatest hinderers of the success of your own labors. Some of us are tearing down our testimony with our own hands And then we want to share the gospel of Jesus Christ, but we're tearing down the very testimony that we're supposed to be building building up Something that we need to watch our lives for. And as I mentioned, these are qualities that should be true of every one of us, and specifically should be true of the leadership, but it should be true of every one of us. And uh I want to kind of move through the next six quickly. It's all found in uh in verse eight. Uh we're gonna just move through this quickly Verse 8 again, it says, but hospitable, a lover of what is good, sober-minded, just holy, and self-controlled. Number seven, a person who can be listened to as a A person who's known by what he loves or who who he loves. A person who's known by who he loves. The word uh in verse eight here, but hospitable, it's really a rich word and it's Oftentimes we we think about hospitality as just kind of inviting your friends over for lunch or for dinner, you know, hey, getting a little dessert social with all my buddies. That's not what the word hospitality means. The word hospitality actually means a lover of strangers. A lover of strangers. So it's not just loving the people that love you, loving the people that you already know, it's loving people that you don't know. Do you make it a ministry to greet people that you don't know? Do you do you uh open your home to to others even outside of your family and immediate friends? And uh and really here today we have a wonderful opportunity right here, don't we? Because uh a lot of you I don't know. You know, so so to express greetings and love and care and concern for for those of you here would be a wonderful opportunity to show express hospitality. That's what hospitality means, to love strangers. I mean after church we're all gonna gonna you know just do a little exercise in this you know find somebody you don't know don't don't just gather together with your your friends find somebody you don't know and greet them You know, this is uh the way that we live lives that can be listened to, that we have a love that spills out to others. It's not just contained uh with those who are going to return it to us. Not only should be known we should be known for who we love, we should also be known for what we love. A lover of what is good. Again in verse 9, a lover of what is good. This is only one word in the in the Greek. It's a word that the Greek society actually used for uh people who were honorable people, you know, who who love the right thing. And it's kind of interesting if you do a search on this word, that the opposite of loving good wasn't loving bad. As the Greeks used it, the opposite of loving good was loving yourself. The opposite of loving good was loving yourself And that's how they they understood this this word to uh to be to to love good means that you love the right thing even over your own inconvenience. That even if I'm inconvenienced for doing the right thing, I'm still gonna do that. the right thing because I love what's good. Not loving myself, not loving what's going to benefit me, I just love what's right. Regardless of of uh what kind of benefit comes to me or not. That's the the way that we're supposed to be, loving what's right, loving what's right. We also should be known for for how we think, how we think. Sober minded or sensible, uh being self-controlled. Again in uh In verse verse 8, a lover of what is good, sober-minded. This is a word that's uh that's used of a of a sound mind. Uh actually if you uh uh take a look at uh different scriptures like 2 Timothy 1. Seven, then you know that uh uh Paul instructed Timothy that you're not supposed to be a person of fear, you know, that God hasn't given us a spirit of fear, uh, but of a of a sober or sound mind, you know, that we're not supposed to be controlled by our fears. Romans chapter 12, verse 3, it talks about not being controlled by just kind of uh you know fantasies and things that we make up, but you know being sound in our judgment. Acts chapter 26, Paul used it when he was defending himself before Festus and he says uh and uh uh he says that I'm of of sober the words that I speak to you are of sober truth. I'm not out of my mind. You know, the words that I speak to you of of a sober truth, and this is the way we're supposed to think, not given to fear, not given to fantasy, not given to exaggeration, you know, not every newest fad that comes along that we're just gonna kind of blow with the wind. We're people of sound mind, sound judgment. Number 10, person who can be heard is the person who is uh known for how he acts towards people Again, in uh verse eight, it's a person who's just. Uh it's actually the word for for righteous, you know, being righteous towards others in in this case, uh by doing right towards other people. You know, we're not the kind of persons who Try to get over on somebody, cut corners. You know, we honor our commitments. We give people a reason to believe our word. Those are the kind of people that we should be. Should also be known for people who uh uh who also uh not only how we act towards others, but how we act toward God Being holy is uh is the word that's that's used here. Uh again in verse verse nine, uh verse eight, uh being holy, it's a a word that means to be devout. It's a different word than the the normal word that's used for holy, but it's uh a word that means to be devout. Again, in Greek culture, when they use this word, it was a word that uh was used for people who who actually practiced what they believed. You know, that if a a person, you know, uh decided to be a part of a certain religion, that they actually practiced what that religion taught. And that's the way that we're supposed to be looked at that. We have convictions that what the Bible teaches is what it teaches, and I'm not going to try to get away from what it teaches. You know, it is what it is. Once we state our convictions, we should be expected to live by our convictions. You know, so we shouldn't try to twist the word of God to match our lifestyle. And that's what's happening in all kinds of places in the world today, right? You know, people want to claim they're Christians, but then they twist the word of God so that it actually fits my lifestyle. You know, uh I I don't want to uh change who I am or what I've decided to be. Uh so uh, you know, homosexual really doesn't mean homosexual, it means something else You know, this this this verse over here doesn't really mean you know, fornication doesn't really mean fornication. It means uh somebody that you're not committed to. I mean, there's all kinds of ways that people try to get around the clear meaning of of scripture because they they want to fit it to their own lifestyle. But the Bible says, let God be true and every man be found what? A liar. Let God be true, let God speak. If this is what God says, let God speak and you be the one that's wrong. You be the one that's a liar. Don't try to say that God's a liar. Don't try to twist up his words to try to fit your lifestyle. And number twelve, we should also be known for how we act towards ourselves. And uh again the word here is self-controlled or disciplined. If you're going to be the kind of person that people can listen to, you need to be a person who knows how to tell yourself no. A person who knows how to tell yourself no. The root word means to restrain, to hold back. And the illustration that Paul gives of this word is found over in 1 Corinthians chapter 9, if you want to flip over there. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. He kind of picks up this term as an illustration for the games, the different Greek games that were participated in in uh first Corinthians chapter nine look at verse 24 and 25 It says in verse 24 of 1 Corinthians 9, do you not know that those who run in a race all run? But one receives the prize, run in such a way that you may obtain it. And everyone who competes for the prize is Temperate, that's our same word for self-controlled. Self-controlled in all things. Now they do it to obtain a perishable crown, but we for an imperishable crown. Some of you guys will probably be uh interested in watching the Olympics when they they come out. Uh one of my professors from uh the Master Seminary where I graduated from, uh his daughter, uh Allison Felix is actually participating in the the Olympics this year in Rio. And in order for her to be eligible for the competitions, she had to say no to a lot of things. Like food, certain kinds of foods, like rest, like uh being able to kind of just pick leisurely activities when she she wanted to. She's actually competing in in two different events this year, one of the uh the few people that they allow to compete in two different events. But uh in order to compete, she had to say no to herself over a lot of things. If we're going to be the kind of people that are going to be approved of and people that are listened to, we can't just live life just doing what we want, when we want, how we want. We need to learn how to tell ourselves no. Certain things uh you know even if uh it may not be wrong but it's questionable, you know, certain liberties that we might want to take, uh we need to learn how to say no to ourselves uh because What happens when it's uh time to say no to something that's that's a real temptation? I love what uh Jerry Bridges says. He says, if your body makes all the decisions And gives you all the orders, and if you obey, the physical can effectively destroy every other dimension of your personality. Your emotional life will be blunted, your spiritual life will be stifled, and ultimately you'll become anemic, just kind of malnourished. Again, Bridget says, if we cannot say no to an indulgent appetite, we will be hard-pressed to say no to a lustful thought. Are you able to tell yourself no? Just no, I don't need to. Right? No, even if it might not be wrong, but you know it might actually stumble somebody else. I'm gonna tell myself no, I don't have to I know I'm able to do that, but I'm going to tell myself no. Because there's a higher goal than I'm trying to attain. And how are you dealing with saying no to yourself when it comes to temptations? If you're going to be a person that others can listen to, they need to see that you live a disciplined life, that you're able to tell yourself no. You know, even to things that you you might desire or might like. So those are the twelve characteristics of a life that you can listen to. I'll just cover them once again. Trustworthy, sacrificial, patient. Sober, gentle, content. In addition to that, you should be known for who you love, what you love, how you think, how you behave towards people, how you behave towards God, and finally how you behave towards yourself. And every one of these is found perfectly in who? Jesus Christ. He's our example, right? He's the one that we follow. He's the one that that ultimately our lives should be patterned after, the one that we're trying to imitate. Jesus Christ was trustworthy. He was blameless. He always did what pleased the Father. Right? He even talked to people that wanted to accuse him as enemies and says, which one of you can accuse me of sin? Which one of you? He lived a life that was free from guilt. He was sacrificial. He lived a life that wasn't for himself, and he proved it by giving his life for us, right? Greater love has no man than this, than to lay down his life for his friends. Jesus Christ was sacrificial. Jesus Christ was was patient. He wasn't quick-tempered. Now Isaiah 53 talks about the period before his crucifixion. He says as a as a lamb he was led to the slaughter and he didn't even what? Didn't even open up his mouth. Patient even when he was wrong. Could have called down legions of angels to rescue him from the cross. But he says, I'll give up my life. I'm not going to react. in um in a in a in a way that's that's that's angry and vindictive. He was sober in his judgment. He always said the right things. He was gentle. He wasn't eager to fight or violent. He was content. He says that the son of man doesn't even have a what? Doesn't even have a place to lay down his head. He was content with little. Jesus wasn't in it for the money. He wasn't in it for what he could get. Jesus was known by his hospitality. He was a friend of who? Sinners. What was he getting from sinners? What kind of benefit was he getting from hanging around sinners? Jesus was a friend of people who are strangers to himself. Jesus Christ loved people. Jesus Christ loved what was right all the time in every situation. Jesus Christ thought sensibly. Jesus Christ behaved justly towards others, never did anybody wrong. Jesus Christ behaved devoutly towards God. Like I said, he always pleased the Father. The Father looked at Jesus Christ and says, This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. Well pleased. And finally, how he behaved towards himself. He was absolutely in control of every situation, total control of his faculties. Even in the in the and up to the last moment, Jesus Christ was the perfect example of faithfulness. And if you're thinking that you can live this kind of life, Apart from any help from the Lord, you are fighting a losing battle. You are fighting a losing battle. After uh Paul talks about you know buffeting his body and you know disciplining himself and kind of being rigorous. In his disciplines, he says this in 1 Corinthians 10, 13, no temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man, and God is faithful. Who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide a way of escape so that you will be able to endure it. You know what Paul's saying? That our strength doesn't reside in ourselves. Our strength doesn't reside in our faithfulness. Our strength doesn't reside in our ability to kind of buckle under this and kind of hold up the weight. Our strength resides in God's faithfulness. God is faithful, who will not allow you to endure more than what you're able to handle. So as uh as Christians, like I said, we're we're walking billboards for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Walking billboards, living billboards for the gospel of Jesus Christ. When people look at your life, do you give them a reason to listen to the message that you have to present? Because the message The message is so precious. The message of the gospel is so precious. Don't live in a way that would cause people to turn away. And close their ears to the message of eternal life. Brethren, watch over your own hearts. Take heed to yourselves, lest by your example you contradict your doctrine. Lest you unsay with your lies what you say with your tongues, and be the greatest hinderers of the success of your own labors. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we uh uh thank you God so much for this opportunity that we have to uh uh take a look at your word. And uh my father, there's uh so much more that could be said about each one of these characteristics, but I pray that uh what I have said has been um faithful and uh helpful uh for your people. Uh Father, I pray that we would live in such a way that the gospel of Jesus Christ is held high. That the gospel of Jesus Christ is adorned properly, Lord, that that we make Christ look good by our lives. Not that we could add anything to Christ, but just in pointing people to Jesus Christ that we wouldn't be the distraction. Now, Father, I pray that people want to look at our churches and just say that we're filled with hypocrites, people who aren't honest about what the Bible says and living out what the Bible says. Father, I pray that they'd be honest able to see in our lives uh something that would attract them instead of repel them from uh the good news of Jesus Christ. And uh Father, we know that ultimately that we can't live this kind of life, which is why Jesus Christ came to die for us, which is why Jesus Christ came to live that kind of life in our place, so that all who trust and believe in him could have the hope of eternal life My Father, we thank you for our rich hope, and our Father, we pray that we would uh point people to that rich hope, uh, not only by what we say, but also in how we live. My Father, may you be honored. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.