Good morning, all. Good to see you. This Sunday we have rain. Last Sunday we had snow. I guess we didn't have snow here last Sunday, did we? Yeah, I think we did. I came through snow last Sunday, so I'm happy to report that my trip home was only rain. There was no snow, there was no ice. God is good. So I am continuing what we started last Sunday. We started this section that causes um frustration and consternation. Because it doesn't seem to quite fit. And it seems like when you read commentaries, they seem to get a little uptight when they get to this section. Because the section seems to be different than what we grew up on Martin Luther was very bothered by this passage and basically disliked the Epistle of James because of this passage. And it's really just one word. You know? Simply the word works. Who would be bothered by the word works? A lot of people are. It's this thing of James putting works with faith. We all know that faith is not works. People aren't saved by works. And works have nothing to do with it. And we know Romans chapter 4, where Paul said, a person is saved apart from works. So last week we talked about the fact we had two sections. We're in James chapter 2, verses 14 to 26. And the first section, 14 to 20, talks about the fact that dead faith can speak well and get emotional. James is contrasting two different kinds of faith. Real stuff and dead stuff And so four times he talks about faith that is dead or useless. And the first six verses, 14 to 20, first seven verses, talk about dead faith can speak well and get emotional. Here's verses 14 to 17. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled, but you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? Thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. So here's a neighbor, responds nicely to needy people, says good things to needy people Be warmed, be filled, and be gone. But does not give them the things that are needed for the body. He says that kind of faith is not faith. Then in verses 18 to 20, we have demons who believe, who get emotional over information about God. And their faith is zero. I'm reading verse 18, but someone will say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that there is one God, you do well. Even the demons believe and tremble. But do you want to know, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead? I mentioned last week that it's hard to understand exactly what's going on in verses 18 and 19. But whatever is going on, James is not allowing for two kinds of faith. The guy says, you have faith without works. I have faith with works. James said, there isn't any such thing. No such thing as faith apart from works. And the illustration is demons. Okay? Demons even get emotional They get worried and bothered, frustrated, and we talked about when Jesus arrived over on the other side of the Sea of Galilee and met the men, the man that was demon-possessed. And the demon said to Christ, You are the Son of God. Did you come early to judge us? The demon knew who Christ was, believed it, knew that Christ was the final judge, believed it, was worried that the judgment was coming early. So he believed he was trembling. That's not faith. Okay So then we went to the second section that says real faith moves to obey. Real faith moves to obey. And we talked about Abraham in verses 21 through 24. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered Isaac his son on the altar? Do you see that faith was working together with his works? And by works faith was made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled which says, Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. You see then that a man is justified by works and not by faith only. You remember Abraham's Abraham's dilemma. God said, I want you to sacrifice your treasure. This is the gift that God had given. This is the gift that God had given in his old age. This was the promise through which God was going to bring a great nation. And God says, I want you to sacrifice him. I want you to sacrifice him. Unbelievable directions. And it says, Abraham was up the next morning to go. No questions? No delay. He obeyed. So we can see in this situation that Abraham's faith was connected with obeying what God said, obeying the directions that God gave. Abraham could have disobeyed and started a church. You know, he could have had a prayer meeting. He could have read scripture. He could have written a doctrinal statement. He could have done all kinds of good things and been in disobedience. Faith was his obedience. He got up the next day and went. And then we talked about Rahab. In the last two verses, likewise was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. This is an interesting example of faith because Rahab did not have Scripture. As far as we know, she had no commands from God. She was not an Israelite. She was living in Canaan territory. She was a Canaanite. And the direction to the Israelites was wipe out the Canaanites, get rid of the Canaanites. But here's a lady who said to the messengers, we've heard, we've seen what you did, we watched you guys make your progress, we watched the way God worked in your situation. And I know that your God is God. So she was making the next logical step If God is God, God's people are important. And she protected these messengers. Which was an act of treason, which was a lie when they came and said, Where are they? Does God encourage lack of does God encourage treason and lying? Absolutely not Okay? But here's a woman whose lying and treason showed her faith. Her faith that there is a God and he is not in Jericho. And I am trusting him. However, you do it. So, our question is: what does this word works mean? What is this idea of works? And let me refer you back to Romans chapter 10. Verses 13 to 17. Romans 10, 13 to 17. If you uh pick up the little thing that's outside on your way out, It's something that I have written on this whole concept of faith. I have Been working on this for the last probably 55 years and I have been bothered, was bothered early on so much by this whole concept of faith. You know, there are people that say faith is a gift. And when you get it, you get it. And if you don't have it, you don't have it. It's like the Washington Post. And some people say, no, faith is not a gift. Faith is accepting what God said as true. You just accept it as true. Other people say, no, faith is obeying God as a disciple. You receive Jesus Christ as Lord and you obey everything that He commands. And there are all these different Understandings of faith. So when I was seventeen years old, I began praying and saying to the Lord, here is probably the most important thing in my life. Faith. Because without faith, it's impossible to please you. What does that mean? And have you explained this anywhere in your Bible? That was my prayer. I, for one summer, was For several summers, but the first summer I was traveling with a quartet, and I took five books with me. All the books were on faith, and I was going to find out what faith meant. And as I read through the books, I got more and more confused. And so the second summer out With the same group, I decided I was going to read the Bible and see if I could find, is there a verse in the Bible that says, so here's what faith is. So that's where it started. Okay? And in the process, God began to open my eyes to this passage, Romans chapter 10. Which is so simple and so clear. So here's Romans 10, beginning in verse 13. For whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace! Who bring glad tidings of good things. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah said, Lord, who has believed our report? So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. All of a sudden I began to see in that section a progression. There's a progression that goes, that starts, the way it's presented in the passage goes backwards. Okay, you're saved when you call upon the name of the Lord. How shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? So, in order to call, you have to believe. In order to believe, you have to hear. In order to hear, there has to be a preacher. So then, verse 17, faith comes. By listening. So here's the process. It begins when you listen. Faith comes by listening. What is faith? Faith is listening. But it goes beyond that. Faith is believing what God says, believing it is true. And it goes beyond that, believing what is true enough so that you actually obey it. And do what it says. So faith involves hearing, it involves believing, it involves obedience. Hearing, believing, obedience. You notice that verse in verse 16 that says, but they have not all obeyed the gospel. Do you see what the writer is doing? He's equating faith and obedience So what is faith? My definition of faith is faith is HBO Hearing, believing, obeying. Okay? It is hearing, believing, obeying And it connects with one, to begin with, one specific promise or command of God. So let's take a command. Well, let's take the first command. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I heard that command at the age of seven. In a young people's meeting in Washington, D. C. , whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. As a younger than seven-year-old, I had heard the gospel and I really didn't believe it. As a child, I did not believe it. I thought that's for people who need it. That's not for me. And when I came to the place of believing it, that yes, there the gospel is important, I can remember sit sitting in an evangelistic meeting one night. I was probably six, maybe seven, and the preacher said, there are some of you here who are trying to get to heaven, the back door. You're trying to get in the back way. And I said to me myself, what is that way? I think I'm going to try that An obstinate six-year-old, you know. So it's a process of hearing what God has promised. I had heard it many times, believing it. That it's those who call upon the name of the Lord who will be saved. But that doesn't save you believing it. You know, that's the American definition of faith. The American definition of faith is accepting something as true. Somebody says, you know, such and such is going to happen, you say, I believe that. Well, I don't believe that. You know, I believe that. We're talking about accepting something as true. That's not the Bible definition. The Bible definition of faith is accepting something as true enough to obey it. Not just accepting something as true, accepting God's word as true. Okay? Everybody see that? Okay, I've had ninety percent nods. That's good. So, what that means is that one of the most important things in the Bible, one of the most important things in the Bible is listening. Listening. Do you think the Bible has anything to say about listening? If this is so important, if faith comes by listening, where in the world is listening emphasized in the Bible? Well, Jesus said, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Remember that? How many times did he say that? Once? Twice Anybody go for fifteen times? You know, what that is saying is Jesus is saying, I know you've got ears to hear. I've given them to you. Use them. Turn your hearing aid up. Concentrate. Focus. You know, listening is more than just having your eardrum wiggle. Listening involves Concentrating, focusing, getting rid of the other stuff, not letting the rain on the roof bother you as it comes. Listening. So I said, as I was working on this, I said, so is listening in the Old Testament anywhere? Where does anything in the Old Testament talk about listening? I went through Jeremiah. It's incredible how many times Jeremiah talks about listening. I think I counted at least 52 times. And Jeremiah says, you know the reason you you're going into captivity? You're going into captivity because you wouldn't listen. And other books go the same way. You know, Proverbs starts. The book of Proverbs, chapter 1, verse 20 and 21. Wisdom calls out in the street and says, Listen, you guys going by. Are you going to pay attention? I've got wisdom. For those who listen. But then I came upon this verse in Deuteronomy that I just couldn't believe. You know, Israel every day has a responsibility. The nation of Israel. Today, Jewish people today, still get up in the morning. And say this phrase. And before they go to bed at night, they say this phrase. It's called the Great Shema. The great Shema. It comes from Deuteronomy chapter 6. You know what the word Shema means? Listen So the great Shema begins by, Hear, O Israel. Our God is one. Listen, O Israel. So the great emphasis in Scripture is on listening. Listening. Faith comes by listening. God's word. generates faith when people will listen. Okay? So it's listening to what God says, and secondly, it's believing what God says. Believing, meaning accepting as true, realizing this is from God and He means it. You know, there are a lot of commands in the Bible that we don't tend to accept as true. Count it all joy when you fall into difficult situations. I asked this last week. I probably asked it several times before that. How'd you do this week Did you actually count it all joy when you faced this week's list of difficulties? Or did you grumble? I see one confession on row seven. I appreciate that. You know? So often it's an issue of, do I believe that God knows what he's talking about when it comes to this situation? You know, how how can you count it all joy when your youngest son dies? That was for us a huge hurdle. Count it all joy. You're kidding, God That must not cover this item. So faith involves listening to what God says And believing it to be true. Step number two. I put in the phrase, believing it enough to obey it. So step number three says that you really do not have faith until you have obedience. You can say, you know, I had this difficult thing that happened this week, and even though I didn't count it all joy, I counted that it wasn't as bad as it could be. And you know, I wasn't really thanking God for it, but I didn't fly off the handle. I didn't break any China this week. See, the blessing of God comes on those who obey. Obey specifically. God's directions are specific. Casting all your care on him. Casting all your care on him. Really? All? Yes. Be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and thanksgiving. And thanksgiving. Let your request be known unto God. You see, these commands are very specific. And we the more you the more you read them, the more you focus on them, the more you realize how pointed They are, and how perfectly they fit what we're going through. So faith is obeying what it says Count it all joy when you fall into difficult situations. So you count it joy You respond to God in faith. Verse 3, James 1:3. You determine, I'm going to go through this the right way so I can get all the blessing juice out of it because God says it's good. That's faith. You ask God for wisdom so that you can go through it. That's faith. Okay. Everybody see that So I have something valuable in my hand. All right? It may not look like it, but I have something valuable in my hand. And do you believe it's valuable that I have something valuable in my hand? Remember, your response says whether you believe I'm a liar or not. You believe I have something valuable in my hand? I'm hiding it. I have something valuable in my hand. You believe it? I'm expecting a hearty amen from everybody. I'm re receiving I'm receiving unbelief All right, if you believe that I have something valuable in my head, I will give it to the first person who walks to the back door and comes up here. He's running Hi. Hi. What's your name? J B. JB? Yeah. Will you turn around and s say hi to these people? Hi. Uh most of you, all of you don't know this. This is uh this is the son of Barrett King. And uh Barrett and Ginger were at our house this weekend because they spoke at our church last night, just did an excellent job at a Valentine's banquet. And we had so much fun with them and they are Barrett had to go back to Lancaster in his church today. But we have his wife Ginger who's sitting back there with my wife and does not want to be identified. And we have Two of their three daughters, Ashley is the taller one and Kaylee is the shorter one, although she's not short. And this is J B, the eleven year old, right? You're eleven, aren't you? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. What grade are you in? Sixth. Six? Fifth. Fifth. Yes. Yeah. Soon to be sixth. Yes. What kind of grades are you making? What? What kind of grades are you making? Do you make grades in the fifth grade? I don't know. Oh you don't know? Okay. He's in a gradeless school. And this was not a setup, but my guess is that his mother perhaps pushed him because she has seen me do this before, and I do have something in my hand and I will give it to you. Twenty bucks. Good. Thanks. Any of you could have had twenty dollars. You know? I did this one Sunday and I gave out fifty dollars, but I have never given out what God gives out. You know, for that to be a decent kind of illustration, I I should have had in my hand a billion dollars You know, if that was God doing it, what God does is He gives us Salvation, forgiveness of sins, we are made a child of God, and according to Louis Ferry Schaefer, 33 things happen to us when we come in faith and call upon the name of the Lord. Thirty-three things. Now, you all said that you believed me. Okay? Do you see the difference? And this is so critical in our relationship with God. This is what James is trying to emphasize. James is trying to emphasize the fact that you can say you have faith, verse 14. You can say good things to people, be warmed and be filled. You can even get emotional over God's word, like the demons do. And go to hell. You know? Or not grow at all Or be led astray, James 1. 22, because you're not a doer of the word. You talk about it, you teach it, you tell people about it. But you don't obey it. And you can say to God, I believe you, I believe you, I believe you. God says, have you obeyed? You know, we see this in 1 John. 1 John chapter 4. You say, I love God. God says, all right. How do you respond to that person in your life? James says, you say you love God and you don't love your brother, you're a liar. You can't love God who you don't see when you don't love your brother who you do see. So, what does the word works mean in James? Let me in conclusion read James chapter 1, verses 21 to 25. James 1, 21 to 25. So then, I'm going to start in nineteen. James one nineteen. Notice how what James is doing is exactly what we've talked about today James 1. 19. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear. Slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore, laying aside all filth and overflow of wickedness, and receive with meekness, The implanted word which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like a man observing his natural face in a mirror. For he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it, and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. This one will be blessed in what he does. Where does blessing come? From those who are doers of the work. Because faith without works is not faith Let's pray. Father, we are so thankful for this precious book That so clearly expresses who you are, where you live, and what you are doing. And I pray that you will work in each one of our hearts by the Spirit of God to encourage and strengthen and open our eyes and cause that we might become doers of the word. Thank you for your blessing on us. Thank you for this time We give you praise for your mercy and grace in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.