Good morning. It is a real privilege for me to be able to preach this morning. To my friends who came out, I really appreciate it. It means a lot to me. Thank you. so much my family's here that means a lot to me. Uh Pastor, it's your birthday and I guess for your birthday you wanted the twenty two year old ministry intern to preach. I guess that's uh your idea of a birthday gift, I guess. But uh I appreciate the opportunity It means a lot to me. Thank you. Well, I'm sure following the holidays, maybe the sermon you didn't want to hear was one on suffering and trials. But when Pastor told me I could pick the passage, Genesis 22 is a passage that has meant a lot to me from the first time I studied it in college. So that's the one I wanted to preach on. And uh so that's the topic. When we talk about trials and suffering and difficulties To a large degree we basically expect it, I think. We just had Christmas come through. Many of you, if you're not feeling sick right now, by this time tomorrow or at the end of the week, you'll have a cold. We don't I don't think pastor is gonna get any phone calls saying I need counseling because I have a runny nose. Or I don't think uh I think we have an expectation that at times we have difficulty with our cars, we have friction in our relationships. These types of troubles are just the results of the fall and the results of sin, and we basically expect them. So the trials and the tests I want to talk about today aren't those, not the small ones we expect. Even Jesus said, in this world we will have tribulation, but to take heart because he has overcome the world. I want to talk instead about the trials and the tests and the sufferings that make us go, God, why? Why is this happening to me? Why is this happening now? We might expect some friction in our relationships, but we don't expect family members to become estranged. We might expect some periods of difficulty in our walk with God when God feels distant, but we don't expect prolonged periods of deep darkness. As a church, we might have expected that there was a time when membership would ebb and flow, but I don't think we expected that it would take this long for us to see success in terms of growth, especially when we've been faithful in preaching, teaching, and ministering to the community for so long. For myself personally, I can remember when I was 17 years old, I was at a point in my life spiritually where everything was perfect I loved reading God's word. Uh I loved sharing with my friends. I loved praying. It was a spiritual high. Well, I didn't expect that a month later I would plunge into deep doubt about whether God exists. Whether I can trust the Bible, whether Jesus Christ existed, died for my sins, and rose again. Looking back, I can kind of understand why I went through that. I can see that God strengthened my faith through that trial. But honestly, sometimes I still don't know why he did it. Well, this is a common experience for all of us, and I'm sure you, most of you in this room have gone through a lot deeper uh trouble than I've been through. So, this is the place we find ourselves in. Not only wanting to know how to get through these trials, but if you're a believer, you want to get through the deepest, darkest trials of your life. And remain faithful to God. So God will say, Well done, good and faithful servant. You don't want to just see the time pass, you want to be faithful in the circumstances. But it's really, really hard. At times it feels impossible. So our text today in Genesis 22 is going to teach us how we can be faithful to God in the midst of the troubles that are so, so confusing. And here's my big idea. Only faith in God's provision and love can drive us to be faithful to Him in confusing times. So Genesis 22 is the text today. Now, Genesis 22, we meet Abraham towards the end of his life, okay? And if you think of Abraham, if you know your Bible well, you probably think Abraham is the great example of faith. In fact, in the New Testament. He's mentioned repeatedly when uh the writers of the epistles want to pull out an example of faith, Abraham seems to be exhibit 1A. He's all over the book of Romans as an example of faith, in the book of Galatians, the book of Hebrews, and the book of James. So if we're being honest, Abraham seems a lofty role model when it comes to being faithful to God in trials. But actually, if we go back to the book of Genesis, we see a more nuanced picture of a conflicted man. His story lasts over 12 chapters in the book of Genesis, so I'm not going to go through all of it, but let me give you some highlights. In chapter 12 of Genesis, God calls Abraham to leave his homeland to travel to a land which he will show him. Abraham obeys. God promises that through Abraham all the nations of the earth will be blessed. But at the end of the chapter, Abraham deceives the Pharaoh of Egypt, saying that his wife is his sister. Because his wife is so beautiful that Abraham was scared the king would kill him so he could marry his wife. In chapter 15, God promises Abraham, his descendants will possess the land in which he lives, and Abraham believes. In fact, most commentators think this is the moment of Abraham's conversion. Verse six of chapter fifteen says, Abraham believed in the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. So now he's good, right? No. Chapter 16, Abraham follows up this faith by sleeping with his servant Hagar. taking matters into his own hands rather than trusting that God will provide a son for him through the proper means. In the following chapters, God reiterates his promise to Abraham. He will give him a son through his wife Sarah, even though they're both too old to have children. And Abraham believes. But in chapter 20, Abraham once again deceives the leader of a foreign land about his wife, saying, She's not my wife, she's my sister. We come to chapter 21, the preceding chapter to today's text. And guess what? The promised son Isaac is born. It seems good old Abraham's wavering life of faith has reached a happy conclusion. His son is born He can die, his son can continue on, and they can all live happily ever after. And what's obvious from the story of Abraham so far is that despite how unfaithful Abraham has been, God has never been unfaithful once. God has kept every promise, and He's been faithful to forgive Abraham at every turn. God never abandoned Abraham despite his sin. And what a comfort to us that we know despite our constant unfaithfulness, God's faithfulness doesn't waver. So that's the groundwork. That's up to chapter twenty-two. And we begin in chapter 22, verse 1. Isaac has grown into a young man, and now the stage is set for one great final test of Abraham's faith. I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. If you're taking notes, you could divide the rest of the sermon into four parts: the test, the response, the sacrifice, and the substitute. Verse 1 of chapter 22 says this. Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. Then God said, Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah. Offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you What a crazy request. God tells Abraham to be ready to kill his son. After years and years of waiting for his son to come, he's finally here. He's finally grown up. But what does God say? God says, I want you to sacrifice your son? How is Abraham supposed to do this? This is the way that God, if you know the story of Genesis, Isaac is not just Abraham's beloved son. But Isaac is the answer to God's promise in Genesis 3 that someone will be born to defeat Satan. In other words, Jesus is going to be born as one of Isaac's descendants. So Abraham is supposed to kill the child of promise? It doesn't make any sense. If there was ever a test to fail, this is the one. Having to leave his hometown of Ur and travel off to a different country is nothing compared to this one. Being honest that his wife isn't his sister is nothing compared to this one. If you've been reading Genesis up to this point, you would expect Abraham to say, no way. But this is the response in verse 3. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey, took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. He split the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. So surprisingly, Abraham obeys And he doesn't just obey. The text says he rose early. There wasn't, we don't know what was going through Abraham's mind. The text doesn't give us a psychoanalysis. But the text doesn't give any hint that Abraham wavered in his faith. He got up first thing in the morning. I am aware my mom is here, and this text could have really come uh and bit me for a lot of my life. So, where is this suddenly unshakable faith coming from? Why has he been wavering and unfaithful, wavering and unfaithful, and now suddenly at the hardest test in the hardest moment? He's locked in and he's ready to obey. Well, the answer is simple. Abraham's seen God be faithful to him over and over again. And finally, this wishy-washy old man is ready to trust God at the last moment. This is more than just my speculation. Romans 4. 20 says, he did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief. but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God, being fully convinced that he what he had promised he was also able to perform, and therefore it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now this text in Romans 4 is actually speaking of his faith in regards to the birth of his son Isaac So what's happened? What's happened is Abraham has undergone the process we call sanctification. Abraham was likely converted or saved in chapter 15. And all throughout he's gone through his life, he's seen God's faithfulness, he's sinned, he's gotten up, he's sinned, he's gotten up, he's sinned, he' Abraham has progressively grown closer and closer and stronger and stronger in his faith. He had seen God be faithful despite his unfaithfulness. Reading on in verse 4, then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, the lad and I will go yonder and worship. And we will come back to you. Well, I emphasize the word we because Abraham had every intention of killing Isaac on that mountain. But yet he tells his servants, me and him, we're going to come back down. Hebrews 11:19 gives us a peek into what Abraham was thinking. Hebrews 11:19 says that he believed God was able to raise Isaac from the dead if that's what it took. The fact is, Abraham didn't know what was going to happen, but he knew he was going to obey and that God could be trusted. Now, this idea that God could raise Isaac from the dead, Takes pretty extraordinary faith. But it takes even more faith when you consider this is Genesis 22. There's no recorded instance of anyone being raised from the dead to this point in the book. Meaning Abraham looked at the situation and thought maybe God could do something that's never even been heard of. Abraham honestly had no idea what was going to happen, but he knew two things. I will obey, and God will provide. How much we all long to have faith like that in difficult, confusing circumstances. Carrying on to verse 6. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took the fire in his hand and the knife, and the two of them went together. But Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father, he said, Here I am, my son. Then he said, Look, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering. So the two of them went together. Now I said earlier there's no psychoanalysis of Abraham in the text. But I guarantee this wasn't easy. I guarantee while he was following the Lord in this trial, he wasn't like, God's gonna provide, it's all good. Just go walk up the mountain, gonna kill my son, it's all good. God's gonna do something. I'm sure he was in deep, deep turmoil. Moving on to the sacrifice itself in verse 9. Then they came to the place of which God had told him. Abraham built an altar there and placed the wood in order. He bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand, and took the knife to slay or to kill his son. So in Abraham's mind, he's about to kill his only child who he loves. He's going to go through with it. He's going to obey God, even though it doesn't make any sense to him. But like a good movie or a good book, God intervenes at just the right moments for a dramatic rescue. Verse 11: The angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. So he said, Here I am. The angel said, Do not lay your hand on the lad or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Then Abraham lifted his eyes and looked, and there was behind him a ram, caught in the thicket by its horns. So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it for a burnt offering instead of his son. And Abraham called the name of the place, the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, in the mouth of the Lord it shall be provided. Frankly, there never was any doubt. God was going to come through. Isaac was the promised child. The line of Jesus was coming to Isaac. Isaac wasn't going to be killed. God always had his plan. There was never any question. And we know, sitting in church on a Sunday morning, that there's no question that God has our lives figured out. What's hard isn't saying we believe that. What's hard is living like that when everything is falling apart. Abraham took to the end of his life to really get it. Now this raises a question Through this sermon, I've been talking about Abraham's faith, Abraham's obedience, Abraham's faith, Abraham's obedience. So the question that's raised is: was Abraham's soul saved? By his obedience or by his trust in God? Did he have a relationship with God because he obeyed him or because he believed him? Now, if you come from a different church tradition, you may have heard of an idea that salvation comes through good works. Or through faith in Jesus Christ, in addition to good works In fact, you may be familiar with this verse in James 2, which is actually based off of our passage And it says, Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered Isaac his son on the altar? And the scripture was revealed which said, Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. And actually, this passage on its own does seem to indicate that If you only had this passage, you may walk away thinking, yes, to have peace in a relationship with God, I must do good works. I must be in some way a good person. But that's at odds with the rest of the teaching of Scripture. From the rest of the Bible, it's clear that salvation and a relationship with God Occurs by faith, by trusting Christ only, apart from any good works of righteousness. Titus 3:5 says, not by works of righteousness Which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Or take Romans 4, speaking also about Abraham. It says if Abraham was justified or saved by his works, by the good things he did, he would have a reason to boast before God. But what does the scripture say? Abraham believed, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And verse five, he who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly So he who doesn't do good things to be saved, but instead trusts in God who saves bad people, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Now this might be a new idea to you or even a controversial idea to you. You might not be sure. And that's no problem, because I'm actually going to get at a later point at the end of the sermon. I'm going to get to explaining not just what, but why that's the case. But when taken together, James, Romans, and the entire Bible teach this doctrine Salvation, as Pastor says every week, is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. But what James is teaching us is that true salvation, true faith, produces action. So that just like Abraham, though he wavered and he failed, he did persist in following God. So good works aren't the cause of salvation in a relationship with God, but the result of someone who has faith in Christ, they will follow God. It's simply an evidence of salvation. But salvation and a relationship with God and the forgiveness of your sins is simply the result of the belief in Jesus' death and resurrection from your sins. And the passage in James might make you wonder, but I keep sinning, I'm not really good. I like If someone looked at my life, they might say, you've sinned too much, I'm not a Christian, how do I know? Well, maybe you're like Abraham, falling down and getting up, falling down and getting up, falling down and getting up. Because the sign of a Christian isn't someone who's perfect, but someone who wants to follow God and someone who's growing. Alright. Commercial breakover back to the story of Abraham. So for Abraham and Isaac, we have a happy ending. Verse 15, the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time out of heaven. He said, By myself I have sworn, says the Lord. Because you have done this thing and have not withheld your son, your only son. Blessing, I will bless you. and multiplying, I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore And your descendants shall possess the gates of their enemies. In your seed, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose and went together to Beersheba, and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba. So Abraham rides off into the sunset, passing the final test God gave him. And we could end there. And it's a good example, and maybe we can try our best to be like Abraham, and maybe we'll do better tomorrow. But I think we have a much better reason than that. Because we can look to what Abraham couldn't look to. We can look to Jesus, the true substitute. And it's actually a great thing. Many of us can look at times in our life when God came through for us. Maybe God provided financially, or you say, I know, I know I can trust God. He provided my spouse. I know I can trust God, he saved me from a car accident. I know I can trust God, he healed me. And that's actually a very good thing. And those events can strengthen our faith. But ultimately, if we want to have rock, solid faith like Abraham, and we want to be faithful to God in those really confusing circumstances, we have to look to Jesus. Because Jesus was the final end result of the seed of Isaac. Jesus was what the whole story has been building to. So let's flash forward to the birth of Christ. In Bethlehem, Jesus is born, the faithful seed, who never wavers from following God. He brings peace, life, and prosperity to Israel. Finally, everything is right. The king has come to restore Israel's greatness, to bring about the promise to Abraham. His followers joyfully follow him, watching him work miracle after miracle, healing after healing. The Pharisees are scared of him, the Romans are scared of him. He's here. The king is here. He's here to set up the kingdom. Everything finally makes sense. And then it doesn't. Because soldiers come and take Jesus. And the disciples run away in their confusion. Jesus walks up the mountain to the cross and he goes up alone. But Jesus is God's servant, so surely God will save Jesus like he saved Isaac. There's got to be another ram waiting in the bushes again this time. But this time there isn't. Because this time The substitute isn't a ram caught in the bushes by its horns. This time the substitute is on the cross. Unlike in Genesis, the father sacrificed his son this time. And like us, Jesus on the cross said, My God, my God, why? Why have you forsaken me? And God the Father turned his back on Jesus. We know, sitting here, that this happened for our salvation. We know God was in control the whole time. But the disciples didn't know what was going on. To them, their world's falling apart. This is the height of confusion for them. But like Abraham said, God was able to raise the dead. See what the disciples didn't know is that in their moment of greatest confusion, God was providing for their salvation. Jesus rose from the dead, and the disciples finally got it, and they went on to change the world with the message of the gospel. Like Abraham finally got it, the disciples finally got it when they saw the risen Christ. See, the fact is, in our confusion, God hasn't abandoned us. No. Actually, he's working for our good in these confusing circumstances. But why did Jesus have to die? Because I said I would come back to this. Why did Jesus have to die at all? Why is that a good thing? What was God providing for? Well, this is why salvation is only possible through faith, belief in Christ's sacrifice for you. Because God's standard of goodness is not like ours. God doesn't compare us to each other and say, he's good, she's good, he's good, he's not, she's not, he's a maybe. No, God's standard of goodness is his own righteousness. And if it's his own righteousness, then we all fall short. Because even on our best day, our motives are impure. Even when our motives are pure, we still mess up. Even when we get it right one day, we get it wrong the next. In God's economy, we're all guilty because God sees us as we are. So that's why Jesus had to die. Well, the good news is God's standard of goodness is higher than ours, but so is his standard of love. See, God was willing to sacrifice himself for his creation. That's why Jesus went to the cross, so that God could pour out his anger on Jesus. So that we can be saved forever. Jesus said, My God, why have you forsaken me? But for us, we know God has never truly forsaken us. See, only faith in God's provision can drive us to be faithful to him in the most confusing times. If Abraham were here today, this may be the verse he would share. He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him freely give us all things? So in those moments of deep confusion and misunderstanding where it's so hard to follow Christ, it's so hard to do right. We look back to the cross and we know God is doing something good. I have no idea what it is. I might not ever know. I might not know for a long time. But I know God is doing this because He loves me. And I know God is strong enough, wise enough, and cares enough that He will provide for my needs so we can follow Him. That's the encouragement if you're a believer. If you're an unbeliever or you're not sure if you're a Christian, well you need to look to the cross, to Jesus, and his sacrifice to you for the first time. And you need to see that you weren't good enough, that you were like Abraham, that you're like the rest of us, and you need the perfect Son of God to take your place. And died for your sins, and he rose from the dead so that you could have a relationship with God. Thank you. Let me I'm sorry, let me close in prayer. Pastor told me close in prayer when you're done. Let's pray. Uh Father, we are Grateful for your word because it gives us life and it guides us in how to live. We're grateful for the Holy Spirit who guides us through its pages, but most of all, God, we are grateful for Jesus who faithfully lived on our behalf. and whose love shows us that we are never truly abandoned, and that in our darkest hour you are working everything according to your plan for our good. And we thank you that we will have eternity To worship you for your wisdom and your good plan. And we pray all this, giving thanks to Jesus. Amen.