Amen. That was beautiful. Thank you very much. If you don't didn't get the larger um uh uh bulletin with the songs. Uh if you would go back and get one because it has the outline on it. And I want you to have the outline. I'm sorry to make this announcement like that, but I I didn't know any other way to do it. Uh unless you don't care and you just, you know, you're gonna fall asleep during the sermon, in which case don't go back and get it, you know. Don't want to trouble you too much. Oh I'm sorry, I should be nicer. This is the uh Sunday before Christmas, right? But uh anyway, it's one of those outlines I thought it was a pretty good outline. I don't always think it's all that good, but it's a little hard to follow. So that's why I at least wanted you to have a fighting chance and you can fill in the blanks on the outline instead of having to concoct the whole thing. Okay, well I think I can imagine what you're thinking. Uh because of this time of year and because your speaker absolutely loves, as was already said, the book of Isaiah. Well surely I'm going to be preaching from Isaiah 7, or especially Isaiah 9, as it was uh read uh this morning already. Thank you for that. Or possibly even Isaiah 11. Right? Or maybe Daniel 9, since that's the next chapter in our Daniel series, and it does deal with the Messiah. If I'm pre preaching from the New Testament, well, maybe uh Matthew 2 or Luke 2 or John chapter 1 would be great. Here's the problem. I've preached all of those passages at previous uh uh Christmases uh or right around that time here at Faith. Uh so you're not gonna get, you know, uh a repeat. in that sense. So, and by the way, Daniel 9 will get to uh in January, so don't worry, Daniel 9 is coming But uh it is Christmas, so I thought we would like a Christmas message. And so I came up with a message based on Hebrews 2, of course. Right? Well, it's not the first passage that most people would uh think about when thinking about Christmas, but really I think that Hebrews two is a fantastic Christmas passage and I hope by the time we're finished you will agree. Now, let me uh say that this has been an exciting week in the Beale household. Uh not exciting in the sense that the Orioles won the World Series. Or if the Ravens won the Super Bowl, not that kind of exciting. Exciting in the not-so-positive sense Uh a week ago we temporarily lost our heat for almost 24 hours. And related uh to that on late Saturday we had a power surge that uh somehow destroyed my desktop computer. of eleven years and two out of its three data duck drives. You're wondering why anybody would have three data drives on their computer? Well you don't know me very well then Much of the important data was backed up, I'm happy to say, but some of it wasn't. As of this morning, I still haven't uh gotten a new computer hooked up yet, so I've been working off of my much uh well it's a ten-year-old uh laptop uh instead. Now for those who aren't quite as detail oriented as I am or as dependent on computers, this probably isn't that big a deal. But for me, let's just say there's been a good bit of anxiety. knew I was going somewhere with this and tying into the message. There's been some anxiety uh uh uh uh uh that I experienced this week For many of you, your source of anxiety, it goes far deeper than a messed-up computer, perhaps the world situation. Such as the almost four-year-old brutal invasion and war on Ukraine by Russia. Or the slaughter of Christians in Nigeria, which continues unabated, around 70,000 since 2009 are the estimates, we don't know for sure, of course, currently at the rate of almost a thousand Christians per month. killed in Nigeria. Or maybe your anxiety is triggered by a a different, uh, you know, some difficult family relationships. or a deteriorating health for you or for a loved one, or some economic or job challenges. And assuming that you're like me and perhaps a bit out of alignment in your focus, with plenty of anxiety, what do we need to do to get our perspective back in line with the Lord's? Well I would say Hebrews 2 It gives us the proper perspective for all sources of our anxiety. But before we dive into Hebrews 2, let me remind you of a prominent theme of the Christmas story as given in Luke 1 and 2. After all, this is a Christmas message, right? So I better talk about Luke 1 and 2. Over and over again. The message is, fear not. It's what the angel Gabriel said to Zacharias when he announced that his wife would bear John the Baptist in Luke. Luke chapter 1 verse 13. It's what the angel Gabriel said to Mary in announcing that she would bear Jesus in Luke 1 chapter 30. It's what the angel said to Joseph when telling him that it was okay to take Mary as his wife, even though she was already pregnant Matthew 120, by the way, there's an error in your outline of my uh error. I think I said Luke 1, I got Lukeidas in my mind, uh Luke 120, but it's Matthew 120. And of course, it's what the angel told the shepherds. uh in the field that night of the Savior's birth in Bethlehem. Luke two ten. Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. As Christians, because of Christ's birth, death, and resurrection, we have little to fear. So as we reach the heart of this Christmas season, my prayer is that the message of the angels will be the message that you and I take with us this Christmas and beyond. Fear not, because of all that Christ has done for us. What's the key to curing our anxiety, no matter what the cause? In a nutshell, I think we need to do what the writer to the Hebrews says in Hebrews 3:1. We need to consider Christ. Consider Christ and his work on our behalf. And in particular this morning I'd like us to look at Hebrews chapter two, verses fourteen to eighteen, which gives us a great summary of the reason that Christ came to earth in the first place. And it provides great encouragement to you and to me as believers. And just in case you still think that my choice of Hebrews 2 as a Christmas text is a bit misguided, I read an email message. This is not a joke, this is true, just sent yesterday by uh Crossway uh publishing from John Piper, and here's what he said, and I'm quoting So if you don't like my Christmas message or the the this the uh subject matter, well, John Piper disagrees with you And I'm quoting, Hebrews 2, 14 and 15, I think, is my favorite Advent text, because I don't know any other that expresses so clearly the connection between the beginning and the ending of Jesus' earthly life, between the incarnation and the crucifixion These two verses make clear why Jesus came, namely to die. They would be great to use. with unbelieving friends or family members to walk them step by step through your Christian view of Christmas. End quote. Well, the passage comes at the end of a long section in the book of Hebrews, from chapter 1, verse 4 to chapter 2, verse 18. which stresses that Christ is superior to the angels in every way. The writer makes the argument by quoting seven Old Testament passages in chapter one. You can imagine my delight that he did that. And they're terrific quotations of the Old Testament. Then he continues in chapter 2. showing that the purpose for Christ's coming into the world was far greater than that of the angels. And in the immediately preceding section to ours, in chapter two, verses nine to thirteen, The writer shows that Christ identified with humanity in his incarnation and suffering. And this is the theme then that is amplified in verses 14 to 18. And one might actually think that with uh becoming a man and taking on a human body would m make Christ inferior to angelic be beings. That's what I would think. uh because they can't die. But no, the writer explains the reason he did this and the mission uh uh he accomplished makes this all the more amazing. So our first point is simply this. Christ became man. Christ became man. He took on human flesh. Verse 14 of Hebrews 2 says, Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same This is what you and I celebrate at Christmas. John 1, verses 1 and 14 tell us that in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and then In verse fourteen it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth And frankly, John one, one to fourteen is the greatest beginning, as far as I'm concerned, of any book of the Bible. Well, Genesis one's pretty good. Too, I guess, but uh you know John 1, 1 to 14 is hard to beat. God became man and dwells in our midst. And this act separates Christianity from all the religions of the world. We're so used to it that maybe we take it for granted rather than realize how amazing this truth is. actually is. Well, it's interesting that throughout church history, and I like your references to the creeds and the things that you're going through as a church, even to the present day, there have been two wrong views of the nature of Christ. One wrong view says that Christ was fully God, but not really human. This view denies Christ's humanity. But verse 14 of John 1 says that he was fully human. He shared in flesh and blood just like ours. And of course that's exactly what our uh uh text uh uh says in Hebrews two fourteen. Others say that well Christ was simply a man, but not God. In other words, they deny Christ's deity. But of course, what we just quoted in John 1, 1 and verse 14 shows that Christ is fully God as well. It's a mystery to be sure, but we don't solve the mystery by explaining away either his full humanity or his full deity Around the world, one of the most common Christmas decorations is a nativity scene highlighting the birth of the Savior. And that's fine. It's a highlight of ours as well if you come to our house. And in fact, it's a highlight of my tie. I mean I chose the tie for this morning and there it is with nativity scenes staring up at me. So, you know, don't think I'm against nativity scenes. That would be um well, I was gonna say sacrilegious. But I don't think that's the right word. At any rate, and that's great. But to me, it's sad that millions of people see Christmas only as the birth of baby Jesus in the manger. But they never recognize or acknowledge that he is God or fully understand why he had to become flesh in the first place. But why did Christ, the second person of the Trinity, become man? Many people think of Jesus as a great man, a great teacher, perhaps one of the greatest men of all time. And of course, all that is true, but it falls far short of explaining why Christ became man. The second part of verse 14 of our text explains it. Christ became man in order to die. If you've missed this about Christmas, you've missed it all. If you've been following along on your outline sheet, the points spell out the one complete sentence The second point is that Christ became man so that by dying on the cross. Christ became man so that by dying on the cross. He became man to die. In that same article by John Piper that I read yesterday, Piper says the reason he became man was to die. As God, pure and simply, he could not die for sinners, but as man he could. His aim was to die. Therefore, he had to be born human. He was born to die. Good Friday is the purpose of Christmas. This is what most people today need to hear about the meaning of Christmas, end quote. But really, and I'm going to quibble a little bit with John Piper. In one sense, dying was not the purpose. The little Greek phrase here shows means or agency. It says, through death, death was a means to the end, that we will look at in just a moment. But everything else mentioned in verses fourteen to eighteen hinges on his death. A few verses earlier in verse nine of Hebrews. Hebrews 2, the writer explains that by dying, Christ tasted death for everyone. He died as our substitute in our place for our sins. Paul explains the gospel in a nutshell in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures. And he was buried, and he came he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. Christ became man, not just to set a good example. Though he did, not just to give great teaching, though he did, not just to work miracles and heal people, though he did, Christ became man to die. That's why it's fitting that a few days after Christmas in in uh uh most uh uh churches, Christmas of course, celebrating the birth. of our Savior. On the first or second Sunday after New Year's, in many churches we come to the communion table, celebrating his death. We celebrate his birth once a year, but his death we celebrate usually at least twelve times a year. Christ was born to die. But what did his death accomplish? Verses 14 and 15 give us two reasons why Christ became man. First, Christ became man so that by dying on the cross he might defeat Satan. Christ became man so that by dying on the cross, he might defeat Satan. The end of verse 14 says he himself likewise shared in the same that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, that is, the devil. The power of Satan's is not absolute. For example, in Job chapter 2 and verse 6, God is the one that tells Satan that he needs to spare Job's life. But Satan's power goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. Who follow Satan, as Eve did, are also following the way of death. Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death. We might think of it in the same sense that drugs or alcohol has power over an individual. But the death of Christ ended Satan's power. Because it reversed the effects of the fall. The Greek word translated destroy in the King James, New King James, and ESV, all wonderful translations. literally actually means render inoperative. And in this case I like the NASB better. There is no perfect Bible versions, by the way. I'm sorry to disappoint you on that, but there is no perfect one. I've got problems with all of them. Anyway, I know I'm a little bit NASBY has rendered powerless, and I think that's good. Render powerless because that's closer to the mean Meaning of the Greek, render powerless. The devil is rendered powerless. He's incapacitated. He's impotent. According to John 12, 31, this began at the cross. Right before going to the cross, Jesus said, now is the judgment of this world. Now is the ruler of this world will be cast out. Revelation 20 tells us that Satan's final judgment wouldn't come, uh won't come until after the millennium. But he's already lost his power. 1 John 3:8 says the same thing. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. You and I surely can't do this on our own, but Christ dying in our place and being raised again defeated Satan. who had the power of death. Piper puts it this way. He says, and I quote, Satan's ultimate weapon against us is our own sin. If the death of Jesus takes it away, the chief weapon of the devil, the one mortal weapon that he has, is taken out of his hand. He cannot make a case for our death penalty because the judge has acquitted us by the death of his son. Well, what does that mean practically for us? Well, it means everything. If the captor is defeated, well then the captives can go free. That happened, of course, in a a massive way at the end of World War II with the defeat of Hitler. And in more recent days, when the Taliban was were defeated in Afghanistan in late 2001, Those who had been captives and in terror for their lives were automatically relieved of those fears. Now I give that example because sadly, after the U. S. withdrawal of forces In Afghanistan 20 years later, in August 2021, the Taliban are now firmly back in control. tragically demonstrating that the only true and lasting victories in this sin-stained world are those that will be accomplished by the Lord when he returns again. because his defeat of Satan will usher in a new age, and there will be no more bondage to our captor Satan. So those who are hoping that, oh, there's going to be this new utopia in the U. S. or around the world before Christ's return, I'm sorry. Scripture doesn't tell us that. It tells us quite, in fact, the opposite. Christ became man. so that by dying on the cross he might not only defeat Satan, but also deliver us from fear of death. Deliver us from fear of death. As verse 15 says, and release those who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Since Satan, our captive, has been defeated, and with him death's power, we are set free from fear. In his book on the world's religions, author Hustad Smith attempts to explain the essence of all the major religions of the world. I find this very interesting. Where he gets, when he gets to Christianity, he and uh uh again, this is a you know standard author. He traces its growth The growth of Christianity to and I quote the love and joy in the early Christians. The reason for their love and joy, he writes, is there uh three Is is that three intolerable burdens have suddenly and dramatically been lifted from their shoulders. The first of these was fear, including the fear of death. We have the word of Carl Jung that he never met a patient over 40 whose problems did not root back to fear of approaching death. The reason the Christians could not be intimidated by the lions and even sang as they entered into the arena was that Jesus' counsel, fear not, for I am with you, work for them. And I quote, and that's all a quote from Husted. He adds that the second burden from which they'd been released was guilt, and the third was self-centeredness. You know, usually people hide their fear of death quite nicely. We rarely talk about it, and when we do. We use euphemisms to soften the blow from the rather, I think, silly, maybe you like it, he kicked the bucket. Really? He kicked the bucket? I mean I can still kick a bucket. I can't do all that many other physical things, but I can kick a bucket, but I don't think it means You know, that in that phrase, so that's what we say. He kicked the bucket. And again, uh don't give me emails about where it came from. Because uh in fact there are about five or six different explanations. Now you're curious, right? Some of you are not gonna stop listening and you're gonna Google it on your phone. And you will find out, well, okay, it'll tell you one thing, but there's five or six. Anyway, uh, you know, the more accepted one, he passed away, right? We do everything possible to shield ourselves from death. But this became quite uh difficult to do after the events of uh September eleventh, remember, when all the stark horror of death and The speed with which it could come was driven home to us immediately to us through all the pictures on our TV sets and in some cases through our acquaintance with some of those people who died And then in the past six years, as if we needed another reminder, the COVID outbreak caused so many deaths, including a number of our loved ones. And I'm not for one minute going to proclaim that death is a wonderful thing. It isn't. It's a horrible thing brought into the world by Adam's sin, and it's not a part of God's original created order. As I've mentioned to you before from this pulpit, Mark Hazlet, a former student and dear friend of mine and a dear friend of your pastors, was uh serving the Lord. In full-time ministry, uh in uh missions, uh uh uh promoting uh world missions and uh uh tremendous uh ministry But since his massive stroke three years ago, he's been lying in a bed, unable to walk or do much for himself. But he still talks and he still prays with us and he still prays for us as well when we visit. And just before Thanksgiving, former CBS professor James Mook, now teaching at Master's Seminary, had a serious stroke. And we're praying for his recovery as well. Difficult things to be sure. But here's the thing. Even if these dear people never recover while we are said, we can also rejoice, because if they die, just like when we die, we're going to be with the Lord. Yes, the process of dying and death is horrible. But you and I as believers, while suffering as others do when confronted with death, should have a totally different process. perspective from the rest of the world. We aren't enslaved by the fear of death because Christ has redeemed us. All who have trusted Christ as their Savior will have new resurrection bodies, just as Christ couldn't be held by death, neither can we, if we've trusted in Christ as our Savior. For the Christian, our death is not the end. Our death is the beginning. And I, for one, would surely rather have my new resurrection body in all of its perfection than this old model which is crumbling more every day. Can I hear an amen to that one? Yeah, I think a few of us may be in that league. Um, you know, of course not your pastor way too young. Um well he might have an ache here and there, but that's about it. Okay I'm sure with all those uh gag gifts he's doing great with the junk food and the pizza. Pizza isn't junk food. That's very nice to know. Okay. I'm just, you learn things every day if you pay attention. Listen to these glorious words. This is what I want you to really focus on from 1 Corinthians 15, that great resurrection chapter. Paul writes beginning in verse 19. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of them who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead, for as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive, but each one in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterward those who are Christ at his coming. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when he puts an end to all rule and authority and power, for he must reign. Till he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. And then verse 51, same chapter, 1 Corinthians 15, behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, in the last at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption uh corruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when the corruptible is put on incorruption, and this mortal is put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your sting? O grave, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin And the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, Be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I know that was a long reading. And I know it's not Easter Sunday, but you see, we've got to connect these things because they're all connected. The Christian need not fear. Because Christ became man so that by dying on the cross that he might defeat Satan and deliver us from fear of death. As Jesus says in Revelation 118, I am he who lives and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of Haiti and of death. What a joy. Death has no sway over us. When we die, it's our trust in Christ. Uh if you know, if if we have trusted in Christ, that is, when we die, then we'll be in the presence of the Lord. What a glorious thing. So we need have no fear of death. Death and Satan have been defeated by Christ's work on the cross. Well, we could end the message right here, but we do have three more verses, and the last three verses of Hebrews 2 gives further explanation and amplification of why Christ became man. Verses 16 to 18 explain that in the image of Christ is our faithful and merciful high priest. Christ became man so that by dying on the cross he might defeat Satan and deliver us from fear of death Reconciling us to God as our faithful high priest. Reconciling us to God as our faithful high priest. That's point five on your outline sheet. And then point six, and helping us in time of need. And helping us in time of need. Verse 16 explains that Christ didn't become man to help angels, but to help man. That's why he had to become a man. Otherwise, he couldn't be a high priest. The high priest of Israel was the one who interceded to God on behalf of man. But the high priest was a man himself. And so uh otherwise he couldn't be a high priest. The high priest of Israel was the one who interceded, as I said, on behalf of man, and he interceded to God. But the high priest on the Day of Atonement Uh when once a year uh he went into the most holy place of the temple to offer sacrifices, what did he have to do first? He had to offer a sacrifice for himself because he was sinful. And that's what he had to do. But as the writer of the Hebrews develops more fully in later chapters, especially in chapter 10, Christ was the supreme high priest in that as God he became man, but he was sinless. And he offered himself up on the cross as the perfect sacrifice for sin in our place on behalf of all people. So Christ's purpose in becoming man was to reconcile us to God, or as verse 17 of our text puts it, to make atonement or propitiation for the sins of the people. You and I can't get to God on our own. The reason is that sin separates from God, us from God, and his holy standards. There's no way we can approach it. So we deserve to die and live a life of eternity in hell apart from him. But God loved us so much that he sent his only son, Jesus. Christ to become a man and take the penalty for our sin upon himself. As Second Corinthians 5. 21 says, God made him who knew no sin. Referring to Christ to be sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. And I would hope that there's someone here this morning that's never accepted Christ as their personal Savior, who died on the cross for your sin. Re uh so that you might have forgiveness of sins and everlasting life. I hope that you would accept him today and trust him as your Savior. Because if you do, then you don't need to fear death. You know for sure that you're going to be in heaven with him when you die because of his death and resurrection. Well, finally, as our merciful and faithful high priest, our text tells us that he not only reconciles us to God, but he helps us in time of need He helps us in time of need. Verse 18 says, For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted, he's able to help those who are tempted. Sometimes, you know, when we're going through difficult times, we say to other people, well, you wouldn't understand. And uh some things, you know, you almost have to experience yourself in order to understand the situation fully. I when I think about this, I think about uh dear Job Job lamented that no one really understood his situation, and for sure his three friends didn't. Wow. You know, be be nice to people when they're suffering, by the way. That's my encouragement. Do more listening and less Sermonizing, right? Telling them what's wrong with their life. Do some more comforting. That's what I learned from the book of Job, among other things, because they weren't listening. They had their theology down pat, right? You know, they probably took Dr. Mook's class back in seminary, you know, theology one and they had it down. They had it down the hook line and thinker, but they didn't really understand his situation. Well, uh that's for sure. But this verse tells us that we always have one who understands because he's both suffered and gone through temptation himself. He knows what you and I are going through right now. And this verse tells us that he wants to help us. Through it. Hebrews 4, 14 to 16 amplifies this point further. It says, Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. What a joy to have a high priest who both paid the penalty for our sins, reconciling us to God, and who sympathizes with all that you and I are going through right now. So as we conclude, I'd like to suggest three practical implications from this text in Hebrews 2. And unlike in my Daniel messages, these practical implications are going to be very quick. So don't worry. You know, you if you've got some Sunday afternoon plans, you don't need to cancel them. It's not going to go that late. But three practical implications. First, if we've trusted in Christ, We need not fear death, but instead we should rejoice in the Lord Jesus who has delivered us If death is truly swallowed up in victory and Jesus holds the keys of death, you and I need to have a different attitude towards death. Second, we need not fear difficult circumstances. We need not fear difficult circumstances. Instead, we should boldly call on Christ, who is waiting to help us. What an amazing truth that you and I can call on the eternal God of the universe, our merciful and faithful high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. And he will help. In times of need. And finally, you and I should boldly declare the good news of Christ to all those around us who are still living in fear. You and I should boldly declare the good news of Christ to all those around us who are still living in fear. And I actually hope that that's a main part of your focus this Christmas. You and I need to be living demonstrations of Christ's love and his mercy to those around us. And when they ask a reason for their hope, the hope that's in us, according to 1 Peter 3, 15, we should be prepared and eager to tell them of this glorious gospel. That Christ became man, so that by dying on the cross he might deliver Satan and deliver us from fear of death, reconciling us to God and helping us in time of need. Hallelujah. What a Savior. As believers, I hope that's what you and I are celebrating at Christmas and every day that the Lord gives us breath. Let's close it. Father, how we thank you for the truth Truth of your word. I thank you, Lord, that even as we're driving up here to faith this morning, we heard on a secular radio station the Christmas carols. Thank you, Father, for all uh the uh the uh songs and hymns over the years that speak of the birth of the Savior. The glory that surrounds it. But Lord, help us to realize anew and help us to realize afresh that Christ came to die. He came to become man, to die on the cross in our place for our sins, as our substitute, that we might have, that we might put on his righteousness, not our own All our righteousness is like filthy rags, uh, Father, compared to you, that we might have eternal life and forgiveness. Of sins. Have no fear of death, because death has no power over us. We've trusted in Christ as our Savior. We'll have a new resurrection body and everlasting life. Lord, I would pray if there's anybody here this morning that's never trusted in Christ as their Savior, that they do it today For those of us who are believers, Lord, help us to renew our minds with these wonderful truths. And rejoice, Lord, in seeing all the Christmas carols, but knowing that it didn't stop with the birth, and it's still going on now, even with his death and resurrection. And exaltation, and that he intercedes in our behalf right now. Hallelujah. What a Savior. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.