I invite you this morning to open to the Gospel of Matthew. We'll be looking this morning specifically at Matthew 11, 25 to 30. If I were to ask you this morning if you are stressed out and have everyone in this room raise your hand if you're feeling stressed out, I wonder how many of us would raise our hands. Or if maybe you're not feeling stressed out, you've ever been in the past stressed out. That's kind of the way we talk in modern jargon. I'm feeling stressed, or I'm under a lot of stress, or you look like you're really stressed out. We would think that there are many reasons in our day and age to be stressed out one of which would be the incredible access we have to so much information that now not only do I have the opportunity to be stressed out because my car engine blew up and I need to get it fixed But I can also be stressed out about what's happening in South Sudan, Northern China, Hong Kong. South Africa, I could go and find out enough bad news to be stressed out about almost virtually every place on this planet. We have so much information and we take that in and it's so possible for me to worry about everything everywhere if I wanted to. So we talk about stress, and you know what? In the New Testament, there is a phrase that captures this. Jesus called it the cares of this life. And the cares of this life are so weighty for us, even as Christians, that they can affect our ability to absorb the Word of God and to to just function as a Christian. And they are something that are so serious that Jesus tells his followers, don't be anxious. Don't. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. And do you remember what else he said? Look, look at the birds of the air. Your father takes care of them. Sometimes I look out in the wintertime at the squirrels and I see all the nuts they've hidden and they find those. And you know, the birds don't do that. But the Father takes care of them, and the Father takes care of the squirrels too. He's going to take care of us. And so the Lord did deal with the cares of this life. He did give us teaching about that. And there were those moments in his ministry when he just gave invitations. And the invitation went like this: if you look at your Bible in Matthew 11. Verse 28, Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You and I, as Christians, we know that the love of money is not the answer We know that depending on money is not the answer for stability. The proverb says that money will grow wings and fly away, here today, gone tomorrow. We know that we can't depend on our own strength because as we age physically we lose our strength. So when our hearts seek stability, when they seek peace, For you and I, the primary way that we get it is to go to Jesus. Always. Now, I've been a Christian now for About thirty-eight years I was saved young. And the older I get, the more I have to just keep going back again and again and again to Jesus. To find rest. So this morning I want to preach to you about the topic of finding rest in Christ and what that means from this passage. So how can you as a Christian find rest in Christ? First, you have to recognize that there is a kind of of exclusivity to Jesus, that that he is in fact the only way to find rest. We have in this passage, Jesus talking in verses 25 The 26 about how he knows certain things that no one else knows. Look at it. It says in verse 25. At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent, and have revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in your sight. All things have been delivered to me, and then he turned by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son. and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. He begins by talking about, well, by praying And thanking God that a certain individual can receive revelation, not the wise and prudent, but the babe. Now, what does this mean? Well, this is in line with texts such as God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. This is in line with the first three chapters of 1 Corinthians, where Paul writes to them and tells them that God cannot be discovered by a scientist. And although we see that there must be a God by creation, we don't know his name and his ways with any amount of detail through empirically studying the universe. We know that he's great, we know that he exists, but that's it. Instead, God chooses to give revelation, to reveal himself. A babe is someone who has in fact rejected The pursuit of finding God on his own, and is now willing to receive what God will give him, what God will grace to him. And what God gives in the context of this passage, if you look at it again, verse 27, is what has been delivered to me, that is Jesus by the Father. No one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. A babe is someone who has rejected worldly wisdom and philosophy in pursuit of knowledge of the one true God and is now willing to accept the words of Jesus. Because only the Son can reveal the Father, because only the Son has seen the Father. If you turn back to John chapter 1, I should say. Further into your Bible says John chapter 1, we have the same idea here, explained a little bit differently. At least it's a cross-reference that you should keep in mind. It says here well let's see, let's pick it up at at uh verse let's just read a The few of the first verses here. This is the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. And then we go down through, and verse 10, it says, He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become the children of God. Verse 14: And the word became flesh and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Look at verse 16. And of his fullness we have all received, and grace for grace, for the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. So here is this individual who was in the beginning with God. The word was in the beginning with God. He was God He was in the bosom of the Father. It's a difficult expression, but the idea is that the Son was in this unique relationship to the Father. By virtue of being part of the Trinity, he was at the Father's side in this unique position. And therefore, by virtue of who he was, is the word. He now has this unique opportunity to explain the Father. No one has seen God at any time, but the Word has. And now the word can come and explain God to us in a way that no one else can. It is truly in the proper use of the word. definition of the word unique in a unique, one-of-a-kind way, because he has seen the Father. You go back in your Bibles to Matthew And you look at what Jesus says in Matthew 11 again. All things have been delivered to me by my Father. And he says there at the end of verse 27. And the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. So there is this possibility that Jesus Christ desires to reveal the Father to people. To someone, someone he would reveal the Father to. Now, all this in context of our theme of rest. If you want to receive rest, you have to accept the fact that Jesus offers something that no one else has. That he really knew and knows the Father. And the message that Jesus has to bring is a unique message. From God. Now you guys know what Jesus said. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one cometh unto the Father but by me You go out in the life and you talk to people. I've talked to some of you this week, and I've talked to others. There's a lot of crazy ideas out there about who Jesus is or who God is. I think I've told you before about one door we knocked on off of Ducats Lane. I'll say it again. We are talking to these people, we're using the EE outline, and we say, when you stand before God, And he says, Why should I let you into heaven? What will you say? And the first thing they I think it was two ladies, the first thing they said was, What do you mean God? We believe in gods, plural. When you stand before the gods, is that what you mean? So there are a lot of strange ideas out there, but if the kind of rest we're talking about today is the kind of rest that the one who has seen God, only He can give. It is a unique rest based on the virtue of a unique relationship that Jesus had with God. So do you accept that this morning? Do you glory in that? Do you do you ever think about what it must be like for him to be a part of the Trinity? And to have that relationship with the Father, and now He comes and He wills to reveal the Father to us. It is remarkable. That in the beginning, Jesus was a part of this action of creating the universe. He is not a creation of the Father. He is God the Son. It wasn't that the Father made Jesus and Jesus made the world. It was the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit were all involved in the act of creation. What a person. What an amazing thing. So, if first, a unique relationship with the Father is the basis of our rest. Look at the Bible again in Matthew 11. If we're to get rest today from Christ, There is this matter of verse 28 that we have to come to him. Now this coming, he says there, come to me. All you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Now, coming to Christ means coming to Him as He really is What kind of an individual? Now I just talked about his deity and his proximity to the Father, but now let's just look at the gospel here and look at some of the way, some of what he was like. If you turn back a few pages in Matthew. Look at Matthew 8. Who was this Jesus? Well, Matthew 8, verse 1. When he had come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And behold, a leper came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Then Jesus put out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing, be cleansed. Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. What kind of a man is he? Well, he does have this power to heal disease. That was pretty evident. We'd all agree. If you look a few more verses in chapter 8 at verse 14, now when Jesus had come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother lying sick with a fever, so he touched her hand, and the fever left her. And she arose and served them. I mean, it was just he touched her hand and the fever was gone. He touched the leper and the leprosy was gone. So coming to Jesus means coming to a person who can do the miraculous. Now, you and I have watched television perhaps in the past and seen all these faith healers on television. And they claim to do amazing things. And it w and I'm sure most of us here today would agree that that's false. That's not real. But we can't allow a charlatan To cause us to doubt the validity of real miracles. Jesus performed real miracles. He did it routinely. I don't know if you recall when we were going through the Gospel of Luke. There were times when he healed entire, no doubt dozens and dozens of people who came to his door. And he never ran out of gas like your car does. He never had to go down to the to the miracle gas station and get more power and come back and start over. Now his body did get tired. He was a person, he was a human. But he just had this indiscriminate use of this power. He could heal and heal and heal and heal. He had authority over disease. Not only this, if you look at your Bible and you look down at the same chapter 8 and you go to verse 28, you have two demon-possessed men who are healed. So you have him going to the other side, and he went to a certain place, verse 29. And suddenly they cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus, you Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? And you know the story. It's where Jesus casts the demons into the swine, the herd of swine. And I'm not telling you anything you don't know, but it's worth remembering today that not only did he have authority over diseases, but he had authority over the spiritual kingdom and over demons themselves. He had a vast amount of power and authority. And so when he's saying, come to me, he has something to back that up. I mean, there's already this understanding in the people who have watched his ways. That when I come to him, I'm coming to a very important individual, not just a philosopher, theologian. or someone who is trying to make me feel good, this is an extraordinary individual with immense power and authority. You're not coming to Socrates or Plato or some great man. You're coming to the Son of God. But there's more to this Jesus than just authority over diseases and authority over the demonic kingdom. Look at chapter 9. Verse 1. So he got into a boat, crossed over, and came to his own city. Then, behold, they brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you. Now, what is this? Apparently, and you know that he is immediately rebuked, verse 3, some of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemes. I mean there's this immediate response, whoa, blasphemy. It wasn't the same kind of response when he healed and cast out demons, at least at this point. Jesus has the authority from God to forgive sins. So when Jesus says, Come unto me. He has authority over disease and demons and sin itself. He has the freedom to pronounce someone forgiven, even though they have they are guilty. Folks, this morning, when you and I seek rest and we go to Jesus, don't forget who he is. You are not going to Oprah Winfrey. You are not going to a talking head, a political pundit. You are not going to someone who's written a self-help book. You are going to the authoritative son of God. In other words, he is able to give what he says he can give. You know, you and I, we do make promises sometimes that we can't keep. I mean, some anyone here do 100 push-ups? You might tell someone, I can do a hundred push-ups and not really have the strength to get to the last one or ten push-ups. I can do ten. But Jesus, he knows what he can do. And every time he says something, he backs that up with his authority and power. And so what does he say? Come unto me. We have to take this We have to go to the real Jesus as revealed in the scriptures, the Son of God, the authoritative one, the one who is able to forgive sins. And we have to admit that we are. Look at your Bible again in Matthew 11. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. Look. We have to admit sometimes that that is how we feel. That we are, and I want to move away from language like stressed out because that's just so carelessly thrown out there. And look at these words. The idea here is just working and working and exhaustion and weighted down. You're just tired and weighted. And for whatever the cause, Jesus is saying, come, come to me, and I will give you the rest you need. So getting rest from Christ is understanding who he is and going to him. And then look at verse 29. There is this: take my yoke and learn. There's the come to me. There's the take my yoke and learn. And what is he saying here? Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. Now, the yoke, the ancient yoke, what is what was used to in agriculture to get your cows to move the same direction or while you're plowing a field. It is something that Burdened the animal, they felt it on them, but he is saying that his yoke has a particular characteristic. Look at it again. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. You will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is easy It is a yoke. It is something that we have to take on, like it's kind of a bird in a sense, but it's not much of one. It's easy. It's light. So we have to be willing to accept whatever he's going to tell us, yielding to the authority of his words. And what does he tell us? Well, the message of Christ is the message of salvation. And part of it is very burdensome because he has to tell us that we're sinners in need of salvation. Looking at this context, you have these Pharisees that have a lot of literature about how you're supposed to act. And behind all this literature and all these rules that they have encrusted and shellacked on top of the Ten Commandments in the Old Testament. Is this understanding that you can somehow earn your way in the midst of all of that burden and labor and being worn down? You can somehow find rest. And Jesus, in his gentleness and humility, is saying, There is another way, my way. There is another yoke, my yoke Of course, we know from the Bible that God so loved the world, he gave his son, his son died in our place, and so Jesus is He's saying that to accept this plan of salvation, you have to cease from this other way, this way of, we would all say, earning our salvation. and take on his way, which is salvation is a gift, accepting his yoke, accepting his way. Now you and I have heard this many times, but can you go back to it right now? Is there anything in your life, is there Are you finding yourself heavy laden because you actually started to think that there's value in that Like if you're stressed out enough and worry enough, that somehow God will come close to you in a way that He is not already there because of what Christ did. You know, Jesus died. He propitiated the wrath of the Father. Salvation is complete. And so the Spirit is in you. He cannot be any closer to you. And when you call out to him for help, there's nothing you have to do other than repentance, confess sin if you're in you're you know you're in trouble and you need to make some confession, but but he's right there because Christ purchased you. You're redeemed by the blood of Christ. And so there's there is no longer there wasn't any virtue in being worn out then, and there isn't any virtue in it now. In other words, God doesn't look at you and say, my my dear son or daughter, they're so worn out. I think their suffering now merits me getting closer to them. And helping them. There's virtue and merit in their suffering. That's not the way it works. God is not impressed by our suffering. Compare your suffering with the suffering of Jesus How does it stack up against his suffering? Not much. Taking the sins of the world on himself So finding rest, he's willing to come with an easy yoke, a burden, a light burden. Even after we're saved, there's this idea of Rest, where we cast our cares upon him because he already cares for us. It's not like, Lord, if I do this right, will you finally care for me? If I suffer enough under this, if I show you that I'm faithful, will you finally be faithful to me? That's not the way it works in Christianity. He is always faithful, always true, always near, because you have been bought with a price, and you are not your own. You are Christ's, and He cares about what He owns. If we are to get rest this morning from our burdens, we need to make sure that we're not somehow beginning to think like a Pharisee. That if we just if we just get it right, we can have that rest. No, the answer is: come to me, come to me, just go, go to Christ. Like the song says, I run to Christ. A great song. Maybe we can sing that next week. What look at your Bible again at verse 29. So there's the gentleness and the lowly heart. How did this come out during the days of his incarnation? Well, look back at the verses you just looked at. Turn back to Matthew Matthew 8 again. How did the gentleness, the meekness of Christ show itself in his interactions with real people? Well In the first section of Matthew 8, you have a leper. Lepers during that time, and if a leper walked in here today who had not been properly treated, And you would look at him, it would be revolting if his disease was advanced. And there would be a backing away from this man There would be in us a revulsion, and yet Jesus talks to him. Look at it, verse 8, verse 2. The leper came and worshipped him, probably implies bowing down to him in some fashion and saying, Lord, if you're willing, make me clean. And Jesus, verse 3, touches him. When was the last time that leper had ever been touched by anyone? Probably could count it in years. He touches him and says, I am willing be cleansed. Our Lord in his meekness, rather than Submitting to the way things were, he he approaches, he allows the leper to approach him and touches him. What humility. Others would not dare do that. You look at at chapter 8 at verses 14 and 15, the mother-in-law. I mean Here is our Lord's. He is concerned about Peter's mother having a fever, and so he takes the time to just touch her hand. I mean, this is This is household duties. A meal needs to be made. It's just sort of ordinary. And this great rabbi, he goes and cares enough for this woman and the things she has to do. He cares enough to touch her hand and she gets up. And it just goes on and on. You know the Gospels, the way the Lord dealt with blind Bartimaeus, the fact that he calls out and Jesus says, no, I want to talk to him. The woman with the issue of blood. I mean, over and over again you see Jesus in his humility, in his gentleness, the way he just reached out to the hurting. To the lame, the blind, to the to the oppressed, to the demon-possessed. It was, would you not say it was one of the top three characteristics of his ministry and what he did? Certainly, that's the way he summarized it when he quoted from Isaiah saying he came to heal the brokenhearted and to set the captives free. That was what he did. Why would he be any different today? Why would you go to him and say, I need you? And he said, turns you away. If he touched a leper, why would he not touch your life If he touched the hand of a woman who needed strength and healing, why would he not do that for a woman here today who need who's in spiritual hurt and needs help. I mean he's the same yesterday, today, and forever. Now be careful. I'm not saying he's going to heal all of us physically like he did during the days of his incarnation, but certainly he has the same heart toward us. Learn of him, and your heart will respond with rest. Have you ever worked with someone who seemed to be agitated all the time, and nothing you could do could ever please them, and you were just sort of waiting for the next explosion. You were waiting for that person to blow up because that's what they always did. Sometimes we treat Jesus like that, like I've got to get this right, or or it's just it's gonna happen. Jesus is saying, learn the truth about me. I am not like that. Look your eyes, read it again. I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you'll find rest for your souls. And if you if you have a proper understanding of his heart, it's going to affect your soul. His yoke is easy, his burden is easy. Is light. The rest that Jesus gives us, and this is remarkable, it's based on just knowing your Lord. Knowing Christ. The more you know Him, the more you love Him. It's that simple. And folks, you and I know, I'm looking at Christians, people who've been Christians for decades. You and I know this is true, right? The more you know them, the more you love them, the more you trust them. He's a good God, and he is our dear Savior. And this is just one of those passages that you can go back to again and again. So I asked you at the beginning of the sermon, are you stressed out? Could you raise your hand? If you were, and I got a few smiles anyway So I think there are a few people here who feel stressed out. So the answer is not to run away, it's to just go to Jesus Remember who he is. Remember what he's done. Learn of him. Learn from him and about him. And get the rest you need. It's a promise