Good morning. Good to see you today. If you take your Bibles, turn once again, please, to Luke chapter 1. Luke chapter 1. It is Christmas season and uh was thinking about what the Lord might have me share with you this morning. And uh I think probably something that all of us would would want to have, and that is knowing that we were pleasing to the Lord. If you've ever been if you've ever tried to be pleasing to people, it's kind of hard to do. It's almost impossible to make everybody happy. Sometimes we even disappoint ourselves. And so the idea of being pleasing to a holy, righteous, sinless, perfect God, it almost seems like an impossible task. But yet Mary was able to accomplish that. I think she accomplished it unknowingly. She didn't really plan on doing it the way that she did. She didn't plan on what happened to her that it would happen. She just, it appears, we don't know for sure, but it appears that she set out to live a life of obedience to God. That's really where living for the Lord and living a life that's pleasing to him begins. It's a determination That more than self, we would please the Lord. We would please him We just can't seem to please everybody no matter what we do. We always seem to be we always seem to be able to make somebody offended, misunderstood, or maybe we just plain do wrong. That happens too to us because we're sinners. But all I do find here, when we read the text earlier, so I won't read the whole thing again right now, but all I do find here is that It appears that she did please the Lord. So I'd like us to look at a few things today and uh draw some truth from the scriptures here. Some things that might encourage us to keep trying, to keep working At pleasing God. Let's bow in prayer as we begin, please. Father, thank you for this time that we have together in your word. Thank you for Christmas. A time when we remember the incarnation of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, the world is looking at it as a means of making material gain, of receiving material things. Of enjoying secular activities, but for we who know you as our Savior, it's a solemn time. It's a time of rejoicing. It's a time of reflection when we think of how he, before he came, Philippians 2 talks about he left behind his glory. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. And it talks about how he took upon him the form of man, the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. So the form that he took on as a man was not that of a king, but that of a servant. And this young Jewish maid. We know as Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord, the handservant, the servant of God. Willing to do whatever it is your will is, I'm willing to do it. I'm willing to be it if it pleases you. Help us, Lord To be encouraged in our faith and in our walk. Today we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord had only one beloved Son, his name was the Lord Jesus. And do you think that when he looked out across uh Israel that during that time period? Do you think he was particular about who he would send his son to to be the incubator of the Savior? I think he probably was. I think of all the young women in Israel, God had chosen Mary, not because she was sinless, because she was not sinless. There is none righteous, no, not one, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We know that. But there was something about Mary that was sincere. She was genuine. Her motives were pure, not self-serving She had no idea in all the world. They knew that the the Messiah had been prophesied that he would come one day, but she she never dreamed she would come, he would come through her. What did it mean when the angel said that she was highly favored? Well, it says down in verse number 28, the angel came unto her and said, Hail thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And then down again in verse 30, the last part of that verse, for thou hast found favor. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. God was pleased with her to such a point that he would entrust the Lord Jesus Christ to her keeping. I suspect also he must have been pleased with Joseph. It talks about how in the Gospel of Matthew, we won't go there right now, but how that in Matthew it said that Joseph was a decent man. He was a kind man. He was a thoughtful man. Even though he didn't understand at first what was happening to Mary, he did not want to put her away. He did not want her punished. Because of what it would be perceived that she had done that was wrong. But she hadn't done anything wrong. Joseph knew she hadn't done anything wrong with him anyway. And uh so he wanted to be kind with her, and and God allowed Joseph to be the earthly guardian of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want us to look this morning, first of all. And looking at Mary, the privilege that she enjoyed. The privilege that Mary enjoyed. In verse 28, again, it says that the angel came unto her. It was a it was an angelic messenger. The word Angelos, as many of you know, means messenger. And so an angel was dispatched from heaven, sent to Mary to give her this news. In a way it was very sweet because it was an honor and a privilege, and she knew that. But it was also bitter because there were going to be some problems that were going to come from this. She was willing to let God use her however he saw fit. Notice down there at the very end of our text, verse 38, and Mary said, Behold the handmaid. Of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. Thy will be done In me. Thy will be done in me. Have you ever said that to God? Thy will be done In me, you say, well, he doesn't want to do anything with me because I'm not a preacher, I'm not a teacher, I can't sing. You know, what does God want to do with me? Are you glad the sidewalks were cleared this morning? Are you glad that somebody came here and took the time to shovel the sidewalks and Make sure that it was as safe as it could be for you to come in and maybe not slip and fall. Are you glad for that? Well, there was somebody here. Who made sure that that was done. He was here before you, or we happened to get here early, so we know who exactly who it is, and he's a dear friend of ours. But um he was here early in his work clothes. Serving. Serving. Unannounced. Unseen by most all of us. But serving. Have you ever said to God, here I am, I don't know what I could ever do for you. I remember when I got saved. I I I you say you talk about that a lot because I don't ever want to forget it I don't ever want to forget it. But I remember the little PS I put on the end of my prayer of repentance in my little one-room efficiency apartment that 4. 30 in the afternoon that day in June. I remember I said, by the way, Lord, if you ever want me to do anything, I'm available. I just kind of volunteered. I had no idea it would be doing what I'm doing, having the privileges that I've had over the years. But it all starts with a willing heart, finding favor with God. Letting God use you. Look with me in the book of Acts, if you will, please. Acts chapter 9 You say, well, boy, that would be great to be used of God. Well do you really think so? Well, you say, yeah, it would be, and it is a great privilege, a great honor to be used of God. But it may not mean that you get a salary. It may not mean that you get a parsonage, like the one across the street. It may not be that you get Retirement benefits or health insurance. That really is not all that's promised in servanthood The Apostle Paul was one of the great servants of God. We believe that, I think. We would agree with that. Some have have branded him as the greatest Christian outside of the Lord. I don't know. God knows that. I don't know who that is. Up up till uh the time that John the Baptist was alive, Jesus said that John was the greatest ever born among women. Born of a woman. And who was John? Well, he was just a poor ignorant preacher, not been to rabbinical school. Probably didn't know a whole lot of theology outside of what he learned from God in the wilderness. Be it all of Jerusalem, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, all the Sanhedrin came out to meet him, came out to hear him. And when he preached, he didn't preach very, very politically correct. Called them a bunch of vipers, snakes, poisonous ones at that. Said they needed to repent. Called them a bunch of hypocrites. And then because he told Herod it wasn't lawful for him to have his brother's wife, he was put in prison and set up by Herodias To be beheaded. And he was beheaded at the ripe old age of about 30, 32, maybe, something like that. Didn't live long, didn't go very far, didn't have any money. But Jesus said, Of all them born among among women there hath not risen a greater than John. That includes all the Old Testament, by the way, all the prophets. That includes Moses, Elijah, Elijah, Daniel, David. Includes all of them. You want to be used of God? You want to find favor with God? It may cost you. It may cost you to have to do something that nobody else wants to do and will do, but God tells you, if you really want to do something for me, then do this. And you say, well, Lord, I wasn't thinking about that when I when I told you I'd serve you. I meant I won I I would do these other things, see? Well, I'm glad you're willing to do that, but here's what I really want you to do. Now, do you want to do what I want you to do or do you want to do what you want to do? Does all of this make sense a little bit this morning? Because that's kind of how we are. You said you were going to talk about Paul. Okay, we're in Acts chapter 9, verse number 12. He just got blinded on the way to Damascus, getting ready to persecute more Christians. He'd already given assent to Stephen's death. He already incarcerated many others. Now he's he's on a roll. He's going there. Then he gets blinded. He saw the light. He saw the light. Acts chapter 9, down in verse number 12. It says and hath a vision, talking about Ananias, who was going to go see him, and he said he hath a vision. Seen in a vision, a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hands on him that he might receive his sight. Then Ananias said, answered, Lord, I have heard many things of this man. He's not one of us. How much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel. Would you want to be a chosen vessel? Hey, Mary was a chosen vessel, was she not? She was chosen of God. To be the incubator of the Son of God. Miraculously. Would you want to be a chosen vessel? He said, wait a minute. I got a plan for Paul. Such a deal I have for him. Let me tell you about my deal that I have for him. He said, the Lord said, go thy way, verse 15. He is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name. before the Gentiles and all the and the kings and the children of Israel, for I will show him how great things he will enjoy, and all the benefits and all No, how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. Do you want to be a chosen vessel? What is the will of God for Paul that he suffer for Jesus' name? For Jesus' sake? I'm always glad when somebody says, how's the mission going? Because I'm glad somebody's thinking about it Not a pretty place, not a very nice location, not real classy people that come there in the eyes of many. Lots of problems. Lots, lots of problems. Sometimes I kind of feel like, God, am I out of your will? God, is there some deep dark sin in my life I haven't confessed? Lord, Lord, what is it? Why am I having all these problems all the time? It may be It may be that it's God's will for us to go through some difficult times That people can see Christ in us in the Baltimore Rescue Mission and how He supplies miraculously every day And it only can come from him, because believe me, my wife and I are the only two that knows where it comes from. And it comes from places that are unbelievable. But yet it always comes. And we've been through some horrendous trials in 30 years, and we're going to have some more ahead of us if the Lord tarries and we're still alive. But I I'm getting to where I'm not fearing that so much anymore because the things I feared the most in the past, God's delivered me from. And it's strengthening, notice, it's strengthening our faith. Well, God's will for Paul is that it looks like he's going to be a loser. He's going to have to suffer. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Would you look there with me? You say, how is it, Paul? If you ask Paul, how's it going? You know, you're not going to get, well, we're doing pretty good. Well, you know, the uh giving's up and and we have have a lot of folks coming out, a lot of people got saved, and and you know we got a new building program and and all this is great, you know, and man we're we're doing we're really up top uh uh up on top of it. You won't hear that kind of report from Paul's missions update. 2 Corinthians chapter 11, down in verse number 21. I speak concerning reproach as though we had been weak, albeit whereas whereinsover any is bold, I speak foolishly. I am also in bold. Are they Hebrews? So am I? They're talking about genealogies in Sunday school class. He's giving them a little giving them a little of his pedigree. Just so they don't think he's some backwards Gentile from nowhere'sville He's giving him a little bit of his pedigree. He says, uh, are they Hebrews so am I? Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a full, I'm more, in labors. There's another translation for that word labors. It could be W-O-R-K. Didn't say he preached hard. Didn't say didn't say he had a big crowd. It says, one thing that I have done is I have worked hard. You know you can do that if you put your mind to it. You you there and there's pl by that you know there's plenty of work to be done for the Lord. It's plenty of work to be done. Matter of fact, Jesus said, look into the fields, they're white under harvest. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest. The harvest is plenteous. Plenty of work. For the labor's all. All. We find fellowshippers. Boy, we we know how to fellowship. We know how to banquet. We know how to have a good time, but what comes down to the nitty-gritty of doing the everyday back-breaking work of God, the labors are few. In labors, verse 23. More abundant in stripes. Above measure. You couldn't hardly count all the times. He said, in prison more frequent. And death often that's near death. Of the Jews, five times received 40 stripes, save one, 39, called the near-death. Thrice was I beaten with rods. Once was I stoned, remember what happened at Lystra. Thrice I suffered shipwreck. A day and a night, uh, a night and a day have I been in the deep In journeyings often in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, and perils of mine own countrymen, in perils of the heathen, in perils of the city, and perils in the wilderness, and perils of the city, in perils among false brethren. In weariness, wore out, tired, can't hardly even move, aching and moaning and groaning, and can't even get a Tylenol In hunger and thirst and fastings, often in cold and nakedness, beside those things that are without that which come upon me daily, the care of all the churches. And some of you here know what the care of this church is. And what the responsibility is of this church, and some of you know what that is. Now you take all that and add to that not only the care of Faith Bible Church, but the care he said of all the churches that I planted. I'm concerned for all of them. Who is weak and I'm not weak? He said, I'm not superman. I'm not super Christian. I'm not a superhero. Who is offended and I burn not? You know what, I get my feelings hurt too, Paul said. You know, you can talk about me and lie about me and you can scandalize me and you can browbeat me behind my back and you can do all that and think well that Paul you know he's just a no good if he was any kind of a real Christian he would have done it this way Legally, they call that defamation of character. And he said, When I find out that's happened to me, you know what? Believe it or not. It hurts. Does it hurt you when people lie about you? When people talk about you? Man, if I if I had the time to go around and try to to cover my back after everybody says something that I did or said or thought Or f thought I should have done a different way, I'd I might as well just get on a treadmill and run forever. Paul said, I've been scandalized. I've been offended. I know what it is. And it hurts. It hurts. If I must need glory, I will glory of the things which concern my infirmities. God said, I'm going to tell you what, Paul is a chosen vessel. And Ananias is thinking, man, he's going to put him up on the throne. Some place and glorify him and all that, and God and God turned around and said to Ananias, because he is going to suffer greatly, great things. He is going to suffer greatly for my namesake. Say, what's that got to do with Mary? Well, we've got to find out. Because Mary was highly favored. She was chosen of God to be the incubator of the Messiah. The privilege that Mary enjoyed. Elizabeth was her cousin, down in verse 41 It says, and it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost, and she spake out with a loud voice and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. Elizabeth knew that Mary was blessed. God knew that Mary was blessed. Joseph knew that Mary was blessed. Mary knew that Mary was blessed. First forty six of Chapter One of Luke And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior, for he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaid. See, Mary was just a country girl. Nobody even batted an eye when she got engaged to Joseph, who was nothing more than a carpenter. I mean he wa he wasn't upper class and she wasn't upperclass. They weren't really even middle class. She said he hath esteemed the low estate, regarded the low estate of his handmaiden. He said, God knows I'm nothing. Have you ever figured that out about yourself or do you think you're something? Uh. Because you're not a drunkard or a drug addict? Hmm. Because because you haven't been caught in in the in the the till at work stealing money from work? Because you haven't gotten arrested for going 80 and a 60? Ouch, that hurt, didn't it? Because you haven't done the sins of other people out there, does that make you any less a sinner? I hate to tell you we're all sinners, and the Bible said there's only one there's only one penalty in sin, and that's death. And there's only one antidote to the sting of sin, and that's the blood of Jesus Christ. And if you're saved today, it's not because you weren't as bad as other people, it's because by God's grace and mercy You came to him when you heard the gospel and pleaded for forgiveness, and he gave his mercy to you, and it's called salvation. She realized it was an honor. She said, The Lord hath regarded the low esteem of his handmaid, low estate. For behold, from henceforth all veneration shall call me blessed, for he that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. Mary just kind of went like this. She I don't think she was charismatic or Pentecostal, by the way. I kind of think she probably got Got down on her knees. Now I can't do that on my knees. But I'm gonna tell you what, she probably even got down on her face. Oh my God, why me? Why me? Of all the girls in Israel, why me? I'm nothing. Low estate. I got nothing. I'm nobody. Oh, they saw. Man looketh on the outside. God looks on the heart. He looks on your heart too. He looks on Your heart. The privilege that Mary enjoyed. Secondly, the pain that Mary endured. Both God and Joseph and Mary, Elizabeth, they all knew that Mary was a virtuous woman. They all had understood somehow that Mary was the recipient of a miracle But not everybody saw it that way. Do you know that? Not everybody saw it that way. It says in Galatians 5. 22, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. That's the fruit, not the fruits. It's a collective whole. That's the fruit of the spirit. I believe that Mary manifested in her life and in her heart the fruit of the Spirit. That God would look at her and say, that's the kind of girl I want to be an influence for my son as he's growing up. In 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 1, the Bible says, Likewise, ye wives, being subjection to your own husband, and if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be one by the conversation, the manner of living. of the wise. In other words, you don't have to nag him to death. If you live right, he'll see it. While they behold you chaste conversation coupled with fear, whose adorning be it, let it not be the outward adorning of the plate in the hair. wearing of gold or putting on of apparel. It's not how you adorn yourself, how you make yourself up. Because it's not how you make up yourself that up that matters, it's what you are inside that matters to God. Who's doing it? Let it not be that, but let it be the hidden man of the heart. In that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit which is in the sight of God of great price. If I was a lady today and I am not, I am not having my feminine side displayed today or any other day because God did not make me feminine. He made me a man. And I try my best to try to be a man. But if he made me a lady I would look in the Bible, and there are several places in the Bible where it talks about what God values in ladies. And I wouldn't care what the worldly fashions were. I wouldn't care what the the ladies liber liberated liberals are. I'll get it out. Wouldn't give a happy hoot about any of that. I would take note of 1 Peter 3, verse 4, but let it be the hidden man of the heart in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and a quiet spirit which is in the sight of God of great price. Because when the Bible says there's something that pleases God, when I see anything, the Bible says, quit ye like men, be strong. The Bible talks about the dangers of effeminess. And it leads to homosexuality. Womanly-like traits in a man are not natural. And they're not pleasing to God. It is not pleasing to God for a man to be womanly, and it is not pleasing to God for a woman to appear manly. Amen. Praise the Lord. And give you book, chapter, and verse on all that I would want to know what it is that pleases God. And I try to know what it is that pleases God because I would like to try in my feeble efforts to please God. Mary got it right. Didn't she? Mary got it right. It didn't matter to her whether she was like all the other girls in town. What mattered to her was every day. The God she had never met, but the God she'd learned about. The God she knew from her heart. She knew how he wanted her to live. And she didn't even have the New Testament. Her friends and relatives, however, viewed her differently than God did. Being pregnant and out of wedlocks, she was guilty of fornication. Deuteronomy 22, 24, you can write that down as a note if you want, but that will tell you that both adultery and fornication were sins that were punishable by stoning. She could have been stoned now. If she was guilty of fornication, then why on earth, not long after she found out she was pregnant and pregnant through the Holy Spirit. Did she go to her cousin Elizabeth's house? If you read the first part of Luke chapter 1, you'll find out that Elizabeth was married by to a guy named Zacharias, who was a Jewish priest. And she wouldn't have gone there pregnant, three months pregnant at the time, and go to a priest's house knowing that that priest could condemn her and have her stoned. Why did she do it? Because she knew in her heart she had done nothing wrong. You know what? When you know that your heart is right, you can stand up to a lot of guff You can stand up to a lot of criticism. I don't give a flip what you say about me as long as it's not true. I can't keep people from talking. She couldn't keep people from talking. But you know what? She could make sure that what they said was a lie That'll give you a lot of confidence. As a matter of fact, the Bible uses the word boldness. Boldness. Some people may think that's arrogance. Arrogance is not boldness. Boldness is confidence. In the fact that you are trying to live for God. She was betrothed to a poor man, a carpenter, who could not do anything special for their child. I mean it she she wasn't getting a pat on the back for this thing she was willing to do. Behold, the handmaiden of the Lord beat unto me according to thy word. She said, well, what's going to happen to me now? Being pregnant now, well she could have been stoned. She was betrothed to a carpenter. She was gonna live in in in the closest she she was going to be married in what society today calls to the working poor. She wasn't she wasn't standing on a sign with a card standing on the street with a cardboard sign Saying, God bless you, please help. No, she wasn't going to be in that shape. But her husband would never make a really good living. He'd get by. He'd put a roof over her head. He'd give her clothes to wear. They'd have food to eat. But he never would be a man of means. Not in the eyes of the world. When she went to give birth, she didn't end up down here at the Hopkins at the latest birthing room. Man, they got all kinds of bells and whistles these days. It's amazing. No, she was going to give birth in a dirty, smelly, stinking stall of a stable. You ever been in a sure enough barn? I mean a real barn. I mean where there's real cows that that hang out in there, you know? Or a calf pen. I remember when I came back, we came back from Maine and uh before we went to Bark Hill Bible Church out in New Uh Union Bridge. I was working on Black Rock Road in Hampstead on Armacos Farm, one of the largest dairy farms in Maryland at the time. And I worked two ends of the cow. They gave me a pickup, uh, not a pickup truck, but a big box truck, and I had it loaded up with hay, and I had to go around to the different places where they had the heifers. And I had to throw the hay in there and feed the heifers. But then along later part of the day, then they had me working the other end and they had me in a calf pen. And it was an enclosed thing. And it had about ten calves in little stalls here and ten calves in little stalls there. And they didn't have elevators to remove the waste from their lunch. They had Chuck Bittner with knee-high rubber boots and a pitchfork and a wheelbarrow. And about 95 degree heat in August. And there I was, up to my knees, on the wrong end of a calf. And I remember one afternoon, because I had left Maine, we had left Maine because of biblical convictions. My last words of them was: I'm not for sale. I'll leave the rest of your imagination. And I remember being in that calf pen, swinging that pitchfork, loading that wheelbarrow. With tears streaming down my eyes. God, are you gonna leave me here? More than one afternoon. And oftentimes at lunch break, I would have to stop my lunch to pull a calf. And you want to know what that means? I'll tell you after the service, okay, what pulling a calf is. She gave birth in a dirty, smelly, stinking stable. I've been in them. You don't want to have your baby born in that place. It was no cakewalk for Mary. She lived her life with people believing that she had an illegitimate child. John 6. 42 says, and they said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? Notice Joseph was called his father. How is it then that he saith, I come down from heaven? John 8. 38. The Jews and the Pharisees, if you read the whole chapter, you'll find the whole crowd was there accusing. John 8 38, I spake that which I have seen with my father, capital F. And ye do that which ye have seen with your father. They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. But now ye seek to kill me a man which hath told you The truth. But now you can't seek to kill him and told you the truth, and I have heard heard of God. This did not Abraham. Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication. We have one father, even God. Hello. You know, they've been carrying on this dirty, filthy lie about Jesus for over 30 years here. When Mary was pregnant and everybody in town knew that she was pregnant, they were all saying, yep, they couldn't wait, could they? Later on, they accused Mary of having an affair with a Roman soldier. But 30 years after his birth, they're still calling him illegitimate. And Mary carried the scarlet letter of A across her front for her whole lifetime because nobody ever really did believe that she was a virgin. When Jesus was conceived. You see, man, she carried that a long time. Yeah, sometimes, sometimes the scars The scars of serving Christ are with you to death. Paul said, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what? Some of us bear in our hearts and in our souls the marks. of serving the Lord. Some of us do Revelation 12, verse 10 says that Satan, Satan is an accuser of the who class, the brethren. You know who's the first to point the finger at a Christian? Especially one who's serving God? Especially one who's trying to live right and trying to help people. You know who's the first to point the finger? The devil. You know how he does it? Through people. Ephesians 6 tells you that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities and powers, against the rulers of darkness and wickedness in high places. You know what God hates? Proverbs chapter 6, verse number 16, it goes on and talks about these six things doth the Lord hate. And you know what? The last one on the list is? He that soweth discord among the brethren. Let me warn you of that one. It's not murder. It's not adultery. It's not fornication. It's not drunkenness. It's not drug addiction. But it is character assassination. Be careful on that. They they destroyed her testimony. She never did convince them that she had not committed fornication prior to Jesus' conception. She carried it in her heart to the grave. So we see the privilege Mary enjoyed, the pain that Mary endured, and then finally the promise that Mary embraced. Mary was a mother. There's some others here. Some of you haven't had your children for a long time. Some of you have, but Maybe maybe motherhood brought some things on you that you weren't weren't planning on. I don't know. I've never been one myself, but I've lived with one. And uh I find that some of the things that my wife has gone through as a mother, one of them I would call self-denial, denying of self. Doing without to do for others. That's part of motherhood. If you want to find favor with God, if you want God to use you, you must die to self. Lee Robertson, who was the founder of Tennessee Temple University and for 50, 60 years the pastor of Highland Park Baptist Church, went around the country after he retired for the next 20 years. He died, I think, when he was about 94. I went to hear him when I was in Maine, went to Bangor, Maine to hear that man preach. I went up to him after the service, and I said to him after the service, Dr. Roberts, I said, you know, I'm pastor I started a church up here in Maine and I just got a handful of people and I'm struggling and blah blah blah. You know what he said to me? I I went all the well we traveled about two and a half hours, my wife and I, to go hear Rob Lee Robertson So I could catch him after the service and ask him one question. I said, Doctor Robertson, what should I do? And he looked at me and he took his glasses off and he looked right in my eyes and he said, Young man, I go around this country preaching a great deal about dying to self and he turned around and walked away. He never even let me burp. He was done with me. He said, young man died himself. I never forgot it. Never forgot it. You can't hurt a dead man. You can have a funeral in this church and have an open casket there. And you can come by and somebody can say, you know what? I don't like that tie. I don't know why in the world they put that tie on you. You're dead and you're getting ready to get put in the ground and they put that dumb-looking tie on you. Is that person going to come up out of that casket and say, well, I don't like your tie either? I don't think he's going to do that, is he? You know why? You can't hurt a dead man. You get it? You can't hurt a dead man. You know why you get offended? Because you're too worried about you. If you've already died, the issue settled. You can't hurt me. You can't hurt me anymore. Because I'm not living for you. I'm living for him. That'll take you a long way when you have problems. That'll take you a long way when you get discouraged. When you feel like you can't take another step. It'll take you a long way when people get on the phone and wear your reputation out. Have little meetings in their homes and think that you're too stupid to know they're doing it. It'll help you get through those days. She suffered ridicule. You know, all of us are going to go through different kinds of problems, but the Lord has promised us that he will be there with us. Let me give you one or two and I'm done. 1 Peter chapter 4, 14. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happier ye. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon. Now, it's saying, if you be reproached for the name of Christ, not because you did something wrong, don't go jumping around saying I'm a martyr. But if you're getting put down for doing right and for trying to preach the right way and teach the right way, So be it. The Spirit of the glory and the glory of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. Isaiah 41:10. Fear thou not For I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. Yea, I will help thee. Are you listening? Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Are you listening? Fear not. Be not afraid. I am with thee. Be not dismayed. I am the is he your God? Well, he's omniscient, he's omnipotent, he's omnipresent, he's immutable, he never changes. What more could you want for help? Take hope. Take hope. Isaiah forty one thirteen For I am the Lord thy God. I will hold thy right hand. My wife Every now and then she'll get into a tough spot. Some of some of those times we're giving birth. I won't get into all of it. But she says, when I'm really fearful of things. She claims that verse, Isaiah 41, 13. What listen to it again as I read it to you. I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right. She said, I I I sit there and I close my eyes and I imagine. That I'm holding his right hand. Saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. You can choose to go through grief and heartache and be depressed. You can choose to rejoice, and you can even choose to be thankful If we believe in Romans 8. 28 that all things work together for them that love God, to those that are called according to his purpose, do you believe that? Conclusion. There is one. Are you willing to serve God unconditionally? You. Mary put it all on the line, folks. Probably not much more than a 16 or 17-year-old girl. She said, behold the handmaid of the Lord. I am your servant. From the top of my head to the bottom of my feet, my soul, my spirit, my body is yours as a blank check. Do with me what you want. Do you know that's what exactly what the Lord Jesus Christ did when he laid down on the cross and let them nail him there? And he did that again when he left heaven and came to earth as a a baby born in a barn. Let it be according to thy word. Romans twelve. I'm gonna give you two more verses and I will quit, I promise you. I'm really hungry. I don't know about you, but I gotta get out of here. Romans twelve. Most of you in this room have these two verses memorized, but I want you to look with them with me on purpose, and I want you to look at them carefully. Because we've many verses that we've memorized, we just kind of rattle them off because we know. Look at this. I beseech you, I beg you Therefore, brethren, that's fellow Christians, by the mercies of God that ye present your body a living sacrifice. Do you get what that means? A living sacrifice. You can become a martyr once, and it's over. But God wants us to be a martyr day after day. Paul said, I die daily. That's what this is talking about. You say, okay, well, I'll do what God wants me to do. Wait a minute, there are some conditions to service. Not only does it take willingness, it takes holiness. Holy, not W-H-O-L-Y, H O L Y holy. Be ye therefore holy, even as your Father which is in heaven is holy, the word says several times. Are you striving for holiness? Well, I don't know that I'll don't give me that. Are you striving for it? Are you striving to be holy? Acceptable unto God. Not every Christian's life is acceptable unto God. Paul said, but I preach, but I keep my body under. Lest I also become a castaway. You see, you can be set aside in God's service. You can be set aside as a testimony for the Lord by living an unholy life. Holy. And then the next thing says, accessible unto God. And when you've done all that, listen. Don't look for a medal of honor or a pat on the back. It says which Which is your reasonable service? It's only the right thing that a Christian ought to live that way. It's just the right thing to do. Which is your reasonable service. That is assuming that all this leads up to the fact that you want to serve God, and that's what Mary wanted to do. She said, I know they're gonna lie about me. They're gonna call me a fornicator, adulterer. They're gonna say I'm a wicked woman. I know I I know I'm I'm I'm not gonna have it easy. I know it's it's gonna be hard. Verse 2, and be not conformed to this world. You can't have it both ways. You can't serve God and mammon. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You care about that? Do you care about the perfect will of God for you? Can't make you. I I it I think it would be something that At the end of your life, when maybe you're up in Hopkins or some other hospital, or maybe at home, and you're they got you hooked up to a ventilator. And they they they've got your heart artificially pumping and the time comes when when they can't do any more and it all stops and and you flatline on the screen. And all the family that's been holding on and holding on and praying, and maybe if they're there with you, and then they sing songs. I sang songs, my sister and I sang songs to my mother and to my father. I was there when both of them breathed their last breath. And when it flatlines and it's all over, and they collapse, you collapse in emotional sorrow. And as a believer, you are now in the presence of God. You are now in the presence of God. And what kind of welcome do you think you'll get? What kind of welcome? You say, well, I'm not married. Neither am I. Have you figured that out? But let me give you something that Brother Tim gave us, Tim Berks in Sunday School. I already had it in my notes, so I'm not stealing from you. But I had it in my notes. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 26. For you see your calling, brethren, how not many wise men after the flesh, not many no mighty nor noble are called. What does God really use? God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. The base things, the lowly things of the world, and the things which are despised hath God chosen. The things which are not You see, God when God created the world, He spoke ex nahilo, they say. That means out of nothing. He didn't need mud to make the earth. He just spoke it into existence. The things which are not to bring to naught the things that are that no flesh should glory in his presence Verse 31, that according to as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Mary wasn't sinless. In Luke 1, 46 through 47, part of the magnificat, the song that Mary sang when she was in Elizabeth's house. Part of that verse had said something like this, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit rejoiceth in God, my Savior. No, the Catholics are wrong. She was not sinless. But she was a great servant of God. She found favor with God. She pleased the Lord. And I have not done justice to her in these few minutes. But I say to you and I say to myself again this morning, would you want to find favor with God? Would you want God to be pleased with you? And secondly, would you be willing? To live for him. Can we pray? Father, thank you now for these few moments in your word. These dear folks that have been patient and listened, I pray that you'll speak to all of our hearts. As we consider what it means to be a servant of God and what it means to find favor in the sight of the Lord. Help us like Paul, one of our examples, to be willing to die to self that we might be like you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. God bless you.