We may take for granted that we gather for worship on Sundays, but let's not miss the significance of this practice. Here's how one pastor describes what happened in the early church. Quote, these first-century Jews, thousands and thousands of them, suddenly changed their normal day of worship from Saturday to Sunday. Sociologists tell us that the most ancient parts of a culture are found in its religious rites. They are the most conservative elements of a culture, the least likely. And slowest to change? What then can account for the sudden change around the Mediterranean among thousands of first-century Jews from worshiping on Saturday to worshiping on Sunday? The answer is of course crisis risen. Today we continue to explore the monumental impact of this event, not just sociologically or culturally. It's more than our weekly routines, it's our whole outlook in life, this life and next. It's the way we eat, drink, live each day. All right. So let's go to today's passage, First Corinthians fifteen, twenty to thirty-four. So continue in First Corinthians fifteen, twenty to thirty-four. But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. Whereas in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. But each one in his own order, the Christ, the first fruits, afterward, those who are Christ and his coming. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when he puts an end to all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. For he has put all things under his feet. But when he says all things are put under him, it is evident that he who put all things under him is extremely Now when all things are made subject to him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. Otherwise, what will they do who are baptized for the dead if the dead do not rise at all? Why then are they baptized for the dead and why do we stand in jeopardy every hour? I affirm, by the boasting in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. If in the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantage is it to me? So by the time we're done with today's passage, you will have seen a horrible teaching. quoted six times in this chapter, verses twelve and thirteen. How does some of you among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead, but if there is no resurrection of the dead, that's two. Verses fifteen and sixteen we saw last time. If in fact the dead do not rise, For if the dead do not rise, that's another two of the four from last week's passage. And we just read today in verses 29 and 32, if the dead do not rise at all. if the dead do not rise. So that's another two with a total of six. If you're like me, you need a break from such a bleak outlook, even if it's only hypothetical. It's like watching too many movies with unhappy endings. There are those out there. Not a big fan. Or it's like doom scrolling, you know, spending way too much time online, reading depressing news content. A serious problem by the way these days. So in verses 20 to 28, we stop the what-ifs, we go to what is, right? We look forward to what will be Paul takes off his philosopher hat, he puts on a prophet's mantle. We're left from false arguments to final events, out of the dead end to the end of death. One commentary observes, speculation has given way to affirmation. But then abruptly, we're back to speculations. Paul returns to what if questions in verse 29. But the apostle is doing this with a practical aim. As you see, if then arguments in with do this then commands. Don't be deceived, awake, do not sin. We see these imperatives towards the end of today's passage. So this week we're more grounded in reality, future, and present. We dwell less on the hypothetical, more on the actual. We see Paul ultimately wants to reinforce good habits in saints. We'll focus on two. So let's see here. Here are two godly habits of those awaiting the resurrection. Very simple, I would say, but something to keep in mind. One anticipate Christ's return and reign. That's 20 to 28. verses 20 to 28. And two, avoid deceptive and sinful influence. That's 29 to 34. First, anticipate Christ's reign, return and reign. Again, there's a sigh of relief in verse 20. There's a break from the dark thought experiments of verses 12 to 19. That's enough of then Christ is not risen or if Christ is not risen. It's great to hear, but now Christ is risen. From the dead. And it's great to say that to others as well, right? Christ has risen from the dead. Sometimes when we share the gospel and whether it's on a Saturday or with our family, friends, or neighbors, just like We get through that sin part, you know, telling them they're sinners, they broke the law, but we're and we finally get to grace and telling them Christ is risen from the dead. That's a wonderful feeling. And what happened that third day has amazing implications for us believers. Paul says in the second half of verse 20 that Christ has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. And verses 21 and 22 provide the explanation, but it's helpful to define the term first fruits first. The word first fruits takes us back to an agricultural society in the Old Testament. There the law of Moses stipulated that Israel keep the annual feast. of harvest, they're to bring the first crops of their labors which they sown in the field, a sheaf, a bundle, a cluster of this fresh harvest were dedicated to God in an act of worship. While doing this, there's this hope that the rest of the harvest would yield the same quality of fruit as the first fruits Let's now apply this concept to Jesus and us. Jesus is our first fruit. He is raised from the dead. He dies no more. Death no longer has dominion over him. And this has great implications for those who belong to him. Jesus is not only a model for us morally speaking, but also physically. Each and every true believer, awake or sleeping, alive or dead at his coming, will possess a body like his. Will no longer experience the effects of sin. So then Christ's bodies a preview of coming attractions. What happens at the rapture? Here is the prototype of the full mass release in the future. This is a guarantee, as sure as God's Son is alive, as sure as God's Spirit dwells in us. Now, if you're not a believer, I'll speak a little bit later, or someone may be listening to this recording later who's not a believer. Okay, I'll talk a little bit about how we how you two can have this new body. So you can secure this guarantee for yourself through the gospel. So for believers, we go back on to verses 21 to 22. Paul explains why Christ is the first fruits. Of those who've fallen asleep. It's best to look at the two verses together as Paul juxtaposes to representative men, to share humanity. as each are called man, but that's it in terms of commonality. Paul explains how by the first man came death. In Adam all die. There's a full sequence of events elsewhere in Romans 5, verse 12. Through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned. We may not share in the same sin of Adam exactly eating from the forbidden tree in the garden, but we do share in Adam's nature. That's why it's painfully evident. We all sin. Sin is what destroys this world. Back to 1 Corinthians 15, 21, Paul says that by another man came the resurrection of the dead. He explains in verse 22, in Christ all shall be made alive. Now it's important to clarify that all here in verse 22 all does not refer to all humanity without exception all must be read contextually it's connected to the words that preceded in Christ okay All in Christ then refers to all who trust in Christ, dead or alive, at Christ's appearance. Otherwise, Paul would be saying that every single person will automatically go to heaven, which is not true. So, if people do not automatically go to heaven, how do you get there? How can we be in Christ so that we shall be made alive? Well, to be in Christ, you must be born again. Why? From the moment of conception, you shared in Adam's nature. That's why Jesus said in John 3. 3, most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. You're born to be like Adam. You must be reborn to be like Jesus. This is a good time as any to review the gospel. Okay, the good news. In the good news, there's the guarantee of glorified bodies. We must understand first so that we can't help ourselves and get into heaven, because we can't help but sin in our flesh. We're created in God's image and likeness, yes, but we're also begotten after Adam's image and likeness. It's scary how my son and daughter not only look like me, they also act like me in my foilables and balleables. There's a more serious matter of our resemblance to Adam, though, right, in our disobedience to God. We don't just break one commandment, we break many. Okay. We sin in thought, coveting, and lusting. We sin in word, lying, taking God's name in vain. We sin in deed, stealing time and money, and many other things. That's why as an Adam, all die. All go to one place. All are from the dust and all return to dust Afterwards, we will answer to the God of justice. And listen, left to ourselves. We have no chance of escaping the guilty sentence. He is holy, you're not. He is righteous, you're unrighteous. You're by default and by your own fault sinners. Something dramatic must happen to save us. And that's where Christ comes in. He's God, the Son, in the bosom of the Father, but as we were saying earlier, he condescended, took on flesh to ransom us. He's the perfect Son of Man in his living, in his suffering, never trace nor stain of sin. See the true and better Adam come to save the hellbound man. How did Jesus save the hellbound man? He humbled himself. He became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. There he paid the penalty of sin in our place as our substitute. He died, he was buried, but that was not the end. Remember, by this man came the resurrection of the dead. That's because he himself is resurrection and the life. He rose from the grave on the third day. He presented himself alive by many infallible proofs. He was seen by apostles for forty days, spoke of things pertaining to the kingdom of God. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now then, you know, all must do this. Repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus and trust in him only for eternal life. He grants life evermore, not by works, but as a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Okay, so that's a good review of the gospel. So now let's wrap up verses 20 to 22 and move on. As I look at these verses, I can't help but picture a an infographic. In Paul's preparing a business presentation, he might have given us a side-by-side comparison chart. I'm thinking of a table with two columns. Adam on one column, Christ on the other column. Now as we go on to verses 23 to 23. twenty eight is not a comparison chart we're looking at. Imagine instead a timeline. And within this timeline, consider four plus. They all start with R. Christ's resurrection, Christ's return, Christ's reign, and Christ's relegation. Okay? Christ's resurrection, return, reign, and relegation. In verse 23, we begin with two plots, Christ's resurrection and Christ's return. And concerning Christ's resurrection He's again designated as the first fruits concerning Christ's return. His rise anticipates a harvest of saints. We sang about it earlier. Even so, Lord, quickly come, bring thy final harvest home. Gather thou thy people in, free from sorrow, free from sin. When Christ is revealed, those who are his at his coming will be revealed as God's children. We shall be like him, but we shall see him as he is. Now, it's not in Paul's interest to go into further details here. He leaves out Christ's ascension, the day of Pentecost, the rapture, the seven-year tribulation, etc. This is more of a basic outline. There's a lot to study if we consider various other passages. But here in verse 23, Paul's content to sort of class all of these details together. Then he moves on to the end in verses 24 to 28, the events after Christ's return. And this is where Paul spends most of his time. Here's where we consider two more plots in the timeline. We're at plot number three now, Christ's reign, and we're looking at verses twenty-four to twenty-seven A, the first sentence of twenty-seven Before the son delivers the kingdom to the father, the son must receive the kingdom from the father. This was predicted in Daniel 7, 13. to 14. The ancient of days must give the one like the Son of Man dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. In simple terms, Christ must rule. He must reign. The length of that rule is a thousand years, so we call it the millennial kingdom. During this era, Christ Jesus must put an end to all opposing rule, authority, and power. He quells every rebellion, defeats Gog and Magog, subdues every enemy. After all the wicked are conquered and Satan's crushed under Christ's feet, death faces second death. Even Hades joins death in the lake of fire. We'll talk more about this ultimate victory later in the chapter, towards the end. But so finally, we'll see all things put under Christ's feet. This is the fulfillment of Psalm 8. What Adam could not do, Christ does on our behalf. Jesus, the ideal man of majesty, restores the dignity of humanity. That takes us to the fourth and final plot of the timeline: Christ's relegation. Relegation may sound strange at first, but if we consider the different roles within the Trinity, then it makes perfect sense. It should not surprise us that the son would submit himself to the father, return to him what was first given to him. After all, the Son of God always does those things that please him. So now finally Jesus delivers the kingdom to the Father. By this point, he's fulfilled every prophecy made to Israel and the church. All things have been put under his control. Just for clarification's sake, Paul defines the scope of all in the second half of verse 27 he points out the obvious the father himself is not to be included among those that Christ subjugates Now it's time for a new era. This is called the eternal state. There, as Paul says, the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. All in all is not to be taken as a statement of something happened within the Trinity. It's not as if the persons in the Godhead are like musing together or something like that. Rather, all in all is a phrase of doxology. It's like glory to God. It's similar to what Paul says in Romans eleven thirty six, for of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. Amen. Well, as is the case with most studies of eschatology, there's a lot, right? I hope you kept your head above the water by dwelling on the main point. Anticipate Christ's return and reign. But as an application, I I'll say we anticipate best as we carefully study the end times. Okay. Now I will say this is a difficult exercise, but well worth the effort. Don't be afraid to dig into Isaiah, Ezekiel, Revelation. Now be sure to use a consistent method of interpretation. Build a big frame picture of God's plan, plotting major events, fill in the details with minor events. While doing this, you might survey various theological systems that explain that future plan differently. I do believe that dispensationalism is the best system that explains all that. But you will find many people having different views. As you do, keep your eyes on what's of first importance and be gentle with those who disagree on lesser matters. Now, I personally do not believe that our timelines and charts need to match perfectly to have warm and deep fellowship within a local church. I said a few times in my years here, I think we should not require belief in premillennialism for church membership. I say that even as a premillennialist myself. Well, that's for another day, but even if we disagree on the order of some final events, we can be together on this. Anticipate Christ's return and reign. We do this best by studying the Bible and studying what it says about the end times Now Paul's all for studies, but he's not going to leave it at that. After surveying the end times, he gets back to the present times. Sort of, I say sort of, because we're back to hypotheticals again in verse. Verse 29 to 34. But as I said earlier, Paul has his sights on practical matters. Paul's leading the Corinthians to the second godly habit of those Awaiting the resurrection, avoid deceptive and simple influence. Now, details about the end times may not interest you that much, but do keep in mind the following. Our theology affects our morality. Our theology affects our morality. What we say or affirm about God and his plan influences human behavior and direction. That's why from verse 29, Paul builds up his argument to the imperatives of verses 33 and 34. Well, first let's get through some difficult sayings of Paul here. I don't think it was difficult for Corinthians to understand, but there are some things Paul says here in verses 29 to 32 that require some deciphering on our part. I'll point out three interesting phrases in particular. First, in verse 29, the apostle twice mentions those baptized for the dead. When I went to seminary, I was told there were more than 200 interpretations of this phrase. I'm going to take this time to go through each of them now, one by one. I just want to make sure you guys are awake. We'd be going home in the dark if we do that. But here's just a sample. Okay, some say one's getting baptized. to join the deceased loved ones. Others say corpses are washed in water, water sprinkled over the graves. Still others say someone's doing this on behalf of someone else, someone who else, someone else who converted but didn't get baptized before death. Now you might do this, you know, go study and get all those two hundred interpretations or more together, but One way to sift through all of these proposals, maybe just divide them up in categories, is to ask a key diagnostic question, is getting baptized for the dead a practice Paul would approve or would he disapprove? Would he approve or disapprove? I think he disapproves. Okay. Look with me at verse 29 where Paul refers to they. They contrast with we. in verse 30, I and you in verse 31 and 32. Paul creates some distance with such people holding to such customs. I know it's not much, but we need to grab every clue we have to figure out what this means. So they, that is, those baptized for the dead, are the problem, in my view It's not Paul, it's not the Corinthians, it's not even the dead themselves who hold to these strange views This may sound like a cop-out, but what I'm getting at is that I'm okay with not knowing the exact nature of this baptism for the dead because Christians shouldn't do it anyways. It's not within our orthodoxy or orthoproxy, right? It's not that I'm dotting the question, like I said. I do have an interpretation. I think it is some kind of baptism by proxy on behalf of someone who's already dead. But the correct view of baptism, that's biblical, is clear to me. Baptism is a believer's voluntary act of obedience based on his or her own saving faith, not anyone else's faith. It cannot be done for you. You cannot do it for anyone else. Okay, so uh Maybe you want my specific views, but that's all I got. But now even if Paul disagrees with this rogue ritual, what I call rogue ritual, he agrees with the underlying assumption. There is a future resurrection. Without that resurrection, those who follow this practice, abnormal as they may be, would be doing it for nothing. It's my surprise that Paul uses weird, illegitimate examples to further his legitimate point. I'll ask him why he did that when I get to heaven. But for now, we got enough in verse 29. to get the gist of the argument and move on. You guys can talk about that over lunch I guess. Eat lunch and talk about baptism for Okay, we go on to easier verses, right? But there's a second phrase that I could that could use explanation in verse 31. I die daily. It helps to back up. In verse 30, Paul now turns his attention from those baptized for the death. He turns his attention to himself and his associates who constantly face dangers. If you want a full catalog of Paul's sufferings, go to 2 Corinthians 11 and you're in for a doozy. Just four verses here I'll just give you. And these would for most of us would amount to a lifetime's worth of struggles. Verses twenty-four to twenty-seven go. From the Jews five times I received forty stripes minus one, three times I was beaten Eaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I have been in the deep, in journeys often, in perils of waters, and perils of robbers, and perils of my own countrymen Imperils of the Gentiles, imperils in the city, imperils in the wilderness, imperils in the sea, imperils among false brethren. In weariness and toil, in sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. Back to today's passage, we get that there's no point of all that trouble if there's no resurrection. So now what does he mean in verse 31 when he says I die daily? Based on the context, I think I dali means I die daily means I face death every day. That's actually how some translations render it. I know it's not hyperbole, but hyperboles and other figures of speech are found in scriptures. Just keep in mind as you interpret that each point to a literal meaning. So I die daily means Paul's life was always on the brink of death. Next, Paul speaks of a particular dangerous episode in verse 32, as we and we've got to ask ourselves: who are these beasts at Ephesus? That's the third phrase in question. There's no record of in uh Acts of Paul being tossed into an arena where they release savage animals on him. Paul as a Roman citizen would could not be subject to that anyways. I suppose one could take beasts at Ephesus to mean mobs of men, like what like the one seen in Acts 19 But all that happened to Paul are not necessarily included in Acts. So I take beasts at Ephesus literally, but not wild animals in the arena. They're probably wild animals somewhere. Okay, now we're at the middle of verse 32. Paul's saying that what's the point of all that toil and trouble if there's no resurrection? If the dead do not rise, he says, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. This is the philosophy of Epicureans in Paul's days. But it's not entirely new. We find in Isaiah's days the same attitude from the people of Judah. Elder Kerry read from Isaiah 22 earlier. As God's judgment was looming, his people should have repented, spasted in sackcloth. Instead, they were dressing up for parties and gorging themselves with meat and wine. Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die, is a model that's been around for a while, and it continues today, and it will continue in the future. Now that's not our model, but there's a real danger of influencing us believers. Look at verse 33. Paul's telling the saints to not be deceived. He also reveals the source of deception, evil company corrupts good habits. Besides, do not be deceived in verse 33. Paul has two more imperatives in verse 34. Awake to righteousness. That is, beware and be aware. Exercise your senses to discern good and evil. Be vigilant. Vigilant. Do not succumb to unrighteous deception. cast off the works of righteous uh darkness, put on the armor of light, walk properly as in the day, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's all from Romans thirteen, similar idea there. Make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts. Here's the other imperative in verse 34 to not sin. That's as straightforward as it gets. Bad theology leads to bad behavior. No better. Discern those who do not have the knowledge of God and limit their influence on you. The Corinthians should have known this, should have known better, but to their shame Paul must remind them, reprimand them. We need the same reminder today. Avoid deceptive and Now as we end, let me circle back to the concept of our church gatherings. We meet regularly, first for Christ, secondly for Christians. We do the latter not to check off a box, but to check on each other. We must exhort, as Hebrew 10 says, consider one another in order to stir up love and good works. We must become, what I say, a good company of saints. Right? I see it like this. If evil company corrupts good habits, then good company gets rid of bad habits So I'm glad we get to meet and worship together, but I think we can go beyond that. Pray together. Keep each other accountable. Elder Stephen talked a little bit about maybe having like a prayer partner during the week. But otherwise, what would happen when we forsake the assembling of ourselves together, all the imperatives of one another we should be doing? Um well, obviously we're we become isolated, of course, but Worse, we might find bad company elsewhere. Psalm 111, you know, may happen to you. Next thing you know, you're walking, you're standing, sitting with those whose beliefs undermine your convictions See, I'm persuaded that books are not the only way to learn philosophies. Relationships are powerful conduits of unbiblical ideas. Right. I mean that you learn nihilism from nihilists, relativism from relativists, right? Anti-supernaturalism from anti-supernaturalists. So be on guard. Ask the Lord to guide us. And even as we fail, we're thankful for the truths expressed in our final song together. It's true that even when we mess up, Jesus, right, he brings my wandering spirit back when I forsake his ways. And leads me for his mercy's sake in paths of truth and grace. Let's pray and let's sing that song. Lori, thank you. That your son was slain by death, but no grave could ever restrain him. That he's alive. And this is a foretaste of deliverance. How It proves unwavering is our hope. Christ in power resurrected as we will be when he comes. And Lord, until that day, until there's the The rapture and the um and we are transformed and we are reunited with those who've gone before us who sleep in Christ. But until that day, may we anticipate Lord, may we study your word. May we be faithful. May we just think upon just what's going on. Um, as we even think about what's going on in this world, think of a better world ahead, the world to come. And Lord, we ask that in this pilgrimage help us to never get comfortable where we are on this world. Lord, just that we are strangers, foreigners here. That we are meant for a different place. And Lord, this is not our home. We're just passing through. We ask that you be glorified in our lives as we resist sin, as we awake to righteousness. Lord, we pray that you would help us to. Just stay in your truth and not be deceived by the things that are going on in this world. Give us eyes of discernment. Give us deep understanding of your word so that we may apply it in our lives. We thank you for your word, thank you for who you are, thank you that you love us and you preserve us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen