A few months ago, Chris Anderson from Healthy Church Network visited us one weekend. Then he sent the council a report of his observations. Here's one particular quote from this report quote be more opportunistic business leaders in the church someone in sales might help with that kind of entrepreneurial thinking Now please don't misunderstand Chris. He's not asking us to sell out, make our church seeker-friendly, compromise doctrine, or violate biblical principles. Chris, in context, is simply asking this, strategically and warmly welcome visitors, share our values and passions for families and children, promote our leaders and programs. And do it in a way that's wise, wisdom, and yes, scriptural. It's good advice. So it got me thinking, do we have business leaders here? Someone in sales who thinks like an entrepreneur, right? And well, I did major in business in college, but obviously my career path went differently than expected. I learned about making profit. Now I work for a nonprofit. I mean not that it's not transferable, but and it's been way too long since I was in those introductory management and marketing courses. So I look for something more recent There's a book by Simon Sinek entitled Start with Why, How Great Leaders Inspired Everyone to Take Action. There's a TED talk from about 14 years ago, and I was reminded of it, and it sums up his ideas. In it he draws up something called a golden circle. It's a diagram of three concentric circles. The outermost circle correlates to what? That is, what do I do? What do I produce as a company? The middle circle correlates to how, that is, how do I make or produce it? The innermost circle correlates to why. That is, why am I doing this? For what purpose do we exist and run our business Sinak argues that often leaders mistakenly prioritize what and how and fail to answer the question of why. Companies often start with the outermost circle, what, sometimes move into how, and rarely get into why they do what they do. CNAC is saying start with why. Sell your why before you sell your how and what That's because the question of why and its answer are what motivate us as human beings. People don't buy what you do or how you do it, they buy why you do it. CNEF uses the technology company, Apple, as a success story. They start with the belief, a conviction, a value. They're all about challenging the status quo and thinking differently. That's the why. Why they exist? The way Apple challenges the status quo is by making beautifully designed products, simpler to use, and making great computers Apple started with the why, when to how, and then finally to what CNEX cites other good examples of leaders inspiring action this way. In innovation, there's the Wright brothers beating out the better educated. Better advertised, better funded, better staffed team of Samuel Pierpont Langley. In the civil rights movement, there's the Martin Luther King Jr. who gave the I Have a Dream speech, and he says, he didn't give a I Have a Plan speech. I'm sure we can think of more in history, stories of patriotism and artistic vision, inspiring people to loyalty and action. But let me reel it back in now. I'm trying to put Chris Anderson and Simon Sinek together with Faith Bible Church. Okay. Okay, be more opportunistic and entrepreneurial. We do that by asking and answering why we do what we do. We deal with core values and beliefs and goals. Some of those beliefs we read earlier during the service. And if we start at the very center why we do what we do, we'll see that today's passage, sermon passage, is vital. We're beginning a new chapter in 1 Corinthians today. Chapter 15 of unique chapter, both in form and content. First, it's unique in form, unlike the previous few sections of the letter, there's no introductory phrase concerning this, concerning that. Recall how that phrase launched topical discussions on marriage and singleness in chapter 7, food sacrifice to idols in chapter 8, spiritual gifts in chapter 12. We'll see how this phrase launches more topics in chapter 16. But here in this penultimate chapter, Paul dives right in, somewhat abruptly There's an urgency similar to what we sense in Galatians. What's about to be presented at the core of our identity as Christians, as a church. It goes beyond what we do and how we do it to the question of why. That gets to the uniqueness of its contents. Some good commentary from Robertson and Plummer. Quote: Having treated of various social, moral, ecclesiastical, and liturgical questions. Liturgical questions, the apostle now takes up a doctrinal one, which he has kept to the last because of its vital importance. The epistle begins with the subject of Christ crucified in chapter 1, the early part of verse 2, chapter 2. It ends with that of Christ risen, chapter 15. This chapter has been called the earliest Christian doctrinal essay, and it is the only part of the letter which deals directly with doctrine. And as we study this doctrine, we'll venture into the innermost circle, our core beliefs. You'll find eternal truths, not to be confined to the Easter season. will answer the question of why. Why we exist? Why we live here on earth? Why we'll live forever. By starting here with why? We'll understand what to do and how to do it. So let's read the first portion of this chapter, 1 Corinthians 15, 1 to 11. Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you. Which also you receive, and in which you stand, by which also you are saved, if you hold fast that word which I preach to you, unless you believe and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures, and that he was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained. The last of all he was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles. who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am And his grace toward me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preach, and so ye believe. Start with some structural divisions, noting carefully some repeated words and phrases First, there's the phrase repeated twice in verses 1 to 2, which I preach to you, referring to the gospel, the word. The verb preach in the original language shares its root with the noun gospel. It's evangel. So you could translate the verses like this. Verse 1, I declare to you the evangel which I evangelized you. And then in verse 2, that word which I evangelized you Verses 1 and 2 together emphasize the centrality of the gospel. Moving on, there's a pair of phrases repeated in verses 3 to 8, according to the scriptures. And he was Paul grounds the death and resurrection of Jesus in the Bible. He'd agree with Peter, who says in his first letter The chapter one there, how the Holy Spirit and the prophets of old testify beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow And then again, like Peter, Paul doesn't stop with ancient prophecy. He cites eyewitnesses of Christ risen And most of these were still alive in the mid-first century, so now the saints of old and the saints of new unite in their testimony of Jesus. And so the church was compelled to evangelize. That's why the evangel or the gospel Paul received was of utmost importance. It is of first importance, as many translators uh translators. Translations render it. Finally, in verses 9 to 11, there's the emphasis on grace. Paul experienced God's grace. It transformed himself inside out. He went from church persecutor to church planter, enemy to friend. So then I say we have three Gospel starter steps, right? They're kind of like the ready-set-go positions of runners in a starting at a race. First, adhere to the good news preached and believed. Secondly, review Christ's works foretold and witnessed. Thirdly, credit God's grace, experienced and testified. But first, adhere to the good news priests can believe. I was reminded of this this week, how distortions of gospel truths can happen in any church. Or any denomination. There's a Christian author named David Gibson who wrote an article entitled Assumed Evangelicalism: Some Reflections in Root to Denying the Gospel. In it, Gibson cites a historical example of how one goes from proclaiming the gospel to assuming the gospel to denying the gospel. He writes, quote, you may have heard the story of the Mennonite Brethren movement. One particular analysis goes like this: the first generation believed and proclaimed the gospel. And thought that there were certain social entailments. The next generation assumed the gospel and advocated the entailments The third generation denied the gospel, and all that were left were the entailments. Some of us come from maybe liberal Protestant backgrounds have seen that over the years. How do we avoid making the same mistake? What Spurgeon called downgrade controversy in his time. Well, do what Paul did. Declare the good news, as it says in verse 1. Yes, some of you heard it since birth, maybe even while in the womb. Still declare the good news. Do it again Paul's not talking with pagans of Athens here. He's talking with the saints of Corinth. We need to hear the gospel repeatedly in our teachings, preachings, conversations, and testimonies. As we listen to this message, ascertain that it is the true apostolic biblical gospel. We're not here for the social gospel. We're not here for the prosperity gospel. We're here for the biblical gospel preached by Paul, the word of life. From the second half of verse 1 onward, we have three effects of Paul's evangelism at Corinth, which also you receive, in which you stand, by which also you are saved. One commentary differentiates them like this. Receive refers to the past, stand in the present, save to the future. I think that makes some sense here. But it's most helpful if we define these basic terms. First, there's received. We saw this back in chapter 11, verse 23. Paul received from others an account of what happened the night Jesus was betrayed and instituted the Lord's Supper. Received, we'll see in verse 3 refers to what happened the next day, what we call the Good Friday, and the third day, the Resurrection Sunday, and all the days leading up to Christ's ascension and Paul's conversion. Now, applied to us, receiving the gospel has to do with acceptance of truth handed down to us from the apostle. This is done not by apostolic succession, but by doctrinal transmission. And then there's stand. Again, revisiting earlier uses of this word in this letter. Standing has to do with confidence. Resolution. We're led to ask, what is the ground of your faith? Your foundation. Do you trust in your work or stand on Christ's work? If you were ever in evangelism explosion, you might recall the chair illustration. You point to an unseated chair and the chair you're already sitting on. Next you tell your prospect, I'm currently resting on my works righteousness. That's what it is to sit on this chair, then get up on that current seat and then go to the other one, which represents Christ and his work. That transfer is saving faith. Putting my weight and hope of heaven in Jesus alone. So sitting on the sturdy chair is like standing on the gospel. Thirdly, there's saved, verse 2 continues by the same gospel which you received and in which you stand, you also you're saved from condemnation, saved from hell. That seems simple Enough. But what follows in verse 2 needs more comment. It says, you're saved if you hold fast that word which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. Is Paul saying that one might lose salvation? I thought one saved, always saved. Not though we believe in eternal security. I mean didn't we read in the doctrinal statement earlier how Jesus says to his sheep, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man tuck them out of my hand. On this matter of eternal security, it helps to know two things. Just sort of side notes here sub-points, authority and authenticity. We question not the authority of the gospel, but we may question the authenticity of those hearing it. Here's the authority or the power of the gospel. It's absolutely true. Guarantee that if one's genuinely saved, he or she cannot lose salvation. God's promises are true. Putting doctrines together systematically, we conclude that born-again Christians hold fast that word which Paul preached. They do not believe in vain, or to put it another way, true saints persevere in the truth of God. Faith. It's not that they never mess up, we all mess up, but they do live a life of repentance where there's real root underneath in the heart, there's real fruit showing forth in the Action. Paul's not questioning that at all. He's not questioning the authority of the gospel. But Paul may question the genuineness of one's faith, his or her authenticity. There's the case of those who fall away or apostates, those who I guess these days call deconstruct their faith. We learn over time that their faith was never real To begin with. That's why it's so important for us to conduct what I call spiritual audits of ourselves as a church, especially through formative and corrective discipline. That's why Paul commands in 2 Corinthians 13, 5 to 6. Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless indeed you are disqualified. But I trust that you will know that we are not disqualified. The exam and test of authenticities, observing whether one holds fast to the gospel over time. That's why I my former pastor would say That the church is the assurance of salvation co-op. We help each other to make sure that I can look at you and you can look at me. I really see grace in your in your your life. I can see that you're not believing in vain. So what does it mean to hold fast? It means taking ownership of the gospel Not just saying it's good news in general, but it's the good news I believe. The good news I cherish. It means keeping what's delivered no matter what's the cost, right? Not trading it for a counterfeit. It means adhering to the good news preached and believed. Well, it does no good to talk about preaching and believing the gospel without explaining the gospel itself. So in verses 3 to 8, Paul reviews Christ's works foretold and witnessed. I won't read them again, but see if you see what I see. I see a wonderful simplicity in the gospel. I put those two words together on purpose: wonderful simplicity. In one sense, the good news of Jesus is simple. It's easy enough for kids to understand. We can sum it up in a few words or a few minutes under four headings. God, man, Christ responds, God, God is our holy creator and righteous judge, deserving our complete devotion. Man, we're created to glorify him, but we rebelled and broke his laws. We lied, lusted, blasphemed God's name. We're no longer in a right relationship with him. We're separated. We're destined for hell. Christ, but God did not leave us as we are. God the Father sent his son, Jesus, God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life, but then he died for our sins, paying the penalty of our sins in full the wrath of God. He was buried, he rose again on the third day, he ascended, someday he'll return and establish his rule. Response, we must repent and believe. Repenting, turning away from ourselves, our good works, self-righteousness, selfishness, believing is turning to Jesus, trusting Him alone for eternal life. Life. You cannot earn your way into heaven. It's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So there's that simplicity of the gospel. And yet in another sense the good news is profound and wonderful, full of wonders. I like to say the gospel is so rich and deep, it cannot be told in one testament, the New Testament. Christ's works were foretold in advance in the Old Testament. There's so much in that phrase, according to the scriptures. It's not a footnote. It's not a cold academic exercise. It's an invitation to the eye-opening experience. of seeing our Savior the way he's meant to be seen. It's like getting on that road to Emmaus. Don't you wish you were there? Most of you know the account, right? Our Lord Jesus risen from the dead, but veiled from the disciples' eyes, asked, Ought not to Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. In the same way, we can review Christ's works foretold as early as the first chapters of Genesis. And not only are Christ foretold from the beginning, they were witnessed as they happened. Specifically, Paul goes at length to establish eyewitness support of Christ's resurrection. Of course, that's what the naysayers denied, the resurrection. So in verses in in verse in response in verse five, Paul starts listing witnesses. He proceeds chronologically, though not comprehensively Okay, so within the first day of resurrection after appearing to the women, Jesus appeared to Peter, also known as Cephas. Later that day in Jerusalem. Ten out of the surviving eleven from the original twelve now join Peter as witnesses. It wasn't long until uh before Thomas and others like Matthias, who replaced Judas. Solhem 2. It seems like we leave Jerusalem area and go to Galilee in verse 6. The Lord had instructed his disciples to go there. After some of them see Jesus again at the sea, they meet him on a mountain according to Matthew 28. I think this is where over 500 brethren saw him at once. Majority of them were still alive when Paul wrote 1 Corinthians. Others have died. That is, they're asleep in Jesus. Paul continues in verse 7 of 1 Corinthians 15. telling us how Jesus also appeared to James, his half-brother. Like Peter before him, he was treated to some kind of one-on-one. Perhaps the Lord gave him some extra attention to prepare him for his future leadership role. So James joins the rank of the apostles. As you know, he rises to prominence. But he cannot, you know, join one of the twelve. That's because you have to have followed Jesus from the very beginning of his earthly ministry. And by the time of his resurrection, it seemed all the apostles have seen Jesus. So we thought, right? Except there's the curious case of Saul of Tarsus, who turned into Paul, right? On the Damascus road, he became the last of all apostles. Paul describes himself as by one born out of due time. This is actually a very shocking phrase. It refers to, you know, in those times, a premature birth, a miscarriage for an aborted child. Obviously that child is still a child and apostle is still an apostle, but there's something undoubtedly unusual and untimely about Paul's apostleship. That's the point here. And he'll explain in verses 9 to 11 why it was unusual. But first, let's tie together verses 3 to 8 Christ's works are not only foretold in the scriptures, they're confirmed by eyewitnesses. We're not talking about a handful or a dozen, but hundreds of eyewitnesses. We're not talking about a second hand or third hand account. We're talking about reliable historical testimony. From those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses. They speak of that which they heard, which they've seen with their eyes, which they've looked upon, and their hands have handled concerning the word of life, as John would say. In his first letter. Now the key application as we review Christ's works, foretold and witnessed Right. Remember this. Our faith is real because our faith is based on real history. That's a quote from a song, by the way. My family learned during the July BBS, which Al Grace Academy led. We still sing it at home at At times it goes, the Bible's a history of the universe. I'll stand on its promise, believe every verse. Our faith is based on real history. I won't sing it. I want the last, you know, performance appear to be a brandy, not me, right? This is not only a lesson for kids, right? It's for adults. This is what liberalism would deny. There's a famous American Presbyterian theologian named J. Gresham Machin. A quick aside: I don't know if you knew this, but our founding pastor, Clayton Cross, studied under Machin in seminary. Um Pastor Crooks and other students would go to Machin's apartment, discuss theology while eating oranges from Florida. Creswell told me this. Anyway. Anyways, one of Mayton's most famous books is entitled Christianity and Liberalism. In it he defends the inerrancy of the Bible. Here's some good quotes. Christ died, that is history. Christ died for our sins, that is doctrine. Without these two elements joined in an absolutely indissoluble union, there is no Christianity. The narration of facts is history. The narration of facts with the meaning of facts is doctrine. Suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and buried, that is history. He loved me and gave himself for me. That is doctrine. Such was the Christianity of the primitive church. Matron's saying that you can't divorce history from doctrine. If the Bible cannot be trusted in matters of history, it cannot be trusted in matters of eternity. Once you deny the historicity of Christ's death, you throw away substitutionary atonement and forgiveness of sin. Once you deny the historicity of the resurrection, you have no hope in justification. or hope in the future. We'll talk more about these horrific implications next week. But now let's return to the text and finish Paul's thoughts on why he's an apostle as by one born out of due time. You'll find the answer in verses 9 to 11. You learned there that as Paul did, we must credit God's grace, experienced, and testified. We learn from him that it is to the praise of the glory of his grace to speak of God's amazing grace. Whereas in Galatians, Paul had to prop up his credentials as an apostle, here he's content to emphasize his unworthiness. He's the last and the least of the apostles, not even worthy to be called one. It stings him to remember how he once persecuted the church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it. But God's grace changed all that. He became a new person with a new direction. A new answer to the why of his life. This transformation shocked everyone, of course, not God. Galatians one fifteen to sixteen tells us that it was in his good pleasure and sovereign plan to separate Paul from his mother's womb, call him by grace, and reveal his son in him. that he might preach Christ to the nations. It says in the middle of verse 10 that his grace toward Paul was not in vain. immediately explains what that means. He says, I labor more abundantly than they all. What does that mean? Well this reminds me of Philippians 2 12 to 13. There Paul says, Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. It says next, for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his Philippians 2 12-13 is like 1 Corinthians 15 10, but in reverse order, right? In bold references, all the credit belongs to God's grace Whether it's Paul's tireless labor or true believers working out, not working for salvation, it's God's grace working in and through that person. It's like some of my son's toys that move and blink. They can only do such things because they're powered by batteries. In the same way, we're powered by God's grace to do great things. This helps us with the question raised earlier about believing in vain that God, in his grace, is truly working in you, your faith will not be empty. Rather, there's confidence, there's growing assurance that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Well, in case there's any risk of hero worship, Paul wraps up by referring to grace again. That's the third time in verse 10. It's only by grace Paul is saved. It's only by grace he can leave behind his shameful past. It's only by grace he's on equal footing with other apostles and even exceed them It's only by grace that they unite in proclaiming the good news of Jesus to the lost, as we see in verse 11. It's the same grace we as saints experience today, and we must testify of it today, as our brother David did this morning. Right. As application I challenge you to prepare to tell others your great story. Start with your family of faith here, right? You can mess up a little bit, you know, we'll we'll be easy on me right then dare to share with your unsafe family members, you know, cousins, you know, immediate family members, whoever, like friends who don't know Christ, acquaintances Don't just tell them what you do on weekends, right? Go to church, do a wana, you know, go to small groups. Tell them not just what you do Or how you do it, or why you do it, why you live, what is your purpose, what is your motivation for each and every day? Let's make our final song, our praise of God's glorious grace. One of the verses go, I labor on in weakness and rejoicing, for in my need his power is displayed. Lord, we thank you for your truths that are clear and simple, yet so rich. Lord, we thank you that even at the at the darkest time, at the fall of mankind, what happened in the Eden that turned this world from a perfect place to a world of corrupt We're thankful that the promise was there. You gave that promise the seed that would come from the woman Seed of the woman and then was fulfilled through Jesus Christ through all these prophecies from Genesis all the way to Malachi. And we see in the New Testament how lives were transformed as people witnessed the risen Christ, your son. And Lord, as long as we're in this uh uh church change, Lord, we continue to spread the gospel here and abroad. And we pray that Lord we would see and reflect and how your grace has changed us and transformed us. And Lord, how that must be told to others. Lord, giving credit and glory to you. Pray that we'd make that determination this week. Or some of us know people who need to hear the gospel, some of us have opportunities even. Lord We know people are curious, even quite asking questions about our faith. Lord, may we be bold? Give us eloquence. Give us opportunities if we don't have those relationships yet, that we would meet someone. That we can share your uh the gospel with. We thank you that it is the gospel we receive. We stand on it, and that we believe in it, and we hold fast. In Christ's name we pray. Amen