I want you to imagine for a moment that you are look peering in the room of possibly a fairly significant political leader. He has just received a letter from a friend, a doctor, someone he knows well enough to address him on a first name basis. He opens this letter and he begins to read the story of Jesus Christ. The doctor that he knows well is Dr. Luke, the man that it is written to, or at least in a sense dedicated to, is this man Theophilus. And he has received this narration of the life of Christ, so that the things he has been taught, so that all the facts that are floating around in his mind can kind of come to rest and settle. in an orderly fashion in his mind. A ti mm it's sort of a uh one event after another, uh a big picture view of the life of Jesus, so that he can know the certainty of the things which he has already been instructed. Dr. Luke is not only a medical doctor, but a very precise historian. We know that because of the way he wrote Luke and the way he wrote the book of Acts. He is a man who wants the reader to know when things happened. And so we have passages such as Luke chapter 1, the first verse, that says, It came to pass. In those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. This taxing or this census first took place when Cyrinius was governing Syria. He puts in those little historical footnotes or facts to kind of give us a place to rest the narrative He does this over and over again throughout his letter, so that we can know the certainty of the things that we have been taught. Not only does Luke emphasize history, but he also has a great emphasis in the lives of women. Unlike the other gospel writers, the ladies of the that were followers of Christ take a prominent place in the story of Luke. And so we have Elizabeth. And Mary and Anna, and we find out that there are many who followed Christ who were ladies. And we find out what good work Jesus did in their lives. In the Gospel of Luke. We have the greatest treatment of the childhood of Christ, of what happened before his birth, during his birth, and that brief glimpse when he was standing in the temple with the teachers, asking them questions and demonstrating his great wisdom. in the scriptures. But the problem we have with the Gospel of Luke that you and I have is that we've read it before and we know the end from the beginning, right? You all have read through Luke. You've read through probably all the Gospels. And so it kind of becomes old hat to us, or just kind of, well, here we go again. Today's story is one that you know well in Luke chapter 5, the first eleven verses. Let's read it together. I'll read, you follow along. It's only eleven verses, and it's a wonderful story that Many of us in this room love. It says, so it was as the multitude pressed about him to hear the word of God, that he stood by the lake of Genezaret and saw two boats standing by the lake. But the fishermen had gone from them and were washing their nets. Then he got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the multitude from the boat. When he had stopped speaking, he said to Simon, Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. But Simon answered and said to him, Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing. Nevertheless, at your word, I will let down the net And when they had done this, they caught a great number of fish, and their net was breaking. So they signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish which they had taken. And so also were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will catch men. So when they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him You know this story well, so I'm going to plead with you to just pretend for a few minutes that you don't know it, and pretend that you're reading Luke for the first time. That you've got to this point and you remember the things you've already read. Angels, John the Baptist, the birth of Christ. John the Baptist baptizing at the river. Here comes Jesus, baptized by John, affirmed by the Father, identified as the Son of God. Here is Jesus going out to be tempted. And then Jesus comes back in the fullness of the Spirit with powerful ministry. And yet Luke lets us know at Nazareth, his hometown, he's rejected. But he moves on. And now we find him making another major transition in the Gospel of Luke. Now he's going to start calling followers. He's going to start. Working in their lives and asking them to follow him. In this case, to be a fisher of men. I want us to see this narrative first, sort of as it plays out. And the first thing I want you to notice here is there was a multitude that wanted to listen. You see here in verse Chapter 5 verse 1, that the multitude pressed about him to hear the word of God. Now this is the first time we see the connection between desire, hear the word of God, and a multitude desiring this. We already know that the multitudes followed him into the wilderness probably because they wanted to be healed. They took their loved ones who had diseases to Christ. There was this opinion of him that he was amazing, he was a healer and a prophet, and if you want someone in your family healed, you go and meet this man. But Jesus already pointed out that his mission was not just to heal people, but to preach. If you look at Luke chapter 4 and verse 43, he ends his ministry. He said to them, I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this purpose I have been sent. And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. He moved on. He left people not healed because his primary ministry was a ministry of proclamation and he had to go elsewhere and preach. Evidently, there was a strong desire in the multitudes to hear what he had to say, not just to be healed. And so there was in chapter 5, verse 1, this mob that is crowding around him, wanting to hear the word of God. Now, this phrase, Word of God, is very important to Luke. As a matter of fact, he uses it over and over again, and the other gospel writers only use it once or twice. It's significant here because Luke is probably written to a Gentile audience. This idea, Word of God, has More the word from God, revelation. When they went to see Jesus, they knew that he was a man who spoke on behalf of God. They could hear God's opinions when they heard Jesus speak. He was a prophet and he had a word from God and they wanted to hear what God had to say. That's pretty good motivation. I am not like that. I am only a man. I can give you the word of God, but it's in this book. And you better make sure I'm preaching what the book says because this book has more authority than Van Fox. And when it comes right down to it, we need to go with this authority. I cannot preach in the same way Jesus did, and I cannot give you the Word of God in the way that Jesus did. Unless I preach this word of God accurately and truly and carefully apply it for our consideration. Jesus was different. They wanted to hear the word of God. And this is a change in sort of what's happening in the book of Luke. Not just miracles, but the Word of God. And so Jesus is giving out the word of God and it's just becoming too much. So he sees these two boats by the lake and the fishermen that are in these boats, they're actually got out of their boats and they're washing or mending their nets. These men had been out all night working hard trying to get fish. The fact that Jesus asked them to go out into the deep indicates that they had were washing nets. specific to fishing in deeper waters. There's actually two different Greek words used to translate nets in the Gospels And in this particular passage, it is the word for a larger net, a net that's used in the evening hours to catch fish in deeper waters. So you can imagine all these people, probably hundreds. And there's nowhere for Christ to go. Maybe the people have made a little bit of an indentation there for the men fixing or cleaning their nets over to the side. The boats are pulled up partially on land, and Jesus is being backed further and further away until perhaps he bumps his leg into a boat directly behind him. There's nowhere to go. And so Jesus just takes the first step into the boat, gets down like this, and asks for the boat to be moved out into the water. And Peter or Simon agrees and submits and pushes the boat out into the water. He wouldn't want to go too far, but he went far enough where he judged his voice could be heard by the multitude, and where the boat could be stable in the water. You're not going to leave the boat in shallow water. And perhaps make it more easy to move and fall over, although he sat when he talked. So Jesus, think of this. Jesus helps himself He doesn't ask really, he just kind of commands. He doesn't kind of, he does. He got into one of the boats. This is verse 3, and it was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little from the land. So there's this initiative that Jesus takes where he intrudes and helps himself and gets into the boat. How long did Jesus preach in that boat sitting there? We don't know. But it probably was an uncomfortable time for Simon. Remember, he had just spent all night out there fishing. His shoulder muscles and his arms and back would have been exhausted. Because there would be this constant movement of throwing the net out between the boats and waiting, and then rowing somewhere else, and then throwing the nets out and waiting. The Lake of Genezaret is actually the Sea of Galilee, but Luke, because he's quite the historian, gives it a more proper name. The Sea of Galilee was quite a fishing location. You know, uh I can't remember what the science of studying fish is. Is it ichthology? Ichtathology. Maybe somebody, maybe one of you knows what the study of fish is, but the people that study fish Say there was anywhere from 37 to over 50 different species of fish in this lake. It's a big lake. It's a big sea. And so Peter, in going out to the deeper regions, would have had to row probably a significant amount to get out there and have worked hard all night. And now He's sitting in away from Christ to give him room so that Christ can teach and he's listening. And he's listening. And he's listening respectfully. Now Peter already knew Jesus, right? Chapter 4, verse 38, Jesus rises from the synagogue, he goes into Simon's house. And Simon's mother-in-law was sick, and Jesus healed his mother-in-law. So Simon had personal contact with Christ. Luke is telling us that one incident. The other gospel writers fill us in that there were other incidents where Jesus met Christ. But I'm trying to kind of stay away from putting all the Gospels together and stick exclusively with Luke and the way we handle this. But Luke lets us know that Simon knew Christ. And so there would have been some familiarity there. So maybe Jesus wasn't intruding too much, but there was still, you know, Jesus helps himself. Peter rose out. And then they're just sitting there, and Peter is watching and watching and listening and listening, perhaps for hours. And then there is this finishing. Alright? Look at verse 4. When he had stopped speaking, all right, so there was, let's pause there for a second. There's the silence There's the crowds ambling around, wondering what's next. Maybe Jesus said, That's all for today. And they start heading back to their homes. Come back tomorrow. We don't know exactly what Jesus said, but Luke is telling us when he was finished. So there's this moment of pause and anticipation for what is next. And Jesus does the last thing anyone is expecting. He's a carpenter's son, right? The gospel right Mark lets us know, one of the people in his gospel says, Is this not the carpenter's son? And of course we just read from the last chapter that the people of Nazareth said, Isn't this Joseph's son? In that day, if you were a carpenter's son, you would typically learn what? Carpentry. Alright, now the word that's that's translated carpenter sometimes could be used for other types of trades. But generally speaking, it would be a worker with wood. But here is Christ, and he's done speaking, and he turns this carpenter's son and he says launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch Now, I don't think we're reading too much into it to think that Peter is a little taken aback by that. How much does Jesus know about fishing? How many times has he gone fishing? Now, fishing was popular, obviously. The Sea of Galilee. There are actually two villages on the shores of the Sea of Galilee that were just fishing villages. There's the fish gate in Jerusalem, and a lot of people believe that that was the gate where they brought the fish in. I mean, there's a whole lot of fishing going on, but Jesus didn't, he was a carpenter. He saw wood, he hammered wood, he worked in his father's shop, we assume, because he was the firstborn, although he was not the son of Joseph, he was the son of God And here he is, and he not only is telling Peter to go back out, but he's telling them to go back out into the depths, into the deeper parts. Now that's going to require the net that the other guys are cleaning and mending and fixing. And those guys, how far along are they in their work? Do you think they're almost done? They're like, whoo boy, man, I can't wait. to get home. Yes, we're finished, Peter says. Come on, guys, bring the net. Now, it's probably true that Peter's in charge here. In this day, there was enough fishing that companies were formed, and so James and John had hired servants. There's a possibility that these two boats, one was the larger boat, and the other was a smaller boat. So Peter calls to these men who have worked all night, are exhausted, are finishing up cleaning their nets, and he says, All right, let's go back out. So there's going to be a an abruptness here where Jesus, think of this, Jesus is moving from helping himself Almost into intruding into their work. The word intruding intrusion means going someplace you don't belong It's kind of what Christ at the surface level is doing here. Why is this guy telling me to go out there? I love him. And so perhaps that is why he does it. Okay, this is the rabbi. Now, in the Gospel of Luke, Luke never uses the word rabbi. He's writing to Gentiles. So typically you'll see the word master instead of rabbi. You never see rabbi in the Gospel of Luke. But that is what he is. And so Peter knows him and loves him. He healed my mother-in-law. We've had him at our house. I've seen all these miracles. So maybe he's just humoring him. Okay, this is Jesus. If he says to do this, I'm gonna do this And so this intrusion is allowed, and Peter submits, but he doesn't submit without telling the Lord the truth, right? Look at your Bibles at verse 5. Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing. I mean, that is the truth. We're tired and we're exhausted. You know what the word discouraged means? Let me give you just one definition of the word The word discouraged here that you just get from just a typical English dictionary. It means deprived of confidence, weakened in stamina, interest, and zeal. You think that would describe Peter? I'm not very confident. We couldn't find any fish. I'm weakened in stamina. I'm physically exhausted. I'm not feeling very zealous about going back out there. Would that be a good description? Discouraged? Is that what Peter's trying to communicate when Peter says we've gone out there all night and caught nothing? Tired is obvious because he's physically worn out, but that's probably what he's communicating. Jesus helps himself, Jesus intrudes, Peter says, in effect, we're tired and discouraged. But we'll do it, Lord. At your word, I'll let down the net Here's a man who is so wiped out, and yet he's still willing to follow. Isn't that amazing, folks? He didn't ask, he didn't advise, he told the truth, but he just followed. Now the Lake of Galilee is a pretty big lake. Alright, it's it's miles, miles. I'll try to, it's about 12 and a half miles long and it's about four to seven and a half miles broad. Okay, it's a pretty big body of water So you've got these guys hauling the nets back in. They're going to take both boats out. And so there's this movement back out into the lake. What do you think happened next? Well, I'll tell you what happens when I do this. You know, I've been fishing at uh Loch Raven with my boys. Loch Raven is miles of waterway as well. We go out on a boat. And I try to find a fish on Lock Raven. How many of you have ever been fishing in a in a lock or a big body of water in a boat? Alright, here's what I do. I say, okay, we have a little like a rowboat and a motor, and then we go How about over there? Over there, mmm. Alright, we have this little anchor. We plunk that out and then we put our rods out No fish here. Oh, we're there about 20 minutes, and then we give up. Mmm, we eat a sandwich. We go over here. Hey, how about over here? That looks good. Mmm, go We wait about 10 minutes because we're a little frustrated. Nope, no fish here. We eat another sandwich. We go over here. How about here? That's how I go fishing on a body of water. Not very effective. My knowledge of where those fish are is a little limited because I don't have the ability to see through the water down to where the fish are. This is not the way it was with Jesus. You see, what's about to happen is either a miracle of his omniscience or a miracle of his omnipotence or a little of both. Either Jesus looked into that water, knew where all the fish were, and found the big giant school of fish, and said, there. Or Jesus Snapped his fingers, not literally, but just moved his will and called the fish to one area and said, there Either way, it's a miracle because a normal man cannot go and say, there are the fish. So I this is probably what it was like. There's the rowing, the movement of the two boats. And Peter is going to let down the net when Jesus says so, not before. So Peter is not going, oh, how about here? Oh, how about over here? He's just. There's this there's this waiting. And there's Christ in some fashion indicating their row, right? There. And they come over here. They get out these nets and they throw them into the water. There's this confidence in the Son of God. As he miraculously, either through his omniscience, his ability to know all things, or his power, his unlimited power, he performs this miracle. They look at verse 6. They had done this, and when they had done this, they caught a great number of fish. And their net was breaking. That was their net was in the process of breaking. It hadn't totally broken, but it was starting to break, and so there's this quick movement as the men come in and try to alleviate it. You know, they have certain rules, the Hebrews did, on what kind of fish they could eat. They're not going to eat eels, not probably not going to have catfish. But uh, you know, the of the 37 different kinds of fish that now exist in the Sea of Galilee, there were Roach and Barble and Blenny. I have no idea what those are. And there were eel-like fish as well. Back then, there were probably catfish of all different sizes. And Josephus talked about these existing in the Nile, and we kind of surmise they might have been in the Sea of Galilee. There were carp that were huge. Some of the carp were so big they called them camel carp. There were loach and perch and bream. So you can imagine this net is coming up, and here are all these thousands of wriggling fish. With that 37 to over fifty species of fish just there, and that perhaps shouting and movement And they come in in verse 7. There's a signal to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And both of the boats are filled. And they start to get weighed down and weighed down. I mean, it's obvious these these boats are starting to sink. This is a lot of fish. And that is when Simon Peter, verse 8, he fell down. It doesn't mean he tripped, it means he he just collapsed down at the knees of Christ. In the middle of all those 37 plus species of wriggling, stinky fish, he falls down at Christ's feet And says, depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. What is happening here? Christ helps himself. Christ intrudes into this man's life again. Peter obeys, though exhausted and discouraged. Peter witnesses this miracle. And instead of saying, can you come fishing with us tomorrow? We like this. This is a lot of good fish. Hey guys, let's let's let's Whoa. Depart from me, I'm a sinner. This is another one of the things that Luke hits on. There's frequently this exercise of Christ's power This demonstration and visitation of angels, and there's fear. There's separation. There's anxiety. And folks, we know that the reason for that is because of sin. Peter says it, right? Look at your Bible again. Verse 8: Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. A sin singular is breaking God's law with what you say, with what you think, with what you do. A desire can be a sin. An action can be a sin. What you would have done if you could have, even that is a sin, could be a sin. A sinner is someone who habitually sins. Not just one sin when I was five, and I really shouldn't have taken the oatmeal cookie off the table. My mommy said no. That's a sin, one sin. No? A sinner is someone who habitually breaks the law of God. Here's Peter He doesn't say, uh, I I sinned once when I was a young Hebrew lad in the synagogue. Depart from me. I am a sinful man. All everything about me, I I this is what I am. A sinner, O Lord. Folks, Jesus loves sinners. But you know what sinners realize about Jesus? Something about him is so different from everyone else. He is clean and holy. He's a man who is powerful. And I just I I just don't know if he wants to be around me. And I I have this urge to run the other way. If you remember in the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve, they sin. God comes down. Folks, think of this. Before the sin of Adam and Eve. They communed with God in the garden. They loved it. He came down. They delighted in his presence. And now, after sin, they're running into the woods. Something had changed in their hearts. And so we know that as children of Adam and Eve, and all through the years, we're part of this human race. There aren't different races in God's book, there's only one race, the human race. And we're all born sinners. And so Peter was a sinner, and he just has this immediate fear: look, depart from me, because I am a sinful man, O Lord. Well, verse 9. For he and all who were with him, they were astonished. So this is kind of the group reaction here, astonishment. And then verse 10, James and John are mentioned by name because Luke wants us to know that they are going to be part of Christ's special group. And then Jesus turns to them and says, do not be afraid. Peter was afraid. Do not be afraid. From now on, you will catch men. Now, here's the carpenter's son. And now he's a fisherman in Peter's eyes, right? He's a pretty good fisherman. I mean he just did this miracle that Peter had never experienced before. So now Jesus on his resume, Carpenter Son, check Unbelievable, unprecedented, miraculous fisherman, check. And Jesus turns that into an illustration He builds on this. And that is the way Jesus works in the Gospels. He does a miracle, he tells a parable, he builds on the things that he does. He restores sight to the blind, but he also restores spiritual sight. to the spiritually blind. And so he builds on this incident, this object lesson, and says, look, from now on, you're going to fish for men and you're going to catch them. And this whole incident, now when you put all the gospels together, this is probably the third time that Jesus is beginning to move toward these men and call them into discipleship. But this is the one time It's it's the deal is closed. This whole situation so overwhelms them with the power of Christ that they just look at verse 11. When they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him. Now we need to be careful here. It is unlikely that they just left all those smelly fish sitting there. They probably took them in, cleaned them distributed them to their families, whatever it took, but but there was this break. They forsook all and they followed him. Previously they had followed for a while, gone back to fishing. They kind of had had a relationship with Christ that was more than the average person, but now they followed him. It was a done deal. This whole story is a favorite of mine, and I've heard it preached, launched out into the deep. Have you ever heard a sermon preached on that? Get going, get moving, get out there. So I want to give you some applications that we can learn from this. Alright? Hang in there. In the Gospel of Luke, there's always theological touch points. And the one thing we learn about Christ here is that he is omniscient and omnipotent. There's nothing too hard for him. So when we see Christ cast out demons, he has authority over the spiritual world, heal diseases, he has authority over The physical world, raise the dead, heal diseases. And then we see him enter the animal kingdom. And he has authority over the animal kingdom. And then what else does he do? He controls the weather. We begin to build up all this data about the unbelievable power of Jesus Christ. So Luke is building in the reader's mind facts about the omniscience and omnipotence of Christ. Second theological touch point. Sin. We see in this story that sin causes Peter to want to move away from Christ, but what does Christ do? He calls him close to Christ. Through Christ, the sinner can know God and be close to God. And thirdly, theological touch point is the doctrine of revelation. Because Luke mentions this phrase, the Word of God, and this is distinct to Luke, and it is Christ who has revelation for the masses. Now that's kind of dry, all right? Probably write that down, learn that in Sunday school. Let's get to a more practical application. That's important, though. Theology is important. Here's the practical application. Jesus joined a group of tired and discouraged men. Jesus pushed them to follow him. They didn't pretend they weren't tired and discouraged. They admitted it. We've been toiling all night and we've caught nothing. But that didn't stop them from following Jesus. Jesus didn't ask them to stop being tired and discouraged. He in essence said, just follow me. Launch out into the deep. They were willing to do that in spite of their weariness, in spite of their lack of understanding. They were willing to give Jesus a chance because they knew enough about him to know that something good was about to happen. Folks, this is true. Listen, God likes to bring us to a place of utter exhaustion and discouragement, and then he steps in and does something amazing. This is a pattern in the Bible. The Exodus. They're slaves for so long. There's no hope of rescue. There's no hope of salvation. Here comes Moses. And wow, is it going to be quite an Exodus? plagues and miracles on a national level. The conquests of Canaan. They go into the promised land and There's not a whole lot they can do. I mean, they know that they have these promises. And Joshua says, son, stand still. No one can do that. Only God. And that is what happens. And there are all of these battles. And yes, there was strategy, but ultimately it was God who helped David kill Goliath. It was God who helped the Hebrews conquer the promised land. They sinned. They fell into slavery again. They were carried away, the Hebrews, but they returned from exile. Ezra, Nehemiah, led the way. How did that happen? Well, Nehemiah was a cupbearer for the king, and he was teary-eyed in the presence of the king, and the king could have said, Look, you you're really bothering me. I don't want tears in my wine. You're fired. But instead the king says, What's wrong? What's wrong, Nehemiah? And Nehemiah says, He prays and he says, My the city of my home, it's burned down, and I'm sad about that. And the king says, What do you need? I'll help you go fix that situation. God did that. And then of course there's the Messiah, Jesus. You can't reform yourself You can't save yourself. You can't make yourself a better person apart from Christ. It takes God. And so God is the one. Jesus is the one who steps in and does what you can't do. With man, it is impossible, but with God, all things are possible. You have a God who likes to step in when you're tired and discouraged and act. Are you tired and discouraged? Don't raise your hand. Anybody in here a little bit tired, a little bit discouraged about how things are going? Now, don't misunderstand me. There's work to be done. They had to go out there and take the nets with them. But Jesus went with them. Folks, Jesus was in the boat. He's in our boat. Folks, here's the bottom line for you and me. God is not going to give his glory to you. And if you try to do things in your own strength and your own way and not give God his due, often he will frustrate your plans. You'll toil all night and get nothing. But when God steps in, he does it so that he will be glorified. God does not want any flesh to glory in his presence, but he wants us to glory in him. And so I have to ask you this morning, what could God do with you and in your life if you just stop worrying about being tired and discouraged? Get into the boat and launch out into the deep. What's he gonna do? I don't know. I'm not Jesus. I'm not God. But I would rather be like Peter and his men, who get into the boat and at least go, than sitting on that beach watching That great catch of fish going into that boat