This is what I guess C. S. Lewis called chronological snobbery. And it begins with us forgetting the past. We're unable to recall how we got here in our society in 2025. Now do Christians today ever suffer from cultural amnesia? Do we harbor thoughts that genealogies and histories, both personal and biblical, are unimportant? I think so, and part of the solution is education, both formal and personal. But most importantly, we must realize God puts genealogies in the Bible for a reason. There's a lesson behind that. Even if you don't understand it all, even if you butcher the names, okay, at least lean on the words of Paul in 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. So Genesis 11, 10 to 26 is no exception. It's part of all scripture. There's profitable doctrine in there. It's through the line of Shem and even further the line of Abraham that Jesus our Savior comes. That's relevant at all times of the year, whether or not we're at the time of advent calendars, Jesse Trees, and Christmas trees. The passage like today's is a key part of you know the tree base and root. As we start at Genesis eleven ten this morning, we're nearing the halfway mark of the book. I know that that may not sound right. We have fifty chapters, and I'm saying we're midway in chapter eleven. What does that mean? Like well, you might recall me saying there are twelve sections in Genesis. There's a division marker in all but one of these, the first section is an important phrase containing a key Hebrew word tolidot. Toledot means genealogy, history, account. Or records or generations for those who come here regularly, I've said this like multiple times. Uh so sorry for boring you, but this is for everyone. Okay, it's paired with the demonstrative pronoun, this or these. Together they add up to this phrase throughout the book of Genesis. This is the toledot, these are the toledot. Since this phrase occurs 11 times in Genesis, we have 12 sections. And I've listed where you find these phrase. We find in 11:10 the fifth division marker and the start of the sixth section. Later in the same chapter, verse 27, is where you find the sixth division marker and the start of the seventh section. By the end of the sermon, we would have covered six out of twelve sections. That's why again technically technically we're at the halfway point. Here's one more comment on the outline before we get to today's passage. You can tell the rest of Genesis features some lengthy sections and portions. Section 7, beginning at 1127, stretches all the way to chapter 25. After a short shorter section, section number eight, section nine extends through ten chapters to the end of the chapter. chapter 35. After two more short sections, 10 and 11, there's that final stretch from 37 all the way to the end of the book in chapter 50. So to brace myself for these big sections coming up and break up the monotony of Old Testament narratives, I'm announcing that after today I'm taking a short break from Genesis I'll cover another book of the Bible, a shorter one from the New Testament, before returning to Genesis and diving into the lives of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and his twelve sons. Also, I know it's only about eleven chapters, but by the time we get to verse 26, we would have covered around 2,000 years of history. So we did cover a lot of ground. Okay. So we would have finished covering four monumental events of the world, the creation, the fall, the flood, and the tower of Babel. So again, not a bad time for a break. Well first here's Genesis eleven, ten to twenty-six. This is the genealogy of Shem. Shem was 100 years old and begot Arpasad two years after the flood. After he begot Arpasad, Shem lived 500 years and begot sons and daughters. Arpasad lived thirty-five years and begot Salah. After he begot Salah, Arpasad lived four hundred and three years and begot sons and daughters. Salah lived thirty years and begot Abor. After he begot Aber, Salah lived four hundred and three years and began and begot sons and daughters. Aber lived 34 years and begot Pelech. After he begot Palek, Abor lived 430 years and begot sons and daughters Peleg lived thirty years and begot Rayu. After he begot Rayu, Peleg lived 209 years and begot sons and daughters. Rayu lived thirty-two years. And begot Seiruk. After he begot Seiruk, Reuh lived two hundred and seven years and begot sons and daughters. Seiruk lived thirty years and begot Nahor. After he begot Nahor, Seiruk lived two hundred years. and begot sons and daughters. Nahor lived twenty-nine years and begot Terah. After he begot Terah, Nahor lived one hundred and nineteen years and begot sons and daughters. Now Terah lived seventy years and begot Abraham, Nahor, and Haran. It hits you like the heart, doesn't it? This genealogy uh reminds us of the one from chapter five. The major difference is that, as Alan Ross observes, today's genealogy is more hopeful than outlooked. It doesn't contain strings of what I call literal death sentences, so-and-so die, so-and-so died. Now of course everyone from Shem's line dies, but there's less stress on that here. But here's an overlap in each genealogy. There's a unique figure with a very unique event in his life. The seventh from Adam in Genesis 5 is Enoch. He walked with God, and as Moses reports in verse 24, he was not, for God took him. Pretty unique. The fifth from Shem in Genesis 11 is Peleg. His name signifies the world-altering confusion of Babel. Recall from chapter 10, verse 25, why Palach was given his name. His name was prophetic, for in his days the earth was divided. But then here's one more point of comparison. Seth I ended with Noah, who along with his sons will later enter into a covenant with God. After they exited the ark, chapter 11 ends with the mention of Abraham. He too will enjoy covenant relations with God along with his sons. We'll see how this happens once he leaves leaves behind his home and family. So the three key figures, Shem, Pelek, and Abraham, correspond to three key events, the flood, Babel, and Just generally covenant, respectively. That gives shape for a two-part outline of the passage. And it might help to picture a hike on a long trail. I don't know if you guys are planning to do that this fall. Perhaps you'll go on one soon as leaves change color and the temperature drops. Indulge me for a second here. Let me take you to a beautiful park somewhere nearby. Imagine first, at the trailhead is Mount Ararat. That's where the ark landed after the flood. Two years after that catastrophe, Shem had Arphasot his son. So we start at point A at verse 10. We arrive at point B at the end of verse 17. B stands for Babel. That's because it was at the days of Talek, like I said, the earth was divided. We discussed that division last week in Genesis 11, 1-9. So you could say that the Tower of Babel is the waypoint at the middle of the trail. From there we began the final leg of the trip. We journeyed from one city to another, from Babel to Ur of Chaldeans, from the life of Pelek to the life of Pera, and obviously to Abraham. That's point B to point C. I guess you can say C stands for the Chaldeans. Kind of cheating there. Ear of Chaldeans, a city name, but now we're at the end of the trail. So that's A to B to C, Ararat to Babel, verses 10 to 17, Babel to Chaldees, 18 to 26. To continue the hiking analogy, there are many cool details to observe in the journey, but to stay on track, we need trail markers. Two in particular. These two trail markers are my sermon points and guidance principles for this genealogy. Just as signs help us navigate for our safety's sake, These principles help us study the path from Shem to Abraham. Trailmark number one reads: The God of Shem preserves a line for his own redemptive purposes. 10 to 17. Pharaoh Marker number two reads, The God of Abraham prepares to call his own for covenant relations. That's 18 to 26. First, the God of Shem preserves a line for his own redemptive purposes. The phrase God of Shem I'm borrowing from a previous chapter. This is the first time we trace the line of Shem to Abraham. But it won't be the last, since there are other genealogies that do the same. Ones found later in the Old Testament in 1 Chronicles. But there's another one in the New Testament, too, in Luke chapter 3. And from that you see how this wasn't a waste of ink and paper. We ascertain that Jesus comes from the line of Abraham. And Shem and Noah, and he's the better, greater Adam. Now, what stands out immediately here are the unusually long lifespans of ancient humans. After the flood, most of the Shemites lived hundreds of years. In the pre-flood world, the antediluvian earth, our ancestors lived even longer, nearing a thousand years. Many factors contribute to this. The world was no longer perfect after the fall, but it was still closer to perfection than today. Not only that, the decaying effects of sin. Need time to spread in our flesh. It's like a contamination in a pool that slowly but surely permeates all. But the first humans of Earth were less susceptible than we were during their lifetimes, so they lived much longer than we do today. Now let's get moving to these verses. 10 to 11. We know from the previous chapters that Noah begat Shem. And Shem grew up and married before the flood, but understandably he and his wife waited until after the flood to have children. The first is Arpasad. In verses twelve to thirteen, we get to Ar Pasad himself and his own family. Now, I'm gonna pause here for just a bit of a little bit of apologetics, okay? But uh careful readers will notice that in Luke's genealogy, in Luke 3:36, There's a son of Arphasad that's not Salah. Instead, it's a man named Canaan, C-A-I-N-A-N. In other words, Luke adds a generation between Arphasad and Salah, but there's no Canaan between them here in Genesis 11:12, in 10. 24 from earlier, and 1 Chronicles 1. 18 later. I can give you a full explanation of this issue after the service. For now, I'll just say that there's a there's Greek manuscript evidence. and extra biblical evidence to support the Genesis reading, the Masoretic reading, you see here, there is no Canaan between Arphasad and Salah. First concerning Greek manuscripts, there's what's called P75, that's just the name, right? It's the earliest extent known Greek copy of Luke, as early as 170 AD. Okay, a papyrus codex of what's called the Bosmer Collection, and it does not contain Canaan in Luke 336. So I think we are safe to assume that's not in the original Greek text, Canaan there. Secondly, besides this Greek manuscript evidence, around the same time as P seventy five, there was the work of someone named Julius Africanus. He's the earliest known Christian historian to compose a universal chronology. Julius had many sources available to him. He was a devout Christian, including the Greek, Old Testament, and the Gospels. And we find that in his work no Canaan between Arphasad and Salah. So we can confidently depend on the type chronology presented in Genesis 11, 10 to 26. As verses 12 to 13 tells us, after Arphasah there was Salah. So again, if you want to talk more about this, we can talk after. It's a little complicated. I can even send you some emails that I exchanged with Todd Beale and some articles we read together. So anyway, uh but we can get back on the trail. And remember this marker. The God of Shem preserves a line for his own redemptive purpose. Moving on to verses 14 to 15, we have Salah begetting Aber. A few weeks ago I mentioned the people named Hebrew. It comes from Aber, which means crossover. That refers to the migratory move from beyond the river Euphrates. It reminds us of Joshua 24, verse 2. The Lord reminded his people through Joshua. Terah, the father of Abraham and the father of Nahor dwelt on the other side of the river in old times, and they served other gods. But before all that, nearing point B, the waypoint in sight. We learn in verses 16 to 17 that Abor begot Pelech. Remember, his name was mentioned earlier in the previous chapter, chapter 10 of Genesis, the table of nations. There are two significant things to remember. 1 Genesis 10 focused more on Aber's other son, Pelek's brother Jopton. Okay. In this chapter we focus more on Pelic, the man himself, and Shem's lineage that continues through him. Secondly, also remember from Genesis 10 that Peleg's name signifies the Tower of Babel incident. I said that already. That places the division of humanity in the second century after the flood It's sad that so soon mankind became so vain. So much that God had to step down and step in to break them up. So we pause here at point B to behold Babel, the unfinished city and tower. But there's no need to lament despair or shake our heads here. We trust that the God of Shem preserves a line for his own redemptive purposes. We're not at the end of the road. As we catch our breath at this waypoint, we note the second trail marker. So it says the God of Abraham prepares to call his own for covenant relations. As we continue to the rest of the genealogy, notice the dramatic drop in the lifespans. Noah lived almost a thousand years. His son Shem ends up living 600 years. Arphasad, Salah, and Aber all lived up to 400. But then here in verse 18 and beyond, Pelek, Reul, and Sehud live only as half as much in the 200ths. After them, the number averages in the upper one hundredths. The simple explanation for this is again the ongoing effects of sin on our environment and our bodies. As you can see, it only got worse after the Babel incident. But despite the reign of sin and death, the line of Shem continues through Pelek. As we see in verses 18 to 19, he has Rayu. He dies at the age 239, nearly half the age of his father Aber, who died at 46. That means Abram not only outlived his son Peleh, he outlived his grandson Rahu. Continuing in the line in verses 20 to 21 As Reu begets Serug. And as Serug has a son in verses 22 to 23, we meet Nahor, Abraham's grandfather. This Nahor should not be confused with Abraham's brother of the same name in verse 26. Bad news for this elder Nahor. is that he had a dubious distinction of having the shortest lifespan on this list, living only 148 years. But as good news, it looks like his son Uh Terah in verses twenty-four to twenty-five sought to honor his father by naming one of his sons after him. And then finally in verse 26, we have his three sons, Abraham, formerly Abram, and his brothers Nahor and Haran. We know from later passages that since Terah died at age 205, and God called Abraham at age 75, Terah must have had Abraham at 130. That would make Abraham the youngest of the three. And since we're told Tarah started having sons at age 70, his firstborn would be Esau. either Haran or Nahor. I say Haran's the older one. That's because his daughter Milka marries Nahor. His son Lot is old enough to relate with Abraham as an adult. All that to say the order from Abraham, Abram to Nahor to Haran is from the youngest to the oldest. And for Israel, the original audience of Genesis, the order is from the most relevant to the least relevant. All this discussion sets us up for the next major section of Genesis. And if he didn't know any better, you know, Abraham would have been just another guy, right, among many in his hometown. But we know the Lord has great plans for him. Anticipating what's next in Genesis helps us appreciate this trail marker, the God of Abraham, prepared To call his own for covenant relations. Now, while much of today's passage consists of information Doctrines about preservation and preparation. I do want to end with a few applications. Probably the simplest and the most obvious is this. The Lord uses us in our ordinary and everyday living. These genealogies just tell us people lived and had kids and died, right? But that's actually very important. That includes growing up, you know, just finding a spouse, having kids. Remember, God didn't tell Noah and his sons to go change the world. He said, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. That means going to work, coming home every day Perhaps that sounds a bit boring to you. But recall, that's what Paul wanted for the Thessalonians. Sure, he wanted their love and influence to increase more and more. We start in 1 Thessalonians 4 10. But in the very next verse, verse 11, he urged that they that they aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind their own business, and to work with their own hands. Again, just very ordinary things. To be clear, leading a quiet life doesn't mean you live as a silent Christian or live as a recluse. Paul says in verse 10, walk properly toward those who are outside and lack nothing. That means walk wisely and circumspectly, talk gracefully and wisomely. That requires heart sanctification and verbal preparation. Eventually, that demands that we open our mouths boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. So, how are we doing? in these tasks, where and when God has placed us. That relates to the other application. I'm reminded of Acts 17, by the way. We talked about it a few weeks ago. According to the perfect will of our Creator, he placed us at this pre-appointed time. Just as Abraham and his ancestors lived around 2,000 years before Jesus, we live around 2,000 years after Jesus. We're born mid to late 20th century or at the beginning of 21st century. Also, our physical address isn't random. He placed us within the boundaries of our dwelling. We're not in Ur of Chaldeans or the land of Canaan. We're in the United States on the East Coast in Maryland. So from when and where we live, how can we walk and talk for God Always interested by local polls and stuff like that. And I read this week some 23 to 24 poll data from the Pew Research Center. It concluded that 32% of adults in Maryland are religiously unaffiliated. So basically one out of every three adults in the state claim to be One, atheists who say I don't believe in God, two, agnostics who say I don't know if there's a God or three, they believe in nothing in particular. Because a lot of people just like whatever kind of thing, shrug their shoulder. Actually, it's this third group labeled nuns, N-O-N-E-S, that make up most of this group called religiously unaffiliated. So we're trying to talk with many who are either like apathetic, right? And like basically just spiritually sleepwalking through life, maybe even hostile. But I think many responders, if you talk with them about religion, will say, I don't know. Or I don't care about God. Or they might say both, I don't know, and I don't care about God. I don't know. Either way, there's a lot of people who don't care about religion or about God in general. And to awaken them out of their stupor, we must share the gospel. First speak to their conscience by preaching the law. Through our creator made uh even though um our creator made us in his image and loved us, we turned away from him We've broken his commands, coveting, lying, stealing, taking God's name in vain? We sin with our the adulterous look of our eyes and our the murderous hatred of our heart We're guilty before the just God, deserving of his holy wrath, eternal death and hell. But the good Lord did not leave us like this. He sent his Son, fully God and fully man, at the same time. same time. One person and two natures. Jesus was born of a virgin, born into the family line of Abraham and Shem. He lived a perfect life, never once sinning in thought, word, or deed. But then Jesus laid down his life. He was crucified as our substitute. He died on the cross to pay the penalty of our sins, finishing the work of redemption as our Redeemer. Having accomplished this mission, he breathed his last. He was buried. But on the third day, death could no longer hold him. Jesus rose from the grave. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. After 40 days he ascended to heaven. There he sits at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. The Father prolonged his days. Christ comes to us according to the power of an endless life. And this good news demands a response. We need to repent. Turn now from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus, trust in Him only for salvation. Do not depend on On your good works. Do not think you deserve to enter heaven. Eternal life is a gift. Undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And as those who are saved, we're sent out to share our faith with the lost. Live your life. The Lord doesn't return, you know we'll head towards old age and you know we'll be called to heaven. Live your life, raise children, live the ordinary life, sharing an extraordinary message. Through us the gospel will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. As we go our way, let's make our final song our prayer. Pity the nations, O our God. Constrain the earth to come. Send your victorious word abroad and bring the strangers home. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for all parts of Scripture. All of it's inspired, all of it is inerrant. in his original autographs. Just uh we just thank you for that and we thank you that there's a message even here. Whether it's our personal Bible reading plan or whether we're going through it verse by verse in a sermon. We just thank you that there is a message here, that our origins, our roots are important, and Lord, as your son has taken on flesh, Lord. He too have joined with all their c all the complexities of being a human, Lord, he understands. But without sin, he lived his life And he gave his life for us. And we just thank you for that, and we thank you for the message, the truth of the scriptures. For that we have our origins and we have our destiny, and our destiny is secure. To your Son Jesus Christ. And we thank you that you've been faithful for thousands of years and you will be faithful for eternity to come. Thank you for just the the new covenant that we enjoy. Thank you for fulfilling the promise you made to Abraham. And we just ask that each of us would lean on you and lean on your promises and live for your glory, living our ordinary lives with an extraordinary Savior. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.