So as some of you know, as a few weeks ago I visited Cincinnati with my family. I was not very impressed by their chili I was impressed by the attractions near the Ohio River. Now, due to a tight schedule, we could not visit every important site of the city. I could not check off one place I had wanted to see. The statue of the city's namesake. If I get this right, Lucius Quintius Cincinnatus. Now why did I want to see this statue? I remember listening to a History of Rome podcast about the Cincinnati guy. In mid-fifth century BC, his people were threatened by an army of barbarians. He was caught out of retirement to lead the Romans to war. Legends say he obtained victory in just 16 days. That's not the most remarkable part. After the win, he relinquished the title of dictator. He went back to the countryside to resume his farm life. He wanted to see the government run by the people, not a single ruler. That's why he's often depicted holding in one hand fascicle a bundle of rods with a projecting axe blade, originally a symbol of magistrate power, and a plow on the other hand. to represent the simple life of farming. Cincinnati endured as a symbol of civic duty and we could say George Washington is the American Cincinnati. Now I say all this because we not only admire those with power, we admire those who give up their power for the greater good. And as much as we adore the admire the Washingtons and the Cincinnati, should I say Cincinnati? Anyway, we have even greater forbearers. And examples of forbearance in Lord Jesus and his apostle Paul. We'll see that in today's passage in 1 Corinthians. Now, as we continue in chapter 9, Keep in mind that we're not beginning a new section. We're still on the topic introduced in chapter 8, concerning things offered to idols, or the eating of things offered to idols. I left you with three points on this topic. Last time, prioritize love over knowledge as a unifying principle. Reinforce faith in one true God as essential doctrine. Limit your freedom if it leads to harmful offense. The last point is mainly distilled from verse 8. Beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. Now the apostle ended chapter 8 with a rather forceful declaration: If food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble. That's quite a claim. This man's willing to give up. For the rest of his life, something I like to have every single day. Just ask my wife. I love meat. I'm sure many of you do My son has picked up on this. He regularly asks his mom during meal times where's the meat? So we make a great team. This is why I'm far from being like Paul. But let's say you doubt Paul, right? You don't really believe he's willing to give up meat for the weaker brother. You think he's bluffy? You question his willingness to turn vegetarian. Well, then have we got a show for you? No, I mean have we got a passage for you, right? So let's read 1 Corinthians 9, 1 to 18. First Corinthians nine, one to eighteen Again, if you don't have a Bible, please feel free to take one of ours as a gift from us to you. First Corinthians 9, 1 to 18. Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? If I am not an apostle to others, yet doubtless I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. My defense to those who examine me is this Do we have no right to eat and drink? Do we have no right to take along a believing wife as do also the other apostles, the brothers of the Lord and Cephas? Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working? Whoever goes to war at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Or who ut who tends a flock and does not drink of the milk of the flock? Do I say these things as a mere man? Or does not the law say the same also? For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. Is it oxen God is concerned about, or does he say it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written That he who plough should plough in hope, and he who threshes in hope should be partaker of his hope. If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it a great thing if we reap your material things? If others are partakers of this right over you, are we not even more? Nevertheless, we have not used this right, but endure all things lest we hinder the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who minister the holy things eat of the things of the temple, and those who serve at the altar partake of the offerings of the altar? Even so the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel, but I have used none of these things, nor have I written these things, that it should be done so to me. For it would be better for me to die than that anyone should make my boasting void. For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of, for necessity is laid upon me. Yes, woe is me if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this willingly, I have a reward, but if against my will I have been entrusted with the stewardship. What is my reward then? That when I preach the gospel I may present the gospel of Christ without charge, that I may not abuse my authority in the gospel. Just to make the connection between chapters eight and nine clear, I'll ask you the following. How does Paul exemplify limiting freedom for the sake of others? I see two ways our spiritual forbear practices forbearance First, he outlines his rights in the gospel. Then he outworks his rivals for the gospel. First, you'll see he outlines his rights in the gospel from verses 1 to the second uh to the first sentence of chapter verse 12, 12a. He mostly uses rhetorical questions for this purpose. That's why you see Sixteen question marks in just twelve verses. You'll see the word write four times Now at the second half of verse 12, there's a turn, a sharp contrast indicated by nevertheless. Nevertheless means in spite of that or notwithstanding. Paul's saying, despite having rights, to privileges, he voluntarily displays restraint. He chooses to be different from the other apostles. Why? Because he outworks his rivals for the sake of the gospel. That gives us a model in Paul. Though we're not apostles of old or missionaries abroad, we ought to imitate him. So here are two steps to practice forbearance, like our spiritual forebear. One, two. Know your identity and privileges in the gospel. Know your identity and privileges in the gospel. That's verses 1-12a, I'll call it. Two, forsake your privileges to advance the gospel. Forsake your privileges. To advance the gospel. I'll repeat these points later. But first, know your identity and privileges in the gospel. In verses 1 to 3, Paul establishes his apostolic identity. Again, there are rhetorical questions. Of course, he's an apostle. He answers to God alone. Christ himself revealed the message of the cross to him. Christ himself met him at the Damascus world. He sent Paul to preach the good news to the nations. It says in Galatians 2: God who worked effectively in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcised also worked effectively in Paul toward the Gentiles. Now Corinthians knew this firsthand. This church is Paul's work in the Lord. Saw back in chapters 3 to 4 that he's their planter. He's their founder. He's their spiritual dad. Though they may have ten thousand instructors, instructors in Christ, it says in 415. Yet they do not have many fathers, for in Christ Jesus he has begotten them through the gospel. Even if others doubt Paul's credentials, he is a doubtless, an apostle to the church of Corinth. As his harvest, building, and children, they stand as visible confirmation of his apostolic work If anyone questions Paul's author identity, and many surely did, he could call upon the Corinthians as his defense. They settled the debate. They were living letters of recommendations, as you'll say later in 2 Corinthians. Quickly, there's one small detail I'd like to discuss. I think the last word in 1 Corinthians 9:3, the word this shall be followed by a period, not a colon. That's because I believe this refers to what was said in verses 1 to 3, not what he's about to say in verse 4 and beyond. The verses 1 to 3 form a small unit by itself. It puts Paul on the same footing as all the other apostles, even if he's the last of them, born out of due time. Next, building on verses 1 to 3 and verses 4 to 12a, Paul explains some practical benefits of apostleship, unique privileges in the gospel. Let's start with verses 4 to 5 and use one of the apostles as an example. We all know Simon, better known as the Rock, Peter in Greek, Cephas in Aramaic. When Peter went to Lita or Joffa, he could expect food and provision from his fellow saints as he ministered. It seems he had a believing wife who could enjoy the same welcome. Such advantages were available for all the apostles and their co-workers. They were limited to those closest to Jesus, like the Twelve, or those who'd known Jesus the longest, like his brothers. Yet we see in verse six, Paul and Barnabas finance their own ministries. They work long hours to not burden the churches. This practice must have begun in Acts 13, during Paul's first missionary journey. Both continued this way of life, and it became well known to many believers. But we must not think that this is normal. There are three real-life examples in verse 7 to illustrate the strangeness of Paul and Barnabas' practice. First, citizens recruited to the Roman army not only enjoyed honor, but regular pay and pension. Secondly, the one who plants the vineyard has rights to his fruit at vintage time. Thirdly, the shepherd need not starve or die of thirst as he protects his flock. Now, these three examples from human experience do not convince you. We have in verses 8 to 9 a precedence in Israel, as seen in the law of Moses. In ancient times, a farmer would have an ox walk around in a circle repeatedly, and the grain would be broken away from its husk. It'd be cruel to prevent this hard-working beast from eating on the job. Without denying the literal meaning of Deuteronomy 25, verse 4, Paul expands on it. He applies it to the most meaningful work of all: gospel ministry. Now there may be different stages or roles in this ministry. You see plowing and threshing in verse 10. Earlier in the letter, we mentioned planting and watering, groundwork and framework. Parenting and tutoring. The main idea is that all parts partake in the hope of sharing in its fruits. Verses 11 to 12 help us with more specifics. Sticking with the agricultural image, Paul and his associates claim rights to material goods as they've done spiritual goods. It may sound strange to the world, but in our value system, spiritual things are more valuable than material things. And if avuncular figures like Peter, John, and James have access to these from the Corinthians, Surely father figures like Paul have the same access. So again, Paul outlines his identity and privileges in the gospel. Let me just stop here for two applications. And both applications have to do with connections, right? There's a connection between material and spiritual. And secondly, there's a connection between identity and privileges. First, we must learn to connect the spiritual with the material and learn to prioritize the former. Connect the spiritual with the material and learn to prioritize the former. Now, how do we do that? Obviously, the Bible has a lot to say about money and seeking first God's kingdom. We must start and end with the word. But might I suggest you study also our church budget? Right? And faithfully attend our church membership meetings. Now perhaps you haven't thought about a connection between the material spiritual and spiritual in our finance documents. I didn't eat it for a long time. But then one of my former pastors, Jamie Dunlop, wrote this book entitled Budgeting for a Healthy Church. Aligning finances with biblical priorities for ministry. And I'll share some quotes from it. Quote A church budget is more than spreadsheets and numbers. It's a window into the heart of a church, illuminating the values and priorities of God's people. If you care about your church, You will care about its budget because a budget reveals, facilitates, and sometimes calcifies how a church does its work. Here's another quote. A church budget is a spiritual tool with spiritual aims. A church budget has spiritual value when we get it right and does spiritual harm when we get it wrong. As a result, seeing a church's budget merely or even primarily as a financial tool grossly underestimates what it is. So next time you tithe and give your offerings, next time our treasurer sends out to the members the quarterly report, ask the Lord to use our material resources for spiritual purposes. Especially to those who uh help those who labor for the gospel. Ask questions like: how much of our budget directly affects evangelistic ministries? What percentage goes to gospel work abroad and in the area? Are those who are sowing spiritually also reaping materials? Now in addition to tying the material to the spiritual, this is a more general point, we must keep the bond between identity and privileges. I tend to think that as we sever that connection, we become unhinged in one of two ways. Either we fall into despair as we don't enjoy any of our privileges, or we get overly confident in ourselves as we forget our servant identity. Paul defined his identity biblically, outlined his privileges biblically, and connected them biblically. We should do the same. Let me show you how he did and how we can do the same. No. Some read the scriptures out of context and think that being an apostle is all about privileges, signs, and wonders. But we should never forget what God has called his apostles to be in this dark fallen world. Paul didn't forget. Sure, being in the front line comes with privileges. But he never let those privileges go to his head because he knew his identity. Back in chapter 4, verse 9, he said the following. I think that God has displayed us, the apostles, last as men are condemned to death, but we have been made a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. I'll just skip verse ten. Verses eleven to thirteen goes to the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and we are poorly clothed and beaten And homeless. And we labor working with our own hands, being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we endure, being defamed, we entreat. We haven't made us the filth of the world, the off-scouring of all things until now. Yes, being an apostle has his privileges, but you're still closer to trash in the eyes of the world Local pastors like myself must learn from Paul's example. We must have biblical self-awareness. Sure, first Timothy five, seventeen to eighteen says, Certain elders who labor in the word and doctrine deserve both honor and Wages. No doubt Paul again quotes Deuteronomy 25 4 there and even Jesus in Luke 10 7 to support the idea of pastoral compensation. But it's also true. That the Apostle Paul, the elders of Ephesus to Miletus, to say this to them in Acts 20, 33 to 35. I have coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel. Yes, you yourselves know that these hands have provided for my necessities and for those who were with me I've shown you in every way by laboring like this that you must support the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus that he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. If we pastors, so there's a lot of self-application here, don't connect our privileges with our identity as servant leaders. If we neglect Christ's greatest example and Paul's lesser example, we might believe it's okay to fly in private jets. Why not try the best vehicles or own the biggest homes? We might make it to Preachers and Sneakers. FYI, uh Preachers and Sneakers is a social media account on Instagram. On it are pictures of mega church pastors wearing very nice shoes, costing hundreds of dollars, sometimes over a thousand dollars. Besides gets a lot of views and And laughs from those who find a celebrity pastor culture ridiculous. He's alive today. I'm willing to bet Paul would do more than laugh. He'd also rebuke. Then he points to himself and what he has done to imitate Christ. And he tells him this maybe something like this second principle: Forsake your privileges to advance the gospel. And that's from verses twelve B to the rest of the passage, verse eighteen. So let's get back to 1 Corinthians 9. In the second half of verse 12, as I said earlier, there's a sharp turn in the argument with the use of nevertheless Paul goes from saying we could be partakers of this right over you to we have not used this right. Instead of the easy path, Paul and his associates took the difficult road so that the gospel might advance without hindrance. What hindrance he's speaking of? We're not hundred percent sure. It's possible that people were suspicious of preachers like him, thinking that they were looking for easy money. Whatever the reason, by refusing pay, Paul was doing something abnormal. In verses 13 to 14, Paul of the Apostle again demonstrates from the Old Testament. There's some parallel between priests and apostles, just as Numbers 18 states, the portions of sacrifices belonging to the priests and the Levites, wine, grain, meat. In the same way, ministers of the new covenant are sustained by portions of church offerings. But as Paul says all this, he clarifies in verse fifteen, it's not as if all of a sudden he's changed his mind on the matter, as if he's now looking for financial assistance. and support, no he rather die than to be stripped of this boast he has over his fellow apostles Verses 16 to 18 will just require us to slow down a bit for careful explanations. And um let me give it a shot here. Here's how I see verses 16 to 18 For believers, forsaking gospel preaching is not an option, but forsaking gospel privileges is an option. I'll say it again. Forsaking gospel preaching is not an option, but forsaking gospel privileges is an option Verse 16 supports the first part of this idea. Forsaking gospel preaching is not an option. Evangelism of the nations is Paul's duty. He's just doing his job. He's just fulfilling his calling. God's Son was revealed in Paul so that he might preach him among the Gentiles. So far, so good. But now interpreters have struggled to fit verses 17 and 18 eighteen into this context. Let me reread verse seventeen. If I do this willingly I have a reward, but against my will I have been entrusted with the stewardship I think we can cut this verse into two parts, dividing it with the semicolon that you see at the middle of it. The first part before the semicolon, for if I do this willingly, I have a reward, is, I think, hypothetical, but not true of Paul. His gospel ministry is not of his own will and his own choice. He didn't select apostleship like a college major or a career path. There is no earthly reward for gospel ministry. The second part of verse 17, after the semicolon, but if against my will I have been entrusted with a stewardship, that is true of Paul. Again, it was God's will to make him an apostle. The Lord was pleased to choose him by his grace. As a result, as Paul said back in chapter 4, verse 2, Verse 1 to 2. He is along with the other apostles, servants of Christ, and there's that word, stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that one be found faithful. So, if this apostolic work does not result in a reward here and now, what can a highly motivated believer like Paul strive for? That takes us back to what I just said. Forsaking gospel preaching is not an option, but forsaking gospel privileges is an option. It's an option that leads to reward. The reward is in itself the boasting he has over the other apostles. It's like a distinguished service medal or being the valedictorian of the graduating class. Paul can claim it only by going above and beyond the call of duty. That's been his point from 12B. And he makes it clear here in verse 12. One translation I'll note at the end of verse 18. I don't think abuse is the good translation of the original word. It's better to translate it as make full use of. See that in most other translations. See, abuse makes it sound like it was wrong for the other apostles to receive support for their work. Paul's not saying that or even implying that. A minister of the gospel should not feel guilty for making use of his privileges. But he might consider making less than full use of his privileges For moderation and competition's sake. And that's Paul, all right. He has this, I call it grace-filled competitiveness. We'll talk more about this next week, Lord willing, but here's a preview. Look down at chapter 9, verse 24 Do you not know that those who run in a race all run, but one receives the prize? Run in such a way that you may obtain it You'll see later in chapter 15, verse 10. His grace toward me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. For Paul does forbearance and sacrifice are worth all the trouble. Worth far more than any Olympic medal or team championship. So as Paul did, I challenge you, and challenge myself really, forsake your privileges to advance the gospel. What are some privileges you can forsake to advance the gospel? Now that may sound difficult. We love our liberty and rights. We love the resources we enjoy. Our free time, limited energy, hard-earned money are precious to us. We may be tired of our leaders demanding we make more and more sacrifices. If Paul's example does not motivate you to do so, I ask you to look to Christ. No matter how much you give, you will never outgive him. We sang about this truth earlier. Thou who wast rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake became as poor. He left his father's throne above, so free, so infinite his grace. Lo, the good shepherd for the sheep is offered, the slave hath sinned, and the son hath suffered. Why did God's son leave behind such great privileges? Why did he suffer for such terrible sinners like you and me? For the joy that was set before him that he endured the cross was to bring many sons to glory, call them brethren. Not because we're so lovable and deserve to enter heaven. Quite the opposite. We have sinned in word, thought, and deed. We've broken God's law. We've strayed from his ways. Justice demands eternity in hell. God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. The Son of God became the Son of Man. Jesus did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. He willingly sacrificed himself in our place as our substitute, paying in full the penalty of sin that we should pay. After satisfying God's wrath with his death, he was buried, he was resurrected the third day, he ascended to heaven after proving he's alive, he's truly alive, someday he'll return. To judge all mankind. Before it's too late, before Jesus returns or before you die, be born again. Change your identity. You do that by repenting, turn from sin and self-righteousness, then trust in Jesus, him and him only for salvation. You cannot earn eternal life or merit it. It's a gift. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ's name. And as safe, we live now in amazement We'll sing in a minute. What gift of grace is Jesus, my Redeemer? There is no more for heaven now to give. If we realize all is ours through Christ, We can even give up our privileges and live to advance the gospel and live for its glory. That's only done through Christ in us. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. May we live now. In imitation of your son. As we are conformed to his image, may each and every day be a chance, an opportunity to grow, to be more like your son. To sacrifice, to forgo, to bear with someone, to have patience, to have great endurance, so that you are glorified. So that you are pleased, so that your message spreads from us to our neighbors to those that are not as lovable as we would like them to be. To all the people that are around us, Lord, show us wisdom, give us wisdom, and show us how we can do this. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.