All right, let me get you this morning to turn first to the Gospel of John. John. Turn all the way to the back, to the very last chapter. You're at John chapter 21. The context toward the end of the chapter is Peter and Jesus. You probably all know in this room that Peter denied Jesus in Jesus' hour of need And it was horrible. You and I probably have read that passage repeatedly, the scene in which Peter, right there in the same proximity with Christ, denies him again. And again and again. The response that Jesus that Peter had was to run out and weep bitterly. He knew what he had done was wrong What made it worse was that Peter had stood up and very seemingly courageously said, Lord, whatever happens, we're not going to deny you. I'm not. I'll die for you. And here is this outspoken, bold individual trembling before a servant girl, unwilling to accept Jesus as his master. That's terrible sin, isn't it? How many times have you denied Christ? How many times have you, as a Christian, actually been in a situation and you know you should speak up for Christ and you didn't? Well, I know I have done that before. Witnessing opportunities lost, family reunions, friends across the fence, neighbors, people that I could have talked to that I did not. And certainly there are times in all our lives when we fail, when we sin. In this chapter, John 21, we have the wonderful restoration of Peter. Peter has sinned, Jesus comes, and there's this invitation in verse 12. Jesus said unto them, Come and dine. Come and eat with me. What an invitation. There was the Last Supper. There was that moment when Jesus dined with his apostles. And now here is this new invitation. Come and dine. Verse 12, it says, and none of the disciples durst ask him, Who are you? Knowing that it was the Lord. Even on that coast in that day, they could see that it was him. They didn't need to ask. So, verse 13: Jesus came and he took bread and he giveth them, and fish likewise. Jesus is not a vegetarian, sorry. He ate fish. But that's not the say that vegetarianism is wrong or unhealthy. I'm not saying that. But he did take the fish. And give it them. And verse 14, this is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples after that he was risen from the dead. So, when they had dined, Jesus said to Simon Peter, now put yourself in that moment Here's this closely knit band of followers, and they are in awe of Jesus. And I don't know what is more awe-inspiring to me personally, that there was Jesus, or there was Jesus cooking. Have you ever stopped to think about that? The Son of God glorified in his resurrected body, the God man. Here, have some fish. It's amazing the humility of the risen Christ. But it it you could say, because they weren't speaking, they verse 12, they didn't ask, is this you, Jesus? There might have been sort of a quietness in that moment. And then Jesus does turn, and John wants us to know his first thing, Peter, he looks right at Peter. Now, in that moment, probably you could have heard a pin drop. Now, if you were the disciples listening to Jesus speak to Peter, I think that it would be a fair thesis, a fair theory to say that they were thinking, oh boy. I'm glad I'm not Peter. I know he's in a whole lot of hot water. He's in trouble. Oh boy. And maybe they there was some, yeah, they they tense up Jesus turns to him and he says in verse 15: Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He said unto him, Yes, yeah, Lord, yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said unto him, Feed my lambs And he saith to him again, the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep And he saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he had said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus said unto him, Feed my sheep. Now, you have probably heard, and I think this is accurate, that in the Greek language there Jesus is using different words for the word love. Now you have to be careful when you do a word study to make sure that you don't import meanings where they don't belong. But in this case, be I think because right in this one text You have Jesus using these different words that there is intent there. That there is, Peter, do you love me? And then there's sort of a weaker form of love. And then it goes down, do you have affection for me? And Peter, finally. Jesus isn't taking my word for it, so I'm just going to say, Lord, you know me. You know all things. And Jesus said, feed my sheep. I'm pointing this out before we get to Ephesians because what we have here is Peter's testimony. The rest of Peter's life, he could go back to this moment on the beach where Jesus restored him to ministry. Where he knew that he was forgiven and then commissioned three times, feed my lambs, feed my sheep, feed. My sheep. And so Peter did. Was he perfect after this? Did he make mistakes? Unfortunately, he still struggled with the fear of man because we know that in Galatia, when there's the letter to the Galatians where Peter had to be rebuked publicly by Paul, he still was just a man and the best of men Are still men at best. But here was this moment in time when he was restored. Turn to Ephesians. Turn to Ephesians now quickly. And I'll tell you why I'm bringing this up. Ephesians 4. There was a motivation in Jesus' words to Peter. There was something that was linked. It was feed my sheep. In that moment when Peter knew he was restored and commissioned, he knew that he was doing it for a particular reason. It was not just that there were sheep in need of a shepherd. Certainly that was true. I mean it was not just, I, Peter, a man, have compassion on men and women also in need. But there was the fact that the sheep had a shepherd, Jesus. They had an owner, Jesus, and Peter had to do it for Jesus' sake. You and I all, many of us, have a testimony. Once you were lost, but now you're found. Once you were blind, but now you can see. You've been forgiven. If you're here today as a born-again Christian, you know that your sins have been washed away. And the Father did that for you. He did it for you for Jesus' sake. There is this motivation in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32, as well, when it comes to our relationships with one another. It says in this verse, be ye kind, one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake Hath forgiven you. This morning, for a few moments, I want to focus on that one phrase: For Christ's sake, God has forgiven you. Peter was forgiven, and so he was commissioned with a job that was linked to Christ. And here you and I are to forgive one another. Now I was going to take the first part of the verse today and get to this part second next week, but I'm actually flipping this. And uh, Steve, I'm sorry. We always work on the songs, and then I tell him one thing, and he picks all these songs, and I end up doing something else. But I think it's to work fine. But here it is: for Christ's sake, forgive. All right, let's remember quickly the context of this passage in Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 4, if you recall, there is supposed to be in verse 1 a worthy walk It says, Paul says, I exhort, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy. That worthy walk of the vocation, or it could be translated, calling, wherewith ye are called. That calling is best seen in the context of the letter of Ephesians of the church. Spiritual blessings in heavenly places. And now there is this from death to life, and Gentiles who were far are now brought near into the body, Jew and Gentiles alike. And now Chapter 3 verse 21, unto him that's unto God be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. So the context, the calling is into this body of believers through Christ. We are now together. And because of this, there is a particular kind of way we should act toward one another. We should, for example, chapter 4, verse 2, we should with lowliness and meekness with long-suffering forbear one another in love. Why, Paul? Well, because, verse 4, there is one body, one spirit. There's a union of doctrine that we all have Not only this, but when Jesus descended to the earth, he also ascended and gave gifts. So now we have, look at your Bibles at verses 10 and 11, 12, we have these apostles and prophets. Evangelists and pastor teachers, and they are given to the church for the perfecting, the equipping of the saints, kind of like a coach trains. And a coach brings out the sports equipment, and a coach gets the basketball team ready to play. That's what a pastor does. Pastor is not just an educator, although education is important, he is an equipper. He's like a coach to the people that are there. And so the prophet and the evangelists are to do that as well. Verse 12, for the perfecting of the saints, the equipping of the saints. Now, this is a process. Try to stay with me now. This is a process that keeps going on until verse 13, we all come to the unity of the faith. Unto the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man. One day that will happen. There'll be no need of pastors and teachers and evangelists because you will be perfect before him. But now, verse 15, we speak the truth in love. And we want to make sure, verse 16, that there's this, the whole body is fitly joined together and is compacted, it's held together by every joint. What every joint supplies according to the effectual working, and there's this increase of the body and the edifying of itself in love So all I'm pointing out here in chapter four is that it's all about being together, together, together, how we respond to one another, how we treat one another. Folks, as American individualists. Who probably many of us in this room don't even know the names of the people that live on the right and the left of us. I mean, think about this. When you go home this afternoon, do you know the names of three of your neighbors? Maybe you do. I hope so. But you and I were so individualistic in this American culture, we bring that into the church, and so it's a good reminder this morning. You're not alone. We are together. And so keep following. We're not like the Gentiles, the pagans, who have their understanding darkened. We're not like that. We've learned Christ And we put off the old man and we put on the new man, and here is part of it. There is the Christ And God forgives us because of Him. Let me invite you this morning to turn to 1 John and let's look a little bit more at what Christ did for us. 1 John chapter 1. John writes this Because, think of this, folks. Why is the Apostle John writing 1 John? Well, he wants people to know that they're Christians, that's true, but He says in verse 4, these things write we unto you that your joy may be full, or that our joy, that yours and mine might be full. That's an amazing statement that I often think of when I think of my own emotional state. More joy means more, 1 John. Well, what does he say here about Jesus? Well, look at verse 7. 1 John 1, verse 7, he says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we won't walk. We have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. Christ the righteous. And he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. In Ephesians 4, it says that we should forgive one another as God forgives us for Christ's sake. Let me point out a couple things from this passage to us this morning. The first is that Christ is a propitiation for our sins. That word propitiation has to do with a sacrifice to appease wrath. Now, if I sin against you and you sin against me, and I come to you and ask for your forgiveness, if I really did something bad to you by accident or on purpose, I would say. That kind of determines your wrath level. Could we say that? If I came out and I I you know maybe I shouldn't use me for an example, but let's say that one Christian Borrows another Christian's car for the weekend and runs over some nails. All four tires are busted Brings it back, the tires are flat, doesn't even tell the owner that he busted all the tires. The owner gets up on a Monday morning, takes the car out, drives it to work, halfway to work, The tires are ruined, the rims are ruined, he's sitting in the middle of traffic. He forgot his cell phone that day. So his wrath level is going up and up and up. He gets back to church that Sunday, and here comes his friend and says, Oh, you know, I might have run over something. I'm not sure, but I might have. I forgot to tell you. How would you feel in that situation if you were the one who lent out your car? Probably fairly upset. Think of another situation in your own mind where maybe another Christian let you down. Now think for a moment about God. First there was Eden. There was only one rule he gave Adam and Eve. Don't eat from that tree. They sinned and broke that rule They had children. They were expelled from the garden, and then they had children. One of their sons murdered the other son. They multiplied on the face of the earth until they filled the geography of that area and It came to this place where every imagination of the hearts of people was only wickedness continually. At what level is God's anger? Now, God is not a man who loses his anger like we explode at one another, but What right does God have to be angry at sinners? A huge right, right? Correct? And so he did punish the world. He had to wipe away people that were so wicked, there was that was his choice. And there was Noah. Okay, Noah. But one of the first things he does is he gets out and he makes a vineyard and he gets drunk and loses control of his life. The Bible says that all of us are just born, broken. We are sinners. We don't all sin to the extent of the people of Noah's age or Noah, but we all sin. And the Bible says that the wrath of God abides on us continually every day. Jesus propitiated that wrath, he completely satisfied it. When he died on that cross, he said, My work has just begun, and then he died. Is that what he said? He said, It is finished. He gave up the ghost. That means his spirit left him. It has nothing to do with ghosts. The spirit of Jesus left. And what is it that God the Father said about Christ? This is my beloved Son, in whom I am. Well pleased. And what did Jesus say in the Gospel of John? He said that I always do the things that my Father tells me to do. I can do nothing but by my Father's will. You had this perfect Savior, and on that cross, he died in the place of sinners, and the wrath of God was completely satisfied. And this is the model for us to forgive one another. Think of it this way: do you know that because of your friend's sin? In hurting your car, if he did indeed sin and not just careless, but he sinned. He intended to deceive. The wages of sin is death. Hell is the penalty for his sin. And yet God has said, look at this again. Look at verse 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God is willing to cleanse the sin of horrible people like you and me at various levels of sin, including the guy who sinned against you with his car. How is it that you and I would not forgive one another? The things that we do. In other words, how is it possible for the death of Christ to propitiate the wrath of the Father, but not your wrath? Not your human anger and my human anger. Can you kind of see where we're going with this? Verse 2 of chapter 2, look at it. It says that this propitiation of the wrath of God is for our sins and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. I mean, that's a lot of anger. That Jesus' sacrifice turned away from you and from me. He did that. The Father was satisfied. And so now if you turn back to Ephesians chapter 4. So now, our model, verse 32, is that we, even as God for Christ's sake Hath forgiven you. We should do the same thing. You're probably familiar with the parable that Jesus told of the debtor. Who had a very big debt with a very wealthy man. Do you remember this? And so he went to this individual that he owed money to and begged for his life. And lo and behold, this rich man forgave all his debt, and it was a whopper debt. And then he went out and he grabbed his fellow servant and said, You owe me some money, and this fellow servant owned him how much Owed him how much? Do you remember? Not much. Not much at all. And he he was ready, he was going to throw him right in the debtor's prison and leave him there until he could pay it back. Well, the wealthy man who forgave the huge debt heard what had taken place. And do you remember what happened? He calls that servant in. And he was not happy, was he? You see, the logic here is he forgave the servant a huge debt. Why couldn't the servant forgive a lesser debt? Next week and the week after, we'll be talking more about forgiveness, but defining it in more of a robust way. But this morning, let me just point out a couple of applications for this, life lessons for this. The first would be: if you really come to understand what it means to be forgiven, you will be able to forgive. If you really understand the debt that God paid on your behalf, you'll be able to forgive the debts that others have against you. That brings to mind this. When was the last time you praised God that you were forgiven? When was the last time that you lifted up your heart to heaven and you admitted, Lord, I am just a dirty, rotten sinner? Folks, it is very, very dangerous. 1 John chapter 1, the person who says he has no sin deceives himself. James chapter 1, the person who is not just a hearer of the word and not a doer, he goes away deceiving himself. 1 Peter, when Peter talks about, I'm sorry, yeah, 1 Peter chapter 1, and I want you to look at this one. 1 Peter chapter 1. Well, I'm sorry. Second Peter chapter one. I'm sorry, I was right. Second Peter chapter one. The person who does not add to his faith, who is not who is not trying to work. Work out his salvation, not in the sense of working to salvation, but adding virtue, knowledge, temperance. In other words, he's not involved in his own spiritual growth. Verse 9, he lacks these things. He's blind and cannot see afar off and has forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. There is this thing called self-righteousness. Oh, it's from the pit of hell. We come and we have our Bibles and we wear suits, ties or no ties, and we come to church, and we think that that That what does that do? What what are your thoughts about your spiritual life? Is there ever a time in your life when you are more than just a sinner saved by grace? I mean, seriously, folks, is there ever a time in your Christian life When you're more than just that. There isn't. Now we can grow spiritually, we can become stronger Christians, but at the bottom of it all, it's Jesus' blood and righteousness. That's it. You can't add anything to that. And the thing that I see in my life, and sometimes I see it in your lives as well. Is when we're slow to forgive, when we are when we just find ourselves being, I don't know, I'm going to hold on to this one. It could be because we have forgotten that we are forgiven. So if you took out a pen right now and made a list on your paper of five things that God has forgiven. given you of, what would they be? If you can't even write five things, you've forgotten. You have forgotten, my friend. Do you know how many things you could write? And then the psalmist has said, Lord, cleanse me from secret faults Keep me from the presumptuous sins. That's two categories. The secret faults are not faults that other people don't see you do, but they're faults that you yourself are not even aware that you did. The presumptuous sins are willful sins when you go out, you set your will and say, I'm going to sin. In those two categories, how many sins would you put on your paper? Seriously, from this week alone. It's a lot. Probably. And everyone, now just imagine this Draw a line through it. Forgiven. Another line. Forgiven. Another line. Forgiven. Another line. Forgiven. Another line. How many lines? For Given, forgiven, forgiven, forgiven. For Christ's sake He's forgiven each one of those. And so it is that our foundation of forgiveness is Christ. And so the first application, a simple one, would be that those who remember they're forgiven. Forgive. Those who forget of their forgiveness, they're blind, they're short-sighted, they can't see And we should be careful of that. If you go back to Ephesians again, to Ephesians 4, you can just keep your finger there, whatever. The other point here that I would that I would draw out is that there is the forgiveness, verse 32, that God is doing, and it is for the sake of another And so is there ever going to be a time if there's a sin that the person deserves forgiveness? Do we deserve forgiveness without Christ? No. So when someone sins against you, there's going to be this tendency for you to say, they don't deserve me to forgive them. And you're exactly right. They don't deserve it. It's for Christ's sake. You forgive that individual in the name of Jesus, and for the fact that you are forgiven. You do it because you're a Christian. You do it because of Christ. Do they deserve it? No. So here to hone down the second application, it would be this: don't wait for the person to deserve forgiveness. To forgive them. Now, we're going to talk more about what forgiveness is next week, because they'll never deserve it. Alright, now we'll talk about repentance next week, how that fits into forgiveness. We'll look at some biblical examples next week. So please come to church next week. to get more robust understanding and definition of forgiveness. But for today, it's the motivation. Remember you were forgiven Don't wait for them to deserve forgiveness. They won't forgive. They will never deserve that. That brings me then to this, and let me just conclude this by wrapping it. It all up together. It's a wonderful thing to be forgiven. Have you ever asked someone to forgive you, and you know in your heart you didn't deserve it, and they did forgive you? What does that do to your heart toward that person? Don't you love them? You see, when a church practices forgiveness, the love level just goes through the roof. Because when you forgive your spouse and you cry together and you go on, there's this bond. And it goes all the way back to we love him because he first loved us. And when you forgive the person sitting next to you They they see that love and they respond with love. When we obey what Paul wrote about that the church should do in Ephesians, We are edified and we are built up. And it really is true, folks, that a church can grow. As its members forgive, because as we forgive, we love. And as we love, if you remember, in Ephesians 4, there's that edifying unto itself in love that the body does, as every joint supplies. So, if there's an encouragement today, it would be, folks, please, let's all endeavor to be motivated to forgive each other as God forgives us for Christ's sake.