This morning we're going to be looking at a number of passages that have to do with the topic of forgiveness, which is a difficult topic. Probably shouldn't be, but probably the the activity of forgiving is more difficult than discerning what the Spirit of God has written to us about forgiveness. Solomon wrote in Ecclesiastes 4, don't turn there, you should be in Ephesians 4. Then I returned and I saw vanity under the sun. There is one alone, and there's not a second. Yea, he hath neither child nor brother, yet is there no end of all his labor. Neither is his eye satisfied with riches, neither saith he, For whom do I labor and bereave my soul of good. This is also vanity, yea, it is a sore travail. Two are better than one because they have a good reward for their labor. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up. Again, if two lie together, then they have heat. But how can one be warm alone? And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him, and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. In this passage in Ecclesiastes chapter 4, Solomon is pointing out the benefits of having friends, companions. The image is of a journey. A journey when the nights are cold and it's good to have friends so you can stay warm. A journey when robbers attack and it is good to have another, maybe three people so that you can withstand those robbers. A journey where it's good to have friends, family in your work, because you have a reason to work. The problem nowadays with families, and hasn't it always been this way, is that sometimes family members sin one against another. There is the story of Joseph, this young man looking up out of a hole, and there peering over the lip of the hole are his brothers. Staring down at him in rage and anger. How did they toss him down? Did they push him? Did they trip him? Did they tackle him? Did they just sort of toss him into that hole? Did they lower him down in a rope? Did they care how hard he fell in the bottom of that thing? An argument ensued afterwards, and could Joseph overhear his brothers arguing about whether to kill him or not? The end of it was a journey to a foreign land where he did not speak the language. He was put at the bottom of society, a slave. And who was it that sold him into that slavery? His own family members. On the one hand, Solomon points out the benefits of not being alone, but Joseph learned That there are also problems with not being alone. The fact is, today you and I are probably acutely aware that relationships are not easy all the time. Husbands sin against wives, wives sin against husbands. And then in the church, we sin against one another. Do you know why we must forgive? It's very simple. Because we sin. That's why we must forgive. In Ephesians 4, verse 32, we have this command: be kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. The reason behind our for the command for us to forgive is because we are already forgiven. God forgives us for Christ's sake. As I mentioned last week, it is amazing. It's astounding to us all the sins we've committed wiped clean, separated from us, because Jesus paid it all. Not one sin is left uncovered or removed. Not one, past, present, or future. The day will come, my friend, when you will stand beside a holy being, an angel, a very aged angel. Been around since Adam and Eve, who has not one time sinned, and you will converse with these amazing creatures. In heaven itself, you a sinner in heaven, and you will be sinless at that point. And the angel cannot turn to you and say, what are you doing in this perfect place? Because you have been justified. Reconciled to God, forgiven, your sins atoned for, the wrath of God propitiated by the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross. How dare that angel ever bring a charge against God's elect? It's not going to happen. And so Paul writes, we should forgive one another. What I'd like to do this morning is take you through A hopefully not overwhelming journey of the scriptures and examine the matter of forgiveness sort of from the big picture. We're commanded to forgive, but what does this involve? What are the details that you and I need to take into account? Because life can be complicated, can't it? And sometimes it's difficult to know who to forgive, how to do it What process we go through. For example, what if someone sins against you from another church? They're not a part of this body. How do you approach them? What if someone sins against you and they are totally outside of your social? relationships and yet they say something horrible about you online on Facebook. They don't even know you. But there it is. How do you handle it when your wife, in anger, says something that she shouldn't say? Are you ever allowed to just overlook that? What did Jesus mean when he looked down from the cross and he said, Father, forgive them, they know not what they do. What could he have meant by that? I don't have time this morning to answer all of those applications or questions, but I think I do have time this morning to remind you Of what the scriptures say, and to sort of give you a heads up so that you have a better template to understand forgiveness. The first thing I want to point out from the scriptures, as and I'm giving you this data ahead of time, and then when we look at passages, you'll see certain words. You'll see the word enemy. You'll see the word brother. And as we look through these passages, you'll begin to see that our approach of forgiveness for a brother and an enemy is a little different. But there's a basic foundation underneath all of it that really supports the approach to both. In the Old Testament, now, think of this. In the Old Testament, there was Israel, And there was the brotherhood of Israel. There were the citizens of Israel. There was one Hebrew who had to forgive another Hebrew. But then there was the possibility that a Hebrew could become another Hebrew's enemy through his actions. But then, in addition to that, there were enemies outside of Israel. Who attacked Israel as a whole. What we're talking about primarily today is not warfare and the clash of nations. Where one nation should forgive another nation. What we have in the law of Moses and in the New Testament is what to do about personal offenses, not national ones. When your cheek gets struck, do a certain thing. When someone demands something of you in court, do a certain thing So we need to be careful that we kind of divide the two. There's this warfare of nations, but then there's this matter of personal offenses, and that's where we are today. Let me get you first to go back. Oh, let's see. Let's go back to Exodus 21. Alright, we'll be in the law of Moses for a little while. Exodus 21. We are now entering the realm of the legal system of the Jewish nation. There are times when people steal, they lie, they do things they shouldn't to harm others And they're taken to court for it, and there is a certain process that has to be gone through. Exodus 21, verses 30 to 36. It says this: if there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for the ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him. Whether he have gored a son or have gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done unto him. You say, what's happening here? Well, look at verse 32. It's a little clearer. The context. If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant, he shall give unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned. And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein, the owner of the pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them, and the dead beast shall be his. And if one man's ox hurt another's, and he die, then they shall sell the live ox and divide the money of it, and the dead ox also they shall divide. Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past, and his owner hath not kept him in, he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead shall be his own. Now I'll just turn, keep that kind of in your mind. Okay, we're talking about oxes and what happens if your ox hurts another guy's ox or your ox hurts another guy's servant, what you're supposed to do. Now look at Leviticus. Oh, let's actually just go down a little bit further and look at chapter 22, 1 to 4 of Exodus. Okay, the other thing was physical damage. Oxes getting hurt, people getting hurt. Now we're entering the realm of theft. If a man steal an ox or a sheep and kill it or sell it. He shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. If a thief be found breaking up and be smitten that he die, there shall no blood be shed for him Wow. If the son be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him, for he should make full restitution. If he have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be an ox or an ass or a sheep, he shall restore double. Restore. I've stolen. I have to restore. Now turn to Leviticus 24, verse 18. He that kills a beast, this is Leviticus twenty-four eighteen. It's just a short little statement there. To sum this up, he that killeth a beast shall make it good, beast for beast. What we have here is the law of restitution or restoration. In the Old Testament, if you hurt your neighbor or his livestock, You had to do right by him. It wasn't enough to just say, please forgive me. You had a lawful responsibility to pay him back if you Steal from him on purpose, it's a greater responsibility. You're going to restore more if you're careless and you leave your pit open and he still falls in. There's still this responsibility. Intentional sin would be theft. Accidental would be you just forgot to leave your hole, cover it up so that the animal wouldn't die. But there was always this restitution that had to take place. This is summed up in the law of Moses where it's an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Now, what that is saying is not a demand necessarily. It's actually a limitation because in the Old Testament there were blood feuds. If you killed my cousin, I'll kill yours, and then he'll kill someone else, and then I'll kill someone else. And so the Lord set up cities of refuge that people could run to and limits on that violence. Now go to Matthew chapter five. By the time we get to the New Testament Apparently, the letter of the law was beginning to trump the spirit of the law. Jesus had to make some corrections in what people were thinking. Look, you're at Matthew five. Bear with me here. I'm still turning So you look at Matthew five, you look at verse thirty-eight He says, You have heard it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. And it appears that what they're doing in Jesus' day is that it's almost they're turning it on its head. And making it a demand. You took my eye. You know what? I'll take yours. It's my right to have yours. I get the tooth if you take my tooth. Verse 39 But I say unto you that ye resist not evil, but whoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that asketh thee And from him that would borrow of thee, turn not thou away. Now this is this is startling, this is shocking to a Jewish mindset. Think about what we just read in the law and think about what you would think. This man is demanding something of me, this individual, and it's not just. It's not right to smack me on the cheek. You're demanding my cloak. This is unjust. And yet Something is changing here, and that change is what he sums up in verse 43 Ye have heard that it has been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy, but I say unto you, love your enemies. It's possible that in the letter of the law a Jewish man could say, I demand restitution, and he would be right. The law requires it. But there is something the Lord is asking for, and that is this undertone of love, this context of love. What happened? The guy left the pit open. Did someone else move what was tap move the covering? Did the pit become enlarged because of a rainstorm? Did the man do diligence to cover the pit and something happened? I mean, brother, I love you But in this case, he's speaking of enemies, and he's raising the bar to the love of our enemies. It's an amazing thing. What this is, Is a new approach to personal enemies. Or we should say a deeper approach. That's what Jesus is doing here. Look down if you look if we as we continue to read through this, there's a reason. Look at verse 44. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he makes the Son to rise. On the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same So the picture here is of being at court with someone who does not like you, and he is your enemy, and you're required to love not just your brothers. But him as well. Luke 6, 35 to 37 says the same thing. Luke, it's a new approach to personal enemies. Now, turn over a few more pages to Matthew 6. And you find a second principle here. There is a link in the kingdom of God, the citizens of God, between the way we treat other people and the way God treats us. When it comes to forgiveness. In the Lord's Prayer in Matthew 6:12, it says, And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Look at verse 14. If we forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. You read something like that, and sort of this rhetorical question is thrown at you, how do I want God to forgive me? Because the way I forgive you is the way he's going to forgive me. And you know what? I really, really want God to forgive me And so you take this, you take this new approach to enemies. It's not demanding that there is not restitution, but there is this love for enemies and brothers. And then you take this connection between the way the Father treats me and the way I treat others, and you start to feel pressured. I don't know about you, but I don't want to turn the other cheek. You ever get slapped in the cheek? When I was growing up, they used to have slapping contests. Any of you guys do this in high school? Just me? Come on. Alright, one person in the back, so I'm not crazy. Alright, this is a contest where you literally either slap the person on the arm, they roll up their sleeves, and you slap them as hard as you can until somebody says uncle. Alright. And occasionally there's the slap on the face. If you're really brave, I didn't do that one. Didn't like the arm on. Nobody likes to turn the other cheek. But that is what God is saying. He's put this immense pressure on us, folks, to forgive. Is there ever a time that we can't forgive? Well, we can consider that in a second, but we definitely should have established that there's love is the foundation, not a demand for justice. Alright, so where do we go from here? Well, that's where we can just flip a few more pages and go to Matthew 18 and kind of unpack this some more and try to get this out in the open. Alright. Enemies are to be loved. We go the extra mile with them to show our love. We don't want to be overcome by evil. We want to overcome evil with good. Here's how we handle our brothers. Matthew 18, verse 15. Moreover, if thy brothers shall trespass against thee, go. And tell him that his fault, tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. Now, what is this? Verses 15 to 20, we all know is the process that we usually end up with church discipline. Alright? So you start with something that's a private matter, you go to them personally, but when Peter hears it, he is shocked And he frames it in terms of forgiveness. That's verse 21. Then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Seven times? So when Peter heard this Matthew 18 process, he saw it in terms of forgiveness. What we learn from the process. As it relates to forgiveness, number one, there has to be confrontation. If your brother trespasses against you, verse 15, go and tell him his fault. It's very difficult to forgive someone from afar. And sometimes our culture gets this completely backwards. I don't know if any of you remember It's been a couple years now, but there was a man who went into an Amish school and killed, I think, five little girls, shot them and killed them. And it was all over the headlines. And I remember reading an article about a news person was talking about forgiveness and saying how we need to forgive them. And I thought, wait a minute, they didn't kill my daughter. Didn't sin against me, although certainly they sort of sinned against the nation and against the humanity, but but it's those parents who've been sinned against. And our culture has a way of watering forgiveness down by making it so big. It's this simple. If there's a personal trespass, someone against you. You confront them and you talk to them. And look at verse sixteen. It says, But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more. Verse 15 said, If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. So hearing is accepting the accusation. It's an admission of guilt. There's confrontation, there's an admission of guilt, and if you will just keep your hand there. Um and there's also the matter of repentance. Look turn to Luke 4, verse 11. I think that's the right one. Luke 4, 11. No, no, wrong. Luke eleven four. Luke eleven four. No, I gave you the wrong one again. All right, hold on to that thought, and I'll get you that after the survey. But Luke writes that if your brother sins and repents, you forgive him. In Matthew 18, it's implied that he he hears what you have to say, and he agrees, and he Repent. Now, what is repentance? There are three passages you need to write down so that you can begin to understand what biblical repentance really is. Because I think these passages make things clear. It's Luke 19. 8. Luke 19. 8. Look at it, say no, I'm not making it up. Luke 19. 8. No, it's not. Well, you know what? Pastor's messing up today on this one. I'll get back to you on that one, but stay in Luke 19. 8. Stay there. What does repentance look like? Luke 17, 3. My wife helped me out. Is that allowed? Luke 17, 3. Yes. Take heed to yourselves. Thank you. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent, forgive him. Alright? Now you are in Luke 19, 8. Now, here are the passages you need to keep in mind to understand what repentance is. First, we have Zacchaeus. Zacchaeus repents and becomes a follower of Jesus Christ. And how does he respond? Well, he responds with a natural desire to Practice restitution. Luke 19, verse 8, he saith unto them, boy, I have too many passages. this morning. Luke 19, 8. And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. This is a truly repentant person. This would be called the fruit of repentance. If you turn back to Luke 3 Verses 7 to 14, you'll see that word used when John the Baptist was preaching repentance. Luke 3, 7 to 14 Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father, for I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. And now also the axe is laid under the roots of the trees. Every tree, therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. And the people said, What should we do? Verse 11: He answered and saith unto them, If you have two coats, let him impart to him that hath none. And he that hath meat, that's food, do likewise. Then came also publicans to be baptized and said unto him, Master, what shall we do? What do we do to bear the fruit of repentance? That's the idea. Verse 13. And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto him, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely, and be content with your wages. Alright, what we have here in the life of Zacchaeus, and what we have here in the lives of these different groups, is we have the fruit of repentance is action. It involves actions. What does it look like in attitudes that 2 Corinthians chapter 7? Turn to 2 Corinthians 7, where we see the repentance of the Corinthians. Second Corinthians seven verse nine. Second Corinthians seven verse nine And I'll try to wrap all this up into what I'm the point I'm trying to make here as we go through Matthew 18. Now I rejoice not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance. For ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye might receive damage by us in nothing. For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of, but the sorrow of the world worketh death. For behold, this selfsame thing that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you! Yea, what clearing of yourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire. Yay, what zeal! Yay, what revenge. And the revenge there is not talking about taking vengeance on someone. In all these things, ye have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter. On the one hand, a fruit of repentance is action. It's okay, you know what? I'm going to stop complaining. And I'm going to be generous. On the other hand, repentance is indignation over my past sins. This zeal, it's this wholehearted clearing of myself. I don't want to do this again. I was wrong. I repent, and I want to show you that I'm not going to do this again. I mean, you pile up the words here, look at chapter 7, verse 10, from godly sorrow all the way down to you have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter, and this is a wholehearted Soulful kind of thing. Now, when you go back to Matthew 18, here's what you have: you're sitting at the table with someone who has sinned against you You're by yourself first. It's a personal matter. And you say, here's how you sinned against me. And they say I agree. I shouldn't have done that. I admit it, I was wrong. And then there's going to be this: what can I do to make this right? Because I really know that that was sin, and I should not have done that. And then there's going to be this agreement. There's going to be something that takes place and it will often, not always, actions are not always required, extreme actions, but sometimes they are. There's going to be some action in Involved. Love is the foundation. You're going to your brother privately because you love him. You're going to your brother in this way because you want to restore him, but there's going to be some fruit. Of repentance. That's the result. How about some illustrations of that? Well, one of the best New Testament illustrations of that is Philemon. In Philemon, you have a combination of all these elements in an amazing way. Turn to Philemon. It's only one chapter. In Philemon, you have the story of a runaway slave. Now, the Bible does not approve of slavery. A matter of fact, in Timothy, it is condemned. It's kidnapping. And it's wrong. However, in the Roman Empire there were those who sold themselves into slavery, there were those who were Household servants who had great responsibility, there were clerks, there were school teachers who attached themselves to households. You're dealing with kind of a different kind of slavery. And if someone runs off, it's It could sometimes be akin to running off from your employer, more similar to that, although it was still slavery. So we have this man, Philemon, and he runs away from Onesimus. And Onesimus is a Christian. Now, in the end, Christians decided that they shouldn't have slaves, although there was sort of a we await reawakening of that in Britain and and American colonies, which is frankly shameful, but Paul met Philemon, and Philemon was gloriously saved If you look at Philemon verse ten, Paul writes to Anesimus and says, I beseech thee for my son I'm sorry. I'm telling you the wrong words here. It's Anesimus who ran away. I beseech you for my son Anesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds, which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me. Now, this is what Paul did. He sent him back to face the music That's pretty serious. That is a fruit of repentance. His master was a Christian He had just gotten saved. He thought it was right to go back and make things right with his master. That's the fruit of repentance. Where's the love come in? Well, keep reading. Verse 12: whom I have sent again. Thou therefore receive him, that is my mine own bowels, or my own affection, if receive him as someone of my tender affection. whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel. But without thy mind would I do nothing, that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly For perhaps he therefore departed for a season that thou shouldest receive him forever, not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved. Especially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord, if thou count me therefore a partner Receive him as myself. If he is wrong thee or oweth thee aught, put that on my account. Wow. Wow, this is just an amazing, amazing connection of just affection and love, and at the same time repentance and an appeal for mercy. It's just all coming together here when Paul sends this slave back. Paul's hope seems to be that Anesimus is going to be elevated In the eyes of his master. He is now a brother. He's someone that I need to re-evaluate. And if he owes me anything, there's the restitution. Okay, maybe he does owe me something, but here's Paul, and he's saying, I'll pay it. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain. Mercy. So we see we see in Matthew 18 that we go and there should be admission and there should be repentance. But if you turn back to Matthew 18, the thing that stood out to Peter, Matthew 18, verse 21, is: how many times do I have to do this, Lord? It was sort of the bottom line. How many times do I have to forgive my brother if he sins against me? And Jesus, of course, said. Unto seven times, Jesus saith unto him, this is Matthew 18, verse 22, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. And so there is really no limitation. If there's admission of guilt, if there's repentance, and the fruit of repentance, then there should be forgiveness. Now, this brings up a couple of questions, and I mentioned them at the beginning. What if the person, is there ever a time when you just forgive someone, even if they don't admit their guilt? And repent. Is there ever that moment? And I think scripturally the answer would be yes. Because the Bible says that love covers a multitude of sins. Now, your brother sins against you, and you have to decide. And folks, this is where biblical wisdom and discernment comes in. Is it worth you confronting your brother over the sin they committed against you? Wives, your husband did it again. He did not take his plate from the dinner table and wash it. How many times have you politely and graciously asked, and here it is again, and you've already talked to him twice? And he promised he would do it, but he hasn't. You have a choice. Are you just going to let that go and forgive and just say, love covers a multitude of dishes? Or are you going to bring it up again? Husbands. Has there ever been a time when you thought you had plans in mind and you spoke clearly to your wife, and for whatever reason, she She didn't do what you asked, and there was confusion and delay, and you think to yourself, I told her this twice, and now this has created a disaster. Do you really need to confront her about that, or is there something else going on? Maybe mercy is what we should do. Aren't there times when you forgive someone in this church without asking them to repent? I am sure of it. There are times when you say something to your neighbor and your neighbor goes, What? That was rude. And they just Let it go. And that's where love does cover a multitude of sins. And there are those times when you don't have to demand repentance. And that's where biblical wisdom comes in. You have to make a decision. Matthew 18. You sinned against me, but is it of such a level that I now must confront you? Maybe you were having a bad day. Love demands I wait, I withhold judgment. And this is what the apostles took into their letters. And I have to get you to just turn to Romans 12. And see how the Apostle Paul combines all of this, forgiveness and relationship, when he's writing to churches. Romans twelve, verse nine. We're almost done. Hang in there. Romans twelve nine Let love be without dissimulation, abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. Be kindly affectioned one to another, with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another, not slaughter in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer, distributing to the necessity of saints, given to hospitality, bless them which persecute you. Bless and curse not. Rejoice with those that rejoice and weep with those that weep. Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate Be not wise in your own conceits. Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it is possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves But rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome by evil or of evil, but overcome evil with good. This short passage is kind of a tapestry of all these different things and all our relationships and what they should be. Now there's just so much more. I've thrown out half my text here, so because I know it it can be a challenge to keep up with all these things, but it comes down to this. You approach someone, if they sin against you and you think it's that serious, you talk with them, you could be wrong, but you try to discern the situation. If that you figure that they did sin against you, they admit their sin, they repent, you leave it at that, you forgive. If there isn't repentance, you bump it up to the next level. But if there is, the matter's settled. And we should be incredibly gracious to one another, slow to anger, blessed are the merciful, for the merciful will receive mercy.