Though my years in the States are more than double my years in Korea, my time in my home country is precious. I was there in the formative stages of my life. It was there that I first went to school, first went to church, first prayed, first read the Bible, first learned about Jesus. I saw snow snow for the first time. It was there that I first explored a world that seemed full of Avengers. So when it was time to become naturalized in US, I held on to my Korean name as a link to my past. I relinquished the chance to adopt some westerning I considered Sean. By the way, do I look like a Sean to you? My wife says no In those first years at US, there was a mixture of old and new. I arrived at an airport that looked similar to the one I left. It was snowy in Maryland, late December of nineteen eighty-nine, which was nothing new. Except there was that one time I found myself locked out in front of my elementary school building as snow piled on. In the Korean town I grew up in, you didn't close for snow until unless it was like two feet I had a lot of classmates with yellow hair, which was new. Math was really easy. I remember being pulled out of the normal English classes to be with other immigrant children. To learn basic grammar and vocabulary. Though they were from different parts of the world, we felt a sense of connection as we learned a new language and culture together. That's similar to the scenario that Daniel found himself in. You may know him best as that elderly man who was thrown into the lion's den This might be the most familiar story of Daniel, but it took place later in his life. I w I want to focus on an episode in his life when he was younger and with friends who shared the immigrant experience with him. But before we turn there, let's get to know his background a little bit. In Cartermish, 605 BC, Nebuchadnezzar II. The king of Babylon fought against the Allied forces of Assyria and Egypt. The Babylonians won and sought to establish control over the region. Daniel's homeland, Judah, mistakenly allied with Egypt, and the Babylonians punished them for it. Judah lost their independence, temple treasures, and some of their royal and noble men. These men had to be young, likely from thirteen to seventeen years old, without physical defects, handsome, smart, and promising students. They were taught and trained in the Babylonian language and literature for three years in preparation for service at the royal courts. Among those chosen were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishhael, and Azariah. The Babylonian chief official gave each new names. Beltashazzar, Shadrach, Mishak, and Abednego respectively There was one major problematic requirement with their Babylonian enculturation. All the trainees ate from the king's table While Daniel had no issues with the name change and foreign education, the royal cuisine included dishes not allowed in Jewish diet, including sacrificial meals dedicated to idols. Eating such food is tantamount to fellowship and agreement with false beliefs and deities. Abstaining from the table would allow the Jewish men to maintain their integrity and obedience to God. But it would also mean rejecting and insulting the most powerful man in the nation. We see, however, in chapter 1 verse 8 that Daniel was determined to follow the scriptures His boss is worried that he would get into trouble if Daniel and his friends look unhealthy without food from the king's table. The chief had every right to be scared. King Nebuchadnezzar was known for his cruelty, gouging out of King's eyes just after killing his sons in front of him Or burning other rulers in fire. We see this in Jeremiah 39, verses 6 to 7, 29, verse 22. But he convinces him to allow a diet of vegetables and water for ten days. At the end of the trial period, their appearance looked healthier than those who ate meat. Within three years, the four men surpass all others in wisdom and knowledge as well. Here's the good beginnings. We are only in chapter 1 of this book, and already we see teenage followers of God making tough choices. Such choices will determine their future. These four young men, well educated, successful, and working for the most dominant power in the Middle East, started out as wide-eyed strangers there. We may not be taken captive like them, but we do live between two cultures. I mean that the choices Daniel and his friends made have some applications for us today Our core identity is not American, Asian, or African. We do not even belong to this world. Here's what Jesus said in John 15 verses 18 to 19. If the world hates you, you know that it hated ye before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Paul tells us in verse twenty of Philippians chapter three, Our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Saviour. The Lord Jesus Christ. Hebrews 11, verses 13 to 16 tells us concerning some believers of the Old Testament. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For those who say such things declare plainly that they seek a homeland. And truly, if they had called to mind the country from which they had come out, they would have had opportunity to return But now they desire a better, that is a heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. Finally, Peter wrote in his first letter, chapter 2, verse 11, to the New Testament saints like thus. Beloved, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. So if we identify ourselves as foreigners and exiles in this world, if we are determined to abstain from simple desires and wage war against them, Perhaps we can continue to learn from the example of Daniel and his friends in the next crisis they faced. Let's turn to chapter 2 together and look at the first 23 verses. Now in the second year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams, and his spirit was so troubled that his sleep left him. Then the king gave the command to call the magicians, the astrologers, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans to tell the king his dreams. So they came and stood before the king. And the king said to them, I have had a dream, and my spirit is anxious to know the dream. Then the Chaldeans spoke to the king in Aramaic, O king, live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and we will give the interpretation. The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, My decision is firm. If you do not make known the dream to me and its interpretation, you shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made an ash heap. However, if you tell the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts, rewards, and great honor. Therefore, tell me the dream and its interpretation. They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servants the dream and we will give his interpretation. The king answered and said, I know for certain that you would gain time, because you see that my decision is firm. If you do not make known the dream to me, there is only one decree for you. For you have agreed to speak lying and corrupt words before me till the time has changed. Therefore, tell me the dream, and I shall know that you can give me its interpretation. The Chaldeans answered the king and said, There is not a man on earth who can tell the king's matter. Therefore no king, lord, or ruler has ever asked such things of any magician, astrologer, or Chaldean. It is a difficult thing that the king requests, and there is no other who can tell it to the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh. For this reason the king was angry and very furious, and gave the command to destroy all the wise men of Babylon. So the decree went out, and they began killing the wise men, and they sought Daniel and his companions to kill them. Then, with counsel and wisdom, Daniel answered Arioch, the captain of the king's guard, who had gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon. He answered and said to the said to Eriok, the king's captain. Why is the decree from the king so urgent? Then Ariath made the decision known to Daniel. So Daniel went in and asked the king to give him time that he might tell the king the interpretation. Then Daniel went to his house and made the decision known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions, that they might seek mercies from the God of heaven concerning the secret. So that Daniel and his companions might not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. Then the secret was revealed to Daniel in a night vision. So Daniel blessed the God of heaven Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. And he changes the times and the seasons. He removes kings and raises up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. He reveals deep and secret things. He knows what is in the darkness, and life dwells with him. I thank you and praise you, O God of my fathers. You have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's demand I'm stopping the reading here because I'm not going to focus on the prophetic content of the stream. I do hope that if the Lord tarries, we will study the apocalyptic visions together. But today, I just want to focus on the man Daniel, his friends, and his example. As we look at Daniel, we can observe three qualities to imitate. Daniel 1 seeks wise understanding of the crisis. one to sixteen, two, finds prayerful support of friends, verses seventeen and eighteen, and three, praises the great name and acts of God verses nineteen to twenty three First Daniel seeks wise understanding of the crisis. Verse 1 tells us that Nebuchadnezzar had a disturbing dream during the second year of his reign. But how do we reconcile that timestamp of second year with the three years of training Daniel and his friends just completed, as we see in chapter 1, verse 5? Chapter 2 verse 1 is most likely speaking of the second full year of his reign. If a Babylonian king's reign began in the middle of the year, that year would not count as his first year. since it won't amount to twelve months. When the year cycle begins again, that would be reckoned as the king's first year of reign. Now on to the dream. It's possible that Nebuchadnezzar could not recall the details of the dream. Not that he kept the information from his subjects It's also possible that he had some recollections, some vague memory of it, in bits and pieces. We're not entirely sure. Instead of admitting that he forgot, he designs to test their loyalty and or skill. When they couldn't give what he wanted and thought he was unreasonable, they faced his wrath. Daniel learned of this incident from Ariok, the king's executioner. Note how in verse 14 that he conversed with counsel and wisdom Not panic, not anger. Those are natural first instincts of natural men. Counsel and wisdom befit the godly saint. After gathering sufficient information, he goes to meet Nebuchadnezzar himself and successfully secures more time. Perhaps Daniel spoke with gentleness that assuaged the king. A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. Proverbs 15:1. The king's wrath is like the roaring of a lion. But his favor is like dew on the grass. Proverbs nineteen twelve We are living in a time of crisis that reveals what's inside our hearts. Panic, fear, anger, racism, idolatry. A good diagnostic question to ask is this, where do we turn for wisdom? I'm not saying you shouldn't read the news or keep up with the latest information on the pandemic. But true wisdom is not found in the world. It is found in God, who reveals himself to us and hears our script, hears our prayers. That leads to the second point. Daniel finds prayerful support of friends. In verses 17 and 18 we get a glimpse into Daniel's personal spiritual life. He has an emergency prayer meeting with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his roommates at home. All they had was each other in this strange land, no temple for congregation, no elders and priests to consult. They had no parents or siblings to turn to. Since they were all made eunuchs, they would never have families of their own either. Together they faced an unprecedented obstacle In Genesis, we know that Joseph rose to power in Egypt by interpreting dreams. That would have encouraged these men. But then again, Joseph at least knew what the dreams were before he interpreted them. Daniel and his friends were desperate, and their prayers were earnest. We can imitate their passion as well as the prayer life of other biblical heroes like Elijah. James chapter 5, verses 16 to 18 reminds us of the power of corporate prayer. Confess your trespasses to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth produced its fruit. Of course, the greatest prayers were offered up by Jesus, the God of man. He prayed, Father, glorify your name. John 12, 28. Jesus, like Daniel, asked three of his closest friends to pray with him at the Garden of Gethsemane. Unlike Daniel, Jesus didn't get much support because Peter, James, and John fell asleep. Alone, Jesus prayed three times for God's will to be done, not his. God the Father answered these prayers He was glorified. Jesus drank the cup of God's wrath at the cross and arose from the dead. The Father's will was done. And it is because Jesus prayed and went to the cross, the grave and heaven, that we can pray to our Father in heaven It's all accomplished by the work of his son Jesus. There's nothing you or I can do to act to it. Salvation is A gift from God. And it is ours with repentance, turning from ourselves and our way of living, and faith, turning to the living Christ. And because of Jesus, we have access to heaven. Hear these words of assurance. Romans 5, verses 1 and 2 says, Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 17 and 18 tells us. And he came and preached peace to you who are afar off and to those who are near. For through him we both have access by one spirit to the Father So as the writer of Hebrews says in chapter 4, verse 16, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Now that we know how we can speak with the Father through Jesus, let's go back to the example of Daniel and his friends. When is the last time you really prayed? Prayed like your life depended on it? When is the last time my prayer meetings looked like the one at Daniel's home? Maybe the current health and economic crises will lead us to be so fervent and so desperate So that we are their big prayers bigger than ever before in accordance with God's great power. Instead of worrying about temporal matters such as food, drink, or clothing, Jesus told us to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added to you. What if we were to ask for bigger, greater things from God, rather than things with expiration dates? That God would save that stubborn atheist. That a city would re would turn to God. That rulers would repent. Perhaps we don't ask big things because we have a small view of God. Let us ask now for great things in accordance with God's greatness. And that leads to our third point. Daniel praises the great name and acts of God. During the night, God reveals the mystery of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. For the contents of the dream and its interpretation, you can read on with the rest of the chapter later. But first, upon this revelation, Daniel immediately praises God. He doesn't run to the king right away, though maybe a part of him wanted to. He prioritizes worship. He prayed to receive revelation, so now he prays to give glory. First, note the names of God. Verse 19 has God of Heaven. Back in verse 10, the astrologers complained to the king, there is not a man on earth who can tell the king's matter. They are hundred percent accurate. No amount of human intelligence and inspiration can achieve this feat. Only the God of heaven can do it. Because as you read in verse 20, wisdom and might are his In verse 23, there is God of my fathers. Not only is God spatially above us, dwelling in heaven, he is chronologically prior to us. He has chosen the Israelites to be his people. He's been in the divine promise business way before Daniel and his friends. And there's something personal about verse 23. From verses 20 to 22, God is referred to in the third person, he, his, and him. But here, Daniel switches to the more direct second person, you. God is willing to relate with us closely and not from a distance. He exists not only in heaven, but on earth with us. He is not only high above us, but he is down here near us. Not only does Daniel praise God's name, he highlights his acts. In other words, God backs up his great reputation with firm action. In verses 21 and 22, his power and wisdom are proven by the way he changes the times and the seasons. He removes kings and raises up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. God reveals deep and secret things. He knows what is in the darkness, and light dwells with him. In these verses, we learn these general truths about God's wisdom and power. Now in verse 23, Daniel recounts how he specifically and graciously shares them. Praise God that we are not talking to an empty room on the other side of the phone. That we don't leave a message to God in prayer and he never calls back. He reveals his ways and deep things in his word and providence. We can trust that God's answers to us, his children, are for our good and his glory. Daniel is thankful and confident that God's answer is the correct answer. Keep in mind, Daniel hasn't gone to the king yet to confirm the dream to be true. He hasn't checked the answer sheet. But he's already certain that the answers are correct and he will pass with the hundred because God gave him the answer. He says in the second half of verse 23, You have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we asked of you. For you have made known to us the king's demand. One last thing about verse 23. Note how Daniel uses the first person plural. God, you have made known to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's demand Daniel knows that he could not have survived this ordeal without the prayer of his friends. So Daniel was the only one to see the divine vision. He immediately shares the contents with his friends. Because they prayed as one, they celebrate God's answer as one. Because Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego sowed in unison. They reap in unison. If the four wept together, they would rejoice together. Pray that we as Faith Bible Church can have a similar testimony at the other side of this trial. As we seek wise understanding of the crisis at hand, I hope that the world will see in us peace and joy and security in the gospel. As we seek and find prayerful support from each other, may the world know the love that we have for the Lord and one another. Let's not have circumstances hinder us from praising the great name and acts of God. Yes, we need friends to share these ups and downs of life. But no one in this world can be your strength and portion forever. Whom am I in heaven but you? And there is none upon earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart fail. God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Psalm 73, 25 to 26. Jesus is God who can fulfill that desire. But at the same time, he is man and our close friend. Let's sing about this truth in our final hymn. What a friend we have in Jesus.