Good morning. It's a privilege for me to be here with you. My name is Shupi. Think of a Shu. Add a P to it. Shu P. I grew up in the Washington, D. C. area. My dad worked for the post office department. And so we live not very far from Arlington Cemetery. I spent quite a bit of time with my brother in Arlington Cemetery. Great place. And attended Washington Bible College, Capitol Bible Seminary, and then taught there for 23 years. And then taught at Liberty University for seven years, and then pastored Belcroft Bible Church for 16 years. We are now retired to Shepherdstown, West Virginia. We went there because it we understand that that is almost heaven. And So far we haven't found all that it is supposed to be, but it's great to be there. We love it. And uh we are thankful for all God has done. We have six children ranging from 45 down to 35. And living in the DC area, some of them, some in Lynchburg, Virginia, and one in Phoenix, Arizona. So I think um if it's okay with you, I think I'm gonna do an executive decision. And if it's not okay with you, just don't invite me back. I think I'm going to come down there. I think it'd be better if I come down there. And if I come down there, I think it'd be better if you come up here, okay? Those of you that are down there beyond where I can see. which is about the ninth row, I would invite you to come up. There is extra credit for those sitting on row two All right. I promise extra credit for row two, but let's see if we can do it in the first six first six rows. Okay? I don't hear a whole lot of grumbling. Oh yes, look at this. Revival already. Amen. People are coming forward. Praise the Lord. This is great. You feel better? No one feels better. I taught uh I've taught public speaking for almost fifty years and uh I always encourage students to move toward the audience, get close to the audience. And I would try to demonstrate how you can do it. You know, you can You can move things, just whatever, to try to get closer. And I used to teach that if you're nervous You just move something. You move something that helps you with your nervousness. So if you pick up a table, you know, or desk and move it forward. That helps your nerves and people have no idea what it is. So I was in a a meeting one time where there were several students from Washington Bible College from my class and I started by moving the desk in the room closer to the group. And all of these students, I think they laughed for the next ten minutes over how nervous I was being there. So it's very good to be here with you, and I am here for a series, an extended series of two Sundays. From looking at your website, I notice you haven't had an extended series since July. And so So, this is an extended series. And what I'd like to focus on is James chapter 1. James chapter 1. The key verse in James 1 that fences in our thinking is verse 22. James 1, 22. Which says, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. This verse claims that there is a significant difference between listening and doing. A difference so huge that those who listen without doing mislead themselves. delude themselves, lead themselves astray. The word deceiving yourselves is interesting because it actually means to count wrongly. You add things up, you come to the wrong sum. If you don't listen closely, you fail in life's math. You misjudge what's important, and you talk yourself into buying worthless trinkets in life. Verse 25 gives the result of hearing and doing when it says, this one will be blessed in what he does. What's the difference between being blessed by God and talking yourself into leading yourself astray? The difference is enormous. Being blessed by God or miscounting in life and deceiving yourself Some people think that the difference represents unbelievers who mislead themselves and believers who are blessed. James is talking to Christians. And he's talking about the fact that there are Christians who will be blessed by God, enjoy God's blessing, and there are Christians. Who will mislead themselves and lead themselves astray and waste their lives on purchase of trinkets What makes the difference? The difference is in this little phrase, doer of the word. Doer of the word. It's not the book, you know, it's not the book that makes the difference. Both of these people heard the word of God. One of them did it and one of them didn't do it. So it's not being in church. It's not listening to God's word. The issue is being a doer of the word. So we're going to spend two weeks talking about doer of the word. James is concerned that his readers don't understand this concept. What does it mean? People usually ask, do what? Do good stuff? Have a transcendent thought? Give to missionaries. What does it mean, a doer of the word? A lot of people think that it James is saying, well, obey the ten. Okay, so let's not murder today. You know? What does it mean, doer of the word? In chapter 1, James is thinking about how we react to three major issues in our lives. Three major issues. Trials, number one, temptations, number two, and the word of God, number three. Trials are the first twelve verses. Temptations are the next eight verses, 13 to 20. The Word of God is the next five verses, 21 to 25. And I have entitled these three sections, Friends That We Abhor. 1-12 Terrorists that we adore, 13 to 20, and the elephant in the room that we ignore, 21 to 25. Today we'll only have time to cover the first one. Terrorists, terrorists. Now that's next Sunday. Friends, we abhor. Or deplore. What did I say in the bulletin? Deplore? Let me correct that and make it right. Friends, we deplore. So we're talking about trials. The question is, what does it mean to be a doer of the word? How does this book guide what we do? And the first question in the first 12 verses is, how do we become a doer of the word when we fall into various trials? Verse 2 introduces the subject, James 1. 2. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. In these 12 verses, James gives us six commands, six commands on how to become a doer of the word. I'd like to go through all six this morning and demonstrate how they lead up to the word blessed in verse 12. Verse 12 says, blessed. Is the man who is enduring temptation. And then at the end today, I'd like to ask you: are you a doer of the word? So I'm going to summarize these six commands into five main ideas. Five main ideas. So here's number one. Action number one. Count it all joy. Count it all joy. I'm reading verses two and three. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces. Patience. Does everybody understand what a trial is? A trial is an accident or a difficulty, a challenge that enters your life usually unexpectedly, sometimes quite suddenly, and forces you to make a decision It forces you to make a decision. And you've got to decide whether you are going to listen to what God says or listen to what somebody else says. The hot water heater quits. Your car won't start. Your 15-year-old gets arrested. You lose your job. Your wife departs to be with the Lord. James uses the word various trials. The word various means different colors, different shapes, different sizes. Different kinds of trials. They all do the same thing to us. They all force us to make a choice. You have to make a choice. A trial is something where you cannot non-choose. You have to choose. You know, if somebody comes up and slaps you in the face, what do you do? You stand there? You have to do something, you know So a trial is usually something where we hit something, react to something, yell, scream, cry, kick, go to bed, leave the scene. Or count it all joy. Alright? You face many trials every day. Some of you may be facing trials, a trial, as you sit here this morning. Now, what James is saying is that we need to choose to look at this trial from God's perspective. We need to see this trial as something from God that has a goal to it. It has a purpose to it. God says it's a test of your faith. And it will work patience in your heart. He can use it to help us grow. That's why he wants us to count it all joy. He's in this situation with us. He's at work. Counting it all joy means you realize That God is doing something in this and you appreciate it. You are thanking God for this situation. The command is not enjoy the trial. The command is appreciate the purpose of the trial. Realize that God is going to do something in this situation that nothing else can accomplish God is going to do something in your life that you're going to like later on, even though you may not like it now. That's not easy to do. I'm waiting for an Amen. Does the church have amens? Just press the a little yeah. You know, it's not easy to thank God for trial in case You haven't done that recently. And James is writing to people who probably felt exactly that way. Look at verse 1. Verse 1 addresses the twelve tribes scattered. Scattered. Scattered means they probably had lost their homes. They probably lost their jobs. They were probably refugees This could have been connected with Acts chapter 8, where Saul began persecuting the church and he drove these Christians out of Jerusalem. And they were scattered. So these are people that are in trouble. Okay? Life as normal isn't there. James does not say, now, now, I understand that you have it rough. Just take it easy. No, he said, you understand the fact that this is an indication that God is at work in your life. These are people who perhaps came to Christ back there in Acts chapter 2 when 3,000 people got saved. They saw the miracles. They saw the great expansion of the church, and now they've been pushed out of Jerusalem, and now what do they have? They say, well, we followed Jesus Christ and we were blessed of God. Now what's happened? And Paul says, you've got to get God's perspective on this. If you don't get God's perspective on this, you're going to mislead yourself and you're going to buy the wrong trinkets in your life. So if God is present in this trial, if he is going to turn it into something good, we should thank him for the trial. We should thank him for the trial. So how you respond in the trials that come into your life every day does show who you believe. Do you believe God when he says, I can turn everything in your life to good? Or do you believe your thoughts or Satan's thoughts and say, this is terrible? You remember Job? Job lost ten children on one day. Ten. Ten children in one day. Any of you lost children? Anybody here lost children? We've got one, two. That is just awful, you know, losing a child. We lost our 22-year-old son. It's awful. Job says, Job's wife comes to him and says, curse God and die. Put a tag on this thing that says, if this is all God can deliver, he's not worth trusting. Cuss him out and die. Remember Job's response? That's a foolish response, he said. The Lord gave. The Lord took away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And then it says, Job worshiped. That's counting it all joy. You know, one of the things that was a great benefit to me when our son passed away was that verse where Job said, The Lord gave, the Lord took away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Because we were asking the question, why did God take him? And that verse says you can't start there. It's the wrong place to start. You have to start with why did God give him? You know, we had 22 blessed years with this kid. This was an amazing kid. Five kids earlier, I constantly had to be on them to study. Constantly had to be on them to, you know, not this one. This one studied automatically. This guy was so organized and so disciplined and so and so committed to Jesus Christ, I wondered where he came from. He decided he was going to memorize the entire Bible by the time he was 40. And he was on schedule. He would memorize five verses a day. Monday, Monday through Friday, five verses a day. Saturday, Sunday, you review the 25 verses And he was on schedule. And he'd come to me and say, see if I can quote James in ten minutes. Let me go through this. Or see if I can quote this Why did God take him? No, the question is: why did God give him to us? We ought to bless God for giving him to us. That's the way Job responded. That's a response of faith. That's a response that is a doer of the word. Any of you remember Johnny Erickson-Tada, who grew up in this area, up in Sykesville? Um is that 40 years? 50 years ago, wasn't it? 1967. What's it like to go on a family picnic down here to uh Sandy Point? Probably 35 miles from here and dive into the Chesapeake Bay and break your neck and from then on be a quadruple and not able to move hardly anything What's it like? Well, that's disaster for a 16-year-old young girl. completely life-changing trial. In her book entitled Johnny, she talks about how she contemplated suicide. At one point, she talked to her helper, Jackie, about giving her an overdose of pills or slashing her wrists. One day, just after cussing out Jackie for dropping a fan and making a big noise, Her boyfriend Dick walked in and he read this to her. He read this, I'm quoting, when all kinds of trials and temptations crowd into your lives, my brothers Don't resent them as intruders, but welcome them as friends. Realize that they came to test your faith and produce in you the quality of endurance. Does it sound familiar? He was reading James 1 from the Phillips translation. After realizing the truth of this verse, Johnny prayed and said, Lord Jesus, I'm sorry I haven't been looking more to you for help. I've never thought of my accident before as something for testing my faith. But I can see how that's happened. Thank you for this lesson. With your help, I'm going to trust you. Thank you that even this accident works together for good. Can you imagine a 16-year-old girl saying that? And then she ends. I pray that others around me will see you through me. Maybe that's part of the reason why God has used her to write more than 40 Christian books. draw hundreds of pictures with a pen held between her teeth, make a full-length feature film, record records, Speak for Jesus Christ in more than 35 countries around the world, have a radio program heard on more than 1,000 outlets Anybody see the benefit of her trial? Now that's the command. The command is that this trial can't Doesn't necessarily do you that much good until you say thank you. Until you see this from God's perspective. Okay? Everybody see that? This is Joseph saying to his brothers. Remember this in Genesis 50? You meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. So whatever is coming into your life, whatever these accidents or You know, sudden things are. The first response is to thank God, to realize that God can do something good out of it. All right. Got to hurry. Action number two. Go through the trial fully. Go through the trial fully. Emphasis on the word fully. Here's verses 3 and 4. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience But let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. Produce patience is God's plan. He puts things into our lives that produce patience. The word patience is the word endurance. Verse 4 says that as this process finishes its work in our lives, it will make us complete and mature. The word perfect does not mean sinless. Never make a mistake. Instead, it means mature, adult, grown up. God wants us to grow up. That's the desire of every parent. The problem is that some kids don't like the process. They don't like the process of growing up and being faced with difficult choices. And so they duck the difficulty. Did you ever do that? Perhaps it was fourth grade when you were assigned to give an oral report in front of the whole class on Building igloos in Africa in Alaska. Okay? Maybe igloos in Africa Okay? And what happened? You awoke that morning with an awful stomachache. Just a terrible stomach ache, and you were sure that you had an ulcer. And you had to lie in bed with a hot water bottle on your stomach, and so on and so forth. What was going on? You were ducking the responsibility. You didn't want that You didn't want to go to class. You didn't want to have to give that report. Now that's it's one thing to do that in the fourth grade. It's a completely different thing to do that when you are an adult and have responsibilities. So verse 4 is saying you don't want to duck this trial. You don't want to miss what this trial promises The command is let patience have its full work. Let it attain its end. Let it do its job. If God says that He's going to make this trial, He's going to use this trial in my life to produce patience, don't you want it? Maybe I'll try again sometime. If what God does in our lives is perfect, and he says that he is using this for good in our lives, you don't want it? James says, you want it. You want everything you can get out of it. You want to go through it fully. Don't miss it. Let patience have its full work in your life I mean, why would you want only one day of vacation in Hawaii when you're scheduled for a month? Okay. So the encouragement in verse four is don't run away. Don't try to get out of it. Don't shy away from the pain. Don't leave the family. Don't run from the church. Don't give up. Instead, focus on God and realize He's got a great plan for you. You don't want to miss his plan. That's number two. Action number three. Ask God for wisdom. Ask God for wisdom. So action number one is what? Got it all joy. Got it all joy. Action number two is Go through it fully. Action number three, ask God for wisdom. This is verse five. If any of you lacks wisdom. Let him ask of God who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given him. Why does anyone need wisdom? Well, if they've decided to go through their new difficulty the right way, that's exactly what they need. How do I do this? What do I do? You know? Our car quit. We had two grandkids with us on Interstate 70. And we're driving home at about 9 o'clock at night, and the car quits. Just quits. Totally. Dead. Won't start, won't anything. So our first response was to thank God for it and then say, what do we do? You know? You got any ideas up there? How should we respond to this? Ask me someday what happened. It was absolutely unbelievable how God had that planned. So How do you know what to do when these problems come into your life? You read a book? Do you need counseling? Maybe you should go to school and get a degree. No, the command in verse five is ask. Ask. Just ask. And then you have three striking descriptions of who you're asking. In verse 5. Do you see these three striking descriptions? It says, who gives to all liberally And without reproach, and it will be given to him. Did you ever have you ever pictured God as liberal? God gives liberally. Have you ever seen God as a liberal giver? Or do you think that God gives economically or restrictively It says God gives liberally. God wants to give us wisdom. And then it says he does not reproach. That's the word that means to scold or insult. Or revile. I take that as meaning God does not get tired of us coming and requesting wisdom. He doesn't say, okay, you've had your quota for today. I'm tired of asking answering your request for wisdom. You know, it's 12. 30 in the morning. None of that. God is liberal. God enjoys his children coming asking for request. And then it ends by saying, God will give you wisdom. It will be given to him. Will be given. Is future passive? Future passive. Remember the passive voice? Were any of you in seventh grade? Passive voice means you don't have to do anything. Passive voice means it's done to you. It's done for you. Notice the verse. You ask, and God will, it will be given to you. You ask, and you have no more responsibilities. You ask and wisdom will be given to you. Does that sound too easy? Try it. That's the way God works. To me, it's amazing how God supplies wisdom. God can supply wisdom through his word. God can bring a verse into your mind. God can Supply wisdom from somebody who says something. God can supply wisdom by giving you thoughts by the Spirit of God. There are all kinds of ways that God can supply wisdom. Ask, ask. So that's number three. Number one is what. What was number one? Count it all joy. Yes, there they are. Okay, number two is Determined to go through it fully. Number three is ask for wisdom. Number four, verses six and seven and eight. Ask in faith. Ask in faith. Here's verse 6. But let him ask in faith with no doubting. For he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. For let not that man suppose he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. There are actually two commands here that I'm putting together in one. Ask in faith. Verse 7 says: let not that man Suppose both of these commands emphasize the truth that your response to trials needs to be a response of faith. Perhaps some of you are sitting there and saying to me, aha, here is the key. This is the crunch point, Shupi. Don't get too positive about verse 5 until you read verse 6. You ask and God will give it to you. Oh yeah? Only if you ask in faith. True. That's right. Only if you ask in faith. And Shupi notice verse 7: don't let that man suppose he will receive anything from the Lord. That's an anti-promise command. I can guarantee you, verse 7 says, I can guarantee you one thing. Nothing. That's a pretty striking statement. So verses 6, 7, and 8 say faith is crucial. Faith is crucial. What does it mean to ask in faith? Is it even possible for us unfaithful people to ask in faith? Maybe that's why my requests have come back, unopened, unanswered. Maybe that's why I feel alone in all this mess Maybe God is not going to answer my request because it's not in faith. So what is faith when you're facing difficulties? The answer is very simple. First of all, it's not feeling. I used to think that faith was a feeling, and so I had to have this feeling of total confidence in God before I asked him for wisdom. So I would sit there trying to stir up my confidence, you know. Get my confidence meter stirred up, and then when I really did feel like God was going to answer, I quickly asked before. I lost my confidence. That's not faith. Faith is not a feeling Faith doesn't have a whole lot to do with your motion your emotions. It's an action. Faith is an action. It's a decision to believe God and do what he says, no matter how I feel. So here's Hebrews 11, 7. By faith Noah moved with godly fear and prepared an ark. Noah moved. Hebrews 11, 8. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out and he went out. Here's John 1. 12. But as many as received him, Christ, to them gave he power to become the children of God, even to those who believe on his name. For Noah, faith was building an ark. For Abraham, faith was going out to find a city. For an unbeliever, faith is placing their trust in Christ by receiving him as their Savior. So what's faith when facing trials? Faith when facing trials is obeying verses 2, 3, and 4. You ask God for wisdom in faith when you say, I want to live in thanksgiving and I want to go through this fully Would you give me wisdom to know how to do this? Show me what to do so that I can count it all joy so that I can experience the trial fully. So it doesn't matter how you feel. It's not an issue of do you feel good, bad, or neutral. It's an issue of what you're going to do. Why do I need this wisdom? I need this wisdom because I'm going to obey you in this trial. And I want the benefits, the full benefits of it. So it so Faith is shown in the way that you respond to your trials. Faith is shown by that determination to go through it God's way. Alright, here's action number five. Number one, count it all joy. Number two, determine to go through it fully. Number three, ask for wisdom. Number four, ask in faith. Number five, rejoice in your status change. Rejoice in your status change. This is verses 9 to 12 I'm reading, verse 9. Let the lowly brother glory in his exaltation, but the rich in his humiliation. Because as a flower of the field he will pass away. For no sooner has the sun risen with a burning heat than it withers the grass, its flower falls, its beautiful appearance perishes. So the rich man also will fade away in his pursuits. Blessed is the man who endures temptation. For when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to those who love him. Notice verse 12 is leading us to this phrase that says, blessed is the one who is enduring temptation. Now, don't let the word temptation mislead you. We're going to talk about that next week. Actually, the word trial and temptation in the Greek are the same word. It's the same word. And I'll talk more about it next week. But he's talking about the temptation here that is a trial. Blessed is the person who is enduring trials, meaning he's in the middle of the trial. It's not the fact that he's gotten out of it and now he's blessed. It's the fact that the person is in the middle of the difficulty. He's trusting God. He's going to go God's way. He's going to obey him with his wisdom. James says, you're going to experience blessing. So the command in verse 9 is to glory. That's the word to boast, take pride in, rejoice, be glad. Why would God command us to boast? The answer is that trials change our status. They add us to the blessed category. Trials put us in the category of God at work to do something. Usually amazing and surprising. So every trial you face is an evidence that God is at work. It shows us that he's doing something godlike with us. He's paying attention to us. Whether we're lowly or rich, the trial will help us come to understand what real life is about. Life is very short. We will all fade away quickly in the middle of our pursuits. And the most valuable thing is to endure trials the right way. And receive God's approval, God's blessing in our lives. Every trial is designed to bless us. The wrong view sees trials as things to get out of. The wrong view deplores these friends God wants us to welcome them. They're not just additions. They're not just something tagged on to your life They are the journey of life. They are the life Happy is the man who is right now in the middle of a trial and enduring He may not feel happy, he may not look happy, but he will find that the trial was not an interruption as much as a door to a new kind of life. Gene Walter was an 80-year-old who appeared in Luella Nash Levy's book. Her book was entitled Pure Joy. Here's what he said. I quote, the most wonderful thing that ever happened to me in my spiritual life is to come down with cancer because it opened up the Word of God. Does that sound a little strange to you? The most wonderful thing for me was to come down with cancer. He didn't say the most wonderful thing for me was to be healed of cancer. Because then I could get on with my life. No, he said the most wonderful thing was cancer because it opened God's word. That's a different way of looking at it. That's where verse 12 is going. Verse 12 is saying that God, in these things that come into our lives, will bring us blessing. When we respond the right way to these things. If you notice the end of verse 12, verse 12 ends by saying, to those who love him, To those who love him. It's one thing to love God when he gives you what you want. It's a brand new thing to love God when what he gives you is painful. When what he gives you is not what you want. Ever been there? That's a radical perspective on life. But that's what James calls a doer of the word. A doer of the word. Some of you sitting here today are more blessed than you think. And you need to thank God. And you need to ask God for wisdom. What do I do? How do I do it? So, what does it mean to be a doer of the word? It means that we view our trials and difficulties as something good. We thank God for them. Number two, we determine to go through the trial fully and get everything God wants us to get out of it. Number three, we ask God for wisdom. We ask God for wisdom because we are determined to go through it the right way and get everything out of it. Number four, we ask in faith. Ask in order to obey him. And number five, we glory in the status God has graciously given us by this trial. Are you a doer of the word? That's your assignment this week I'm coming back next week, I think. I'm coming back next week, okay And my encouragement, my encouragement is for you to respond to God by saying, I want to become a doer of the word In how I respond to my difficulties. I want to grow. I want to develop. Okay? Let's pray.