In Luke chapter 6, we have Jesus Christ sort of coming into a high point of his authority and a demonstration of his power. The people have seen the miracles that he can do. They've heard his o out of his own mouth that he was claiming to be the Messiah of Israel, the one to who had come to set the captives free. Free to heal the brokenhearted. He had a popular following that was flocking to him. And then in Luke chapter 6, verses 12 to 16, he chose out from his disciples twelve, who he called apostles. And so we have in Luke chapter 6, verse 17, he came down with them, that is his apostles, and stood on a level place with the crowd of his disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem. And from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and be healed of their diseases, as well as those who were tormented with unclean spirits. And they were healed. And the whole multitude sought to touch him, for power went out from him and healed them all. This paragraph is a type of summary statement at this point in the Gospel of Luke. It summarizes the influence of Jesus Christ. His power to heal the sick, to cast out demons, his very touch able to do the miraculous And it gives us a picture of thousands who are seeking him and listening to him, waiting upon his every word. And it is at this point in the Gospel of Luke that we have an introduction to more detailed teaching of Jesus Christ. And so we have What we call the Beatitudes in this first section here of Luke 6, verses 20 to 26. He pronounces a blessing on those who will receive the kingdom of God. The blessing is primarily about the future. You will one day be filled. You shall be filled. You shall laugh. Your reward in heaven will be great. Although there's a current suffering for those who belong to the kingdom of God, there is the promise of future blessing. Blessed are you. There's also a pronouncement of woe for those who in this present life have everything but are not part of the kingdom of God. He then transitions into statements about how people in the kingdom of God should love their enemies. You should love them if you look at chapter 6, verse 27. But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. This love he applies by way of speaking of the words that we say, how we respond to their hate verbally. We pray for them. How we deal with them taking things from us rather than demanding revenge, we are generous. We give more than is required. In the end, Jesus says when we act this way as children of God, we are acting like God. And if you look down, you see in the last verse of this section, in verse 35, but love your enemies, do good and lend, hoping for nothing in return, and your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore be merciful, just as your Father also is merciful. There's a kingdom. There are blessings for those who are part of it. There are curses for those who aren't. There are actions of the kingdom's citizens. There is a unique way that we behave. We love our enemies. And then in the section we're looking at today, there is a way that we treat one another. It is the way brothers in the kingdom treat one another. And so what we're going to do next is just read verses 37 down to verse 45, 37 to 45. And just follow along, and then we'll get into this message. He says, judge not, and you shall not be judged. Condemn not and you shall not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over will be put into your bosom. For with the same measure that you use, it will be measured back to you. And he spoke a parable to them. Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into the ditch? A disciple is not above his teacher But everyone who is perfectly trained will be like his teacher. And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not perceive the plank in your own eye For how can you say to your brother, Brother, let me remove the speck that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the plank that is in your own eye? Hypocrite! First, remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother's eye. For a good tree does not bear bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit. For every tree is known by its own fruit. For men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good. And an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth evil. For out of the abundance of the heart, His mouth speaks. Let's take a moment to pray. Father, as we look at this passage, bless us and guide us, help us to get the kernel of truth, the theme from this passage, and take it home with us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. If you were to walk into the throne room of an ancient king, you would be able to take out a piece of paper and write down certain characteristics of what or what it's like. Observations. For example, in that room, there will be a very obvious separation in some way between the one who is an authority and the one who is not. There's the king, and he is separated off in some fashion, a throne, a table, some way, an ornate chair that he sits upon There's the king recognized. On the other hand, there would be those who approach the king according to whatever rules the kingdom has established The king might have a scepter representing his authority, a crown on his head. And those who do not have scepters and who do not have crowns, they have to approach the king in a certain manner. and say things to him in a certain way. There are protocols there. It might be a big room so that a lot of people can approach. It might be a smaller room because it has to be more private where only a few can approach. But there's definitely that difference between the one in authority and the one, those who are not. If you were to go to the throne room of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, Certainly we would see, among many other wondrous things, this same separation between he who sits upon the throne, the glorious one, and those who approach the throne. The devil approached the throne. He had access to that throne. Our great adversary, the accuser, Satan. In the book of Job, the first chapter, the devil approaches the Lord of heaven and earth, and he uses his access at that time to accuse Job. To look at to bring Job's character before the Lord. Now, of course, the Lord mentions Job first, and the devil uses that opportunity to accuse Job of wrongdoing. Saying something along these lines, Job serves you because of the things you do for him. And he judged Job, and he condemned Job. This is what the devil does. Even at this very moment, in some way that we don't completely understand, there are these accusations being hurled at God from Him about us. How would you like to live with a person who accuses you and condemns you on a daily basis, who uses their words to tear you down, not to heal, not to offer hope? We, as brothers and sisters in the kingdom of God and in the church, are not to be like this. We see here first in our section. That the Lord commands us in verse 37, judge not and you shall not be judged. Condemn not and you shall not be condemned. Now, there's a lot of misunderstanding about this passage. You've probably had people say, Don't judge me, as if that's the point. But it's not the judging that's the issue, it's the judging in order to condemn. That's the issue here, folks. We know that because of the connection, judge not, condemn not, and the replacement, forgive and give, verse 38. So there is a prohibition against having this attitude of, I'm looking at your life, I'm finding things that are lacking. And my goal is simply to put my finger on that and say, you are wrong, you are condemned. In the same way that Satan stood before God and condemned Job. Did Satan offer any grace for Job? Did Satan try to come with questions to the Lord to find out more about Job? Satan is not omniscient. God is. No. There was judgment and condemnation. I believe this passage is speaking in terms of brothers because when you go down to uh the the next paragraph in verse 41, it says, why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye? So, unlike the previous section, which was talking about my treatment of my enemies, I should love them. This is primarily talking about the treatment that we have between ourselves as Christian, brothers and sisters. how we should treat one another. So first, judge not, condemn not, second, forgive and give. I want to invite you to turn to a couple of passages that would shed some light on what's happening here. Let me get you to turn to James, chapter, let's see here. James. Turn to James chapter three. The first thing we're going to look at is this putting off And putting on. And we're going to look at James 3, the first two paragraphs here, and see how James is kind of following the flow of Jesus and his teachings. For example, he talks about words and he talks about teachers And isn't that what Jesus just said? A disciple will be like his teacher. In James 3, verse 1, James says, My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing That we shall receive a stricter judgment. For we all stumble in many things. If any one does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body Now you're familiar with this passage. He goes on to describe the danger of our words, the tongue. It is powerful. It is Small, like the rudder of a ship, but powerful, able to turn the whole ship. It's like fire. It's uncontrollable. And if you can control your tongue, you can control a lot of things. What James is dealing with in his brothers and sisters that he's writing to, the Christians that he's writing to, are people that are out of control with what they say. And they're out of control with what they say, fighting and warring with one another, because chapter 4, the first paragraph there, they have these desires. They desire and they don't have. They don't get. what they desire. So there's this there's this conflict of desire in their hearts that creates a conflict of in relationships as it comes out, and that is affecting their words and what they're saying. And so what are they doing with their words? Well, whatever it is, it's not good. In Luke, Jesus is saying, don't judge and condemn. Rather, forgive and give. There's this slow down. Don't be the one to jump in and judge and condemn. And we have, if you go back to Luke and kind of keep your finger here in James chapter 3. What we have here is a tendency When Jesus describes the what this means, this judging and condemning, he speaks in terms of this humorous uh description of having a plank in your eye and your brother has a moat or a speck in his eye And we say that down here in verse 39. This is back at Luke 6, 39. Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into the ditch? A disciple is not above the teacher, but everyone who is perfectly trained will be like his teacher. Why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but don't perceive the plank in your own eye? And then you say, and what's the antidote? Well, first, he calls them hypocrites, first remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is from your brother's eye. Back in James chapter 3, after he, James writing to the Christians, says, look, you don't all want to be teachers, you're going to receive a stricter judgment. There's this thing called our words. And we have to be careful because the tongue is such a dangerous thing. And then he moves on into the second section, if your finger is there and you go back to James 3, verse 13. Where he says, Alright, here's someone, you claim to be wise, you claim to be understanding. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by good conduct that his works are done in the meekness or the gentleness of wisdom. If you have bitter envy and self-seeking in your hearts, do not boast and lie against the truth. This wisdom does not descend from above. It's earthly, sensual, demonic. For where envy and self-seeking exist, confusion and every evil thing are there. But the wisdom that's from above is first pure, peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, and without partiality. Here's the two dots I'm trying to connect here. There's this warning about words, about jumping in with words, and then there's this command about character. There's this sort of what kind of person are you? Before you're jumping in with two feet verbally, and remember the danger of the tongue, show from the wisdom of your conduct Show from the way you live that you have sort of the character to say the right thing before you say it. And this is parallel to what Jesus was saying first, remove the plank sticking out of your own eye so that you can see clearly. To to sort of let this come down to a a finer point, it's the priority of your own Self-analysis. It's the priority of personal cleansing. It's the priority of making sure that you are the right kind of a person that you are Fellowshipping with God in His Word and careful that your character is going to back up what you say before you say it. The picture here of a plank sticking out of your eye is many commentators think this is definite humor from the Lord. He's given us a visual image that in that day would have produced some chuckles in the audience when they heard that. But there has to be this willingness, this priority, to take the plank out of our own eye. What do you think about the devil accusing Job? Do you think the devil had any planks in his eyes? Well, he kind of led a rebellion against heaven, and he got a third of the angels to fall with him. He tempted Adam and Eve to sin. They fell into sin. He basically painted graffiti all over God's beautiful world. And now we have a cursed world to live in. Thanks to the father of lies. What do you think about someone who comes with an accusation in order to condemn and they are so messed up and wrong? That their life speaks louder than their words. Now that's an extreme example. The devil is an extreme example. But we do have in the Gospels. kind of come down a little bit in the demonic hierarchy, demons who knew the knew who Christ was, and yet the Lord did not accept their testimony by virtue of who they were. He didn't want the even the truth spoken through the lips of a demon-possessed person. He didn't accept that kind of testimony. How does this work its way out in your life and my life? Well, it does. Consider this for a second. Have you ever had a friend who hasn't talked to you for a while? For whatever reason. You don't know why. They just haven't called you, haven't texted you, emailed you, Facebook messaged you, or whatever other new communication things are coming out nowadays. They just haven't for maybe a week And you start to wonder, wow, I wonder if everything's okay. So you communicate to them, and they still don't communicate back to you. Two weeks go by. And you're wondering, wow, what would you wonder? I'll tell you what I would wonder. I would begin to think, well. Are they sick? And I I would continue to communicate and they still don't respond. And then I would start to think, well, maybe they're upset with me or with My friends, or with something I said to them. Maybe I offended them. And so if they continue to not communicate We as communicative creatures, we fill that void with speculation. Maybe you're not like me, maybe you don't do this. This is sort of a pastoral observation, but I I think you do. I think you do in all honesty. So there's this vacuum that is filled with words, and these words can kind of start to take on an accusarial tone. Before you know it, you find yourself defending yourself to supposed accusations of the other person, and there's just this tendency to jump in after a while. Judge and condemn. Judge and condemn. I mean there's okay, I I know that I have why isn't this person communicating with me? And eventually it can turn into something really bad. Our flesh, when you were saved, did it somehow leave you? Do you still have the flesh in you as a Christian, and do you still struggle against it? And so what we have to struggle against fight in ourselves is a tendency to look at things and judge and condemn before we hear what's going on. Maybe there is something in our own eye. Now the context, if you look at this, the context here is a master-disciple context. There's the teacher, and then there's the disciple. And the teachers of the day, the Pharisees, they had it wrong. They were the ones who were getting out their microscopes, their their glass to look at lives and they were all about that condemnation and not about grace. And so Jesus is teaching his disciples That the Pharisees are going to transfer that right down to their disciples. They are incapable of teaching the correct thing by virtue of who they are and what they do. So the question is: what is the replacement biblically for judging and condemning? Are we not to judge at all? And for that, I want to get you to turn to Galatians, and I'll share with you the replacement. That Paul wrote to the Galatians about when it comes to how we're supposed to. . . Galatians chapter 6. And then we'll go back to Luke. So you find someone in your life and they have done wrong and you judge that they have done wrong. Matthew 18, if your brother sins against you. In in Luke 6, there's replacing the the judging and the condemning with forgiveness. So judging does not mean that you don't recognize sin when it occurs, that you just kind of overlook Some major transgression and you don't discern what's happening. Because we have here, this is one of many passages in Galatians 6, we have a man who is overtaken in a trespass. He has sinned. And other Christians have to look at him and say, well, you know what? He did sin. But rather than moving to the next step of condemnation and kind of leaving that man just hanging in a state of judgment, It says in Galatians 6 verse 1, If a man is overtaken in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, considering yourself lest you also be tempted. Bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself But let each one examine his own work, and then he will have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another, for each one shall bear his own load. Did you hear some of the same themes that are coming from the sermon that Jesus preached? There's, don't think too highly of yourself. There's, look, you need to examine your own work. Look at make sure you don't have planks in your own eyes And so he's saying here really in the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount, if you find someone, restore them. Instead of judging and condemning, there should be judging and restoring. That's the point here. There are have been frequent times in my life when people have come to me and told me when I have sinned. And surely it's okay, husbands and wives, is it okay? For your wife to tell you that you're sinning or your husband to tell you that you're sinning, is that okay? If it's done in the spirit of gentleness. As is said here, so that we can restore such a one. Folks, when we when we replace judging and condemning with discerning and restoring, It changes everything. You know, before you were saved, the law of God, it would accuse you and condemn you. That's all it could do. You didn't have the Spirit of God within you. You weren't redeemed through the blood of Christ. You had nothing. You had no standing before God. You were not justified in the sight of God. You had no position before him of stability. So when the law of God came in, it could say, You have sinned. You have sinned. You are condemned. The wages of sin is death. That's all the law of God could do. So when we sinned before we were saved, we felt our irreconciled status before God. We knew that he was angry with us, and we hated him. Because there was no way out. We were trapped until we heard about Christ. We were trapped in this state of sin. And so when we sin before Christ, we run away. We want the fig leaves. We want the trees. We don't want to deal with him because all he can do is condemn me. And there's no hope for someone trying to overcome a sinful pattern of life when it comes to the penalty of sin. Before God. That cannot be removed. And so you might think, well, I did better in my life in this area for today, but God is still angry with me. And even if I did 50% better tomorrow, God would still be angry with me. He would still be there. Frowning at me and condemning me. That is what the law of God does. It accuses and condemns, it judges and condemns. But after Christ, When we become the child, a child of God, a son of God, joint heirs with Christ, when we've been imputed with the righteousness of Christ. And we stand before a holy and righteous God in that perfect robe of righteousness which will never be taken away because it's completely based on the cross of Christ and the work of another. It's unconditional and immovable. Now we can deal with our sin. Because no matter what happens, where sin abounds Grace abounds more. And now rather than running from the condemnation of the law, we can truly embrace the law in the power of the Spirit of God. And we can say, oh, how I love thy law, because we know if we break it, we're not cast aside. A righteous man falls down seven times and gets back up. Because now the father's posture toward me is one of grace and help. I mean you take one of his servants like the Apostle Paul, he's he has to have a thorn in the flesh. He has a physical weakness of some kind and all these burdens. And he's really under it and he's struggling, and God does not say, shape up. God says, my grace is sufficient for you because my power is made perfect in your weakness. the power of Christ. And so Paul says, I embrace my physical weaknesses and trials and tribulations. After Christ, Romans 5, we have a standing in grace, and so when we sin, we run back to God. We don't touch those fig leaves which are pointless and not relevant. We don't hide in the trees because God's omniscient. He sees through trees. We run to Christ and we say, Lord, I blew it. I need grace. I don't want to do this. Forgive me. 1 John 1. 9, I confess. I confess my sins to you. I know you're faithful and just to forgive because of Christ. Help me back up, Lord. I want to do better. I want that higher ground. And so this is what salvation is. But the problem sometimes, folks, is that it doesn't trickle down into our relationships. We can kind of take on an attitude of judge and condemn when it comes to our wife, our husband, our kids, our co-workers, or even ourselves. And forget our justified status in Christ and the freedom we have through Christ. And so we have to remind ourselves of the gospel. Who we are in Christ, and when our brother falls down, we which are spiritual, not the blind leading the blind. Not the Pharisees who are incapable of teaching their disciples about grace because they've lost it when it comes to the proper theology of the Old Testament. We reach down and say, hey brother, let me help you up. Yeah, you've sinned. Will you repent? There's hope for you. Confess your sin. You'll be forgiven. Repent. Come back up and let me help you. Let me help you back up. And when we do this, we're bearing his burden with him. We have our own load to bear, but we're helping to bear his and being like this. So what Jesus is saying, if you turn back to Luke, when you compare it to how the apostles lived it out and wrote to the churches about it. It's a gospel-centered, grace-centered understanding of how we are to treat one another When you have two people who have the gospel of Jesus Christ alive and burning in their hearts, they will treat each other differently. Life is different for you and I who have the gospel in us. And so we are as kingdom citizens, and you go back to Luke 6, bear with me here, I'm still turning. We have this command, look, make sure that the plank is not in your own eye. In Galatians 6 language, examine your own work In James' language, hey, wait, make sure that what you're saying is from the wisdom of good conduct And you and I are kind of really concerned that when we talk to one another, we're doing it with the right motivation and out of the right heart. You know what this is saying here? This is saying That saying the right thing is connected to being the right person. It's connected to your character and conduct It's so much connected that way that when you look at the final paragraph in our section today and the illustration that Jesus uses starting in verse 43, he only gives two categories. There's the good tree and there's the bad tree. There's a certain kind of there's a fig tree and then there's a thorn tree. There's grapes and then there's a bramble bush. I mean you expect grapes from a grape bush and brambles from a bramble bush. I mean that there is something that you expect by virtue of what it is inherently. And so you have a disciple and he is focused. He wants to make sure there are no beams in his own eye. And that his attitude is not judge and condemn, it's judge and discern and restore. And then because of who he is, he can see clearly and he can help his brother. He will be, folks, he will be, verse 43, the good tree. He'll bear good fruit. He'll be like the fig tree that bears figs and the grape tree that that bears grapes. He'll be, verse 45, a good man who has good treasure in his heart. He had access to this good treasure because of who he is, and he can pull that out, and he can make use of it out of the abundance of his heart, the overflow of the cup of his heart. Is going to be words of healing, words of help. And so what we have here is Jesus Turning the Pharisaic attitude and teaching upside down, he's really making light of it and giving us something so much better. Than the Pharisees had, we can learn from Christ how we should behave. So, where does this leave us? Right now. I mentioned already that when there's silence, this is again a pastoral observation and sort of a studied opinion. So you can disagree with me on this, but think of this in terms of application. There's a tendency when there's silence for us to move in. And here's a warning. When you enter a new situation, Avoid accusing and condemning and replace it with questioning and trying to find out what the real situation is. You know, there are multiple Proverbs, dozens of Proverbs, that talk about words. There's one that says, in a multitude of words, there wanteth not sin, there doesn't lack for sin. There's There's another proverb that talks about how a wise man will be fed by the words of his mouth. And there are all kinds of warnings about words. And in the New Testament, there's a very simple phrase, be slow to. Speak and quick to listen. And you told your kids, you have one mouth and two ears. And God did that for a reason. And yet we all struggle with this tendency to jump in and shoot first and ask questions later. So here would be an application, be slow to speak. With one another. Don't assume the worst. And can I get you to turn to another passage here? Turn to one you know well. 1 Corinthians 13. 1 Corinthians 13. We often hear it at weddings. The replacement for condemning and judging and condemning is love. And love acts a certain way, and love speaks a certain way. And we have in 1 Corinthians 13, verse 4, love suffers long. And is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not parade itself. Is not puffed up, does not behave rudely, does not seek its own. Is not provoked, thinks no evil, does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. It bears all things. And then you have this phrase that believes all things And this is a similar concept to think no evil. There is this quality of love that tries to assume the best about someone. That isn't quick to condemn, that is willing to wait and find out what the facts are before moving in for a judgment. And this is the quality of love that God has. In a moment, we're going to do the Lord's table. Let me take you back to the throne room for a second. Who knew Job better, Satan or God God. Satan is not omniscient. He cannot read all these minds on the globe and know all our thoughts. He does not do that. He is only a creature created by God. Did the devil know the actual sins that Job committed in his mind? Who knew the true sins of Job? God did. I'm sure God could have said, hey, you know what Job did yesterday? And yet God didn't do that. Because Job was a man of faith. In the Old Testament, men were justified by faith, just like in the New Testament. Job's perfect behavior, his unblamable character came from faith. And the sacrifices he did indicated that he was aware of his sin. Folks, in the Old Testament, sacrifice was acknowledgement of sin. When you have Leviticus and all these sacrifices, it's the people acknowledging their sinful state and in need of salvation. So Job was a sinner. In the New Testament, did Jesus know the thoughts of the disciples? Day and night. And you heard what came out of their mouths. Who's going to be the greatest? They say that right after he tells them he's going to be crucified and die. And they and they say, Who's going to be the greatest? We want to sit at your right hand. They said so many dumb things. And their thoughts we can only imagine and speculate how wrong their thinking was. Is it not true that Jesus could have rebuked them every day, 24 hours a day, for something? Couldn't he have done that in a way that no mortal man ever could? The God man knew all their thoughts. I mean, Andrew, come on. I heard what you thought yesterday at breakfast. Give Peter a break. I mean, yes, Peter's table manners aren't the greatest. Let him eat his fish. I'm being facetious, but you see how small and drilled down the details could be. And Jesus didn't do that. There were times he rebuked, but he was unerringly patient. Loving these men, working through their weaknesses and their foibles and their sins. He rebuked their sins, but but he really worked with them from this attitude of grace and this desire to help them. That is our Lord. And we should do that with one another. We're about to do the Lord's table. We have before us a meal of remembrance. It's not a meal to sustain. It's very small. It's a meal to remember the sacrifice that Jesus made for us. The blood of Christ, the broken body of Christ. When you and I were sinners, Christ died for us. He loved his enemies, just like he taught his disciples to. And he loved his children or his brothers and sisters, the sons of God, his joint heirs. He loved us as well. And that's why we should love one another.