The the look is quite yeah, it's it's quite amazing. And do you mean I I realized like halfway through that the words of the hymns were on the screen. Are they all on the screen? Were they all on the screen? Or n no. Okay. I'm beginning to wonder how much I really notice and how much I don't, but I definitely notice there's quite a difference. I was here the last time, the beginning of May. And uh some of you didn't realize that there weren't were some changes from there, but unless I'm really having problems with my memory I do not remember this at all. So very good, very nice, and uh I appreciate it. And uh sadly I'm at the point where those Uh words in the um uh in the bulletin of the hymns, I can't read them. Isn't that tragic? That's tragic But anyway. But I have a larger font than you guys have in my uh sermon notes, so uh hopefully we're okay that way. I did have a few um folks uh ask me about my wife uh Sharon. Uh she on uh June the 17th, which It was our 46th anniversary. We were poised to go away for three days. Yes, I'm a big spender. Three days to Lancaster where she could go to quilt shops to get more quilt material and we could do other exciting things and visit a missionary who's now a hundred years old. Uh w that's one of our highlights. Uh anyway. Uh that did not happen on Tuesday through Thursday of that week. because she came down on Monday with Vertigo so serious we did not know what it was. She thought she was having a heart attack and Um we had the ER and all that exciting stuff. And after uh two days of extensive tests, uh they decided she had a very severe case of Vertigo, she is better but not completely better. So I was hoping that she would be able to make it today. But she hasn't been this far. Now don't don't laugh, but thirty-five minutes, uh she has not been that far yet. She's been maybe twenty. So uh she's getting physical therapy and doing a little better each you know, each day, but uh uh she's not really out of the woods yet in terms of doing normal things. So that's my uh little introduction uh for uh those who are asking about uh my wife. Uh well the last time I was with you, which was a while ago, it was it in uh May, uh, we looked at Daniel chapter four. And your pastor reminded me, I do not remember saying this, but he reminded me that I had promised that if I could you know, came back again that I would preach on Daniel Phi. So since he reminded me, uh, and I'm sure he's right because his memory has always been better than mine, uh uh And the the last time uh we looked at four, so we will look at chapter five this time. Of course I expect complete recollection of my message on chapter 4. Okay, maybe not for that long ago. But Daniel 4 was the last chapter in which the great Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar was alive. And I introduced this literary structure from Paul uh Tanner's commentary that I also that was reproduced in your sermon notes for this week as well. And what I want you to see in particular is that how chapters 4 and 5 really parallel uh one another. And uh frankly, I have not seen this. If you're like me and you've gone through some of these books a few times, I hope you're learning something every time you go through them, because I always learn something new um uh as I'm uh going through them. And this uh time going through them I realized the p the parallel um uh that this uh parallelism that really this structure uh that Tanner uh mentions uh demonstrates uh Because in chapter four, uh Nebuchadnezzar's pride leads him to be uh being humbled by the Lord, uh which uh uh uh uh and i indeed for a period of time he becomes mad, he acts like a beast. And possibly an ox with bird-like characteristics thrown in. And one of the main points of chapter 4 of the book of Daniel is that God hates pride. Which is always followed by a ball. Now, when we fast forward then to Daniel chapter 5, we see the same principle illustrated just as dramatically. what I've entitled from a great bash to a great crash in the space of one evening. But there is also one major difference between these chapters. In the first four chapters of Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar, although he was certainly a prideful king He also seemed to take Daniel's advice seriously. And if we're correct in our understanding of Daniel chapter 4, it seems likely that Nebuchadnezzar eventually repented and came to trust in the Lord. Such is decidedly not the case for Belshazzar, as we'll see in a moment. But before we delve into the text, sadly, just like the last time I was with you with Daniel 4, we need to talk for a moment about the historicity of Daniel chapter 5. For Daniel 4, critical scholars doubted whether there was ever a time in Nebuchadnezzar's reign when he acted like an animal, and we responded to that, and I'm not going to rehash that today. But with Daniel 5, critics used to say that there was no historical evidence either of anyone in Babylonian history known as Belshazzar. Since Nabonidas was the last known king of Babylon, or of Adarias the Mead, who is briefly mentioned at the end of chapter 5. So this chapter is regarded as a fabrication by the biblical writer, not historical in the least. But here's the problem with this earlier critical consensus that Belshazzar never existed. in what one scholar calls a cautionary tale for those who would so quickly use arguments from silence to discredit events mentioned in the Bible. In 1854, a British consul named John Taylor excavated an ancient temple and discovered what is now known as the Nabonitis cylinders. It turns out that this cylinder, written by Nabonidas, not only mentions his son Belshazzar, but explains that Belshazzar remained in Babylon as co-regent of And de facto king, while Nabonidus was away from Babylon for many years. Now, today we know of a whopping 37 text from the time of Nebonidas that mentions Belshazzar, attesting to his historicity. But our dear critical scholars are quick to pivot so that by the time I was a PhD student at Catholic University back in 1979 The claim was made by my professor, Father Alexander Delella, in his Anchor Bible Commentary, which was published a couple years before that. The claim was made that the biblical text was wrong, since Belshazzar wasn't the son of Nebuchadnezzar, as claimed in Daniel 5. Instead, he was the son of Nabonidas, who himself wasn't a descendant of Nebuchadnezzar. Well, Father Delella, and I uh I know it's pretty interesting what we remember and what we don't remember. I remember this class very well He reiterated all this to myself and to another student who was taking the class, and in fact, that was the entire class, the two of us, uh, we met in his office in the spring of nineteen seventy-nine when I was, and I'm kind of laughing at this, twenty-seven years old I was teaching in seminary. What in the world did I know? At age twenty-seven, I have no idea. I often joke I would not have hired these then because I was too inexperienced. But they maybe they saw something that I didn't. I don't know. But it lasted pretty well for 36 years until the uh school was taken over by Lancaster Well, today you can invert the digits instead of 27. I am 72. And I still remember that day very vividly. After he explained for several class periods why Daniel was not historical, he made the mistake of asking if anyone here had any other views. Now, we do not have a huge congregation here this morning. It's not huge. It's not overwhelming. But if you have two students, right? You know, if I was preaching to two people, um uh If anyone here uh has any other views, and I'm sure he knew quite well, uh some had some idea of my views. So we had two students and he would be happy to hear them Well, I have been quiet up to that point. You it and in those days you were quiet when the professor said something you did not openly disagree. I mean that may be different uh today, but that's the way it was. But I had also been praying for such an opportunity, not for the professor, but for the other student. Uh so uh at that I proceeded to refute his allegations. And on this particular matter I explained that as he knew the word translated father undoubtedly meant grandfather, as it often did in Aramaic, and I further pointed out that a book in his own bibliography uh by R. P. Docherty entitled Nabonidus and Belshazzar, written in 1929, explained conclusively that Belshazzar was the grandson of Nebuchadnezzar. Through his mother Nitochris, who was Nebuchadnezzar's daughter, who had married Nabonidus. Well, we went back and forth until the end of the class, about an hour or so later. And in future classes he never spoke of the issue again, except to use the phrase dismissively, well, for those who believe that the book is genuine history, something like that. in a very derisive tone. Well as for Darius the Mead, though in this case we don't have any extra biblical text. We have thirty-seven. as I said, that mention Belshazzar. We don't have any extra biblical text that uses this name. There have been at least five possibilities for his identity. And if you're interested, I have a one-page handout. I can uh send it to you individually. My email is on there if you're interested. I'd be happy to send that to you. It is way too detailed to go over this morning. Alright, so now let's uh with that uh uh uh aside, let's look at the text then of Daniel 5, which shock of all shocks, I know you're very shocked, I believe, is entirely. historical and accurate. First of all, in verses 1 to 4, we have the feast of Belshazzar described in Daniel 5, 1 to 4. We've already pointed out the juxtaposition between chapters 4 and 5 in terms of the humbling of Nebuchadnezzar in chapter 4 and Belshazzar's arrogance in chapter 5. But that's even further highlighted by contrasting how Nebuchadnezzar was humbled and alone among the beasts of the field in chapter 4. But here Belshazzar surrounds himself with a thousand of his closest friends. Now, um, frankly, I'm not a huge fan of massive parties. Um the the biggest fan that I can be is uh we used to uh maybe invite sometimes for uh Christmas or Thanksgiving uh students And alumni over, and we would have dinners for maybe twenty-seven or thirty or maybe even thirty-five people at our house. And that was just about as much as I could take. But I really do not like these. huge batches. You're not going to see me at a New Year's Eve celebration. You're not even going to see me, you know, at a Super Bowl celebration if the Oh well, I'm in trouble. Ravens or Commanders. They happen to be playing each other at one o'clock today. Not that I happen to know anything about that, but I've been a commander's fan. Remember when I got here in 73, there were no ravens, but my dear daughter, um And uh her husband and our four grandchildren are avid Ravens fans. Anyway, even if one of those teams Which would be more likely to be the Ravens than the Commanders currently. We're to celebrate in a big parade, you probably would not find me there. I'm just letting you know. But that's what was going on. And that would make more sense than what we have going on here, because we know from historical records that only a week before this party, the Persian leader Cyrus had utterly defeated the Babylonian army at of at uh Sippur, about 50 miles away from Babylon. So one would think that Belshazzar had to know that the end was near. Now, scholars debate this point. But regardless, since Babylon was thought to be impenetrable, With double walls all around the city, and with the Euphrates River flowing through the city, they had an abundant water supply, so perhaps Belshazzar was lulled into complacency Regardless, both the Greek historian Herodotus and Xenophon state that indeed a banquet was taking place the night that Babylon fell. Exactly as we have recorded here in Daniel chapter 5. And so that once again confirms the biblical account. And what a banquet it was. The picture is that of total uh inebriation and as a result, impaired judgment. and loosened inhibitions with his wives and concubines taking part in the drinking battle. Now, I don't know. There are a few things in this life, well there are a lot of things In this life that I don't understand, and I've never understood why people want to lower their inhibitions. I do dumb things and I say foolish things without need of making it any worse. By lowering my inhibitions by drinking too much, or drinking at all in my case. But regardless, I don't get it. I don't understand it. Why would I want to be a bigger fool than I already am? I don't know. Anyway, notice what's highlighted in the text. While in his inebriated state, Belshazzar commanded that the vessels that Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple back in 586 B. C. be brought out. so that they all could drink from them, as if they were not holy at all. And verse three tells us that not just the king, but his lords and wives and concubines all drank from these sacred vessels. Even more importantly, in verse 4, it says that they praised the false gods, the gods of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone. This seems to have been a foolhardy attempt on the part of Belshazzar to demonstrate the superiority of the gods of Babylon over the god of the Jews. So Belshazzar wasn't just making some innocent mistake. He was openly defying the Most High God. Now maybe he knew of Isaiah's prophecy made 150 years earlier that Cyrus would conquer Babylon. And that's there very clearly in Isaiah chapter 39. I just taught on that chapter about a week ago in another class And uh so maybe he knew that, or maybe he knew of Daniel's uh prophecies to the same effect. Either way, as the Egyptian pharaoh of Moses found out, it's not the wisest move. To blaspheme the true God. Well, that leads us to the second section of our chapter, the handwriting on the wall in verses 5 to 9. Belshazzar's open defiance of the Lord led to a rapid response by the Lord himself. Verse 5 tells us it was in the same hour that the fingers of a man's hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the palace wall near the lampstand so it would have been clearly visible. Some commentators speculate it was the Lord himself who wrote the These words, but we have no evidence of that. We do know that it was the Lord's doing, as verse 24 later confirms. The end of verse 5 tells us that the king could see part of the hand that wrote, but that was all. Well talk about a mood changer. Uh instead of drunken revelry, verse uh six and verse nine tell us the king's countenance changed, his thoughts troubled him, his legs gave we way, and his knees not. The arrogant king had become a physical and an emotional wreck. Well, what does he do? In verse 7. Belshazzar commands his litany of magicians, the so-called experts of his kingdom, to read and interpret the writing, promising that whoever did so would become the third ruler in the kingdom. Since we've already seen this feeble cast of characters back in chapter 2 and back in chapter 4 of Daniel, we know that the result is not going to be any better this time. And true to form, verse 8 tells us that they couldn't read or interpret the writing. Verse 9 tells us that their inability left Belshazzar in a state of even greater terrified confusion. And by the way, despite our general biblical illiteracy today, we still have remnants here and there of the Bible in our common uh speech. So if you say, I see the handwriting on the wall, well that's taken right from this uh chapter, and it's uh commonly used to indicate something that's about to happen. And often what? Not a positive thing that's going to happen. And that was true, of course, here. Well, the third section of our text is the call for Daniel to interpret the writing on the wall in verses 10 to 16. But that appears actually in two stages. First of all, in verses 10 to 12, the Queen Mother gives testimony to Daniel. And verse 10 says, the queen, that wouldn't have been Belshazzar's wife, since all the wives and concubines of the king were already there. So by king queen, we're probably to be to understand the queen mother, perhaps a wife of the Nebuchadnezzar, more likely Nitokris, Navinitis' wife. She then gives Belshazzar a quick primer of who Daniel was, explaining the high regard N Nebuchadnezzar had for his excellence. and spirit knowledge and ability to interpret dreams and riddles such as this one. Now it's interesting to me that the Queen Mother uses Daniel's Hebrew name twice. possibly indicating that she might have been a believer. We don't know that for sure, but it's interesting. The other point that comes to mind to me is how quickly Daniel was forgotten. After all, the events of chapter 4 happened close to the end of Nebuchadnezzar's 43-year reign, perhaps a few years before his death in 56. And what we're talking about here is 539 BC, so that's only 23 years later. And yet Daniel, so greatly esteemed by Nebuchadnezzar, doesn't seem to be known by Belshazzar at all, who began his cold reign with Nabonidus in 553. That's pretty amazing and also quite sad. Regardless, because of the Queen Mother's intervention and suggestion, in verses 13 to 16, Belshazzar does indeed summon Daniel and he promises him a great reward, the same reward he had promised the magicians in verse 7. And that includes the promise of being third ruler in the kingdom. Now notice again the biblical accuracy displayed here since Nabonidus and Delshazzar were in essence co-regents, Daniel would receive the next highest position, which would be the third ruler Not the second. In verse thirteen, Belshazzar even asked whether the man before him was one of the captives that his grandfather had brought from Judah. Perhaps the Queen Mother had given him this information or his staff had provided further background. But either way it set up the theme that only a devotee of the God of the Jews whom Belshazzar had insulted and blasphemed by his actions, it was only this man that could help him now. I think that's quite ironic. So one commentator writes that the name Daniel occurs five times in two verses. He's Belshazzar's sure help. And yet he's one of the captives from Judah, a servant of the God whom Belshazzar has defied. Normally Belshazzar would dismiss such a loser. But he is desperate to be sure, so he turned to Daniel. Well, now we get to the section which I've entitled Daniel's history lesson and interpretation in verses 17 to 28, which really make up the The largest part of this chapter, and that's hardly accidental. What Belshazzar does and says is far less important than what Daniel does and says. And the first thing that he does in verse 17 is to refuse Belshazzar's gifts. Daniel isn't interested in accepting uh anything from this pagan king. I think back in Abraham. Remember with the when uh with the the whole issue with the king of Sodom and all of that, same thing there. Uh Daniel already uh knows besides that the promise of being third ruler in the kingdom wasn't going to be all that it was cracked up to be because that very night uh uh Belshazzar and Nabonidas's reign would end. But then Daniel does agree to read and interpret the writing anyway. So Daniel's history lesson begins in verse 18. In verses 18 to 21. Daniel recounts Nebuchadnezzar's greatness, pride, humiliation, and repentance. So I'm just going to touch on a few points that he mentions here. Notice how Daniel introduces the success of Nebuchadnezzar and his kingdom. He says in verse 18, the Most High God. Gave Nebuchadnezzar your father a kingdom and majesty, glory, and honor. It was a gift from God, not simply a matter of human achievement But verse 20 says, when Nebuchadnezzar became prideful, he was deposed, his kingdom was taken away, and he became like a beast, until he knew that the Most High God rules in the kingdom of men. and appoints over it whomever he chooses. Nebuchadnezzar was humbled by the Lord, and from what we read in chapter 4, as I indicated earlier, It seems to me as if he repented and came to trust in the Lord. Well that's the history lesson. But then Daniel provides the application of that history lesson to Belshazzar himself in verses twenty-two to twenty. 24. And in probably one of the longest outline points I've ever written, point C under point four, and Case you're following along, Daniel contrasts Nebuchadnezzar's humble attitude towards the Lord with Belshazzar's prideful and blasphemous actions that resulted in the handwriting. on the wall. I'm sure some of you can shorten that to a much nicer point. I'm sure your pastor can do that and he could probably make a little an alliteration out of it as well. But I am not that gifted. Well, the little phrase at the end of verse 22 really stands out. Though you knew all of this We don't have to guess, based on overlapping reigns or anything else, how much Belshazzar knew of the humiliation of Nebuchadnezzar and how it humbled him. Though from Babylonian sources we know Belshazzar served as a chief officer during the reign of King Nere Glissar in 560 BC, who was himself a prominent official in the in the reign of Nebuchadnezzar. We know that, so there was this substantial overlap here historically. Daniel says you knew all about Nebuchadnezzar and you ignored it. In fact, you did precisely the opposite, and you refused to humble your heart. So the contrast could hardly have been made more clear. Nebuchadnezzar humbled himself after God dealt with him, but Belshazzar did the precise opposite. deciding to flaunt his nose at God and blaspheme him by drinking out of the holy vessels of the Lord's house and praising his worthless gods instead of the true God. I don't think it's an accident that verse 23 is the longest verse in the chapter, as Daniel lays the charge before Belshazzar in vivid detail before moving on to the judgment. in verses 24 to 28. And please notice the contrast. Your feeble gods. Silver, gold, bronze, iron, wood, and stone. Don't see or hear or know. I remember visiting a few years back a Hindu temple nearby and seeing all of the statues of their gods, and they are beautiful, probably quite costly as well. But they're powerless. How sad and how tragic. By contrast, Daniel goes on in verse 23 It says, the God who holds your breath in his hand and owns all your ways, you have not glorified. And for sure, by verse thirty, when Belshazzar was killed that same night, he realized anew the foolishness of ignoring the true God who holds the breath. Your breath, our breath, in his hand. Hopefully, you and I will never ignore him, but we'll praise him as our creator and our redeemer. Well, verse 24 is almost anticlimactic as it explains that the fingers of the hand were sent from him, from God, that God whom Belshazzar had openly blasphemed and mocked. And the writing was inscribed. Well, Daniel then proceeds to read and interpret the message in verses 25 to 28. Unsurprisingly, it's a message of judgment. And now we get to the fun part. Well, fun for us. Not at all fun for Belshazzar. Figuring out the cryptic writing. Now, first of all, this is Aramaic, which is a sister language to Hebrew, neither of which was written originally with vowels. The masteres added the vows later around A. D. to 500 or so to 1,000, the great Isaiah scroll. Found a Qumran. I'd like to try to mention the Isaiah scroll, maybe every other sermon or so. It's just amazing. Dated around 125 BC, it contains only continents. It doesn't contain any vowels. So without context, it's sometimes difficult to decipher the meaning of words since they can be ambiguous depending upon the vowels supply. That's even more true for small phrases, which is exactly what we've got here. Second, as I've indicated in your notes, the particular words that are used, menet, tekel, and peres, also happen to be weights. So the minor would be a 60 shekel weight. The teckl is a shekel, and the Perez is a half shekel. Since the minor is repeated twice, if you're somewhat of a mathematician, it can add up to 121 and a half shekels. Now before you start doing some biblical numerology on me, which I really generally do not appreciate too much, anyway, I Appreciate the effort that people make. I think the number seven is definitely special in scripture, but if you start spiritualizing every single number, in my mind you're going pretty far off. I still remember Dear Harold Camping, who did uh confess the error of his ways uh uh toward the end of his life, but he had. He had all kinds of spiritual insight in these numbers. Anyway, what would 121. 5 shekels possibly mean? Well instead, thankfully, Daniel gives us the inspired interpretation in verses 26 to 28. All of these words are Aramaic passive participles Mene means numbered. It's repeated for emphasis. There's no doubt about it. That's the significance of the repeat. Repetition here. God has surely numbered your kingdom, and those days are done. Tekel means weighed. The interpretation is that Belshazzar has been weighed in the balances and found wanting. And finally, Perez in verse 28 actually has two probable meanings. First, the verb means to be divided. Second, peres almost certainly refers to the Persians. And so not only was Baal Heshazzar's kingdom to be divided into two, but it was going to be conquered and fall into the hands of the Persians, which was the dominant people of the media Persian. Army. Indeed, the very night, the forces of the Persian Cyrus the Great would march into Babylon victoriously. Well, after Daniel's long speech and pronouncement, all that is left in the last section of our text in verses 29 to 31 is to record the dual outcome. Daniel's reward in verse 29, and Belshazzar's precipitous downfall and death in verse 30, with a final reference to Darius in verse 31. Now, I don't know about you. I like to think what I would do if I were Belshazzar here. Given that message of judgment, uh, if I were Belshazzar, I don't think I'd be rewarding Daniel Uh just but he did, just as he said he would. Uh so and it does uh serve of course to authenticate the message and the messenger Despite its dire meaning, Belshazzar must have recognized that it was the correct interpretation, so Daniel is rewarded. In addition, Belshazzar almost certainly didn't suspect that judgment would come within a few hours. But in harmony with our biblical text, the Nabonitis Chronicle states that Cyrus' commander Ugbaru entered Babylon without a battle on the sixteenth of Tishri, october twelfth, 539 BC. What's today? October 13th, right? Yeah, so just a day, well, and a lot of years, uh earlier. Herodotus says that Cyrus diverted the Euphrates River in order to use the riverbed to enter and capture the city. Xenophon, states the Shirus's commander, led the men into the very palace where the Babylonians were feasting in a time of drunken revelry. Sound familiar? Herodas also makes this point. He says as they were engaged in a festival, they continued dancing and reveling until they learned the capture but too certainly. So just as Daniel foretold, Belshazzar's days were numbered without even one more day left. Okay, well, before you think, great, that's the end of the message that we can go home, not quite yet. We have some applications now that we've gone through the chapter as a whole. I'd like us to consider actually five applications and remind you of the four applications that I provided for chapter four a few months uh earlier uh because there is relevant uh to this chapter as well. First of all, um Going for chapters four and five, God hates pride, which is always followed by a fall. Second, God alone is the sovereign, everlasting ruler, while man's rule is delegated by God and temporary. That's emphasized throughout the book of Daniel. and for sure in this chapter. And it's very nice to think about when we come to election time, right? It's not going to matter which uh person is elected, God is still what. In control. Nice to remember that once in a while, at least for me it is, because personally I don't like either one. So I have some difficulty. Anyway, that's it for politics. That was it, but it is October, so I had to say something. That's my statement. Third of all, God's grace extends to the most prideful of men. And that certainly would have included Nebuchadnezzar, right? And then finally, we should be focusing on the needs of others rather than seeking glory for ourselves. But I see five more applications here specific to chapter five. First of all, I've already mentioned this, but fame is fleeting. Fame is fleeting. We sometimes act as if famous people, good or bad, will be famous forever But to be sure, that doesn't always happen in our world. I see two key examples of this truth in Daniel 5. First of all, Daniel, the godly and wise prophet and advisor to King Nebuchadnezzar, who deservedly had a high position in Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom, is basically forgotten. 20 plus years later. So that somebody needs to remind Belshazzar of who he was. Well, that can be humbling. And so if our goal is to seek worldly things, that would be very humbling. But Daniel doesn't seem to be faced by it, and neither should we. That can happen to faithful pastors who have shepherded the flock for many years and you know without uh you know because maybe it's a smaller congregation so you don't have all of these controversies or scandals or anything else like that. Well those uh pastors are often what? Ignored. So uh You know, oftentimes also when you have a faithful pastor and then you've got the next pastor comes in and they forget all about uh what the previous one has done. Or a faithful musician, or faithful church secretary, or faithful Sunday school worker or teacher or anyone else. It's not always easy to face. But it's a reminder to all of us to seek God's approval first, whose standards never change, rather than the fickle approval of man, even the approval of fellow believers. The second example of how fame is fleeting may be seen in King Belshazzar, here depicted as the grand host of a party with a thousand important guests. For sure he'd be on the cover of Time magazine, if anybody reads Time magazine these days, maybe as the person of the year, right? But guess what? After a certain peep period of time, people forgot who he was, so that in the 17th and 18th centuries, when biblical skeptic Skepticism began to reign supreme. Critical scholars thought that this Belshazzar was just a made-up figure and not a real person at all. I mean, isn't that ironic? I think it's hysterical. Anyway, fortunately, I suppose, for Belshazzar's reputation, we now have all these texts that attest to his importance. But I don't think anyone but devoted historians and a few Bible scholars really care. The entire book of Ecclesiastes tells us this truth. Fame and fortune are ultimately meaningless. Social media and how many likes or follows we get make this even more of a problem today than ever before. And it's always been a problem to some extent. We need to heed Paul's admonition and example in 1 Thessalonians 2 4. He says, just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak. not to please men, but to please God who tests our hearts. Fame is fleeting. Let's make it our pri primary aim to please God, not the pickle opinions of people. Well, the second application I see here in Daniel 5 is that we need to learn from history, especially biblical history. Daniel rebukes Belshazzar here, primarily because he should have learned from the history of his predecessor, Nebuchadnezzar, and he learned absolutely nothing. And that is true in secular history for sure. The Spanish philosopher George Santillana said in 1905, those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. Some of you maybe remember Winston Churchill who said the same thing in a speech to the British Parliament in 1948. He says, those who do not learn history are doomed to repeat it. And I'm going to step into our modern day world for a moment, but then I'm going to step away quickly, so you hardly know it. Uh since yes, uh if I'm not expositing Scripture, my opinion is not worth all of that much But when I hear people, some of whom I might otherwise respect, say, oh well, Russia invading Ukraine You know, that's just not such a bad thing and not such a big deal. Why should we in America, many thousands of miles away, even care? Well, I kind of want to scream out and say, have you ever heard of a dictator called Hitler? Do we need another Pearl Harbor when America's sanctimonious isolationism was bombed into oblivion, uh, to remind us that the atrocities of a world dictator like Hitler and his allies And I would say Putin today won't stop on their own. Do we really not see this? Let's make sure that we teach history, first of all, to our children. And let's make sure we learn from history. Exit that example. But anyway, even more importantly than that, let's make sure to learn from biblical history. When God gives us the history of Israel and various people along the way, we need to learn from the positive and negative examples it gives. In Daniel, we learn from the contrasting histories of Nebuchadnezzar and Belshazzar, both prideful kings, but one who learned from God's humbling and one who didn't. And we learn from Daniel's faithfulness throughout his life, whether a teenager or a much only older man. Don't you love that? The faithfulness through all of the periods of life, his faithfulness to the Lord remained the same. And ours should as well. The third application I see is that all the world's wisdom pales in comparison to the wisdom given to us by the true God, the God of the Scriptures. True revelation comes from God alone. Maybe some of you won't like this comparison, and it might not be a hundred percent fair, but when I see Belshazzar consulting all the wise men of his day, Instead of first consulting Daniel, I sometimes think that it's just as true of the so-called wise men and PhDs in our universities that are often foolishly put up on a pedestal, never to be doubted or questioned, even when they're saying things that directly contradict God's word. I gave you just one personal example of such a man I encountered whom the world believed was wise. I mean, after all, he has uh you know a commentary in the uh anchor bible commentary a very esteemed commentary series but that commentary is big Basically worthless, in my opinion. I believe he was foolish because he didn't truly believe what God's word said. And I would again remind you that when you're considering where to send your son or daughter or grandson, granddaughter. My granddaughter is now in college. I cannot believe that. That is impossible. I do not know how this happens, but it's happened. Um but when you're uh considering where to send your son or daughter to college, are you truly gonna pay thousands and thousands of dollars to have them brainwashed by brilliant but spiritually lost professors. I would urge you to re-read Paul's admonition in 1 Corinthians 1, 18-21. The wisdom of this world is foolishness to God, while Christ crucified is foolishness to them. Personally, I'd rather sit under the feet of Daniel and Paul than all the so called experts. with fancy degrees. And yes, I have a fancy degree. But I was asked to get it while teaching at Capital, so I said, okay, I can do that, even though I did not enjoy it too much. My fourth application is pretty simple, but its implications are profound. And that is, blaspheming God never ends well. Certainly Belshazzar found that out in a dramatic way, but so did the Pharaoh of Egypt, who foolishly asked in Exodus 5:3, Who is the Lord? I've never heard of him. Go away. Oh, well, God kind of showed Pharaoh his power and might in ten plays, culminating in the death of Pharaoh's own son. Blaspheming God never ends well. But you say, of course I would never think of blaspheming God. Well, that's exactly what people are doing when they say they believe in God, but they deny what His Word says. When they say that God wasn't responsible for the creation of the universe, they are denying God's word and blaspheming God. When they say that marriage may be between a man and another man, or a woman and another woman, and that God is perfectly fine with all of that. Well, then they're denying God's word and they're blaspheming God. When they say that one uh may determine one's own sex and be whatever they feel like at the moment then they are not only denying basic biology, but they are denying God's word and blaspheming God We don't usually put it that starkly, but that's what we're doing if we deny God's clear teachings in Scripture. Romans 1, 18 to 32 is merely one passage that demonstrates the result of that wrong-headed thinking. And so I would urge you to study it in detail because it reinforces the truth that denying God's word and blaspheming God never ends well. Regardless of what our society may say at the moment. And my final application, though I'm sure there are many more, is this: since we don't know when our lives will end, We need to use each day wisely. We need to use each day wisely I'm quite uh sure that when Belshazzar began planning this uh great party bash, I know when we had it would have one of these big dinners, I mean we would be planning it for weeks. I have no idea. He probably had a whole lot of help. I recognize that. But still, you know, he's looking over the guest list of a thousand or so people. He had no idea that he would be dead the very night of the party. Not only that, the great Babylonian Empire would be dead as well. And I think we need to heed the admonition of this chapter. And the admonition that Jesus gives in Luke chapter 12 and verses 21. and 21. The rich man had uh who had been greatly blessed, instead of giving his excess riches to the poor, you remember He decided to build bigger barns and relax, eating, drinking, being merry, just like Belshazzar. But God said to him, You fool, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will these things be which you have provided? So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. And that can be true for any of us. I got a call. less than a month ago from my son, uh Jonathan, uh and uh he didn't really want to tell us, but for the three months prior to that, and I suspect the long time He's had decreasing use of his right hand. He's got all kinds of nerve damage. His speech is Flirred, his thoughts are slow. They thought MS. They now think maybe it's Parkinson's. They don't know. It's a little ironic to me because at the exact age he is now, age forty-five, happened to be the uh age I was when I had this surgery that After that surgery, you know, my arms and hands are partially paralyzed, and I can't play the piano anymore as well as Steve can. Of course I never could play the piano as well as Steve could, but that doesn't matter. Uh anyway, uh so I appreciate your prayers for him. We don't know what's going on exactly. But that's a another pretty uh dramatic example in my thinking uh and and another. Um Is Dear Mark Hazlet, a seminary graduate, personal friend, and missionary with Frontier Ventures. I think we probably mentioned him him before. Sharon and I celebrated many Christmases together with Mark and his mom. He would always help us put up the Christmas decorations and outside lights. He loved to do that. But as of November 3rd, almost two years ago now, 2022, he suffered a massive stroke, wasn't found for 15 hours. He can do none of that anymore. Now the good news is that Mark was living his life to serve the Lord. And that's a wonderful thing. But still it's a sober reminder that none of us knows how long we will live. uh how long our appointed days are. I'm very thankful to say I just visited him a week ago and uh his faith is just as strong. He hasn't been able to get out of that bed. Ever. And uh yet his faith is very strong. His prayers are just as vibrant as they've ever been. So it's it's truly uh uh amazing. But we just don't know how long our appointed days are. As Psalm 139-16 tells us, God has already numbered our days. Psalm 90 verse 12, Moses asked God to teach us to number our days that we may gain a heart of wisdom. So each of us is given one life for which we're responsible to use wisely and to God's glory. And do we really stop to think? That our life breath is daily in the hands of God. Are we numbering our days and using them to the extent that God would want us to do? And you know, we may not be squandering our lies and denying God the way Belshazzar did, but are we using our lives each day for his glory. Not saying, well, I'll do that later, but to do it now. Let's realize that our days, the days that we have here on earth, are precious. And how do we want the remainder of our lives to turn out? So as I close this message, I would urge each one of us To examine our lives closely and to resolve to use each day, including today, to glorify the Lord in everything we do. Let's close in prayer. Father, I thank you so much for your word. I thank you for the truth of your word. And I'm amazed at people that say, oh, well, the Bible doesn't speak to me. Father, as we uh read this scripture, boy does it speak to us. Certainly speaks to me. Father, I know how precious life is, and I thank you that I had an early reminder of that, and have had many reminders But Father, still some days I don't choose to use as well as I should. And I pray, Father, that you would help each of us, Lord. to count and number our days and to recognize, Lord, this is a precious day in your sight. Maybe we don't feel so well. That's fine. We can still do things. will have pleased you and be a blessing to other people. It can draw people to Christ. Thank you, Father, for the emphasis already in our uh service this morning. on the supreme example of humility and putting others first, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, Father, that you would help us, Lord, to be like-minded Even as Christ was, in seeking to serve other people rather than looking to ourselves first. Thank you, Father, for all of your blessings, and we praise you in Jesus' name with thanksgiving.