So we're in chapter 3, verses 13 to 18 today This comes after the first section that talks about how dangerous the tongue is. And so now James is saying, all right, so what do we do? What does make Our conversation fruitful. From whence does fruit come? So let me just start off with these main ideas. Main point number one, wisdom reveals itself in conduct. Wisdom reveals itself in conduct. I'm in verse 13. Who is wise in understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct That his works are done in the meekness of wisdom. So A under there says, wisdom is connected with what we do. It's connected with what we do. James asks, who is wise and understanding among you? The word understanding is the word skilled. It's the word competent. It's the kind of understanding of somebody that knows how to fix it, how to make it work. Apparently Jane's readers thought they could demonstrate their skill or their competence by their talk. By a scintillating speech or persuasive lesson. The next clause is actually a command. It may not look that way because it says, let him show by good conduct. That's a command, and it says, show it in your conduct. So the question here is not a general indefinite question. James is not asking, if anyone is wise, they should show it in their conduct. He's asking, are you wise? Are you competent? Are you skillful? Show it by your life choices. Do you see the point? The point is you only really know wisdom by actions, by choices. Talk by itself does not reveal wisdom. Talk is good at revealing knowledge. Knowledge is the accumulation of information, the ability to handle that information by categorizing it. Using it to solve problems, create speeches to help people understand it, etc. Wisdom is the ability to use that knowledge to make wise choices to do the right thing. Wisdom may be similar to what we call street smarts. That's a wisdom that comes from knowing how to handle yourself on the streets. I have a friend who has been in prison for 40 years. And he talks about prison savvy. It's a wisdom that knows how to act and what to say and do in certain prison settings so that you don't get killed. He wants to do what is right, but he knows that there are certain people in prison who don't appreciate people who want to do what's right. So how can you do what's right and make it look wrong enough so that the people who hate those who do right will leave you alone? You see the issue? It takes more than knowledge, even though it it starts with knowledge. It takes a lot of knowledge of people and motives and situations. And you don't learn those things necessarily in books You learn it in different experiences as you go through James chapter 1, verses 2 through 5 You thank God for the situation. You determine you're going through the situation. The right way to get all the blessing out of it, you can. You ask God for wisdom in the situation. How do I do the right thing in a situation where my prison mates want to injure or kill a goody two shoes? Or how do I tell my office mate he is wrong and do it in a way that glorifies God? Or how do I get my kids to love one another in a humble way How do I live as an example? Someone has said, wisdom is meaningless until our own experience. Has given it meaning. And you have the quote there that says, We can be knowledgeable with other men's knowledge, but we cannot be wise with other men's wisdom. We can be knowledgeable with other man's knowledge, but we cannot be wise with other man's wisdom. So the same thing here in verse 13. James says, who is wise? You will only show it in one way. By how you act. Let's say how you act toward people who don't treat you very well. Or perhaps by the way you respond to discouraging circumstances, or perhaps by the way you work toward peace in an angry situation. Those are the kinds of things that reveal wisdom. In other words, wisdom is not just knowledge. It's knowledge that changes us. Wisdom only develops as we change. No change, no wisdom. That's one of the problems in America here We have all kinds of Christian information, all kinds of books and tapes and Bibles and input, and there often are no changes in the spiritual statistics. Why is it that Christians get the same number of divorces, the same number are in jail, same have the same are the same number are having a The same kind of insolvable problems as unbelievers. What's happened? Believers have more information, but that doesn't necessarily translate to wisdom. So, number B, under that, God's wisdom is characterized by the words good and meekness. Good and meekness. Verse 13 says, Let him show by good conduct that his works are done in the meekness of wisdom. The word good is not just the word nice. Tolerable. Decent. That's not the word. The word good is the word excellent. It's almost the word classy. Jay Addams describes it as works with finesse. I like that description. And you see that statement several times in Scripture. Here's Titus 3. 14. Let our people also learn to maintain good works. to meet urgent needs that they may not be unfruitful. Hebrews 10, 24, let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works. Excellent works can be stirred up and encouraged in others as we think and pray about how to help one another. So this is what wisdom produces. It produces works that are excellent. People see it and say, I like that I like that response. I like what happened. We also have the word meekness. That describes the wisdom of gentleness. Humility, a lowly attitude of heart that is more concerned about the needs of others than its own desires. We had this back in James 1. 21. James says, therefore lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness and receive with meekness. Meekness. A gentleness that receives God's word. Receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. So there's a gentleness here in a response that is excellent. That's the kind of behavior that displays God's wisdom. So if you don't have behavior that is good, behavior that is full of meekness, you don't necessarily have God's wisdom. No matter how smart you are, no matter how many Bible verses you can quote, people can know a lot Can use outstanding teaching techniques, can be popular, write books, be on TV, and not display God's wisdom So James is talking about show and tell. Not just tell, but show He's talking about the kind of talk that demonstrates what it's saying in behavior So, how has it been with you in the last month? We talked about bridling your tongue. Is your tongue any more tightly bridled? I'm not asking for a raise of hand or show of testimony or testimonies or anything like that. Wisdom comes from using God's word, applying God's word. The point James is making here, I think you've got that fill in the blank. The point James is making. If our tongues do not succeed in teaching us wisdom, Chances are slight that they will succeed in teaching others wisdom If our tongues don't succeed in teaching us wisdom, chances are slight they will succeed in teaching others. So that's the first important point James is making in verse thirteen. Wisdom reveals itself. in what we do, in our actions. The second thing James says is, a wrong heart can turn our talk into a lie. A wrong heart can turn our talk into a lie. This is verses 14, 15, and 16. But if you have bitter envy and self-seeking in your hearts, do not boast and lie against the truth. This wisdom does not descend from above. But is earthly, sensual, demonic. For where envy and self-seeking exist, confusion and every evil thing are there. Your heart can lie against what you say. Your heart can lie against what you say. You notice verse 14 begins if you have. If you have. If you're under the control of, if you're filled with, and he mentions two words Two bad words that ruin almost all talk You've got the word bitter envy and the word self-seeking. Bitter envy and self-seeking. If you are under the control of these words, If these words are filling your heart, or these motives are filling your heart, this can turn whatever you say into a line. Bitter envy is a form of jealousy towards someone else. The word envy is the word zeal It's the thing that motivates us. You know, when you're jealous over somebody's car, you've got this motivation that comes because you hate seeing that Rolls-Royce. Next to your nineteen thirty two Ford So bitter envy is a form of self-interest, self-centeredness. The word bitter puts it in a category that has a bite to it. It's talking about jealousy at the expense of somebody else. I want it The word self-seeking is from the word hireling. Back in John 10, when Jesus talks about the hireling who takes care of the sheep until danger comes and then he's out of there. Why? Because he's in it for the pay. He's not in it for the sheep. So the hireling is doing his job because of what he's going to get. And so we're talking about somebody who is motivated in their talk by what they're going to get. They're self-seeking. And it may be attention, it may be popularity, it may be approval, it may be who knows what, but they're speaking to get. The hireling attitude. James says, if you've got these motives down deep in your system, do not boast and lie against the truth. Don't try to act like you're communicating God's wisdom. What these attitudes do is they turn you into a hypocrite. So you act as if you're representing the God who is the giver of every good and perfect gift. When down deep inside you really want to take, there's a bitter jealousy, there's a self-seeking There's a motive that wants to get, and you're talking as if you want to give. You're representing the one who wants to give. You're lying. You're a hypocrite. No matter what you say So your heart can make your words accomplish Satan's desires. This is verse 15 This wisdom does not descend from above, but is earthly, sensual, demonic. The word earthly means it's pop wisdom. It's the kind you see and hear on TV. The word sensual means it's connected to your body, to your feelings, to your emotions. It's feeling wisdom, emotional wisdom It's the wisdom that gets no higher than what's going on in your emotions. Demonic means satanic. It's the kind of wisdom that demons promote. It's the stuff that makes demons proud. And here it is being broadcast in the church through someone who thinks he's so wise. You know? He's preaching John 3. 16, but this bitter jealousy and self-seeking attitude Changes everything. And what comes out is from the world and the flesh and the devil Then verse 16 says, your heart can turn your tongue into everything bad. Your heart can turn your tongue into everything bad. Verse 16 says, For where envy and self-seeking exist, and every evil thing are there. Confusion and every evil thing are present, no matter what you say, no matter how humbly you say it, how great the message is. Confusion is the word disorder, the word chaos. It's even used as insurrection. Evil is the word vile, wicked, bad. So the horrible possibility is that somebody can speak against the truth even as they seem to be speaking truth. People can preach Bible and produce confusion in every evil thing. So a teacher with a self-seeking Bitter jealous jealousy-filled heart can walk out of his Sunday school class, usually with confidence, and the class looks like there's been a drive-by. You know? Three students fall over dead on one side of the class. Another student in the back has been seriously wounded. Five students on the other side have received deep cuts. The teacher walks out in satisfaction that he's again boosted his image another notch by teaching the Bible. And perhaps he's completely unaware of the damage his tongue has accomplished. Ever seen that I see almost nods. I was talking to a man one day who said, I was taught correct theology, and I was taught it in such a way that I developed a hatred toward everyone that didn't have it What happens when you when you communicate to people is that you are giving several different messages at the same time. Your mouth is saying one thing. Your body may be saying something else. Your gestures may be saying something else Your inflection may be saying something else. Your con the connotations of your words may be saying something else You know? And you may say God loves you and have a wonderful plan for your has a wonderful plan for your life, and you say it in the way that people read, and I couldn't care less about you. And I'm only doing this because I'm getting paid. I had this Burned into my system quite a few years ago when uh I had a barber down the street from our house, and I was convinced that the barber was running a numbers racket in his shop. You know, people would come and go, and code words would be stated while I was sitting there. And I wondered what, you know, who this guy is and what's going on. One day I handed him a tract. And I as I handed the tract I could I can remember saying to myself, and you need this buddy. About a year later, you know, I I I was feeling that, but I had covered it all up. You know, I successfully covered it all up so the that he didn't know. About a year later, I had lunch with the man. We went out to lunch on a Sunday afternoon and we talked. And he said to me, He said, Do you remember a while back when you handed me that piece of paper? I said, yeah. He said, do you remember handing it to me? I said yeah. He said, do you know when you handed it to me, you handed it to me with the attitude of, and you really need this, buddy. And he said almost exactly what I felt. Here's the problem. The problem is you cannot cover heart attitude with good words. Heart attitude comes through. So your tongue can turn Everything, your heart can turn everything your tongue says into something bad. So that kind of talking opens the door for every form of evil. It's looked like putting two drops of Elkridge sewer water in two gallons of your speech. You know, it doesn't matter how much good water comes after that. The fact that there are two drops of sewer water means people get sick and the bad things happen. On the other hand, you can have somebody teaching geography and math, and out of his classroom comes righteousness and holiness and love. Why? Because of the subject matter? No, because of the heart. Because of where his heart is. Jesus said in Matthew 12, 33, either make the tree good and its fruit good, or else make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for a tree is known by its fruit. Brood of vipers, he's talking to the Pharisees. How can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. So think of the attitudes that go through your mind as you prepare to speak. I'm assuming most of you have taught, taught, been Sunday school teachers, taught your kids, done teaching exercises. And you prepare these things. This list comes out of personal experience. You know, you're preparing something and you say, I'm doing this because I have to. Or you say, I really don't have time for this. I'm too busy. Or these kids aren't interested. They're a bunch of rebels. Or I'm not accomplishing anything. This class is a waste of time. All I need to do is get together a few stories, just keep these people entertained. If I could just get rid of this one kid in this class that is such a pain I would be a blessing to the class. Ever had any of those motivations? You know? What do you do? You confess those, you admit those to the Lord, and you ask God to forgive you and deal with those and get rid of them. So you can honestly, with a pure heart, teach God's Word. Third statement James is making God's wisdom always develops righteousness. God's wisdom always develops righteousness. Verses 17 and 18. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy. Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Verse 18 states that when we speak the wisdom that comes from above, what we say bears the fruit of righteousness. In other words, people are encouraged, along with ourselves, in righteousness. People want to do right. People want to serve the Lord. People are energized in the joy and thrill. Of walking with God. So, how does that work? Verse seventeen says it develops on purity. It develops on purity. The wisdom that is from above is first pure. First pure. What is purity? It almost sounds like an oxymoron, you know Where you have to be pure to have wisdom, and you have to have wisdom to be pure. So what is purity? How can anyone be pure until they're wise? The truth is that purity does not mean never ever make a mistake. Pure means that your sins are forgiven and that your relationships with others are straight. Or as straight as you can make them, and that your heart is right with God. Purity is a word that means separated. It describes the process of God separating us from all the sin we used to live in. This may be involved being separated from people that used to lead us to sin. It may involve being separated from actions that led us to sin. Like getting angry and popping off. It may involve being separated from thinking in wrong ways. The process of growing in Christ is a process of being separated from the old life. Embracing and enjoying the new life. One of the helpful pictures to me of purity Comes in the Old Testament with the Old Testament priests. If you remember the diagram of the tabernacle in the Old Testament. A structure 50 feet, 50 feet, 75 feet wide, and 150 feet long. And when you walk in, From the east, through the curtain, the first thing you see is a large brazen altar. And then right behind it is a large laver full of water The labor is there because the priests were to wash their hands and their feet In Luke 16, on the Day of Atonement, four times the priests were instructed to take a bath. Four times on the Day of Atonement. So, what does that picture? That picture is separation I wash my hands and thus separate myself from the dirt that life brings in. What is a clean person? What is a pure person? Someone who has repeatedly washed her hands or his feet and taken a bath. I think this is what James has in mind: that the purity that develops as we repeatedly separate ourselves from all the things that attack us. Mentally, morally, emotionally. Notice the way James writes it ten verses later. This is James chapter 4, verse 8. James 4, 8. It says, cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Notice the parallelism there The sinners corresponds to double-minded. The cleansing and the purifying go together Purifying your heart is like cleansing your hands. You're purifying your heart from double-mindedness just like you wash your hands. Many times a day. Now, you have the word in this verse that says, first, pure. First, and I have down there in your notes that it is first, not numerically, but essentially There's a big difference. Numerically means first in a series of numbers So that first is peaceable, second, or first is pure, second is peaceable, third is gentle, fourth is willing to yield, and you have the list. That's not the word Essential means that if first is not first, the rest don't follow. So everything else comes out of purity. Qualities numbers two through seven depend on quality number one. The wisdom from above starts with purity. And then it grows six qualities out of that purity. We started in verse 13 with, who is wise and understanding among you? Show it by works done in the meekness of wisdom. What does James mean by meekness, gentleness of wisdom? I think these six qualities are defining the word meekness. First is peaceable. Peaceable. The sin that so easily enters our lives is a sin of strife or self-seeking. Or zeal to do our thing. Here's a person who repeatedly washes his or her hands of a desire for competition. Desire to power it his way. As a result, he comes to an understanding that there's another kind of victory. A victory that comes from consensus. From dialogue, from respect, rather than self-centered accomplishment. The word gentle is the word reasonable It's someone who does not stand on his rights. It's someone who's not demanding that his idea is the only right one and should be obeyed. Thus, the word gentle describes a listener who will honestly listen to others Do you know how rare that quality is? Just the other day I was explaining something to someone, and then I explained it again. And then I explained it again. And then he said to me, Say that once again. I don't think I was listening. Gentle listening. So where does that come from? It comes as you wash your hands of that attitude that it's your way or the highway. Our society constantly teaches us to insist on our rights. God wants to separate us from that attitude and realize there's something more important than getting my rights. Willing to yield. This is a person who doesn't have it all figured out. He's not a judge with all the answers Here's someone who's willing to obey God's word and the suggestions of others when they correspond to God's word. Here's a person who understands the value of group input. I've learned personally, sometimes the hard way, I've learned that God's will is often best understood by a group of people. That people need to get together and talk about what God wants. And what we should do. God reveals his will as people share their convictions and listen to others. As a pastor, I would go to elder meetings with the conclusion that I knew was right. I would announce it and then sometimes I would be surprised when they didn't agree with me. One time, this is one Tuesday night. They thought that my decision was slightly retarded and wrong In situations like that, you can very easily get defensive and think that they're attacking your character But I found that I needed to repeatedly wash my hands of this thing inside me that says, you know, I can do what I want to do around here. I'm the pastor. You know, I'm older than you. And you need to wash your hands from that. You know? And realize that God is working in a group. And you need to listen and talk and share and see God at work. Then it says, full of mercy and good fruits Mercy is that excellent quality of knowing what to overlook. The quality of knowing what to overlook. Mercy delays judgment. It overlooks certain sins so that grace might be able to come in and forgive them. Mercy is that incredible quality of God who delays his judgment. You know, if God judged according to complete righteous judgment, we would all be in hell. Mercy delays that judgment. Mercy announces the good news that Jesus Christ has paid. For your sins. Mercy allows time for slow people like us to respond So how does God develop mercy in us? He develops mercy as we wash our hands of this desire to play judge. Of keeping tallies, of remembering where we have to pay people back because of their sin against us. As we remember how merciful the final judge has been. That encourages us. I would tie in with this, Matthew chapter 18, and that parable that Jesus told when Peter said, How many times do I forgive my brother? Should I forgive my brother seven times? And Jesus told that parable, that amazing parable of the king who forgave his debtors. Then it says, without partiality. Partiality treats people in different ways according to what they have to offer The Usher in James chapter 2 divided the congregants according to how rich they looked and what promise their clothes offered to the church budget. Those who wore the good clothes, he gave the good seats. Those who wore the poor clothes, he dumped them into the nursery. Or sit under my footstool, wherever that is. We develop partial, we develop Non-partiality, as we wash our hands of the times when we make distinctions and treat certain people with greater favor. You say this young lady is so beautiful. This young man is such an athlete. We need this person However good your reasons are, the act of making distinctions like this is wrong. James 2. 9. But if you show partiality, you commit sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. And then the last quality is without hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is simply acting as if you are someone you are not. Hypocrisy is playing the part, wearing a mask, so people don't meet the real you It's speaking in a certain way when in reality you're living a different way. Thomas Jefferson said, honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom. Where do we grow in honesty? By washing our hands. Of every attempt to deceive, by admitting our hypocritical hearts, our lying tongues, our misleading implications. I think James is saying here, do you want God's wisdom? Do you want to be a teacher that God uses? Get serious about repeatedly washing your hands, repeatedly confessing your sin, repeatedly admitting what you really like Get serious about putting yourself out to obey when you don't want to. Can everybody relate if I stepped on any toes? I keep stepping online You know, sometimes you can get discouraged. You say, I really want God's holiness and purity in my heart, and you can get discouraged over. The continual repetitious mess that comes out. You lose your temper again You know, you say the wrong thing again, you do the wrong thing again. And God God is using that process of confessing and forsaking our sins. To make us like him. So don't lose heart because he said he was doing that He said he has predestined us to holiness. Amen That wasn't very loud. Maybe that was an honest response. Alright, and then number C, it ministers. God's wisdom ministers by sowing in peace and making peace. God's wisdom ministers by sowing in peace and making in peace. Making peace. Verse 18: Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Look at the phrase: by those who make peace. Those who make peace. Peace is not automatic It doesn't flow. It has to be made. It has to be created. Here's the result of God's kind of wisdom. It goes around and lives its life and talks to others and teaches and hangs out with others and out of its presence. Comes the fruit of righteousness. Righteousness blossoms Wouldn't you like to see that? You know, you teach a Sunday school class and righteousness blossoms. Kids want to go on with Christ. That's the fruit of God's kind of wisdom. What happens is that every time you say a word, you sow a seed. Every time you make a move, you sow a seed. Every time you make a choice, you sow a seed. And those seeds which blossom out into righteousness. are shown by people who want to make peace, want to help people work things out so they get along, serve God, and work together. Jesus said, Blessed are the peacemakers. They shall be called the children of God. Do you have God's wisdom? Do you see how God's wisdom only develops as we confess and forsake God? This is not this this section is not written to perfect people It's written to people who do not have these qualities, and it says, here's what God is doing. This is what God wants to do in your heart, in your life Let's pray. Father, what a wonderful picture of Jesus Christ. What an amazing description of the wisdom he displayed time and time again I pray that you would develop this kind of wisdom in each of us. May we develop characteristics That bear fruit, bear the fruit of righteousness in others. May the Spirit of God use the Word of God in our hearts for your glory. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen