Is it Christmas yet? It's around this time of the year that I think about the best Christmas stories. I remember memorable characters such as the Grinch or Charlie Brown Charlie Brown. But none of them were relatable to me as Ebenezer Scrooge. Not that I was rich or anything, but I've read A Christmas Carol and saw adaptations of it on stage and theater. The last one I saw was an animated film from ten years ago. But I still recall the gripping and haunting details. I'm sorry I'm giving away spoilers, but the original story is over 175 years old, so if you didn't read it yet, that's on you. Um For the rest, you know that the main character is haunted by four ghosts that reveal the consequences of his greed. One is the ghost of his late business partner. The other three take the protagonist to revisit his past. Look beyond his circumstances in the present. And face his potentially dark and grim future. Through this experience, we have a man who goes from Ba Humbug to a Merry Christmas to everybody. So whether it's Grinch, Scrooge, or George Bailey from It's a Wonderful Life, we are reminded to of the need to step away from ourselves, our isolation. The bridge. We need the who's, the spirits, or the angels to realize the true meaning of Christmas. Now, while these fictional accounts fall short of that true meaning of Christmas, their authors would agree that we need help from outside of us. Today we're going to encounter an old man who lived a good life, but still needed an angelic encounter Unlike Dickens or Dr. Seuss, Dr. Luke tells a true story of a man who was transformed to understand what Christmas is all about. I hope that you too will be awakened by his word in the same way. So let's read the passage together, which is Luke chapter 1, verses 5 to 25. You'll see it in the bulletin. Or please turn with me to your Bibles. Luke chapter 1, verse 5 to 25. There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias. Of the division of Abijah, his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. But they had no child because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well advanced in years. So it was that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his division, According to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of the people was praying outside at the hour of incense. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He will also be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb, and he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. He will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. And Zacharias said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years. And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and was sent to speak to you and bring you these glad tidings. But behold, you will be mute and not able to speak until the day these things take place. Because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their own time. And the people waited for Zacharias and marbled that he lingered so long in the temple. But when he came out, he could not speak to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple. But he backed unto them and remained speechless. So it was as soon as the days of his service were completed that he departed to his own house Now after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying, Thus the Lord has dealt with me in the days when he looked on me. to take away my reproach among the people. I believe there are three principles to take from this passage. Be faithful to the old ordinary works for the Lord. Verses 5 to 10. Do not fear the new extraordinary works of the Lord. Verses 11 to 17. Anticipate the great excellent works of the Lord. Verses 18 to 25 First be faithful to the old ordinary works for the Lord. Now isn't this just right offhand difficult principle for living? I ask this because I am humbled and amazed by how many saints here have been faithful for decades, performing old ordinary works for the Lord. I'm amazed by pastors like John MacArthur in California, Ed Simpson in our own backyard, who have preached the word and ministered at their churches for 50 plus years and 40 plus years respectively. And even if you're not a pastor, your faithfulness and church membership, financial support, and ministry volunteering are inspiring for us younger believers. And I look forward to learning from your example for a long time, if the Lord wills. I'm sure that you would be the first to tell me, though, that it's not easy. If Zacharias is a fallible human being, just like all of us, he must have had some dark times of silence. Here's what I mean. So just to back up a little bit, you see in verse 5 that God is doing something in the days of Herod the king. Let's not miss the significance of that Herod the Great, as we know him, lived from 73 to 4 BC, and we know from Matthew's account that Jesus was born near the end of his life, around 5 BC So somebody messed up there a little bit. But so we can place the events of Luke 1 around that time as well That means it has been over 400 years since God has spoken through his word, since the last book of the Old Testament, Malachi, was written. which was around 445 BC. Zacharias lived in the era between the Old and the New Testaments. Gone are the excitement that accompany the return from the Babylonian captivity, the rebuilding of the walls and the temple. The post-excelic prophetic voices of Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi were now faint echoes. The visions of the angel of the Lord were growing dim. God's people must have wondered as they transferred from the rule of Babylon to Persia to Greece to Roman Empire, where is our deliverer? Where is our Messiah who will restore us to the glory days of David? Why is God silent during all these years? The entire corporate body of Israel must have found it difficult to stay faithful to the old ordinary works for the Lord. At a deeply personal level, Zacharias too found it difficult to stay faithful as an individual. Now he and his wife, Elizabeth, were not nominal believers. They were true saints, not only from the priestly line of Aaron by blood, but also the spiritual family of the redeemed. Those justified by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, who was yet to come from their vantage point, they walk the talk and show by their fruits the root of their salvation. As Luke says in verse 6, they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. But for many years, even while they remained steadfast in the Lord, they experienced the disappointment of being childless. How they must have struggled against envy as they saw their friends have children. What did Zacharias feel as he heard the chants of Psalm 127 and 128 from the mouths of pilgrims journeying up to Jerusalem? 127 verse 3. Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. 128 verse 3. Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine in the very heart of your house. Your children like olive plants all around your table. How difficult was it for Elizabeth as neighbors looked on, looked at her with reproach, as she recalls in verse 25 there. How lonely their late years of marriage as they saw no one to take care of them as they grow old. Yet through all that, Zacharias and Elizabeth learn to trust God and stay faithful. Even though God said no, or really wait, to his many prayers for children, Zacharias was not deterred, and late in his life received a great honor. According to 1 Chronicles 24, verses 7-18, and this is during King David's time, 24 divisions of priests were placed on duty twice a year for one week at a time. Zacharias belonged to the division of Abijah, as the passage tells us, and the lot fell to him to burn incense inside the Jerusalem temple. Now there were many priests in Zacharias' time, so this was an opportunity, the opportunity of his lifetime. God moved his hand to have this old faithful priest fill this role. As Proverbs 1633 says, the lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the Lord. Now I want to be careful in stressing that just because you are faithful to the old, ordinary works for the Lord, that doesn't mean that you will receive good things in this life. God may immediately deliver you as he did for Daniel. God may immediately let you die as he did for Abel. Don't forget what the writer of Hebrews says after listing Great Triumphs of Faith in chapter 11. So make sure you read all the way to the end if you're going to read that chapter. Verse 35: Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Still others had trials of mockings and scourging, yes, and of chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn into, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, beings destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy They wandered in deserts and mountains and dens and caves of the earth. But one thing is certain, if we are faithful yet unrewarded here on earth, then our faith will be rewarded in heaven. Don't be surprised though if God gives you a foretaste of heaven right now on earth. That's what Zacharias was about to experience when he brought the prayers of the people as their priestly representative. The incense was a visual symbol of prayer of saints rising to heaven. See that in Psalm 141, verse 2, Revelation 5, 8 and 8, 3 to 4. And that leads to the next point. Do not fear the new extraordinary works of the Lord As Zacharias approached the altar, he encountered an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. Expecting to be alone, we understand his fear And as I said, it's been centuries since anyone caught a glimpse of a heavenly angel. And it's been a long time since he hoped for a son. Now all of a sudden Zacharias was about to experience the new extraordinary works of the Lord. The corporate prayers of the people for deliverance And individual prayers of their priest Zacharias for a son come together in this dramatic moment. Individually, we read in verse 13 that Zacharias will be a father and Elizabeth, a mother of a boy, who will be named John, which means God is gracious. God has indeed been gracious with Zacharias and Elizabeth, but the birth of this child signals something beyond him, something greater. The angel explains in verses 14 to 17. Commentator John A. Martin notes from these four verses six aspects of John's character, which I have adjusted to six relational aspects of John. 1. Shoy for Zacharias. That's in verse 14. Choy for Zacharias. 2. Greatness before God the Father. Verse 15A. I'll call it the first part of verse 15. 3. Separation from the world. Verse 15B. 4. Fullness of the Holy Spirit. Verse 15C. 5. Repentance of Israel. Verse sixteen and six, forerunner of God the Son. That's verse seventeen First, it goes without saying that John will be a joy for Zacharias. Verse 14 uses two nouns and a verb to describe the delight of family and friends. The reasons for this joy, however, have nothing to do with worldly aspirations, being great before the people. Instead, they will have reasons to be joyful in John's greatness before God the Father. So greatness before God the Father. That's the second one. John's status with the world is actually that of separation. Separation from the world. That's the third thing. The particular way in which he will maintain that status is through the Nazarite vow. This special office belongs to the old covenant, described in detail in Book of Numbers, chapter 6. God will be a perpetual Nazarite, refraining from alcoholic beverages and haircuts. Through these practices, he would let others know that he set apart from the world. And set apart from the world, John will be set apart for the fullness of the Holy Spirit. A quick note, unlike John, members of the New Covenant are not required to be teeth holders, but We must not become vessels filled with alcohol with no room for influence of the Holy Spirit. So we see that in Ephesians 5, 18-19. Up to this point, from verses 14 to 15, we focused on ways that John was prepared for ministry, joy for Zacharias, greatness before God the Father, separation from the world, fullness of the Holy Spirit. Verses 16 and 17 summarize the ministry itself, repentance of Israel, forerunner of God the Son. He will be instrumental in the repentance of Israel. His work was baptism of repentance As he would be widely known not only in Judean wilderness, but in Jewish communities of Gentile towns of Roman Empire. See that in Book of Acts 13 and 19. It that John was known broadly. But repentance is not merely some outward ritual in the water Yeah, I want to talk about repentance for a second. Repentance is the act of turning away from sin and turning towards God Repentance properly orients us toward God. It is as if John is running towards crowds shouting, heads up, right? Look up here. Verse 17 says he will go before God in the spirit and power of Elijah. Now John denied that He is literally Elijah the Tishvite who ascended to heaven because there were first century Jewish leaders who actually believed that Elijah, that Elijah, will come back down. But he is Elijah in spirit. As we see Jesus confirming that in Matthew 17 and Mark 9, who came before the Messiah in his first coming. What no one knew in the Old Testament times was that Christ would come twice, not once. Prior to Jesus' second coming, there will be another prophet who comes in the spirit and power of Elijah. Very likely one of the two uh one of the two witnesses in Revelation eleven. But for now we just focus on the first advent. John will grow up and turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. That is a citation of Malachi 4. 6, the final verse in the Old Testament. That is the picture of repentance. As we look towards our relationship with God in heaven, we also look towards our relationship with family and neighbors on earth. The disobedient will turn to practical wisdom and moral intelligence. This is what John was made for The Lord makes ready John prepare for the people so that John can make ready a people prepared for the Lord. This Lord mentioned here is God the Son, and John has become his forerunner. John is not the Messiah, he is not the Christ. He's simply the one who comes before Christ. Old Testament prophets knew that the day of the Lord is coming when he will vindicate his people and judge his enemies. God himself will intervene in history, sending his own son again to bring justice to the world. So the question for you now as we wait for that second return, are you ready for that judgment? And the way of preparation has always been the same. Repentance and faith. As we draw closer to Christmas, we are remembering once again how God is not distant from us. Of course, that is a source of comfort. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God does truly love us But the fact that God is closer to us could also be a source of dread. He must judge sin and sinners. Here's a warning from all for all from Acts 17, 30 to 31. Acts 17, 30 to 31. God now commands all men everywhere to repent. Because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. If you have never repented and place your faith in Jesus, please do so as soon as possible. We do not know when he will return again and judge all mankind. The very reason there are two comings of Christ is so that people like you and me would have a children's eternal life. That eternal life is given to us freely. We deserve eternal torment because of our many sins. But Jesus was born as a babe, lived a perfect life, and went to the cross to die for our sins as a substitute. He then rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. He now offers you eternal life. If we turn away from our sins in repentance, trust in Jesus in faith. We will be saved from hell. And there's nothing we can do on our own strength to avoid judgment, nothing to earn heaven, nothing to evade hell. We're saved by grace alone, through faith alone in Jesus. For those who have repented already and trusted in Jesus, the resurrected Savior King, there's no need to be afraid. Just as Zacharias had nothing to fear, we have nothing to fear. On the contrary, because of the new and extraordinary works of Christ in us and through us, We have all the reasons to rejoice. Meditate on 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things have become new. As much as we experience this transformed reality, right this moment, there's even more to come. So all you saints, listen to these words from 1 Corinthians 2 9. I have not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. If living for Christ is exciting now, wait until God unveils the curtain to reveal your heavenly inheritance. And even as we prepare for God, God has prepared for us. That leads to the next point. Anticipate the great, excellent works of the Lord. Now at first Zacharias does not do a good job of exemplifying this principle Though we don't know what tone of voice he used, we can safely assume from Gabriel's reaction that there was doubt in his heart. It may seem harsh that this old priest was basically told to shut up, but let's consider what Zacharias knew. He would be familiar with the barren wombs of Rebecca, Rachel, Samson's mother. Hannah. Most importantly, he ought to know that God gave Abraham and Sarah Isaac in their own age. Abraham at 100, Sarah at 90. Is anything too hard for the Lord? Gabriel reveals his name, origin, and exposes the lack of faith in Zacharias in verses 19 and 20. He is unable to speak and transmit the divine revelation verbally to the people waiting outside. He silently fulfills his priestly duty and returns home. Elizabeth becomes pregnant just as God said, but she remained hidden for five months. As you saw in verse 25, she was comforted from all the criticism and reproach received in the past. As God answered both the corporate prayers and individual prayers of the people. So why was everything hussled hushed and subdued? Why was the audio and the visual taken away? One reason is that Elizabeth would become a confirmation sign for Mary in the next passage of Luke. That is, Elizabeth's pregnancy late in her life would be evidence and assurance that the promise of Mary's virgin vert will also come true. So Elizabeth will be hidden until she becomes a sign revealed to Mary. But with God nothing will be impossible. But as a principle for Zacharias, Elizabeth, and ultimately us, we must wait in anticipation for the great excellent works of the Lord. Much of our spiritual walk is an acceptance of a important theological truth. Already, not yet. Already not yet. We are already secure in heaven. But we are not there yet. We are already heirs of God through Christ, Galatians 4, 7. Yet our inheritance that is incorruptible and undefiled and that does not fade away is reserved in heaven for us. 1 Peter 1. 4. We have already received the Spirit of Adoption by whom we cry out, Abba Father. Romans 8. 15 But we are yet eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. Romans 8. 23 The seasons and months of silence and seclusion in the lives of Zacharias and Elizabeth teach us that such times are ordained by God to grow our faith. Just as they learn between Gabriel's announcement and John's birth, the already and not yet, we also have a genuine hope that is not seen And if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. Romans 8, 24 to 25. But walking in faith and anticipating God's work, even though God's work is great and excellent and wonderful, walking in faith is no walk in the park. In this journey, we need someone already at the finish line, urging us on and pleading for us We can't do it alone. We need the spirit, the same spirit that filled John from the womb to empower us We need a priest like Zacharias as our representative, but while Zacharias failed in his unbelief as a human, we have God's Son as the merciful and faithful high priest. He is Jesus Christ, who sits at the right hand of God, interceding for us. Let us strive to be faithful as He is. Let us be courageous, not fearing, and let us anticipate his return. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you openly, frankly. We come before you not with our faith complete yet. We come before you realizing that we have much to learn and grow. And Lord, frankly speaking, we sometimes come before you, maybe even right now, feeling disappointed. At the way things have turned out. The way that for all so long we have prayed and asked for things. Yet we've been told no or wait. Of course, we are thankful for all the yeses, the promises of the gospel. But Lord, we fail to see these as enough. We pray that you would help us to repent from such a mindset. But Lord, as as we live in this life, as we are just pilgrims in this journey, As we live between the already and not yet. Lord, may we trust in you. May the promises of your word excite us Or whether we've been walking with you for months, decades, or half a century. Pray that you would excite our hearts to know that what's ahead of us is even greater than what we have gone through already. Pray that as we look at the lives of Zachariah and Elizabeth, that we will learn from their example to be faithful May we not fear the great things you have in store for us. Great things you are doing. Maybe not with us, but around us. May we celebrate that. May we rejoice in that. May we look forward to the return of your son. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.