He came back and said, Look, the Lord wants you to stay in the land. It's like a byword, but here's an individual who's going to turn many of the children of Israel back to God. I just want to I really want you to look uh and you've looked at this before, but look look at look at uh 2 Corinthians chapter 10 as a reminder here When I, you know, that you might be a Muslim who carries a prayer mat, and that thing is visible in your arm as you're walking down the streets in Cairo. We all do it at different levels. Who had given up on ever having kids, for for having this locust-eating, camel hair-wearing guy who was of great estimation in your sight. And right now, because we live in a divorce culture, there's so much pain out there because there's even rejection in that most intimate relationship of marriage. Someone who was truly dedicated to the justice of the cause of delivering those people. And the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. What he will actually do. I will cut off its supply of bread and famine and cut off man and beast from it. And he stood firm in his integrity. of the people. Or I'm sorry, verse 8. The Spirit of God was at work in his life. is filled with the Spirit of God. And in general, they need to be turned to the Lord their God. Well we should say the effect and the ability of Christian weaponry, spiritual weapons, as opposed to carnal or fleshly weapons. During Christmas, to honor Mary. You're familiar with the passage in Jeremiah, it says that our hearts are desperately wicked. But what preachers is God raising up now? He says, did you know that God will never reject you? But you will never be placed outside of Christ again to face the condemnation of the law of God and the wrath of God in hell. One of those nations is the nation of North Korea. like Stalin and like Hitler before him, a dictator who rules by fear, aggression, and terror. And God did send one. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. Well, verse 17, there's a little bit there that tells us the kind of person he is. And we look at what they do and the kind of person they are. What did Daniel do? The details of the vow are strange, perhaps, to you and me as we read the details, but we see in Numbers 6 verse 1. It says, Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them: When either a man or woman consecrates an offering, to take the vow of a Nazarite, Neither shall he drink any grape juice, nor eat fresh grapes or raisin. to skin. But there's it's this sort of these daily habits that the person has that demonstrates that he wants to be close For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. But not many days from now, you're all going to be baptized with the Holy Spirit. He didn't even know the Spirit of the Lord had left him. To Zacharias's Jewish ears, he's hearing that his son is great in the eyes of the Lord, and his son is going to be a Nazirite separated under the Lord, and his son is going to be John the Baptist is going to be in the habit of directing people to turn from one thing to another. Generally speaking, he's going to turn the children of Israel to the Lord their God. Now that is a daunting task. It's not a turning of a physical body, but it's a turning of, look at your Bible again. and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought. To call out in that strong point at times, repent, repent, repent. I've wished I could just look at someone and say, stop doing what's wrong, start doing what's right. When he is described in verse 17 as have as he will also go before him, that is before Jesus, in the spirit and power of Elijah. No, Elijah was this stalwart, courageous, fearless man. Here's this prophet ordering the king around, and the king does it. Well, if we feel cold physically, the thing to do is to kindle a fire, get one going, and to sit, stand next to that fire and put your hands Over that fire and not too close, but and feel that good warmth there that's coming from that fire. Placed into a new permanent position before God the Father. And that means, unlike human relationships, don't raise your hand, but if I were to ask the question, how many of you in this room have ever been rejected by someone else? Raise your hand. But when it comes to God, if you have been bought and redeemed with the blood of Christ, there will never ever be that kind of rejection, any rejection. To have your priorities in our lives and magnify your ways, your wisdom before us today. of citizens in concentration camps than in any other country on the face of the earth. Because they disagreed with the government there in North Korea. What would you do? Because we're dealing with a government, and we're talking about rescuing people from illicit or unjust government. What we have in Luke chapter 1 is a whole lot of answers when it comes to who God sent. The angel said, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. But here's something that's even harder. But we are living in a world of spiritual darkness where men and women every day are dominated by their own sinful choices and their own inherent sinful natures, and we need a savior. Someone named John the Baptist. And shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. In looking at what the angels said about John, we see first the kind of individual he is. Now that is a statement that is fascinating. But here is someone that is described as great, not in the eyes of people, but in the sight of the Lord. What does this mean, great in the sight of the Lord? I will stretch out my hand against it. Even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would deliver only themselves by their righteousness, says the Lord God. Cause and effect. And having now a new position before the Lord, they demonstrate by their character their faith in Him. He is saying, in essence, you know these three men. Men who are great in the sight of the Lord, what made them great? A pagan king, and he maintained his personal purity. Who was able to maintain his personal purity in the face of great impurity, idolatry? And he is not, if I could put it this way, a minor prophet, although certainly the minor prophets were great men. I should have told you to stay in the Old Testament. By the repetition of one word. Now you caught the repetition of the word separation, right? Probably in his day difficult. And you have to understand that the wine in the Old Testament, it was wine. hundreds of years later. But the next day the fermentation process had already taken place. But technically still, why? to the Lord, to have this special kind of relationship, this intense, can we use the word intense, personal, daily relationship with the Lord, separated from and to the Lord. in a special and distinct way. Who put their faith and trust in him will get the Holy Spirit. This filling was for individuals, and this filling could be taken away. So the filling in the Old Testament is temporary. filled with the Holy Spirit. So that's sort of a description of what he's like and what is he going to do. But it does mean that he can say, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Actions that are in keeping with a truly changed heart and a repentant heart. That Jesus made parables up about it. He's going to call people to repentance so that they respond inwardly and then they act outwardly. And in the kind of ministry that they're both going to have is a ministry that essentially changes people on the inside. You might be someone in Mexico who's marching on your knees in front of everyone to the cathedral and your your knees are bloody because this is the ritual that you do during the holiday season. You and I need our hearts change, don't we? Now we have in the Old Testament the prophecy that Elijah will return before the days of the Messiah. similar to Elijah, the spirit and the power, what was Elijah like? What we learn from Luke as we continue in the beginning, and I was going to go and look at what Zecharias said, we don't have time, after John was born. And the king says, Ah, finally I found you, the one that troubles Israel. Round up all your prophets and meet me over here at 10 o'clock. The spirit and power of Elijah, Elijah was a man who who he he was courageous and unafraid, a straight talker, and John the Baptist was all these things. And that's he had backbone. So the preaching style of Jesus was similar enough to John the Baptist that the rumors that the king heard made him connect the dots. You are so amazing. Now, if you rebel, God might chase you down, and he might send a fish after you to swallow you. Someone who had an ability to sneak around well. What this means, if you turn back now to Luke chapter 1, is that God is saying through this angel to Zacharias that John the Baptist belongs in that ranking of people. Will estimate as great. Peculiar kind of separation unto the Lord. Because the angel, in essence, is inferring that there are a whole lot of people. Went down into Egypt with the people. Knowledge that exalts itself, I'm sorry, high things that exalt themselves against the knowledge of God. The human heart, when it's born, is born in sin. And Jesus started preaching even more. As you're turning. As we look at the way you do things and how different it is from maybe the way we would choose to do things, warm our hearts with the scriptures that we look at today. Tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of people living in squalor and degradation. Malnourished, starving, brutalized day in and day out. Man-child, kind of an individual who, at the slightest whim, will off his enemies, even if they are enemies of his own cabinet. Now, if you were tasked to send someone to North Korea and to rescue the people in those concentration camps, But who are you going to send in to announce and get people ready for the savior kind of a person? Before Christ, to announce the coming of Christ. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. Very high. But there have been times in history when God has looked on individuals and he has declared them righteous, not because of what they've done, but because of their faith in Him. They would not say these people, they're too far gone, Ezekiel. To separate himself to the Lord. That he is holy. So we're kind of flipping back and forth. And so we read things in the New Testament like Acts chapter 1. A few days from now, on the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit will come upon you and you will be filled with power and you'll testify of me. That was not so in the days of the Old Testament, when the Jews had a relationship with their God and they operated in their theocracy. There were these times when God specifically chose and filled anointed individuals for service and filled them with his spirit That existed. It's primarily the angel describes John's job as a job of turning people. And not only does he turn many to the children of Israel, but look at your Bible again, he turns fathers to their children, disobedient to the just. The answer is yes. Now listen, every other religion that's out there, things change on the outside But how how difficult is it to change someone's heart? That can change the human heart. And folks, here's another application. Who is God creating at this very moment for a specific task in our country? No. But Elijah was the kind of guy who met Ahab in 2 Kings. You're the one. God's the ministry of Jesus Christ, who would be the Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world. You know what? What kind of hero would you send? He's not a covert soldier or on a special ops team. He and his family. Daniel was someone who was kidnapped, taken away from his family, put in a pagan land, he was hired, and he was in the corporate ladder of the king. Job. Because they had no pasteurization process. So when we put these ideas together, we have this fact that the Lord was So we know that when Jesus said that to his followers, he did not point only to Andrew and say, now Andrew. The Old Testament. He will turn, verse 17, the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. was impossible without the filling of the Spirit, without a dedicated man, without someone who was truly equipped Milktose kind of guy who who kind of tiptoed around Ahab and Jezebel and just sort of whispered the prophecies behind the walls of the palace and But John the Baptist, Jesus describes as a burning and a shining light. You think about that. It's amazing, isn't it? These three men were superlative in their righteousness. The Lord looked highly upon John the Baptist. Now, this filling with the Spirit, we are kind of used to those kind of terms because we're New Testament Christians. Even from his mother's womb, even while he's before he's born, he's going to be filled with the Holy Spirit. John the Baptist was one of the greatest, if not the greatest Old Testament prophet Look at verse 16. Every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. When we come right down to it, God is not dead, and God has plans for us. Called and separated to introduce Jesus. During the night and just enjoying that warmth. Now, here we have God speaking to Ezekiel about his standard operating procedures Great in the sight of the Lord, a Nazarite separated unto the Lord, that he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. They didn't want to get drunk by drinking the wine, so they would dilute it. Difficult job. Alright, now let's center our attention on a few biblical facts before we look at Luke chapter 1. For they were all assembled together with them. God's ways are not our ways. Is what helps us to warm up on the inside and for that warmth to come out in our words and actions and on the expressions even on our face. There are a couple nations in the world today that you and I know are almost by definition evil. What kind of individual would it take to, well, maybe on the one hand the Messiah, you're going to send in a savior type person? When we look at Numbers chapter 6, we see why, why this vow was taken or what it accomplished In Acts chapter 1, you have Jesus giving his final commands to his followers before he ascends to heaven. And he says here in 2 Corinthians 10, verse 4: The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments. The word of the Lord came again to me, that's Ezekiel, saying, Son of man, when a lins against me by persistent unfaithfulness, Probably all of us would raise our hands. This guy had a tough job. But uh John the Baptist fulfills him as a type of Elijah. This morning, if there's an application in this, when you read about the kind of people that God commissions and sends, your heart should say, Wow, you are so wise, God. Is the kindling that can fire the regenerated heart. Just doesn't happen that way, does it? We're not all equally sinful, but that is the problem. So what kind of man is God going to send? In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 4 and 5, Paul writes about the kind of weapons God is still active and just as wise as during the days of John the Baptist. And go get all the prophets of Baal and meet me over here on this mountain. What did Job do? Job was someone who was put in a crucible of excruciating suffering, a unique kind of suffering like few of us ever face. All the days of the vow of his separation, no razor shall come upon his head. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. Ezekiel fourteen, verses twelve to fourteen. And we know his name is Jesus, and he promised to take away the sins of his people. What kind of person? He was chosen, equipped, and separated. Let me get you to turn to a passage that will maybe shed a little light on this. That was it. I mean, it took some effort to separate yourself from wine and grapes. So when they made wine and they stamped out those grapes, if you drank it as soon as it was produced, it was truly grape juice. We're still operating under this older paradigm, if I could put it that way. Let's pray together. Have you ever thought of this? The soul that sins, it will die. If you turn quickly back to Luke chapter 1 again. They wouldn't listen to what he said. I just worship you for sending a man like John the Baptist, for bringing him into the world through this godly older couple. You let that warm your heart. Maybe you would send someone who was able to, who was very strong physically And then in Luke 1, hopefully your finger is there and you can just go right back, this filling is from his mother's womb, even while Well, what else does the angel say here? And you can imagine Zacharias, he's just amazed at this because not just anyone in the Hebrew nation Let's turn back to the Nazarite vow for a moment in number 6. Why do I bring this up? And that's the kind of man that God created. I don't know if you remember this, but two weeks ago I mentioned that biblical truth. He did what his friends did not do, what his wife did not do. If you look at your Bibles at Luke chapter 1 and verse 13, and you see what the angel said to Zacharias when he was in doing his duties, listening to this angel. It was a part of everyday life. How many prophets were successful in doing that during their days? Folks, it had been hundreds of years since a prophet like this had come. You might, even the Nazarite vow, there are these things that are visible, but that's not the point. I will cut off its supply of bread, send famine on it, and cut off man and beast from it. What the purpose of the vow was. He shall be holy. It says, he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. Have you ever felt like your heart is a bucking bronco and you're just trying to ride it and you just get kicked off of it? Aren't you glad that that is your Savior? And so the ark was made, and he was preserved because he had faith in God and a life that showed his faith. That's what David wrote. Don't worry about it. The king thought Jesus was who? It's for individuals. First, this person was sent, then this person, and finally the Son, and you're going to kill him too. Well, look at your Bible. In the New Testament, we all have the Spirit of God. How difficult is it to do that? Is God dead? He shall separate himself from wine and similar drink. At one time or another in our lives, we've been rejected by people. Who would you send in? And he will also be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. And he goes out and he's captured. Well, evidently there was something in their lives that was so superlative that God could now bring up their names as an illustration to Ezekiel. You know how great they were in my sight, even if these three men stood before me. The next thing that's said here is that he will, this is Luke chapter 1, verse 15. Father, as we look at this passage today, as we consider the ministry of John the Baptist, Well, Noah was almost literally the only one on the whole planet who would do what was right. The next day it would have gone further and further and further. He knew he would. When it comes to how a Christian can warm his soul knowing the truth about God. They say that in North Korea there are there's a greater percentage Who is God working in now? And there are some people that we look at as great and some, hmm, not so much. He was good at covert operations. He was one of the few, along with a few of his friends, you know their names. The process of pasteurization was not invented until The final thing they said was, look, you go this final time to the Lord. There's separation from certain things, and these things are Did he have good weapons? If you were tasked with infiltrating an organization, with somehow sending someone in to make it right. Turn there quickly, Acts 1. Another translation translates it incurably sick. John is going to introduce someone by calling people to repentance. He's going to send someone he himself. And they said, No, we're going to Egypt. Well, the description goes on. The first thing the angel says when it comes to John the Baptist in verse 15 is that he will be great in the sight of the Lord. All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is produced by the grape rine from seed. All of you. In Luke, are we under the Old Testament or the New Testament in Luke 1? From birth, we know how to lie, cheat, and steal Now, Jesus was not a milktoast individual either, because after John the Baptist got his head cut off, What is he turning? And how can you change the heart? If you're here today and you've been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ, You know what the current leader is like. We're not living under the regime of North Korea, thank God for that, here in the land of the free and the land of the brave. He isn't a good fighter. He will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. And here's someone who is taking a vow and saying, I will separate from these things so that I can have this Yeah, there was a time he ran away. And here's Elijah looking the king in the eye, eyeball to eyeball, and says, I'm not the one who's troubling Israel. God wants our hearts changed As a Christian, you can never be rejected by God. And then we also see from this passage a job You and I have opinions, and we look at people and we estimate their worth. Persistent unfaithfulness, my hand will be stretched out against it. And it's described here if you look at your Bible again, all the way down there in verse 5. So I think in this passage we have We don't know how many. And where are your thoughts? What did he say to Herod? And God says to Ezekiel, even if one of these came, even if one of these stood before me, I would still have to judge the land. Is he out of the making of John the Baptist business? See if you can hear the repetition of the word. And in the New Testament, it also was wine. Okay, I don't think we appreciate this. Come back from the dead? You are justified. And the Lord called him to be separated to himself. He commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You have heard from me. Who is he going to turn? And then all the prophets are lose the contest, you know, with a fire coming down and all that. And why but why? And the king does it. What kind of person would you send to help people with spiritual issues? Not only this, but you know the other things, the hair. If you've ever gone camping, there's nothing quite like sitting around a campfire And we are going to look at Jeremiah, sorry. Just like everyone could get into the water and do the baptism of repentance, so all of you are going to be filled with the Spirit. Maybe the entire nation Turn to Ezekiel 14. What prophets, if we could call it that? Turn back to number 6. He was an amazing man. They're facing the other way. So much of what they drank was mostly water with some wine in it and very, very, very, very, very small amount of alcohol. David says, take not thy Holy Spirit from me. The hearts, the hearts of the fathers to the children. Could he do this You know, I think you and I You don't have to turn there, but this is in 1 Kings 18. Now, in this idea of liberating people from North Korea, the kind of person we would send in almost would necessitate violence. This turning Some of them, many Christians who've been placed in those camps, suffering Are those the kind of things that John the Baptist would face? And then finally, in this description here, we go back to what kind of a man he is in Luke 1. Was Isaiah successful or Jeremiah? Would you describe Elijah as sort of a cowardly He's a major kind of a prophet. Where do you think about philosophies and ideas? So the fact You ought not to have your brother's wife. What can we learn from this? He didn't use violence in preparation for the coming of the Messiah. And so what they did was they would cut the wine with water. Case in point, Samson's got his head on the lap of Delilah, and what happens when he gets up the final time? What does this mean? It doesn't say 10 o'clock in the Bible, but but here's this. This is the Lord's operating procedure. Who knows what the man faced? Strongholds, arguments. It's it the wisdom of God in sending John the Baptist should cause us to just worship God. A good soldier, a good fighter, maybe And it is not literally fulfilled, but And the angel says, and he shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. And repentance is a turning of the heart, a changing of the mind that results in action, the fruit of repentance. Well, verse 16 And here, in the beginning of Luke, Luke is beginning to introduce Jesus through John. You ever felt cold? He will chasten the ones he loves. Until the days are fulfilled, for which he separated himself to the Lord, he shall be holy. John the Baptist baptized in water. And he ended up going with them. He was worn out. Well, right here in Ezekiel, buried in a judgment passage. Well, look at your Bible in Luke chapter 1 again and look at verse 16. Whose lives is he working in? I mean, often He did not raise his voice and accuse his God of unfaithfulness. Now that statement alone is amazing. John the Baptist. These concentration camps are so big you can see them by satellite. He recently took over. But we know that it's an event where the Spirit comes on someone, even King Saul when he prophesied. The job description of John the Baptist And he's still raising up men to preach the word of God. Many. Well it means that John the Baptist is Here's the prophet telling the king. And God sent someone before him. This is an allusion to the Nazirite vow. Look at verse 7. We're going to look at verses 12 and 14. He shall drink neither vinegar made from wine nor vinegar made from similar drink Many people used wine on a daily basis. Whatever he tells you to do, we're going to do. This is chapter 1, verse 13. We're still in Luke 1. He didn't just look at Peter and say, Peter, a few days. You are secure. Often I've wanted to look in the mirror at myself and say, stop doing what's wrong in this area, start doing what's right. What we have here is the description of a truly unique individual, folks. Truly amazing. God sees this individual, and his estimation of him is. I don't mean predictively like they can prophesy the future, but I'll read it a little louder. Now that's not mentioned in Luke. There's something about our hearts that is just not right. I mean Now, folks. Has he moved on to other things? That's what you see in verse 15 down to sort of the beginning of verse 15. Now, this does not mean that John can change someone's heart. He prayed three times a day to keep a pure heart, a soul heart for God. He called a spade a spade and he didn't back down. He is there This is what it says Let me close this down, all right? Jeremiah at the end of his ministry was How many prophets in the Old Testament? That will never happen. There's a separation unto the Lord. We'll look at it next week. Their hearts are not right. In your mind, in your heart. One of the things that occurred to me this week as I was studying and thinking about God. He is this He's someone that is great in the Lord's eyes, not in the eyes of God. Who was this individual, John the Baptist? And he says in Acts 1 verse We pray this in Christ's name. So why don't you go ahead and get your Bibles out and turn to Luke chapter 1? Noah was just such an amazing person. Oh, it's John, he's come back. He must punish sin. He did. Number six, verse one. It's almost uncontrolled. And John is going to turn them back to the Lord their God. Has he left the New Testament church to its own devices? Well, Jesus, so few prophets were listened to. You're the one. Help us. He meets the king. Is that we we just have an amazing God. Amen. He said, Who? Lord, you are an amazing Lord. Jesus was a powerful preacher and a courageous man. And what is so special about him? Who's going to get the Holy Spirit? What did he do? All of them.