In verse 31, she is told that she will conceive and have a son, and he is to be named Jesus. The verb overshadow can be used to describe just the ordinary covering of a shadow of a common person. That's in Matthew 17, Mark 9, and Luke 9. What's the peace? And today's passage will help us to form that right picture of Mary. And behold, you will conceive in your womb, and bring forth the Son, and shall call his name Jesus. I hope you are not just fact-checking, but devoting yourselves to following these principles also in your bulletin insert. Memorize it. The dates of two of the four major dogmas about Mary, her immaculate conception and assumption into heaven. Of the house of David. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren. And the angel departed from her. Verse 38. Mary and Joseph were unassuming common town folks of the day. Scriptures say next to nothing about Mary's family background, though there are many legends out there about her. While every child is a gift of God, no one else in history receives the privilege of carrying the Messiah child. But Mary's privilege of carrying Christ and her intimate relationship with God also meant that she was blessed among men among women, that is more than any other woman. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which which are not to bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. In Semitic thought, a son was a carbon copy of his father, and the phrase son of was often used to refer to one who possessed his father's qualities. For example, the Hebrew translation, son of wickedness in Psalm 89, verse 22, means a wicked person. Remember, the old priest asked how he and his wife can have a child so late in their lives. The virgin birth shows that God intervenes in history and he is not distant from us. Living an ordinary and quiet life. And the Holy One, who never sinned once, died on the cross according to the plan of God the Father. Smitten by the Father, afflicted, wounded, bruised, and the chastisement for our peace was upon him. As we were showing my mother around Rome in 1989, we visited St. Through her experience, she was, quote, was touched with the feeling of our infirmities so as to be a more effective intercessor at God's right hand. Further, such a statement seemed a categorical refusal of an ecumenical dialogue which Vatican Council II advocated. But Dr. So more than ever, the Protestant and Catholic Gulf has widened because of our differing views of Mary. So let's read Luke 1, 26 to 38 together. Then Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I do not know a man? Therefore, also that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Let's be clear, Mary is a recipient of grace, not a giver or dispenser of grace. We have here in verse 26 and 27 a meeting of the extraordinary with the ordinary. The Latin translation of highly favored one as plana dractia, full of grace, is a good one. The very fact that the great angel Gabriel is addressing Mary is amazing grace. Gabriel was the one who told Daniel of the Messiah who would come and be cut off after a period of time. By Elba J. And that's what's going on with all these legends around Mary. For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. Jesus Christ, who would be wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Now, if we stop here, then Jesus would not be any better than John the Baptist. Once the time of early Jerusalem expires, the new Jerusalem will descend from heaven, the glory of Christ will dwell there. As the fifth prediction states, and of its kingdom, there will be no end. That is where we find our application. If you don't know where to start, here's another good book for suggestion. How will she be a mother when she is a virgin? Gabriel can say, come on, Zacharias, what I'm telling you is not unprecedented. But he is never called Jesus' father in the scriptures. To help Mary in her faith, Gabriel instructs her that Elizabeth, her relative, has conceived in her old age, and she is in her sixth month of pregnancy. Even an agnostic can understand its importance. He said, Jesus Christ. I would like to ask him if he was indeed virgin born. Now, the Holy Spirit works in the life of every saint, but he will not work again in the same exact way that he has with Mary. And this surrender, my friends, is glorious. He took the iniquity of us all, paid the ultimate price for our wandering and strain. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. In full. But to offer us eternal life, to show us love. We thank you for the gospel by which we are saved. Only the scriptures, or is it in the magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church? Even the best David's progeny, like Heziah, Josiah, could not keep the crown or the seat authority forever. It was entitled Mariology Today by Dr. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Highly favored one. The true source of her favored status comes from God Himself, the Lord who was with her. God, of course. Gabriel was the one who gave the dignitary and prophet Daniel visions of the end times in Daniel 8 and 9. By the way, if you want to understand in detail how Daniel, Gabriel, Jesus, and Mary all fit together in God's timeline, go pick up the small book. And recognized talents. But beyond those thousand years, we learn from the fourth prediction that he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. Her inquiry was driven by faith-seeking understanding. In the same way, God's glory is visible and manifest in Mary's womb. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. It would be difficult to imagine a more official setting. The message on that occasion said nothing about Jesus Christ. The final resounding words of the message proclaimed that at the name of Mary every knee should bow and every tongue confess that Mary is the mother of God to the glory of God the Father. We can diagnose whether we are Orthodox or heterodox, Protestant or Catholic. Who has such right? The betrothal status at this time was much more binding than the modern engagement status. It wasn't just grace. So it's appropriate that the Saint Gabriel is at Jerusalem and Nazareth announcing the birth of the Messiah's forerunner and the Messiah himself. Anytime you feel really good about yourself or you get a little arrogant, go to this passage. His origins are from eternity past, but his power will be displayed in future history. This Davidic throne in Jerusalem unoccupied for so long will be the seat of Christ's rule when he returns to establish his thousand-year reign. See that in Matthew 22, Mark 12, and Luke 20. By reading and growing in these promises, our anticipation of Jesus, not only his first coming, which we already passed, now his second coming, that anticipation will grow. We'll discuss the virgin birth again when we get to Matthew, but for now let's leave to 34 to 37 with two applications. And it was even divided by his birth. The virgin birth begins this momentous time in history when God walked among us in flesh. But the constant is this. She is a model for the church, yes. May we speak as she did in verse 38. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. All we like sheep have gone astray. He began his presentation with a personal story of a visit to Rome. We are still experiencing the effects of what's called the Marian century, the period between 1854 and 1950. Now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph. This language is similar to Deborah's blessing of Jael in Judges 5. There's some parallel between this reaction and Zacharias's reaction earlier. Now it was strange enough that this person, who she assumed was a man, was talking with her, a woman, but his gracious and kind words must have taken her off completely off guard. We react that way because it throws off our value systems. I encourage you to meditate on 1 Corinthians 1, 26 to 29. So really this angelic encounter is not so much about Mary, but the one in her. You'll see that from the Garden of Eden in Genesis to Malachi in the post-exilic times, God has promised the coming of his son to save the world. The heavenly messenger exposes unbelief in Zacharias and he is struck mute. Why the difference? We can say for certain that Jesus has no earthly father. But this verb is also found in the Greek version of the Old Testament in Exodus chapter 40, verse 35. No one else can claim the status of the Holy One and the Son of the Highest. Mary has all the reasons to believe, for with God nothing will be impossible. Only a sovereign God has that right to cut straight through the timeline because he stepped right into history. If Mary has yielded much to the Holy Spirit, Jesus has yielded more. Then, around the age of 30, Jesus entered public ministry before going up to Jerusalem. He asks you to come and serve him. All we can do is come as a beggar with nothing to give nothing to offer. To save hardened criminals and model citizens, because we all need grace. To earth not to domineer us, not to not to dominate us Commentator John A. It doesn't matter if you're morally superior to your cheating neighbor or the serial rapist in jail. We have reasons to be your servant because your son showed us what servanthood truly is. First Corinthians one, twenty-six to twenty-nine In the eyes of the world, Mary was not special, but that's precisely the reason God chose her to be the mother of Jesus Christ. In Jesus we have both, the human son in the genealogy of David. Again, Mary knew her Bible. Elizabeth becomes a confirmation sign for Mary, a means to be sure that her own miraculous pregnancy will take place. The other application is seen by returning to the point number three, surrender to God's Spirit. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. We have reasons to anticipate. Fisher went on to say that unhealthy fervor and devotion to Mary have gotten stronger ever since Vatican II, with numerous books, encyclicals, and statements. Up to this point, Mary was simply following the ordinary course of life. The Holy Spirit will cre creatively bring about the physical conception of Jesus. This looses back to what I said at the beginning. If you have lived your life in your own way, please think about the words of our final hymn together. Lord, we pray that we would understand that deeply. We were left stunned by such use of scripture and the total neglect of Jesus on Good Friday. There was, and there still might be some optimism among Protestants about Bible-centered dialogue with Catholics. I say all this to point out that our view of Mary is an excellent litmus test, not just for our Bible knowledge, not just sorting through what is fiction or fact about her. Anticipate God's Son, verses 30-33. In the New Testament, we see the same verb used for the cloud that overshadowed the mountain where Jesus was transfigured before Peter, James, and John. Mary has been shown God's grace and the three descriptions in verse 28 are windows into the depths of that grace. Just as we cannot outpower Jesus, we cannot outserve Jesus. Jesus, born of a virgin, conceived by the Holy Spirit, the Son of the Highest. All of our griefs, sorrows, transgressions, and iniquities fell on him. Defend the fact that it happened. Growing up and living a perfect life and dying for our sins. And we pray that we would we would seek to be humble though in the power of your spirit Now back to Mary and application for us. That means the greatness of John in the sight of the Lord pales in comparison to the greatness of Jesus, who is equal in essence with the Father. And he has overcome sin and death. Gabriel calls her by name and tells her not to be afraid, just as he did with Zacharias. From verses 32 to 33, we have five predictions about Mary's son. If we biblically understand Mary's role in redemption history, she will never be placed at the same level or above his son, above her son. If you have never asked Jesus to save you, know that he came to earth to burgeon birth, to save humanity, to save Mary, his mother, and Joseph his father. Lord, you are not distant from us. As you can tell by my outline, this passage is not a The Virgin's name was Mary, and having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one. McClain, Daniel's Prophecy of 70 Weeks. All of the favor, presence, and blessings of God were not fully realized immediately by Mary. Jesus was indeed virgin born, and history is indeed defined by him. First Corinthians one, twenty six to twenty-nine. It was amazing grace. To be his servant. But we need not frown upon divine interruptions. Martin observes, quote, The fact that her baby was to be called the Son of the Most High pointed to his equality with Yahweh. The Lord is with you. While normally the answer is greater ascendance, the forefather David calls Jesus My Lord, though he is David's son. Yet he lived a perfect life. So I remember attending a special lecture during my seminary years, about a decade ago. Who can demand major adjustments in the plans of her parents, her groom-to-be, and even her own? The questioner said, and what would you like to ask him? We insist that there must be something inherently special in a favored individual. Mary shows us how to surrender in verse 38. Amen. So really Mary's question wasn't about the content of Gabriel's revelation. We divide history into time before Christ, BC, and AD, which stands for Latin phrase, anodamini, in the year of the Lord. But she is not the mother of the church, as people say. The best way to anticipate God's Son is to read about him in the Old Testament. Before we get to Gabriel's answer, we should note that both Barry and Zacharias before her responded with the question to the angelic revelation. As I said last week, a pregnancy of an old couple with the barren wife has taken place before in redemption history. Behold a maidservant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word God's Spirit wants to come into our lives and take control. We have turned everyone to his own way. Larry King, the CNN talkshow host, was once asked who he would most want to interview if he could choose anyone from all of history. Lord, you are close to us His true father is God the Father. We have reasons to reasons to uh surrender And that is the message of Christmas. The Pope and other Vatican officials were present on a solemn occasion that was televised live throughout Italy and probably all of Europe. Blessed are you among women. Ronald Fisher, the guest lecturer. For with God nothing will be impossible. But I warn you that if you think you deserve God's blessings, you cannot truly rejoice in God's grace. We cannot bring him anything to pay for eternal life, as no good of ours can make up for our wrongs. The Messiah in the Old Testament by Walter C. While we can respect Mary and imitate her faith, we must not venerate and worship her. He appeared to many to prove that he was alive, and he ascended to heaven. That we can believe in the Jesus of Nazareth and be saved from our condemnation to be washed of our sins. You'll find the passage in the bulletin insert. As we learn about Gabriel, Mary, and Jesus Joseph was a carpenter, Matthew 13 and Mark 6 tells us. God's glory was visible and manifest to his people. And he had every right to receive accolades and praise from people. It was devoted to Mary. It will shed some light for us. 24, but Mary is more blessed because she bears life instead of taking it. So Elba J. And in verse 85, Mary finds what she seeks. Through surrender, the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ shines out of our hearts like treasures in frail earthen vessels. Peter's Cathedral and happened upon part of the Good Friday service. But it wasn't just the words of Gabriel. First, rejoice in God's grace That leads to the next point, surrender to God's Spirit. The answer to that question would define history for me. That we would understand that we have reasons to rejoice. And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. The way we reward accomplishments Let's focus on how God's grace has a way of surprising us, maybe even troubling us. Maybe you already have it memorized. Now indeed, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age Both were troubled. The meaning of Jesus' name is not explained here as with Joseph, but in both instances, the naming was done by the angel. We shall rejoice, just as Gabriel said to Mary. But while they both asked for explanations, they received vastly different reactions from Gabriel. The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. McClain, Daniel's prophecy of 70 weeks. Why don't we turn there real quick? After the cross, Jesus rose on the third day, his resurrection meant that his payment for our evil was accepted. But we see in the second prediction that he will be called the Son of the Highest. At the same time, Isaiah 9:6 says, wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father. But her life would change forever in a moment. That same messenger responds positively to Mary with more revelation. The Spirit will overshadow Mary No one else was born from the womb without the male genetic information. Though the miracle happened in an obscure town, the importance of it cannot be overstated. They were pretty much husband and wife, except that they did not live together until the formal marriage ceremony. Though the Virgin condescended to become a maidservant, Jesus descended from heaven to become the suffering servant. He went there to die on the cross, a cruel death reserved for the worst criminals. Surrender to God's Spirit, verses 34-37. Be God's servant. Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. It changes everything. That leads to the next point. God's wrath on the cross. That you sent your Son, the only begotten Son. Gabriel is no ordinary angel. Because Mary is versed in the scripture, she will recall the allusions to the promises and predictions and prophecies of Christ. And then King replied, And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. We see that in Acts 5. She is indeed the highly favored one. The problem is that later traditions have hymns and prayers dedicated to Mary herself. Jesus was the willing servant. Nazareth, where Joseph and Mary lived, was not a significant place. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest. To be clear, no other woman can have this honor and favor of carrying the Messiah child in her womb. Eternal life is a gift received by grace alone, not by works, through faith alone in Jesus Christ. Is our faith in sola scriptura? Now we too have the Lord with us as we fulfill the Great Commission. There's only one conclusion. I hope that you would observe for yourselves from the Bible It was his identity Kaiser, Jr. We are healed in our souls because he was whipped. But the old priest was troubled by the sight of Gabriel, whereas Mary was troubled by the words of Gabriel. But Mary's experience has no parallel She, like Abraham, offered her first son, but unlike Abraham, her son was not spared. Such love prophecies cannot be fulfilled by any person That's why we defend its truth. Try as we might to explain this scientifically. Then Mary said, Behold, a maidservant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. That's what it says in 1 Corinthians 1 30 Apart from Christ, we're all headed to hell. Mariology, as you might guess, refers to the doctrine of Mary. Otherwise, turn with me to your Bible to Luke 1, 26 to 38. We read next in the third prediction, the Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David. Later in the Gospels, we learn that like Mary, Jesus grew up in the obscure Nazareth. She is a servant, and we should strive to be the same First, we must defend the historicity of Jesus' virgin conception and birth. Will God have his own way in your life? The Holy Spirit is the agent of virgin conception, the power of the highest. Just as the power of the highest overshadowed Mary, God's Spirit beckons us to surrender. Or maybe you know someone who needs to memorize. God must guarantee it. And here's that plan for the servant Jesus in Isaiah 53, 4 to 6. Such humility we can we can never hope to match. First, he will be great. I encourage you to meditate on the message of the gospel, the true meaning of Christmas. In fact, she was troubled at his saying and considered what manner of greeting this was. And that's the motivation for God's work in him or her. It's a good passage. The Lord is with you. She was probably in her teens when she was pledged to marry Joseph. End quote. The virgin conception of Jesus was right on that schedule. The cover might be different. Anticipate God's Son. The burning question is more basic. 15. There we see the cloud of the Lord's glory resting above or overshadowing the tabernacle. Jesus will continue to be the Savior of Israel unto eternity. Or being born in a family that was not royalty. Isaiah fifty three, four to six says, Rejoice in God's grace. In verse 30, the angel restates the message of verse 28 that she has found favor with God. That holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Now this servant Jesus offers you eternal life. Blessed are you among women. And so God must upon that throne. Only 73 pages, but very dense. We can because the virgin birth of Jesus is an act of God, a miracle. I pray he will. Verses 26 to 29. Be God's servant. But the king must be from its line. 73 pages. Let's pray.