Lord, I would just thank you for this time to look into your word. We thank you for the truths found in Genesis 1 to 3, just how simple it is and how important it is that we understand it clearly. And Lord, um just As in as it was back then, or that we would resist the lies of Satan, or um like the like the serpent. And we pray that we would hear the truth, abide by it, and live by it. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. So we're going to cover Genesis 1 to 3 today, but not that we're going to do it verse by verse. But these three chapters are so foundational that we need to spend our entire time today on them. Actually To spend just even 30 minutes on this is laughable. We could spend the entire summer, just probably on chapter one alone, but we will resist the temptation. This is a survey. um survey on Bible study. So I mentioned last time some big ideas to see the forest as we look at the trees. So I got three of those ideas First, the creation fall redemption outline. It's a good way to summarize the entire Bible, to evangelize, to Just think in big pictures. So I I argue that in the first three chapters of the Bible we already have the first important details regarding all three. Not just creation and fall, but also redemption. So even before we get to Abraham, David, Isaiah, the New Testament, we have some divine revelation concerning our origins, our sins, and our salvation. In a seed format, right? In a seminal form. Secondly, we should also keep in mind the short summary of Genesis: what God is doing. God chooses a people for Himself through which to bless all. And we're going to see through the narrative how God does just that. You can't create a people without a person. So we're going to see Adam and Eve. God creates them as the first humans. Thirdly, as we contextualize the first three chapters in light of chapters 1 to 11, we observe four, I mean three of two of the four major events. creation and fall and we will discuss the flood and babel next time so if you want please read up to chapter eleven next time So it might be helpful to divide up these seminal chapters into three parts. There is a natural break in chapter 2 verse 4. You might recall from last time that we have our first instance of That Hebrew word I told you, toledot, right, in that verse, in two four. And that is the literary marker for division of Genesis into twelve parts. Eleven toledotes cuts into twelve. It also makes good sense to have a break between chapters 2 and 3 as the serpent enters the scene. We know what happens there. So we have three sections we are covering today. One, one, one to two, three, two, two, four to the end of that chapter, chapter two, and then three, the entirety of chapter three. So you can see that clearly the development from chapters 2 to 3, but some wonder why it was necessary for two creation accounts in just chapters 1 and 2. Well, if you if you remember from last time, here's what liberal scholars would say. Well the first section you know, Genesis 1, is by one source, E, the Elohimist, while the second section is from the J source, the Jehovahist. We don't believe that. We believe Moses wrote all of it. Conservatives, right, hold to the unity of the text with the authorship of Moses. I hope that's what you believe. If not, we can talk. But uh we have to offer a different solution though. Like why is there two basically accounts of the creation The simple answer I want to provide is this, as you see in the section title. The first section of Genesis is the ordering of creation with man in the mediating position. While the second account is designed as the relating of creation with man at the central position. So it's more focused on man in the second chapter, in the second section. The third section for today, chapter three, is about the ordering and relating of creation with man in the fallen position. right? A mediating position, right? As God's you know God's agent of rule, right? And then at the central position, right? As God intended man to rule over all creation, and we'll see that in the second section. And then sadly, what we see in chapter 3, the sad state of today, is that we are in a fallen position. So let's look at how God orders creation with man in the mediating position. So we do not see all adult in one one. But verse but verse one still acts like a title page or an introductory statement for this first section. So I won't I probably won't stop too much to read the verses. So It kind of so I encourage you to do your homework, right? Read it and then come so we can sort of see the big picture. So go through the the trees so we can come here and enjoy the forest as it as it just says, right But it also makes sense to omit the ptoledote there in verse 1, because there can be no history, genealogy, accounts, or generations without God actually creating things, right? It doesn't make sense to have history without matter and universe and time and all that. So God the Creator have who has no beginning, in the beginning created the heavens and the earth If verse 1 acts like the title, verse 2 acts to provide the setting. In effect, you could say that I sort of came up with this analogy. Verse 2 shows us the empty canvas of our divine painter about to begin his masterpiece. So it says that earth was without form and void. There was darkness in the deep and water The six days of creation that is about to commence brings form and fullness to what is formless and void. Right? So the earth was formless and void, right? So God is going to in six days bring form and fullness. And everything except for that. God is there. He's always been there. Spirit of God is there, and as we know from Colossians 1. 16, God the Son was there, right? With the Father of creation. So now we want to rush into chapter verse 3, but before we go on to the creation week, I need to comment on the relationship between verses 1, 2, and 3. Now this is what Tim mentioned earlier, but some believe there is a prehistorical gap between verses 1 and 2. Like there's some sort of long length of time there. They believe a lot of cosmological events took place during that time, a period that could have lasted millions of years. This is their theory. So they say during this time God created creatures such as Satan who fell from grace and there was a cataclysmic blood. It's called they call it like a Luciferian blood. Now here's the problem. I don't see the scriptures talking about any kind of judgment blood before Noah, right? So if you ask Peter, he would have been like, no, I'm I only talk about the blood of Noah in my letters, right? So um so so why is so what is the function of verse 2? Like I said, it sets the setting, right? In the immediate context, verse 2 is grammatically structured like a parenthetical statement. Now I can get into all the technical details of the Hebrew, but I'm just going to tell you, verse 2, it's like So one author from Answers in Genesis, Paul F. Taylor, is helpful here. So here's a quote from him. It's not like terribly profound, but it's sort of very illustrative. Quote, a Hebrew reader would see this word, verse 2. And understand it to say, oh, by the way, before I tell you what happened next in verse 3, let me describe what the earth was like initially. Right, incorporate So it's not that the earth was bad or anything, like I said it's more like a canvas. It's an empty canvas that needs to be filled in. There's nothing inherently wrong with an empty canvas. It's just getting God is just rolling up his sleeves if I may use some anthropomorphic language. So then we should not stop at verse two to locate God's purposes and creation there, but go on to verse three and all the way to chapter two, verse three. So as I said, God through the six days of work is going to do something about the water, the darkness, and the formlessness, and the emptiness of earth. Okay, so though chapter one is a straightforward literal narrative account, there is nonetheless some pattern there. God speaks each day and it is done. Whatever he wants is done. Right? Sovereign control. The phrase so the evening and the morning word, blank day, right, concludes each twenty-four hour period. Now I'm using the uh NKJB, so That's the phrase there. So the evening and the morning were the first, the second day, on and on. Now at times the word day can be figurative. And thus longer than 24 hours, as in the day of the Lord, right? We talked about that. And actually in chapter 2, verse 4 as well. But when the word say is used with numerals, as in first say or day one, it is consistently a 24-hour period. So to stretch out these days to be thousands of years, I think is doing violence to the text. Okay, so the first day, the darkness issue is resolved as God creates light and separates it from darkness. Some have problems with the existence of light before the sun, moon, and the stars. I tend to think that their problem is not with logic and science, but with faith and theology. I mean, we see in the last two chapters of the Bible, Revelation 21 and 22, speaks of God Himself providing light in the new heaven and new earth. Yeah. So I mean just want to ask them, is anything too hard for the Lord? They say, no, I think he could provide light, right? After dealing with the darkness, God turns to the waters in day two. Uh he addresses the element of water vertically first so that there is water underneath the firmament of heaven and water above the firmament of heaven. The waters under heaven are sources of all the bodies of water, visible and invisible to us. And I used to think that the waters above heaven formed a canopy that completely collapsed at Noah's flood. Now, I changed my mind on this. We could discuss the scientific problems with this canopy theory, but that's beyond my pay grade. Okay, so I'm not gonna but I will point you to this passage I want you to look at. Psalm 148 verse 4, right? You want to go there? That's fine. If not, I'll just read it for you. Wonderful psalm about creation stuff. Actually I'll just read verses one to four. Okay? So praise the Lord, praise the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights, praise him all his angels, praise him all his hosts, praise him sun and moon, praise him all you stars of light, praise him all, praise them you heavens of heavens. And you waters above the heavens. So my simple point here is that at least at the time of this psalmist who lived after the flood, right? So there was my canopy there. And wrote this text by the inspiration of God. The water there's some kind of water above the heaven. I don't know where it is you know, again as a as someone who's more versed in ecology and stuff like that, but I just uh I don't really believe that there was a canopy but um that collapsed. So that's my theory on it. Where is it? I don't know. Ask off. Alright. After the dividing the waters vertically, right, on day two, on day three, God separated the waters on the earth plain level so that the dry land and the seas appear. The capacity of earth to sustain life is good in God's eyes. So it's not until we get here that we see God saying, It is good, right? From the earth come grass, earth, fruit tree, and seed in their variety. Now that earth is inhabitable and teeming with life, God again saw that it was good. So halfway through creation. God has provided definiteness and identity to earth that was once without form. So I say that days one, two, and three provided the form. Now we have to provide the uh the filling for the void right for the void there. So at the second half God provides celestial bodies, plants, and creatures to fill the environment created in the last seventy-two hours. Up to this point, God has provided the light for the day. Again, no problem, God can do it. But now we see the sun in that function of illumination. So the sun along with the moon, the stars are created for time measurements, obviously as the major light sources and separation, right? And these are good things in God's sight. On day five, God fills the water and the air with all kinds of animals with their specific species The Lord saw it as good and blesses these creatures and commands them to continue the work of filling through the fruitfulness and multiplication. Such spoken blessings do not belong to plant life. That's why I don't believe plant life is on par with animal life, so that's just my theory. I'm sorry if you're like a really serious vegetarian who think we're hurting vegetables like that we're hurting animals. I'm sorry I don't believe that. Hope you're not offended. So on the final day of creation, day six, God creates inhabitants of the fertile earth, species of cattle, creeping things, beasts. And in his final grand act God created humans. Like the animals, humans must be fruitful, multiply and fill their domains. But unlike animals, men and women are to have dominion over the rest of creation. And to study humans as another animal provides only half of the story of who we are, right? They are humans are the crown of creation because God has made them in his image. To see another beautiful picture of this, go read Psalm 8. The definition of this image is difficult. Now this is God's image, as it could be centered in The human spiritual substance, some people think this is the relationship that humans have, other people think it's the function of humanity to rule. Well, I tend to think that image is self-awareness and self-determination that makes us responsible to God. So again this is a difficult topic. I just know that we as human beings are distinct and above all the creation because of this image of God. I remember writing a paper about this. I don't know exactly where I landed. I think I landed on the the spiritual substance view, but But it's hard to separate all these things So at the end of the sixth day, God, unlike the fourth, declares his work very good. Not just Tob, but Tob mayol's work. Very good. On the seventh day, he rests and sets the precedence for Israel to follow in the Sabbath observation. Okay, so 2-4 begins the second section of Genesis. The focus shifts from chapter 1. Now we're dealing with the relating of creation with man at the central position. This section begins like the previous one Like 1-1, the first half of 2-4, I call it 2-4A, is a title, like the Toledo title, right? From the second half of four to verse six, we have another parenthetical explanation of circumstances before starting the narrative in verse 7. So here's the parallel. In chapter 1, because there was work to be done in the universe, God worked. So we saw him working. In chapter 2, because there was work to be done on earth, God created man to work. So the garden needed a gardener, right? The animals needed a zoologist, right? Again, note the difference between man and animals. Like animals, Adam was formed from the ground, but unlike animals, God breeded into his nostrils the breath of life and became And he became a living being. So immediately God placed Adam in the Garden of Eden. One commentator thinks the original location of Eden was in the Persian Gulf area, based on the modern identification of the two of the four rivers mentioned in verse 14, Tigris and Euphrates. And And they they're sourced in the Gulf there. Wherever it was originally, the first man had the perfect environment. There was abundant variety of food and provision of water. There was potential for discovery, there was work to be done, but both physically stimulating work of gardening and mentally stimulating work of dealing with all kinds of animals. There was freedom, but freedom was necessarily limited. So out of all the trees and foods available, Adam was not allowed to partake in the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Now some people think that all this tree is a symbol or a metaphor. Um well if we start doing that, what's to stop us from doubting the existence of other trees, plants, animals, the entire garden itself, Adam, Eve, God? Like why not what where do we stop, right? So I think the tree is real, right? The Bible presents it as real. And what about the property of this fruit? This forbidden fruit I think have real powers, just as the tree of life. which we will see again in Revelation 22 have life-sustaining powers. So man before Genesis 3 um had knowledge of good in creation with potential to learn more good uh under God's you know sovereign direction Of course, there was potential for evil as well as this tree of knowledge of good and evil obviously allows for that. Um so I think the fruit does not introduce evil intellectually as a concept, as Adam already knew in his mind what God said no, what God forbade. But it introduces the experience of evil that corrupts humans entire being. Now God does not call day six bad because that tree existed, but what made day six incomplete was that there was one more void to fill, right? A helper for Adam. Now who could be man's helper to in his solitude? Even a dog, man's best friend, could not meet the criteria, right? Well yeah I miss my wife, right? Molly cannot fill that void, right? Myself, Molly's myself. Anyway, uh so God the creator became the God the matchmaker and then he became God the surgeon. The word helper should not be taken to mean, by the way, that the woman is somewhat somehow inferior to man. That's not what it's saying. Several passages describe God with the same title, helper, acer, right? Deuteronomy 33, 29. Psalm 33 verse 20, Psalm 115, 9 to 11. If you want, I'll say it again. Deuteronomy 33, 29, Psalm 33, 20. Psalm 115, 9-11. So God in his infinite wisdom has decided for our best that the best companion for man was another human. There was no need to reinvent his greatest creation so he could use the same material. So Adam wakes up from his deep slumber and he becomes the poet here, right? The bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh. Um so and I feel like in verse twenty-four that's like Moses kind of jumping in the narrative and making the comments about marriage. Uh so he he couldn't help himself but to comment on it. So the union of marriage was between two individuals who were different but same in dignity, both possessing God's image. to rule over creation. So by the end of phase six, we have all of creation. We have all that is good and very good: heaven and earth, sun, moon and stars, dry land and seas, plants and animals. Tree of knowledge of good and evil, right? Tree of life, and of course humans. And all of these add to the beauty of creation. Now we're not sure exactly how long it will take before it gets to Genesis 3. I don't imagine it was very long. So even though God has provided the perfect environment with myriads of good alternatives to sin, Humans have yeah and and because and humans don't even have any precedent substance, we're gonna see uh the fall in chapter three So chapter 2 ends in the last verse with the picture of innocence. Our first parents were naked, unashamed, and unafraid of dangers, as they were safe within God's will. Now there is a little bit of a play on words as we go from chapter 2 to chapter 3. The word for naked in Hebrew is arumim. You don't have to remember that or anything, but just hear the sound here. In a play on words, the word for cunning used to describe the serpent is arun. So Adam and Eve were naked or Arumim and that allows the practice or Arum serpent to take advantage. So there is a bit of transition there Okay. So obviously this serpent is not your typical snake. Um you won't be talking to that snake that John stepped on um the other day. I don't think he'll talk with you. Um Revelation 12, 9, and 20, verse 2, reveal many names of our enemy. Satan, also known as the devil. And he's described as the serpent of old. But in the book of Revelation, in the future, he is revealed as the great dragon. So what is going on here? In the end time, Satan will appear as menacing and fearsome as the dragon, right? But here he is subtle and cunning. So that disguise suits him better here in this context Whereas at the end he's desperate, he knows he's about to lose, so he comes out as this scary-looking dragon So he has no sense of guilt for taking advantage of creatures for this benefit and mankind's downfall Sometimes I say poor snake, um, but that's what's going on here. I think he is basically using one of uh God's good creatures for his benefit. The serpent begins by throwing the woman into a debate. The tempter targets the woman. Again, not because she is like less than the man in any way. Not because he's more gullible or susceptible to temptation. No such arguments are advanced in the scriptures. What Satan is trying to do is to undermine undermine sorry and upend the good hierarchy God created. undermine and up in the good hierarchy God created by leading the woman to become the spiritual leader over man And it could happen with the same gender too, right? Like for example, you know, let's say there were multiple pastors here, let's say there was like a maybe the junior pastor would I'd be tempted to uptend the hierarchy there. Or at work. You may feel like, oh, I'm better than my manager. or uh school, I'm better than my teacher. That's the temptation that Satan is trying to uh cause here. Anyway, so I think that's what it is. It's nothing inherently more like gullible about women or anything like that. I think that's what that's how Paul is arguing. um you know that um we should uphold God's hierarchy. That's what we see in First Timothy two. I think that's his argument there. So, with the target in his sight, the serpent frames the question in a way that really makes God look petty. He did not prohibit every tree. On the contrary, he granted every tree save one. Some people make a big deal about woman's response in verses two and three to the effect of she added stipulations in a legalistic way. I disagree, as it seems like common wisdom and good application to avoid touching a fruit that could kill you, right? So I don't think she I think she was just acting prudent there. The real problem, aside from the fact that the man is just standing there, seems to be a modern problem, but the real problem is that she was deceived By the words of verses four to five. The serpent statement in verse four is a direct contradiction of God's command in 217. You will not surely die, he says. But even if God said you will surely die, right? So he started with a question, now he just like flat out denial. Again, the proof would give the woman experiential knowledge of evil beyond intellectual knowledge of evil. Satan says she will be like God, even though she's already created in God's image, and she is the agent of God's will over creation with her husband. Obviously what the serpent wanted was to put humanity at odds with God, and he succeeds. Immediately death is felt in his essence, right? I think this is a good way not just for to explain death to children but for us to understand. Death in its essence is separation. Right. Separation from God, separation from each other, and even internally within ourselves. The body separates from the spirit. Death is separation. So God appears in garden invisible form, what theologians call theophany, right? First to seek intimate fellowship, but then to question and condemn. The finger pointing ships from man to woman to the serpent, but each are to be each one will be judged. Now, notice how the serpent doesn't say, well it's your fault, God, because you created me like this. No, no, the blame sauce, right? Act with the serpent. Satan is the author of sin, not God. James 1, 14 to 15. So let's go to each of these judgment sentences with the serpent. Okay. I think verse 14 It's the condemnation of the agent of Satan, the outward creature serpent. And verse 15 is more focused on the evil behind the preacher. First in verse 14, the serpent is humiliated as the worst of all creatures. Has to eat dust, crawling his belly. Um I don't know exactly what it looked like before that. Maybe it looked like a lizard, I don't know, but it's now on its belly. Again, poor snake. Secondly, in verse 15, an enmity causes a rift between the woman and the serpent. And here's how we know that In verse 14, verse 15, we're dealing with a real personality here, an evil personality. The word for enmity there is used five times in the Old Testament And it is always used to describe hostility between persons, right? Not between animals, right? Between persons. So between here, in this case, woman and the serpent. So you don't have to go, ladies, you don't have to go to look at a snake and be like we have enmity. No, we have enmity with Satan, right? We have this Hostility between evil, not between uh no the serpent is not inher the the snake is not inherently evil, so I gotta triple serpent and snake. here, right? So you don't have to think that the snake out there, not that I'm looking at one or anything, but that it's inherently evil. Um okay. Don't worry, there will be plenty of lighting. Now three battles will wage on until the end. First, there is the present battle, and I say present as in at the time of this fall Between the woman and the serpent. Secondly, there is the future battle between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. Seed is broadly defined as descendants in often in the Bible and could include many people, right? And I don't think the seed of the woman necessarily implies virtue virgin birth, but um we just know that it will have to be someone from her. It'll be a human being, right? The serpent's seed would be anyone who follows the devil, including demons and humans, in their unbelief. Thirdly, there is the final battle between the seed of the woman and the serpent himself. Some people think that the woman's seed delivers a death blow to the head while the serpent only wounds him. But the same word is used to describe both attacks and a serpent would naturally bite the heel and the man would naturally stomp on his head. So I don't think We need to see that as like see that kind of complication there. There is at least some hint of substitutionary death in this struggle. And as we might have guessed, the seed of the woman is none other than the messiah, a male, right? We see that in the Hebrew, that is going to be a male. Now it's interesting. If you ever look at a Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. It's called a Septuagint, right? So it's a Greek version of the Old Testament. So whoever was in charge of translating Genesis 3, he also understood this passage to be messianic. The Greek word for seed is neuter in Greek, right? So it's neuter. But he has decided to translate the corresponding pronoun as masculine, he Because he believed it would be a male deliverer. So what is the saying? Well they call this the proto-evangelium, right? the like the first time the gospel is preached in the Bible. And see how it is placed. Even at the darkest hour of humanity, at its fall. Even during the fall, there's redemption that is being proclaimed. It is phrased during condemnation of Satan, but still, the woman's there, the man is there. So that they know that there is hope for deliverance, that there is hope for victory over Satan The woman is also judged in verse 16. She will have great birth pains, right? Increased birth pains, and her desire to dominate the man will be stifled by man's authority. The phrase, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Okay, like what does that mean? Well, it is grammatically parallel to a phrase in chapter 4, verse 7. So I'll just go there. Not all of the verse is parallel here, but I'll just point it out to you. Obviously God is talking to Cain here and saying Hey look, um you got sin at your door, you need to deal with this, don't let it consume you. So here's what it says. If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door. And this is the phrase that's parallel to um 316 there, right? And its desire is for you, but you shall rule over it. So this struggle between Cain and Sin, right It's sort of like the struggle that will be between man and woman. That's all part of the fall. The man's difficulty at work is greatly increased to the cursed ground, which produces thorns and thistles. Adam will return to dust of the ground, right? You know, you you're Adam, you're gonna return to the ground in Hebrew Adama, right? So uh once uh that's where he originated, so he's going to return in uh Um without dignity in age and death. In verses twenty to twenty-four we see the expulsion taking place, but not all is lost. All these little things are happening at the end of chapter three indicate something. Adam names his wife Eve in hopes that there through her there is some kind of life to come. God graciously provides clothing for the two, but it costs the life of an animal for the first time. And all of creation feels the deadly effects of sin, Romans 8, right? Finally, because they took the one fruit they were forbidden to eat, tree of knowledge of good and evil, they are now forbidden to eat the one fruit they need the most. The tree of it. So that's Genesis one to three. Any questions or comments? I had a question about I boss I have to ask before that just came to mind in uh chapter one of Genesis. Um speaks about the uh earth being I don't know, I'm just reading it literally I don't want to have a picture in my mind. So that's a question. Um I tend to think it was a flow and then you know it but there was nothing to fill it up. But um that's just my guess. Um Yes, but is the C is the subtle the same hard as the C in the Uh yes. So uh no wait, that's for Hebrew, sorry. Um yeah, I I believe so. Uh I gotta go up checking, but I'm I'm fairly certain. I'm like ninety-five percent certain. Now I don't know if anyone has the Greek Bible with me, but then I could get my situation from my library too. But um yeah. It's it's a very common word, yes, I think it's the same one. And we're gonna see how that this whole you can trace the whole idea of seed throughout Genesis too, like the seed of the woman and then Mrs. you know We're gonna see that go all the way through Abraham and you know go to David. It's just gonna be this sort of a narrowing thing where more um we are progressively revealed, I guess you can say, um, God's will uh throughout history. Yes. Doesn't the Catholic Bible have she instead of he. Oh, I did I did not look at the Catholic Bible but it has something weird with I I think it has she instead of he because when I was talking to my Catholic neighbor. We were going round and round and round in circle until I looked at her Bible and said, Oh, that's why you're saying that because I'd never seen that before. They this change is different and I but I don't know where it came from. It's not from the Hebrew. It's definitely got the the uh masculine in there. Now, you could show him that and I mean you don't have to learn the full language, but you'll just know that it's definitely a masculine singular there. That is interesting. Other comments or questions? You can say hallelujah to well I guess we ended up with tens of three, so maybe you won't say hallelujah. Yes, yeah. Do you think it's possible when God said what there'd be light if there was an explosion? I think it's yeah, I think so. Right. I I I know people have sort of like tried to harmonize the big bank theory with the Um, you know, that suffers. Now, again, maybe if I study a little more science I can try to harmonize it, but I I just believe Yeah. And even if that wasn't the case, right, um, which I I think like I said, God can provide the light, we already see it in the last two chapters of Revelation. So but yeah, I think it's possible. Questions or comments or Any last testimonial prayer requests or the big picture thing is l that tree of life shows up again in Revelation. So it's just like Yeah. Yeah, and it goes back to what we were talking about at the beginning, right? Like our past will determine our future Right. Is God going to restore the past or is past something that's terrible and we should just never look back at it again, which is the message of the world, right? Like the future is always better better, right? What is it like? C. S. Lewis calls it chronological snobbery. We're always better than what happened in the past, right? We're always getting better No. Past is always bad. I think the motivation is to forget about sin, that mankind was not God. Forget about sin, forget about responsibility, forget about God. Because if we can control that narrative, you know we can control people's minds. Yeah, for sure. of good and evil that you felt like the fruit itself had some sort of properties. Yeah. So it wasn't just the disobedience to God, but that there was also something inherent in the fruit that they couldn't handle. Right. Yeah. Again, that's what's o above my pay grade. I don't know what exactly that is. Obviously the act itself is disobedience too. It it gave them that but Um I think there was something about just because of its parallel to tree of light. So I never thought of that. What? But having fun drugs. Right. Well that's what they say, right? Expand your mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm comfortable with things that I don't know in the Bible, so if I don't know I'll tell you I don't know. And I think we should be too, honestly. Okay. Before we start boiling over here, um let's pray and end. Actually, I'll pray and then we can sing a song. Yeah, I do have one a quick song that'll Yeah All right. Laura we thank you that um that um just you are in control, that we do know our um are past and that you were there in the beginning and that you are here now and you will be there in the future. You're the Alpha and the Omega And Lord and the beginning and the end. And Lord, and it is this God that we have a relationship with. Um and Lord, uh just we pray that we would um just Trust in that and Lord, we will not buy into the lies of Satan which are spoken to us each and every day. And Lord, though we are fallen, we thank you for the second Adam, the last Adam. We thank you for your son who have redeemed us and saved us. And Lord and has taken the wound uh from Satan and now it is his turn, oh God, and that will take place uh in the end time so he will defeat Satan. Oh god, and we just finally and we and we wait for that and we are we're eagerly um in It's in hope of that promise to come true, Lord, very soon. And we pray that until then we would persevere and that we would uh live for you. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.