Last time we began our survey of the Old Testament with Genesis 1, 2, 3. So we're going to cover today from chapter 4, verse 1 to 11, 26. That's just a few verses shy of the end of that chapter, and you'll see why we why I did it that way. Remember, I'm going by not by the chapter numbers, but this word polad or generations of But as we traverse through this book, always keep the big picture in mind. Moses narrates how God chooses a people for himself through which to bless all. As for Genesis 1 to 11, which is the big unit we're covering at this point, remember that there are four major events Creation, fall, flood, and battle. And after that we're going to cover four major people, individuals, but we're going to finish up this first big major section. We covered creation fall last time. Today we'll cover flood and babel. So recall that Genesis 2, 4 to 426 forms the second major portion of this book. We sort of stop in the middle of that with the end of chapter 3. I said that the very first section, Genesis 1, man has this mediatorial position. And then we saw in the second section that man has this um you know central position as the crown of creation. But then we saw in chapter three That our first parents have fallen from that exalted position. And that's the tragedy of chapter 3. So immediate effects of their sins were evident, experiential knowledge of sin, death, which is essentially separation from God. Shame, alienation from each other, and God of course, thorn and distal. But there are also long-term effects manifested over time For example, last time we talked about how there is an enmity between the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman. And I call that the future battle, and that's going to occur throughout history between the ones who trust in God and ones who oppose God. The word C can encompass many descendants, right? So that many battles between God's elect and the unsaved are predicted. But it's gonna culminate in the final battle between the Messiah, the seed of the woman, and the serpent himself. So that's what we're looking forward to Now the Messiah won't be arriving in the scene for a while, but we know that just because of hindsight, right? But our ancestors didn't know that. It is likely that Adam and Eve saw Cain, their son, as the one destined to defeat the serpent. Well, of course, they're not learning quite the opposite. Cain is actually the seed of the serpent, right, who became the first murderer in the Bible. So we're gonna see the enmity that Cain harbors and then attack Abel, you know, who is actually a seed of the woman, a faithful, one of the faithful Now where did Cain go wrong? Some believe that because Cain offered the fruit of the ground, he gave to God sacrifices inferior to Abel's offering of sheep. It is theorized that God desires animals over plants, but I'm not quite I'm not really buying that because we see grain offerings prescribed in Leviticus 2. Doesn't seem to be anything inferior to that. What is clear in the Bible is that Cain had a faith issue, right? And we have verses like Hebrews 11, 4. I'll just read it for you. By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous. God testifying of his gifts and through it he being dead still speaks. So Abel had faith, Cain did it Faith made Abel's sacrifice better than Cain's. Another passage that sheds light into the contrast between Cain and Abel is 1 John 3, 11-12. For this is the message you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, see feet of the serpent there, and murdered his brother And why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his brothers righteous. So Cain lacked the faith of his younger brother, and his works were evil as a result. It's a sobering reminder very early in the Bible that one can look outwardly, pious, religious, offer sacrifices But God knows what's in our hearts and what's missing in our hearts. What was missing in Cain was faith, and what was in his heart was sin We're not exactly sure what that sin was, maybe it was jealousy, that seems like the most um obvious one, but it was at the door of Cain's heart, but he could not rule over it, so he decided to kill Abel. When God confronts Cain, he refuses to confess, unlike his father, Adam, in chapter 3. Another contrast, in chapter 3, the ground was cursed so that man harvest with difficulty. Now Cain is cursed from the ground in chapter 4 so that he won't be able to harvest at all. So, and here's a similarity between Adam and Cain. God punishes severely, but shows his goodness and kindness as well, in the sense that it's not too severe. Cain complains that the judgment is unbearable in verse 14, and God addresses his concern that he would be hunted for the rest of his life. But he sets the protection, a mark of protection on Cain so that he will not be hunted down. But you see what uh in in terms of the rest of his life, how Cain was still defiant In verse 17, he refuses to accept his fate, a wandering, and he decides to settle down. From verses 17 to 24, we see how one man of rebellion came comes, from him comes a society of evil. And so we must see this development from King to uh last statement there. Now it's not that a bottless civilization is Petering on the brink of anarchy or filled with yanderdals and just people are like this anarchy, everything. You see in verses 20 to 22 how because these are people still made in God's image. They invent things like tent making, you know, tent dwelling, musical instruments, right? They create implements, they create tools with um you know, precious metals. So they're accelerating technological advances, right? So nothing in itself is wrong. People who are sinners People who are because they're made in God's image, they can still do creative things, no need to condemn those things. But what we want to see from Cain to Lamech is that sin and murder also accelerates exponentially. Now I believe Moses did this intentionally and thus a good way to illustrate this degradation is to juxtapose Cain with Laman. Now, one thing about Laman at first is that he defied God's original plan for marriage by taking two wives for himself, did whatever he wanted to do. What are some similarities? Both Cain and Laman are murderers. Cain on one hand, after he commits the murder, he's afraid of the consequences. And he's actually still talking with God, right? He's conversing with God, even though he has done a terrible deed. Lameth, he's proud of his murder, right? Of killing somebody. And he doesn't talk with God, he's bragging to his wives. You know, listen to me, listen to me my wives, let me tell you what I did. He's boasting about the bloodshed that he has caused So that's in verse twenty-three. Now Cain sought protection from God. He's saying, I've done terrible things, now I'm gonna be hunted. And God protected him, and Cain wanted that, but Laban just wanted to provoke more people. I mean he's writing this sort of like a sort of a poetry to say, basically, you know, don't mess with me, that kind of pride there Now, also see in verse 15, we saw that God promises to avenge Cain sevenfold if anyone tries to hurt him. In verse 24, Lamech is saying, I'm taking my hand things into my own hands, matters into my own hands. It says there, if Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, then Lamake seventy-seventh. Meaning. I'm not going to be better than my ancestor came. He he's going to say not I'm going to do better than what God has done for my ancestor came. So that's what we see here. This line of pain goes into terrible direction. But in contrast to this legacy of murder and evil, we see a godly line in verse 25. 26. Adam and Eve reveal their faith in God's promises as they name their child Seth. Steph son Enosh begins a legacy of worship as men begin to call on the name of the Lord Yahweh. Again, even at this early stage of human history, there are men who worship God while clinging to his promises. So I think that's what's being passed on from Adam to the progeny. Of course that doesn't mean that every descendant of Seth is godly In the next section we're going to see Moses selectively list men who belong to the election. Genesis 5:1 to 6. 8 forms the third section of Genesis We see here that man's corruption is evident in death and grief. Now we have not sinned in the likeness of Adam's transgression. That's what Paul tells us. And remember that each of us are created in God's image, but we also bear Adam's image in the sense that we are going to face the same condemnation. That means, as we recall in Genesis 3. 19, we face our mortal destiny to return to the ground and to return to dust. And that death sentence is what we see repeatedly in chapter five of Genesis. Even though our ancestors lived very long lives, compared to us obviously, as Paul wrote in Romans 5. 14, death reigned from Adam to Moses. So this faith wastes all humans, whether they are elect or not. Now only in one extremely rare exception, a man named Enoch, in verses 22 to 24, we do see God mercifully sparing an individual. I think it's sort of like he's like a prototype of the rapture. I think that just put him away. Or like the way that God took away Elijah. So this man walked with God, which means that he pleased God with saving faith, Hebrews 11, 5. His walk also reflected his talk. Jude 14 and 15 tell us that he was a prophet who condemned the ungodly ones of his generation. A little bit of insight into his life from the New Testament Written with vast inspiration. Such trouble against ungodliness, as that was in Enoch, we also see it in the life of Noah. His father, Noah's father, like Adam and Eve, believed he could be the one to defeat the serpent, they bring them the rest that they desire. That's what his name means. Like Enoch, his great grandfather, Noah is a man of faith who pleased God by walking in faith. He was also a teacher or prophet. Peter describes them as a preacher of righteousness. 2 Peter 2. 5. He fathered three sons during perilous times. It's described in the first eight verses of chapter six. Now, we get to chapter six. This was like my first Position of paper at Capitol Bible Seminary. It was like Old T History One with Dr. Philip Powers, who was the pastor of um So foresee, right? Before he moved on. But anyway, who are the sons of God? Right? Mentioned in verses two and four. Um There are at least at least three news. One, ambitious unknown rulers. Two, apostates from the line of step who intermarried with the ungodly line of kings. Three, fallen angels who possessed humans or appeared in form of humans. in attempts to corrupt the human seed. This was my first cave on like I guess I read the Bible a couple of times but when I saw it, I'm like, oh, I didn't think about that deeply. Well, it was a tough paper. It's one of the toughest um passages in the Old Testament too, I think. Now for the first view, it is true that kings have been called God's sons We see in 2 Samuel 7. 14, that's the Davidic covenant, right? And Psalm 82, verse 6, which we see that kings are called that way. But when we just look through Genesis, so we're gonna see in Genesis 11:5, Moses uses sons of men to describe rebellion as humans. So we're not sure if Moses is the type to use sons of God to describe just normal human beings. It doesn't seem like that's the way he wants to describe even exalted humans. I kinda fluctuate between number two and three. I think Dr. Beals like more on number two. I think a lot of the Old Testament guys are more on number two. And then the professor that taught me this class, Old Testament History One, he believed that number three. Now one thing about number two and three, I think there are viable strategies of the serpent. Let's look at what he might be trying to do here In response to the curse of Genesis 3, what is he going to do? There's not a scene of the woman who's going to bruise me, right? It's going to destroy me. It's not in my end, the final battle. So the best thing the serpent's gonna do is try to corrupt the lines, right? Genetically, I don't know exactly what he what kind of science he had in mind, right? So he's going to try to destroy the prophesied destroyer. Now intermarriage between believers and non-believers, that's basically number two, right? Is certainly a good way to do that. Now in is a danger whether it's in the anti-deluvian or post-diluvian, before the flood, after the flood, is still a problem today We know some Christians who say they're going to marry a non-Christian. Just like, uh, you know, um, is that Satan's strategy? Is he trying to corrupt the line that way The third view has this appeal in that sons of God is the usual description for angels in the Old Testament, Job 1, 6. two eleven, thirty-eight verse seven, Daniel three twenty-five. Um If you want a woman, just read over 2 Peter chapter 2 and read over Jude verse 6. It mentions a class of angels who are chained because they did not keep their proper domain. So there are obviously just demons out there who are it at the time of Jesus possessing and causing all kinds of havoc. But there's certain there seems to be certain type of angels who transgress their bounds and now they're locked up. They can't do what it would can't have the freedom they used to have. Why? And so the could it be possible that the serpent desired to counter his curse in Genesis 3 by sending his demons to either possess you know, men through occult religions or whatever, some evil method, or masquerade as humans, you know, they can seem to take uh they can take some kind of uh physical form. Um And and try to ruin God's plan. And could such wicked union lead to the gigantic people mentioned in verse 4? Now This is one of the questions I'll ask God when I get to heaven. But whatever took place, and um, you know, you guys can share me later what your thought is, but um the commonality between all three positions is that Bao's grief over the wickedness. And the disgrace of mankind. But Noah found grace with God. So just now move on here. And this is a survey course, right? Or survey class, whatever we're going to call it. So the fourth section of Genesis, chapter 6, verse 9 to 929, God judges mankind of spares and blesses Noah's family. Yet Canaan is cursed. Mankind is completely corrupt not only in thought but in violent acts as well. The judgment for their total universal depravity is a total universal flood. What's going on in the flood? The separation of waters that God saw as good in Genesis 1 is going to collapse together. Meaning God's going to just let things fall apart. In clothes. Now some have tried to assert that the flood is local, okay? Again, a way to minimize God's wrath. They're gonna say it's local, not universal in scope. But there's all kinds of problems. Only a worldwide flood could annihilate both man and beast, creeping things, and birds of the air. Right? Because if it's a local flood, if you're a sweeping thing, or if you are a bird of the air, you can just migrate somewhere else, right? Um And from under heaven, all flesh, which is the breath of life, everything that is on earth, that's what it says in chapter 6, verse 17. Only a universal flood could explain why only Noah and his family survived. And why God made a covenant with every living creature of all flesh. Only a historical flood that do the world can be typed of the typed as a pattern of the upcoming fiery judgments in the world. Jesus talked about it in Matthew 24. Peter talks about it in 2 Peter. Now other details point to a universal, not a local flood. Mountains were covered during the approximately 300 days of the flood. He stayed longer than 300 days, but uh it's about that's about the time that um waters were uh covering there everywhere. The sheer size of the arc, with the length of one and a half football field, would ensure the survival of many species with space for animals and food. Another thing, Noah was divinely warned of things not yet seen, such as the atmospheric, the rain coming down, geological changes that resulted in shorter lifespans and more diseases. So only a universal flood can bring about such dramatic changes to climate and the atmosphere and all that. So I'll add one more Just many ways to refute this argument of a local flood. If God sent a local flood, he would have broken this covenant many times since then because The next chapter, Genesis 9, talks about this covenant, right? That he's not gonna destroy life with flood. But if God sends a local flood, he has broken his covenant many times. Extra biblical evidence are also available. Fossils of undersea creatures were found in high altitudes, and ice coffins of woolly mammoths in northern Siberia. So and of course there are also many traditions that testify to a universal flood. many reasons to support the idea of a universal flood, God's wrath was poured out on mankind After the flood, Noah builds an altar to worship, and God responds with the covenant. At the end of chapter 8, that extends into the beginning of chapter 9. We have a transition here of new dispensation, right? And what should be noted in every major era of history is that God introduces certain discontinuities while maintaining some continuities. So what has changed? And I think these changes are still applicable today. Now mankind dominates animal life through fear. It's different than the way, you know humans rule over life before the flood and animals are given to them for food except for their blood right you're not allowed to Eat up the blood. Drink up the blood of animals. Now um we should also we should also refrain from drinking blood. Actually this was a it one of the issues in Acts fifteen. Jewish warn, Jewish leaders, Jewish Christian leaders warn their Gentile brethren in Acts 15, 29, to not partake of drinking blood from animals. Because this applies to all humanity. God introduces capital punishment as human light made in his image is still supreme over all other light forms. So capital punishment is introduced here. In anticipation of nations that are going to be formed from Noah's funds. In the current church age Paul tells evildoers to fear since governing authorities are vast ministers that yield the sword. Romans 13, 4. So I think the sword isn't there just for shaving, I think it's there for to be can kill, so I think capital punishment Seems to be and I don't want to be too controversial here, but it seems to be what God has designed after Noah's flood. Also, a worldwide flood can no longer threaten the destruction of all life because God's covenant with creation is signified by the rainbow. Obviously there was potentiality before the flood, but now there's no more after the flood. Okay, so these features of the post-flood age are binding to all people, to both Israelites and Gentiles. What continues from before is from the time of Adam to the time of Noah is the command to be fruitful and multiply to fill the earth. Also continuing is God's choice of a people through which to bless all, and that's what we see in God's election in 9, 18 through 29. Now initially, as we saw in verse 1 of chapter 9, all three of Noah's sons, Shem, Ham and Jephet, were blessed by God. But the blessings will not continue in all three lines as they began populating the earth Now Noah turned to farming in the New World and planted a vineyard. We're not told exactly why, but he became drunk. And my theory is that It's like most likely that the hot summers after the flood allow for rapid fermentation of grape juice. So it might be just by mistake. And that would also explain why he was unclothed, right? Now we know what happens next. His younger son Han found his father in drunken stupor, naked, and told his brothers, instead of covering him up Shem and Japheth, in contrast, honor their father by walking backwards into the tent of cover of Noah. So once Noah recovers his senses, he announces curses upon Canaan. Now we may be like, why not direct the curses to Ham? It's possible because God has already blessed Ham in chapter 9 verse 1, that he's not going to believe that, but that line of blessing might be cut off. with uh one of his song. But we're not certain, but uh it seems likely that Canaan too was involved in sin, undisclosed to us. And it would also be a great shame for him to know that his son's sin against his father has ruined his son. Now we need to be very careful here. Somehow misread this taxes to justify slavery of blacks. Since many of the Hamites settled in Africa. But Canaan was not the father of Africans like Cush, Mitzraim, and Put, his three brothers. Canaan was the father of certain Middle Eastern people groups who would occupy the land Joshua and Israelites would eventually conquer. So it's not the curse of Ham, it's the curse of Cain. You've got to be very careful with that. And in contrast, Shem and Japhet were objects of God's blessing. The non-elect lineage runs from Ham to Canaan, while the elect thief can be traced from Shem to Abel. So even before we get to Abraham, or Abraham, Noah wishes carefully for peace and harmony between his two sons that honored him, Shem and Jeff. So next section, Genesis 10, 1 to 11, 9, from Noah's sons, nations arrived in spite of the confusion in Babel. Now before we talk about all these names and places in chapter 10, we should note that Moses has split the order of events in this section. That means all the nations listed in chapter 10 could not arise until the Tower of Babel incident took place. So to be exact, it will be in the days of Helek, right, what we see in 1025 there, Shem's great-great-grandson, that Babel would take place. Now, if you just read chapter 10 and not read chapter 11, you might think, oh, people are obediently fulfilling the command to be fruitful and multiplying and filling the earth. But then you turn to chapter 11 and see that's not the case. And before we turn to chapter 10 actually, 11, we should read verse 6 to 10 to see who exactly were involved in this Babel project. So chapter 10, verse 6 to 10, and then we'll turn to chapter 11. The stones of Ham were Cush, Mitzrian, Put, and Canaan, the sons of Kushp were Seba, Havilah, Saftah, Rahama, Satakat, and the sons of Rahama were Sheba and Deda. Kush begot Nimrod, he began to be a mighty one on the earth. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord, therefore it is said, like Nimrod, the mighty hunter before the Lord. And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erach, Akad, and Telna in the land of Shinnah. So the land of Shinnon is what links us to chapter uh eleven and verse one and two and now the whole earth had one language And one speech, and it came to pass as they turned from the east that they found a plain in the land of Shinnon and they walked there. It's through Ham Kush Nimrod line that we have a powerful but defiant kingdom with plans that conflicted with Yahweh's plan. Now remember Cain resisted the penalty of being a wanderer by settling down. These people are also resisting God's plan. by corporately settling down and resisting God's command to multiply and fill the earth. They want to build A great city would impress the high risers so that they would make obtain a name for themselves. Now their unity is impressive. No. We should not think that all kinds of unity is good. I mean the world is united against Christians, right? Um But the reasons for their unity are obviously ungodly. Yahweh visits the city and puts an end to their efforts by confusing their language. In a word play, Moses comments that this confusion is linked to the name Babel. Since the Hebrew word for confuse is Balao, right? So it's kind of a similar name there, sounding there. This judgment creates the division of earth and the formation of distinct cultures. And I like what Alan Ross, a commentator, says here Thus what they would not do in obedience, scatter over the earth, he did for them in judgment. So he's gonna have his will done, multiply and fill the earth. So as opposed to these unbodily examples, we see the bodily line of Shem traced in 11, 10, 17 The twenty-sixth. From Shem to Abram, God elects to bring forth a sea and a nation. Now, unlike the genealogies in chapter 10, this one is focused on individuals, right? As they elect sea. The section prepares us for the narrative of Abram's life that goes from eleven twenty-seven to twenty-five eleven. So we'll covering bigger chunks as we go on. So if you could read 1127 to 2511 next time if you watch or just review what you already read, that's what we'll cover