When you get married, I mean the day you get married, it's an exciting thing, right? Can you think back to that time? And if you're not married yet, you can imagine what it will be like. Standing on that aisle, looking, if you're a groom, out to your bride, being the bride, walking up that aisle. It's an exciting thing, but it's also a very scary thing. Men, were you scared? Don't raise your hand on that day. Understanding, did you, let me put it this way, if you've been married 5, 10, 15, 20 years, did you even understand the scope of the responsibility? Men of caring for a family. What that meant. Well, if you're here today and you've been married 10, 20, 30 years You have stood by your commitment and your dedication to your wife and to your family. Wives, did you really understand what you were getting into? Probably not. You had an inkling of what you were getting into, and it's a good thing. Marriage is created by God. It's wonderful. It is work, but it's wonderful, isn't it? But there is something in that in the institution of marriage that you and I learn through the years, the married folks that are in here, and that is that there is a connection between the spouses. There is, let two become one. And that connection that I'm referring to really includes every area of life. And married folks that are here, is it not true that when your wife or husband does something or does not do something, that affects you, even if you don't notice it? An illustration. Have you ever had your spouse say something kind behind your back? About you. And you come to church or you go out and you find out through the grapevine that your wife or your husband said something really nice about you and you weren't around. And that affected other people's estimation of who you are, and it helped strengthen your marriage. You know, someone has said that that when your spouse wiggles their finger, the other spouse feels it. There's this Oneness to what's happening there. And that's why Solomon wrote that a wise woman builds her house, but a foolish woman tears it down with her hands because it's Her house. The the lie in our culture today is that marriage is two independent people who agree to sort of walk down life's road together, but it's more than that. It is a union that is indissoluble, and there's this There's this structure, this oneness that if you tear down that house, it's going to affect you, not just your spouse. Quickly, let me illustrate this a little further. If a wife criticizes her husband in front of the kids, she teaches the kids to criticize her. If a husband does not show love for his wife, then he is discipling his children not to love him. The actions and reactions, the interplay in marriage, it always affects the other party. There is that union. Folks, so it is in the local church. If you're here today and you refuse to use your spiritual gift in this assembly, we feel it. We might not know it. But we there's there's an absence. There's something that could have happened, but it's not It's just not there. If you're here today and you are enthusiastic and you are edifying the brethren, then that is an effect that we all feel. Look at your Bibles at Ephesians 4 and let me point out the way Paul writes about this union in the church. Church. And remember, the letter to the Ephesians is all about the church, universal and eternal, and there are applications for us in the church local. Look at verse 29. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying. That it may minister grace unto the hearers. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God. For Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Now, in that short passage, there are certain commands, things to do. Things not to do. And there's one reason in that passage that he mentions. There's the what, and then there's this why, verse 30. Grieve not the Holy Spirit, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption. The why of good relationships in the local body is, here's one why. Don't grieve the Spirit. He is in you. You are sealed to the day of redemption. But previous to this, in last week's message, we read verse 25. And there's a second why, although really it would be the first why, because chronologically it's first. See if you can find it. I'll read verse 25. Wherefore, putting away line Speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Why should we speak truthfully? Because we are members one of another. Another. There is this connection. And remember the context of the letter is church, not society as a whole. So he's not talking about me being connected with that person out there, but you being connected with the person sitting next to you. Now this is a doctrine that w that preachers don't emphasize enough, I think. And I don't think that we can completely I I don't think we think about it enough as As Christians, partly because of the culture in which we live. We are very individualistic, independent, and the days when neighbors talked over the picket fence to one another seem to be long gone. But what we're talking about here in verse 25, and what I'm going to do today is sort of put this under two headings. This one, members one of another. And behavior that follows that. And the second would be the Spirit of God within us and behavior that is consistent with that. Let's just examine verse 25 with a little more detail. Look at it again. It says, wherefore, putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, because we are members one of another. Let's put it this way: because there is this union in a local assembly, if I lie to you, there is a sense in which I'm lying to someone to whom I am united. That lie could boomerang back and affect me and the whole body. In other words, if I am not truthful to him, There is a rebounding multiplication effect because we're all members of this thing that's here today, and it will affect everyone. Here's the truth. The success or failure of Faith Bible Church is not dependent on one man. It's dependent on every man, every woman who is a part. of that assembly. Folks, we can get very specific. Do you realize that there's a sense in which, yes, we all have private lives, but Isn't it true that even what you do in your marriage at home will have an effect on the local assembly? Because if your wife is a part of the local assembly, or your husband is, The things we say to one another behind closed doors, if we're not trying to grow in our marriages and our marriages are weak, won't that affect the local assembly? Now, we all struggle in our marriages and we want to grow in Christ, and this is not me slamming you for doing your best and walking with Christ and growing. It's only pointing out. That in our personal lives, our private lives, because we are part of this body, there is an effect Folks, the implication here is also in verse 25 that there's no geographic boundary to this This member that we have with one another, this union, it's not affected whether we're here or not. In other words, again, what you do out there will affect what happens in here. And that's the way it is with what we say. Now, running quickly to verse 29. Our words are one of the primary things that we bring with us everywhere we go. Have you ever tried to not talk? For five or ten minutes or twenty minutes when you're with people. Okay. Isn't it difficult? Maybe some of us are more quiet than others, but it is so that our words are a primary. Social interactions. Some people have studied this out, and sociologists and psychologists talk about nonverbal communication, verbal communication. But primarily there is this constant verbal interchange between people. And there are, according to verse 29, two idea two basic We put this sort of flavors to communication or goals. The first is what we're not supposed to do in verse 29. Corruption. It says, let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. So there's a sharp contrast drawn here. There is the corrupt communication which produces A breakdown in the person. There's almost opposites here. There is this concept of edification and grace, which strengthens i. e. grace and builds up i. e. edification, and there's this other kind of communication that tears down, destroys, erodes, corrupts. And you and I, as Christians, because we are in Christ, we have the privilege and the power to choose. To daily put on the new man and to make it our goal when we see one another to build each other up. Now, this can be a challenge. How many of you went to a public school or any school where you were bullied when you were growing up? Anybody? I'm the only one that was bullied in this entire church. When I was in middle school, it was a horrible thing. Middle schoolers, I don't know what it is with middle schoolers. No offense if you're a middle schooler here today, it doesn't mean you're like this or we're like this. I would watch kids mercilessly tear down one another. And I and I I'm pretty sure I didn't use this illustration with you guys, but I was in gym class one time. In sixth grade, there was this poor kid who had shoes that weren't cool. And this other kid was berating him for his stupid, idiotic, junky Shoes to the point where the poor boy started crying. Now you if uh if you've ever witnessed that, you know what it's like. corrupt communication. That's an example of it. Here's a boy who listens to an onslaught of words and his shoulders sag and He feels horrible about himself. He's almost literally weakened and torn down by words. You and I both know that it is a lie to say sticks and stones might break my bones, but words will never hurt me. That's a lie. Lie. I wish that was true. I said that in middle school to kids who tore me down. Folks, what kind of place does that kind of communication have with us? As Christians. You know, you and I, we could tear each other down face to face, but we can also do it behind closed doors as well, right? We can say, well, that person, I can't believe she wore that dress last Sunday. Or boy, I can't believe that he said that to that other person. Or I just can't believe that this is going on. And you can have this teardown fest behind closed doors when people aren't around. What purpose Seriously, folks, what good does that do? I challenge anyone here to tell me one good thing that comes out of griping sessions. In the Old Testament, God was very angry with the Jews for griping all the time. Now, were there problems they had to address? They needed water. But there are ways to handle situations that arise where solutions can be given. But corrupt communication, no. It should be rather edifying. Now, what edifies an individual? What builds them up? I know I've heard a lot of good edification out of your mouth. Seriously, I'm not just saying this. I have heard you encourage each other. Well, we do have a couple of hints here. We know from the scriptures, Jesus said, sanctify them with your truth. Sanctified, so the process of sanctification involves the word of God, truth. And we know from the psalmist, That the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul, that the law of the Lord has an effect on the soul. We can therefore build each other up, affect each other spiritually when we speak the word of God to us. To one another. Not too long ago, I received a card, and I thank all of you who've sent cards. I really do. I really appreciate it. Never underestimate a card that you send to your pastor. It means a lot. I open the card, and there are these Bible verses that the person hand wrote in the card. And I'm discouraged and I'm depressed. And I open this up, and here are Bible references. And the person wrote an encouraging note, but I read this and I think about it. Wow, that is really applicable to what I need today. I need that. And if that person had not sent that card and wrote those verses, I wouldn't have been edified at that precise moment. She wasn't even there, but the card was sent, and it was encouraging. Scripture builds us up. One of my pastor friends puts it this way: that the only right view of yourself is how God views you. That's the only right perspective. And it's in this book that we find this perspective. So let me edify you for a second Don't raise your hand. Are you here this morning and you're struggling financially, and you don't know, you're out of a job, and you don't know what the future holds for you. How could I edify you? Well, I could tell you this. God has promised to provide all your needs according to his riches and glory by Christ. Jesus. That even though you might be struggling now, God is faithful and He will help you through this If you're a Christian and you're struggling, even the smallest details of badness in your life will turn around eventually and work to your good. Hang in there. God is faithful. He'll help you. And that is lifting the person up and trying to edify them. Maybe you're here today and you're confused about your marriage and you just don't know what to do. Well, I could I could build you up this way and say, you know what, the word of God is so clear on On the role of a husband and the role of a wife. Remember the word. Remember what it says, Christian husband. Go back there and get your marching order. Get clarity from the word and get prayer and surround yourself with Christian friends who can support you. And that edifies and lifts the person up. Or you could say, Let me just pray with you. You could put your arms around the person and say, Let's pray. And this is the communication that builds up, that builds up, that ministers, verse 29. Grace. unto the hearers. And don't we all need grace? The other voices in our lives that we watch on TV or see on the internet, it's all bad. I mean there might be grains of truth in it. But there's so much bad news out there. The message of the world is, married people, why do you work so hard? Just give up, man. Get the divorce. It's so much easier. The message of the world to people who struggle with their finances is don't be, okay, if you failed. You know, you just got to reorganize and have better priorities, better wealth-building priorities. Where's the seeking first the kingdom of God in that? The wisdom of the world is often, not always, but often in direct contradiction to the word of God. We need grace. Because we are members one of another. Look at verse 30. We need grace secondly. And we need to communicate a certain way because the Holy Spirit is within us. Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. Now I'll stop here for a second. The power of that verse is directly linked to your love of the Holy Spirit Because you know what? You will care about grieving someone if you truly love them. It is not unbiblical to say. The Spirit of God exalts Jesus Christ, but the Spirit of God is God the Spirit, and we are supposed to love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And so it is not unbiblical to say, love the Holy Spirit. Do not grieve him. You and I cry it sometimes in our lives. Jesus wept at the tomb of Lazarus. What a sad state of affairs, folks, when you and I go through days and weeks when we just let our words fly and we think that person might be affected, and that's it, but there is the spirit within you. He is a witness to every word, every thought, every action, in secret and in public. And it is not wrath that you inflame in him, but it's grief. Sadness. Folks, this morning, do you care about the Holy Spirit within you and his responses? To your words. And the point of verse 30, among other things, is that your relationship with the Spirit is just beginning. You'll never get rid of the Holy Spirit. It is a sealing, it says in verse 30. Look at it, whereby ye are sealed. unto the day of redemption, and the redemption is the full purchase of who you are, your resurrected state, everything, everything that you finally get, you've got to Spirit now within you, and we know elsewhere, if you've turned back a few pages to Ephesians 1 in the opening song of Ephesians 1, the last verse is about the Holy Spirit. Verse 14 says that the Holy Spirit of promise, well, I'll skip back for a few words in verse 13. In whom also, after that you believed, you were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest, that's the first payment, the down payment of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. You get a down payment. God comes to live within you, and it is the beginning of a relationship that will be so amazing. Why would you hurt him? Why would you squander the beginning of eternal life? And folks, this is not esoteric or mystical. You squander your inheritance by tearing down your brother with corrupt communication. Why would we do that? Turn back to Ephesians four. As Christians We should communicate rightly because we are members one of another. And as Christians, we should communicate rightly because the Spirit of God is within us. We do not want to grieve him Well, after this, the putting off and the putting on, we have verses 31 and 32. And in these verses, we have sort of a summary. of the Christian life when it comes to relationships. And what Paul is kind of doing is writing a concluding paragraph that kind of puts in all these different thoughts of what it means to have the new man in Christ. Now, I want you to think about this carefully. We're all from different backgrounds. Some of us are from conservative evangelicalism. From fun sort of really fundamental Christianity, but we're all hopefully most of us in here are Christians. If you were to think in your mind of what a cr what's different about a Christian and a non-Christian. Do you only think in terms of non-Christian uh Christians they don't smoke, chew, and run with those who do? Is that the only picture you have of a Christian, the difference between a Christian And a non-Christian. Please understand I'm not telling you to go out and smoke two and run with those who do. But what I'm saying is If you were to write a definition, just in your mind, how would you summarize the difference between the old man and the new man? This is how Paul summarizes it. Look, let all bitterness, wrath, anger, and clamor, and evil speaking put it away with you with all malice and be kind. Bitterness is the internal, it's sort of related to malice. It's an internal heat. Someone in this very room could be really bitter and you might not see it for a long time. Wrath is the explosive and anger, the venting of wrath. Have you ever had someone just? Let you have it. And it's not even logical what they're saying. It's just sort of a venting of anger. Clamor is when this kind of these two attitudes Get into what we say with one another. And then evil speaking, it's just sort of it is sort of a progress here, but it might not be. And we're supposed to just put it away. Put away this intent. This intent to hurt one another. Now, what is easier? Stopping your habit with snuff. Anyone know what snuff is? How many of you know what snuff is? Okay. I think it's like this grass stuff that you put in your lip. When I lived in South Carolina, I work with a lot of welders and they would be walking around with the first thing like this and they would spit in the corner and they would keep going. I don't know. Is it easier to quit your snuff or to quit your bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking? I mean, what's harder, folks? I don't know about you. Again, I'm not saying you should go out and start your snuff habit today. This is where I struggle This is where I have to really willfully put off my I'm not a wrath person very much. You can ask my wife. You can don't ask my wife. I'm not a wrath person, I'm more of a I'm more of a bitterness person. So my habit, oh boy, I don't know if I should tell you. this. Okay. I'll talk to someone and they'll say stuff to me. Like you can punch me in the face and I and I don't feel it. And I go away and that and like three days later I go, ow. That person said this, this, this, and this. I can't believe that person said that about me. And then I just but I don't do any but the temptation for my flesh is just stew on it until it becomes this sort of And I have to confess that to God, and I have to say, Lord, I repent, and if I need to talk to the person, I'll talk to the person. What where do you find yourself in verse 31? Are you explosive? Are you, boy, I just let them have it that time. That was great. I feel so much better and the other person's like dead lying on the ground in front of you and you just don't even notice. You kind of walk over their corpse like this. Do you struggle with just saying things you shouldn't say about other people? See, the whole chapter here has to do with the old man and the new man. But this is sort of a summary of communication and relationship. And then the opposite in verse 32: it's not enough to just stop doing certain things, but you have to put on kindness. What is kindness? Well, it has a relationship to gentleness and meekness. It's the idea of appropriately dealing with the situation Instead of giving vent to carnal emotion, be angry but sin not. Instead of an explosive sort of tumbling of evil speaking, instead of holding it all in inside, You make yourself handle this appropriately, gently, with self-control, and you speak. Or you go and pray, this would be sort of an illustration, and then you come Come back and speak kindly. Because, verse 32, look at the next part. There is a certain heart in you, a tender heart You know what? You and I, I'm a sinner. I'm a horrible sinner before the eyes of God. I'm a horrible sinner before my eyes. I'm a more horrible sinner be my blind spots, and I'm a really bad sinner before God because he sees everything. And yet he saved me. He died for me. And I'm going to look at that guy and say, What a jerk. Guy's got to get his act together. Or shouldn't I look at that guy and he comes to me and says, Dan, I'm sorry. And I say, Brother, that's alright. You know what? My heart is tender towards you. I'm not going to say this necessarily, but the predisposition of my heart is: I'm willing to yield. I'm willing to say, I forgive you. I'm quick to do that. There's a tenderness to me because of my humility. That tenderness, verse 32, and next week, Lord willing, we'll be looking at the whole issue of forgiveness. In a more robust way, because it's it it requires more explanation, I think, than this passage. But verse 32, there is the outcome of forgiving one another. And there really is a third reason embedded in verse 32. Why do we do this? Number one, because we're members one of another. Number two, because the Holy Spirit is Within us, and number three, because even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you, and I just alluded to that. I'm a dirty, rotten sinner, but I've been forgiven. You put this together. If you were to habitually make this your lifestyle, putting off the old man, putting on the new, you would become chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, be imitators. That's the word followers, imitators of God as dear children. One of the happiest memories I have of growing up is when my dad. Use the old Gravely Lawn mower. It's this mall mower that you stand on, this little thing on the back, and you it's like motorcycle bars, and you turn it on, you go around there. And when we lived in Jarretttsville, Maryland, we had three and a half acres, and he would go in his backyard. My dad used to love that thing and go round and round and just drive that thing, self-propelled. And my brother one Christmas got a little plastic push mower. And he said, I'm gonna come, Dad, can I come out and help you? And he was little. And my dad said, sure, come on out. So my dad got behind the gravely and drove it real slow. And my brother's about this tall. He's got his little plastic push mower. Here he goes. Shh. My brother followed him a long time before I would have given up. Here he is That's sort of the image. A dear child who looks at his father and says, I want to imitate my father. I don't want to grieve the Spirit of God. I know these are my brothers and sisters. He forgave me. I want to imitate. I want to follow behind. Folks, it's not the image of someone who is terrified of God and his judgment. I must please dad or I will be judged. This image, chapter 5, verse 1, is the child who follows behind in love. Let's pray together. Let's pray about these things. Father, we praise you today because you are able to do abundantly above what we ask or think. You are an amazing God. I still don't understand why you love us, but you do. Father, this morning, please help us. To take up the task of putting off the old man and putting on the new. Lord, help all of us as we Look at this some more next week, to really begin to enter into the quest of understanding who we are in Christ. And Father, I pray for that individual who might be here today who feels trapped in behavior that is not Christ-like. I pray that you would give them a sense That there is hope, that they don't have to continually yield to sin in the flesh. Because of the new creation, they are able to take off the old garment Of the old man and put on the new. Now, folks, if you keep your heads bowed and your eyes closed, I want to give you a moment. Maybe there's something you want to say to God. I'm not going to ask you to stand up and come forward or anything. strange like that right now. But this is an invitation. Do you know Christ as your Savior? Are you have you ever been saved? If you have, is there anything the Lord is pointing out in your heart today? Something you want to talk to him about? I'll give you a moment of silence. And if you're not saved, today would be the day of salvation. It's this simple. Admit you're a sinner. Repent of your sins. And ask God to save you. Not yourself, not the works that you do. Salvation is a free gift. Jesus died for you, the just for the unjust. Repent and believe. I'll give us all a moment of silence. Thank you, Lord, for the gift of Christ. Help us to walk worthy of our calling. And I pray this in Christ's name