Budapest, Hungary, nineteen fifty-six. Protesters dismantled the statue of Joseph Stalin into pieces. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, 1991. Young men dismantled the statue of Russian Bolshevik revolutionary leader, Vladimir Lenin. Baghdad, Iraq, 2003. A crowd pushes around a dismembered statue of Saddam Hussein. Throughout history, icons of important figures have fallen in a dramatic fashion And on some of the recent use of statues coming down, we can clearly see in hindsight why these have to fall. There's something innate in us. I say the image of God that leads us to fight for for human freedom and dignity. But there is even a greater struggle, not between man oppressed and oppressed sin, but between so-called gods and the true God. There will be a final battle for the right to take the seat of true divinity. Just before then, the world will see the sun of perdition Opposes and exalts himself above all that is God or that is worshipped. 2 Thessalonians 2 Today there are men who set themselves as idols, as lovers of themselves. 23 These prideful men declare can declare all they want, that God is dead or overthrow reminders of him in the culture. But in the day of judgment, the living God will prevail over life's idols, worshippers I think sometimes the Lord gives us in the present a glimpse of his in-time victory over false gods. Of course, the most important way to promote the supremacy of our God is to live in full devotion to Him. Every time we imitate the Thessalonians, turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. and to wait for his son from heaven, we spread his fame. Every time believe all the example of Shadrach, Shek, and Abednel into the crucible, we have chance to put down the hubris of emperors. But make no mistake, God is not dependent on us to glorify Himself. As we continue in 1 Samuel, today's passage in chapter 5 will reimburse this for us. Let's get it together. First Samuel chapter five. You'll find the passage in Yulaton. Otherwise, follow along. In your Bible. Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon and set it by Dagon. And when the people of Ashton of his early morning, there was Dagon, fallen on its face to the earth before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and set it in the kitchen. And when they arose early next morning, there was Dagon, falling on his face of the ground before the ark of the Lord. The head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were broken off on the threshold. Only Dagon's torso was left of it. Therefore, neither the priests of Dagon nor any who come into Dagon's house tread on the threshold of Dagon and Ashdod to this day. But the hand of the Lord was heavy on the people of Ashdod, and he ravaged them and struck them with tumors, both Ashdod and his territory. And when the men of Ashtoth saw how it was, they said, The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for his hand is harsh toward us and they are not. Therefore they sent and gathered to themselves all the looks of the Philistines and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, that the ark of the God of Israel carried away Gath. So they carried the ark of the God of Israel away. So it was they had carried it away, that the hand of the Lord was against the city with a very great destruction, and struck the men of the city, both small and great, and first broke out on them. Therefore they sent Ark God to Akron. So it was at the as the ark of God came to Akron, at the Akronite saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us to kill us and our people. So they sent and gathered together all the words of the Philistines and said, Send away the ark the God of Israel, and let it go back to its own place, so that it does not kill us and our people. For there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there. And the men who did not die were stricken with the tumors. And the cry of the city went up to heaven. I make two observations from this passage. First, God's glory omnitus is signified. Verse one to five. Second, God's wrathful conquest cannot be faked. Verses six to twelve First, God's glory and omnipotence is signified. Last time I sat a Eugene who commented On the reactions of Eli and his daughter-in-law to the taking of the ark in 1 Samuel chapter 4. Quote, the Israelites should have known that their omnipresent God could not be taken away from them. How hidden Israel's perception of God had become. As we turn to chapter 5, we turn from what Israel should have known through the word. To what the Philistines are going to know through their pain. Here's Merrill again. Quote: That the Lord of Israel was not only omnipresent, but also omnipotent. The fact that the Philistines were about to learn. End quote. In verse 1, we transition from the previous chapter. We saw last time how the Philistines overcame their Isha fear of Israel and went on the offensive from Afek to Ebenezer. Though their enemies shouted, though the earth shook, though the ark of God came into the camp, the Philistines took courage and took the ark. They brought it ten miles east from the battleground to Ashdod towards the Mediterranean Sea. Recall that Ashdod is one of the five major towns of Belisia. Along with Gaza, Ashkelon, Ekron, Gath. No doubt the Philistines felt good about themselves. The army defeated Israel's army. They were better equipped for battle, truth. But we see in verse 2 that they're pious enough to pay their respects to their national God, Dagon. In their minds, the recent victory proves their God is superior to the God of Israel. Signifies belief by placing the ark in the house of Agon at a subordinate position of worship before his statue. Elsewhere and at another time, there's a far more extravagant victory celebration in the Temple of Dagon in Gaza. We see that after they blind and capture Samson in Judges 16. From verse thirty-one and first chronicles ten gathered that there was yet another temple that shone. Here's what we know about Dagon himself. Etymologically speaking, there has been association with two words, fish and grain. Mesopotamian artworks leads many believe Dagon resembled a merman, a half man, half fish. Thanks to the memorable writings of John Milton and H. P. Lovecraft, this message has become widespread. It is more likely, however, that Aegon is the god of grain. He was a symbol of hope for an agricultural society that relied on fertile crops year by year. The Philistines adopted him into their pantheon upon their arrival to the region. But whatever Dagon took, we see in verse 3 his humiliated position before the ark. When the people found the statue like this in the main, I'm guessing they thought it was some kind of accident. So they simply put the image back to its place. But in verse 4, it happens again the next day. This time, not only was it found fallen on its face down before the ark of the Lord, Dave once decapitated and maimed. Only the torso is left intact. You cannot call that an accident. At certain times in history, and sometimes even in specific moments in our lives, God signifies his glorious omnipotence in a dramatic fashion. They're reminders of truth we value and find in scriptures. Compare the omnipotence of our God to the impotence of the gods of agriculture. And fertility. The Lord speaks through Hosea as the true provider of his people. It is he who gave them grain, new wine, and oil. Chapter 2, verse 8. Jeremiah asks, Are there any among the idols of the nations that can cause rain? Or can the heavens give showers? Are you not he, Lord our God? Therefore we will wait for you, since you have made all these. That's in Jeremiah 14, 22. He is the glorious and omnipotent. Yahweh, the great I Am, the God of Israel, the creator of the universe. Does not need us to fight his backs. We are privileged to be his servants, and our doctors are foolish to his enemies. Just as the Lord fought for Israel without their help against the Egyptians in Exodus 14. Just as we read earlier, Jesus will fight for his saints without their help against the nations. Revelation 19. God fights for himself against the Philistines without any help. For this reason, God serves all the praises, fame, and glory. Here the psalmist, Psalm 115, 1 to 8. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but to your name give glory, because of your mercy, because of your truth. Why should the Gentiles say, so where is their God? But our God is in heaven. He does whatever he pleases. Idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths but they do not speak. Eyes they have but do not speak. They have ears, but noses they have, but they do not smell. They have hands, but they do not handle. Beat they have but they talk, nor they mutter through their throat. Those who make them are like them. So is everyone who trusts in them. Were these truths reaching the hearts of the Philistines? It doesn't look like it based on verse five and the rest of the chapter. If they went to the threshold of David's house, they will remember their fallen God, his face down, his head separated from the shoulders. Hands amputated by the true God Himself. If they went to the threshold of Dagon's house, they will have to face the truth. The truth that the God of Israel is superior. That truth has practical implications. It demands their transformation in loyalties, religion, culture, everything that they stood for and lived for. David Guzik writes, quote, worshiping the Lord instead of Dagon meant a huge change in thinking and living. The Philistine priests were unwilling to make those changes. It was easier when they took Dagon and set it in its place again. Setting Dagan up and concluding him together easier than changing your life and your thinking. End quote. To you who are not followers of Christ, let me tell you that this changing your life and your thinking is what we Christians call repentance and faith. The Word of God demands that we turn away from the course of this world, pass through the narrow gate, and embark on the difficult way. But that cannot be done in our own strength. We are dead in our trespass and enslaved to simple habits of thoughts, speech, and deeds. We suppress the truth in unrighteousness. We stop our ears to the testimonies of God. We stubbornly refuse to go to the threshold of truth, to look upon our broken idols. What are we to do? Please that the same God who created us is patient with us and his goodness leads to repentance. Though we deserve his wrath, he did not leave us to suffer in hell. He sent his son, Jesus Christ, to live a perfect sinless life And he died and gave it for our salvation. He accomplished this feat across, where he took our place and received the full penalty due to us as substitute. Gave the price and the proof of this purchase was per provided when Jesus rose from the dead. Ascend to heaven. And now he is offering you a chance to turn to him for salvation. Jesus, the Son of true living God. He is your only hope of salvation. Repent from works your ways yourselves. Trust in Jesus alone and receive eternal life as a gift of grace. Bow before Him willingly and now and mercy If you eat too long, you will still bow, but you will find condemnation as you do. Let the image of Dagon stay with you. It is a glimpse of what's to come when Jesus returns, a picture of your ruin if you don't repent and trust Jesus. Paul wrote concerning Jesus in Philippians 2, 9-11. God has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every knee, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow above those in heaven and of those on earth. and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father What applications can beliefs find here? Rest assured, first of all, that God can destroy idolatry on his own In the dreadful judgment day, the Lom will be exalted, but thy idols he shall utterly abolish. Isaiah 2, 1718. But until that day, we can ask the Lord to use us, his saints, to actively oppose Ice. Like Jacob, we ought to purge idols from our homes, bury them, and leave them behind us in our journey to the house of God. Like Joshua, we stand in resolution against foreign gods until our last days. Ask for me and a house. We will serve the Lord. Like Gideon, we become Jerubel. We tear down the altars of idolatry and in their place build altars of praise to Yahweh. Like Paul, boldly preach in our cities and our regions the gospel of the one and only God. Even if it leads to ridicule, disgruntled businessmen, great commotions, rioting mobs, and the fall of local temples Out of the calming fires of hell, I'd say damage to prized religious icons are good and merciful acts of providence. Now I'm not promoting vandalism here. I'm just saying they are makeup calls to the gospel. But often we concerned doctors need much more painful and public minders. In verses 1 to 5, Yahweh demonstrated his might of Devon in solution and in advocacy of that god's house. The observant did not look and sought to abolish. Now the hand of God which promoted the gon will be heavy against the bulb asthod. A. F. Campbell contrasts the powerless pause of God with the upslip hand of Yahweh in verses six to twelve. And that leads to the next point. God's raffle conquest cannot be achieved. I apologize for the details to follow, especially to have lunch immediately after the service. In first is an output, a word Kings version translates as Marot Adam Clark gives his explanation of the original Hebrew word, quote, the word apholim from apel to be updated. Probably means a disease called the bleeding piles, which appears to have been accompanied accompanied dysentery, bloody flux, and ulcerated anus. John Trapp images the miserable scene, quote, keeping Dagon upon his own dunghill and smiting his worshippers on their hinder parts in their parts, paying their posteriors as men used to deal with puny boys. End quote. If I'm hearing John Trapp correctly, he's saying Yahweh, God of Israel, was kicking their butts. Some try to dig deeper in pathology, attempting to classify and identify the exact nature of the disease. Commentator Clues quote, the number suggested identifications of the specificity structure remains. It is a disease caros by an epidemic of occurrence by the appearance of turf by the production of panic amongst the affected population, by a high mortality rate, and by an association with beasts or rats. That association with mice or rats was not produced out of thin air. Later in chapter six verses four to five The abased Philistines sent back the ark with five golden tumors and five golden rafts, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines. Of course, these are precious gifts of peace, Israel's God. In the Greek version of the Testament, the Sephiroth, we find the full version of chapter 5, verse 6. He brought upon them and it burst out upon them to the ships and spreading the middle of their country and there was a great and indiscond mortality in the city. So that's in the Greek version. Not in the proof. Now others do not see also an effect relationship between the tumors, just similarities of prints, as David notes That the lumpy shape of the turrets would resemble the shape of a mouse. The Philistines may have been attempting what's called sympathetic magic The mice would act as effigies, effigies, or voodoo dolls, representing the victims and their suffering. Now we could continue down this rabbit trail or say mouse trail, but we won't lose much if we stick a Hebrew original of chapter 5 verse 6 and faithful English translations of it. The ultimate cause, the outbreak was natural. The humiliation of Dagon and the suffering of his worshippers originate from the hand of God. It was Yahweh who ravaged them and struck them. The men of Ashdod did not need to be rocket scientists to figure that one out. So in verse 7, they decide to get the ark out of their city. In verse 6, they call their rulers instructions guarding the ark. Their tree was changed away eastward to the T. But according to verse 9, the result was just as disastrous. Yeah. The changes did change the outcome The leader was determined to keep moving ark around like flatos. When the people of Epham, located north of Gath, heard that it was headed that way, they were terrified that she in verse 10. They crowd in her and they let her voice of the Nim She left, send away the mark of the God of Israel and go back to its own case, so that it does not go us and our people That was only seeking conclusion. But the Philistines arrived at it only after much suffering. Tumors, casualties, wailings rising up to heaven. Occused by God's severe hand, the same hand that afflicted the Egyptians. The breadth of his hand was wide Though we read here that the Ark only rested in three major cities, we gather from chapter 6, verses 17 to 18, that the other two suffered as well. As P. Kyle McArthur observes, quote, the Ark of Yahweh had become costly to be. But if Dark was captured, I was never their prisoner. Yahweh was not trapped with the Philistines. Philistines were trapped with Yahweh. He is the one who conquers. R. P. Gum observes, quote, As the ark moves on to Gath and to Ekron, verse 10 The story begins to read like a parody of a victory tour in which the roles of the victor and the vanguish are reversed. In this way, the God of Israel marches through the enemy territories victoriously. God's enemies will find no repeat, no escape from his hand Again to those who do not know the Lord, let the suffering of the Philistines be a lesson for you What they experience is just a small taste of God's full wrath. Your social status, your wealth, your power, your freedom will not help you that day. There's no escape. Do not end up like those in Revelation 6, 15 to 17. The kings of the earth, great men, the rich men, the commanders, the mighty men, every slave and every free man. Who hid cells in the caves and in the rocks and mountains, and sets the mountains and rocks. Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of land. And who is able to stand? Take heed to the words of Amos. Oh, to you who desire the day of the Lord, what good is the day of the Lord to you? It will be darkness and not light. It will be as though a man fled from a lion and a bear met him, or as though he went into the house, leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him. Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light? It is not very dark with no brightness in it Those who hide in the dark know that the day of the Lord is darker. Those who think they can stand before his wrathful conquest Those who are not afraid to meet his holiness, repent from such foolishness and surrender now. None will escape. For us who have renounced our idols and continue to do so. To follow the true and living God. Continue to abstain and flee from idolatry. Let's destroy them from hearts. To ask them the power to this So that we can love with all that we can, all our mind, all soul. William Cooper and all for a closer walk with God gave us auto prayer The dearest idol I have known, whatever that idol be, help me to tear it from thy throne and worship only thee. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for your word, for this warning And Lord, we are reminded of time when you have interrupted lives, you have torn down idols, nor through circumstances. Nor it could be idols of work. It could have been idols of fame. It could be good things, Lord, just that you have given us as gifts and that we have turned it into idols. And Lord, rather than being bitter, we've That you have destroyed our idols. Or sometimes it took painful lessons upon our own bust. That you helped us denounce idols of work because we were sick. We fell ill. So you helped us to denounce idols of our children as they grew up and left homes. Whatever it could be, we have idols in our hearts. And we ask that you would help us at this time by the power of your spirit to identify, that you would illuminate our hearts, every court and recesses of our hearts. To expose our idols. And we know we do this not because it's a check mark or something to do, but because we want to love you. And you are a jealous God. You do not share your glory with another. You desire our full devotion, undivided hearts before you. Pray that you would help us this week or speak to us not just during this time, throughout the days, throughout our work uh work hours. At our homes, as we read your word, as we meditate on your word, as we commute, expose our idols, and be glorified. Pray all these in Jesus' name. Amen. That's our last song together