Arguably, the greatest motivational poster ever contains mere five words. Keep calm and carry on. Here's an explanation of his history from BBC. Quote: In 1939, with war against Germany looming, the government designed three posters to steady the public's resolve and maintain morale. These feature the crown of King George VI, set against a bold red background, and three distinctive slogans. Freedom is in peril. Your courage, your cheerfulness, your resolution will bring us victory and keep calm and carry on. Two and a half million copies of Kit Kong were printed to be distributed in event of a national catastrophe, but remained in storage throughout the war. The message was all but forgotten until 2000, when a copy was discovered in a box of books bought at auction by Stuart Manley, a bookseller from Northumberland. Rescued from obscurity after seventy years, the Ministry of Information's Appeal for Calm has risen to cult status. There's something universally appealing about the message. Keep calm and carry on, and there's been all kinds of varieties of that message. Just keep doing what you're doing. It's the simple, familiar truths that will get us through the complex, strange times. How true is that for us Christians in our own complex and strange times? We can keep up with the swirling mess of news out there, but in tough times like these, we look to the word to keep calm and carry on. Last time we discussed three theological lessons from chapter six of 1 Samuel. They were learned only after much pain and suffering. Now we learn proper responses to God in our humbled state. So let's look at today's passage, 1 Samuel chapter 7. Then the men of Kirjakiram came and took the ark of the Lord. And brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and consecrated Eliazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord. So it was that the ark remained in In Kirjat Jrem a long time. It was there twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. Then Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying If you return to the Lord with all your hearts, then put away the foreign gods and the ascoreths from among you. And prepare your hearts for the Lord and serve him only And he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines. So the children of Israel put away the Baals and the Astorates and served the Lord only. And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mitzvah, and I will pray to the Lord for you. So they gathered together at Mitzvah, drew water, and poured it out before the Lord And they fasted that day and said there, We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the children of Israel at Mitzvah. Now, when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had gathered together at Mitzvah, the lords of the Philistines went out against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines. So the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not cease to cry out to the Lord our God for us, that he may save us from the hand of the Philistines. And Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. Then Samuel cried out to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord answered him. Now as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. But the Lord thundered with a loud thunder upon the Philistines that day, and so confused them that they were overcome before Israel. And the men of Israel went out of Mitzmah and pursued the Philistines, and drove them back as far as below Bethkar. Then Samuel took a stone and set it up between Mizpah and Shen, and called its name Ebenezer, saying, Thus far the Lord has helped us. So the Philistines were subdued, and they did not come anymore into the territory of Israel. And the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel. Then the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and Israel recovered its territory from the hands of the Philistines. Also, there was peace between Israel and the Amorites. And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. He went from year to year on a circuit to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mitzvah, and judged Israel in all those places. But he always returned to Ramah, for his home was there. There he judged Israel, and there he built an altar to the Lord. So here are my three motivational poster wording messages. One, in the midst of sorrow, repent. That's from verses one to four. 2. In the midst of struggle, worship. That's verses 5 to 12. 3. In the midst of peace, trust, verses 13 to 17. First, in the midst of sorrow, repent. For those interested in book outlines and Structures, you might know that verse 1 is often grouped with the final paragraph of chapter 6. That way we conclude the story of Beth Shemesh begun there The Ark is transported from that city to Kirjahgiram, about 15 miles east and northeast. We can infer that both the transporters and Abinadh who lived on the hill were Levites. That's why his son Eleazar could be consecrated to keep the ark. Abinadab had two other sons. Uzzah and Ahil, who would under David's poor leadership, improperly transport the ark on a cart later. See that in 2 Samuel 6 and 1 Chronicles 13 and 15 as well. well. But many years would pass before its moved to Jerusalem. Verse 2 tells us what happened before that. We read that all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord You may recall from last time that while the ark was still in Beth Shemesh, it stood on a stone that was named Abel. Abel means lamentation, synonymous with the verb lamented here. And the Israelites had every reason to lament. Fifty thousand seven hundred people died. They learn the hard way that God is holy and sovereign and he won't be manipulated into serving their purposes. The fact that they lamented after the Lord is promising though. Israelites seems to be They seem to be displaying godly sorrow, which produces repentance, leading to salvation, not to be regretted. Paul talks about in 2 Corinthians 7. Just as Paul explained this repentance to the Corinthians, Samuel explains to the Israelites in verse 3. What that means. And before we get to his words, here's a good question from Charles Spurgeon. Quote, it may very naturally be asked, where was Samuel all that time? I know not what he was doing during those twenty years, but I have a suspicion, I may say, I have a firm persuasion that he was going from place to place, preaching in quiet spots wherever he could gather an audience. warning the people of their sin, and stirring them up to seek Jehovah, thus endeavoring to impute some spirituality into their national life. Spurgeon's guess seems to be consistent with Samuel's message here He directs their sorrowful hearts toward true repentance. There's much to learn here. We learn that true repentance has both an inward dimension and an outward expression. We spoke at length last time about the inward, the heart, how we are sinfully stubborn. Stiff-necked people who refuse to listen to God. So how are we to return with all our hearts and prepare our hearts? We need the miraculous work of the Holy Spirit, God the Father, performing the circumcision of Christ, his Son, in our hearts. Anything less than heart service will not do. Recall what the Lord said to the people of Isaiah's time and Jesus' time. These people draw near with their mouths and honor me with their lips, but have removed their hearts far from me. That's in Isaiah 29, Matthew 15, and Mark 7. God is not satisfied with mere lip service. Yet He does indeed delight in outward expressions that flow from genuine repentance. As we see in 2 Corinthians 7. 11. For the Israelites, that meant putting away idols and serving the Lord exclusively. True repentance also has both repulsion and attraction. Israelites must be repulsed by false gods. Despise and abhor them. Two specific foreign deities are mentioned in verses 3 and 4, Baal and Ashkorek. Ronald Youngblood provides some description of them. Quote, Baal, God of fertility and the storm, was believed to be the son of Dagon. God of grain. Asferith, goddess of love and fertility, vied for supremacy with Asherah, mother goddess and consort of Ael. The association of Baal, Asherah, and Ashtaret with fertility, particularly as expressed in depraved sexual ritual at Canaanite shrines, made them especially abominable. In the Lord's eyes. Are you repulsed by idols of today? A while back I cited an article entitled, quote, Six Modern Idols in the Land of Reformation. It was written by a church planter named Kelly Seeley and a pastor named Stephen Pughes, ministering in Frankfurt, Germany. The title grabbed me because it shows us that even once Christianized nations, even in modern cities, idols can thrive The authors in effect give us a guided tour of the city, exposing the deeply seated idolatries. Here's what they find, quote, as you exit the east side of the train station, the idol of drugs is easily accessible. Next there's the idol of sex. Not far from the train station is Germany's second largest red light district. Prostitution in Germany is legal and Frankfurt is home to thousands of women working as prostitutes. Next up, Idol of Money. After leaving the red light district, you cross over into the financial district, a world of skyscrapers inhabited by some of the most influential banks on the planet. All around the city is a star-shaped park with statues of intellectual writers, Johann Wolfgang Gerder, Gatho Lessing, and Friedrich Schiller. Frankfurt also has the second largest library in the world, proving that idolatry of knowledge is a real temptation. The authors continue with the idol of arts. Walking north through the park, you arrive at Frankfurt's old opera house. On the front of the building, in large letters, are the words to the true, the beautiful. The good. Last but not least, in the city center, you find the central shopping district where the idol of fashion is on display Drugs, sex, money, knowledge, arts, fashion Doesn't sound so different than what we find on this continent. Are we repulsed by such idols? And are we attracted to the one and only God? Our Lord believes in monotheism stronger than any of us can ever believe it. We must serve him only That is the pull of true repentance, away from idols and moving towards Yahweh. True repentance was an unavoidable and essential step for the Israelites to move forward to deliverance. R. P. Gordon notes that by repenting, Israelites fulfill, quote, the third element in that scheme of apostasy, oppression, repentance, deliverance, which is outlined for the period of the judges. That fourth element of deliverance through a judge is what we see next in verses five to twelve. From there we learn this principle. In the midst of struggle, worship. What we see next are not the typical clever strategies or feats of war. Prayer in verse 5. Fasting and confession in verse 6. The ritual of pouring out water there could symbolize a number of things. Thirst during fasting, a heart overflowing with lament or purification from sin. There's fear of doom and prayer request in verse 7 and 8. Intercessory prayers and sacrifice in verse 9. With all these acts of humility, the emphasis is not on the human efforts of the Israelites or even Samuel. The emphasis is on the Lord, as we see in verse 10. He thundered with a loud thunder upon the Philistines that day And so confused them that they were overcome before Israel. We find many instances where God fights for his people while they look to him worshipfully. He troubled the army of Egyptians before they drowned in the sea. Exodus fourteen. He drove out the inhabitants of Canaan before Israel, the Hivites, the Hittite, the alliance of kings, Sisera and his chariots. Exodus twenty-three, Joshua ten, Judges four. And now he does the same with the Philistines here. They got a small taste of God's full power. When the Lord thunders from heaven, he does great things and his adversaries break into pieces He sends out arrows to scatter them, lightning bolts to vanquish them, hailstones and coals of fire to defeat them. When Christ returns, out of his mouth goes a sharp sword that with it he shall strike the nations The entire Psalm 29 is a great reminder of God's glory, the power of his thunderous voice, and his majesty. I'll read some portions of it for you. Give unto the Lord, all you mighty ones, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due to his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is over the waters. The God of glory thunders. The Lord is over many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars. The voice of the Lord divides the flames of fire. The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness. The Lord shakes the wilderness of Kellish. The voice of the Lord makes the deer give birth and strips the forest bare. And in his temple everyone says, Glory. The Lord sat enthroned at the flood, and the Lord sits as king forever. The Lord will give strength to his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. The Lord indeed thunders and gives strength to his people, as we see in verse eleven. They overcome their initial fear to advance and pursue the Philistines and drove them back a few miles northward to Beth Car. The Israelites would not have won without God. He provided a massive advantage by confounding the enemies. To commemorate this great victory and God's faithfulness, Samuel sets up a marker as a perpetual reminder for future generations. He calls it Ebenezer, which means stone of health. When he says thus far, it is not certain whether he meant that spatially or temporally In other words, is Samuel saying that God has helped them as far as that location between Mitzvah and Shen? Or is he saying that God has helped them up to this point in the timeline of Israelite history? I tend to agree with David Samura, who thinks that the prophet meant both. In life, we honor God both in specific locations and at specific times. Can you also say here and now, thus far, the Lord has helped us In every victory, every milestone, every new address, every birthday, can you testify? Thus far, the Lord has helped us It's not thus far I made it on my own. I don't need anyone. I'm independent. It's thus far the Lord has helped us. To him be the glory and to him is due the credit for our salvation. If the Israelites here had reasons to rejoice, we Christians have more. Israelites repented and they were delivered from the power of the Philistines, who would become threats again later. We repent and we are delivered forever from Satan and his forces. God, he has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love. Colossians 1. 13 The priest and prophet Samuel took a lamb and offered up a sacrifice to please God. The high priest of our confession and our prophet Jesus Offered himself once for all, redeeming us with his precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. On behalf of Israel, Samuel cried out to the Lord from earth and made intercession. On behalf of us. Christ who died, and furthermore, is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, also makes intercession for us This idea of worship won't make sense without understanding the gospel. And here it is. God created us, but all of us have turned away from him to serve ourselves and our idols. We have sinned and thought, word, and actions. But the good Lord did not leave us to suffer in hell. He sent his own son, Jesus Christ, to die for us as our substitute on the cross. After paying for our sins. Jesus rose from the dead and ascended to heaven, proving that he is truly God. You can begin a relationship with Him and receive the free gift of eternal life. God gives us heaven by grace, not by works. All we need to do is repent and accept that gift by faith alone. And until we reach heaven, we live our lives from this point onward in confidence and gratitude for what he has done. We may not set up an Ebenezer stone as an act of worship at Mitzpah, but we can sing the second verse of Come Thy fount of every blessing. It's our act of worship at church. I'll read it for you before we sing it later. Here I raise my Ebenezer. Here by thy great help I come. And I hope, by thy good pleasure, safely to arrive at home. Jesus sought me when a stranger wandering from the fold of God He to rescue me from danger interposed his precious blood. In the midst of struggle, keep calm and worship. Our struggle may not be the advancing Philistines, your struggle may not be the same as mine. Your struggle may not be phys uh may be physical, his may be relational, hers may be um emotional But we can all agree that in the midst of our struggles, we can worship I like what Kevin DeYoung reminded us back in late June when churches carefully began reopening. Quote, don't ever think that gathering for worship isn't doing anything. In the midst of a world that feels like it is falling apart, turning our attention to God is always a step in the right direction. Because of Christ and his finished work, we can do something that transcends this fallen world. Worship. Because of Christ and his finished work, our story continues. Because of Christ and his finished work, we can experience victory and peace when we trust in him. And that leads to the next point in the Mr. Peace Trust. The remainder of the chapter covers Samuel's successful ministry as judge in broad strokes The word subdued in verse 13 looks familiar to the commentator P. Kyle McCarter, who observes, quote, Samuel's military career is summarized and concluded in a formulaic pattern known from the book of Judges. We see that in Judges three, four, eight, and eleven. Like Moab, Jaban, the king of Canaan, Midian, and the people of Amon, Philistines were subdued. These daygone worshippers should have remembered what God's hand can do. Did they not recall the tumors that broke out in their midst No, instead they suffer humiliation under the judgeship of Samuel. Verse 14 tells us that as a result, Israel recovered the territories Ekron and Gath took from them. In addition, the narrator adds that not only were the Philistines subdued, also there was peace between the Children. Between Israel and the Amorites. Amorites prospered in the land of Canaan before the conquest, but there were still remnants of them in the land, such as the Gibeonites, who were under Israel's protection. So that's in 2 Samuel 21, talks about that. So the subjugation of the Philistines and the harmony with the Amorites essentially mean this. Israel was doing well externally and internally, both internationally and nationally. But this state of affairs did not come about with passivity. We read in verses 15 to 17 about the activity of Samuel. Eugene Merrill measures the distance of his circuit to be approximately 50 miles, which isn't much It looks like his influence over Israel was not dependent on a great itinerary. Recall that even at a young age, back in chapter 3, verse 20, All Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, knew that Samuel had been established as a prophet of the Lord. That's because, as the previous verse 19 informed us, the Lord was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground. God made sure that Samuel's words traveled far, even if Samuel himself didn't travel far. He was faithful in his local ministries as God used them to judge the entire Israel. His personal piety, expressed in the building of the ark, I'm sorry, the altar at Ramah. Would be exemplary for national piety everywhere. So Israel was enjoying the good times. From here on out, how can they avoid falling back into that tragic cycle of judges? Back into sin and servitude. They must maintain their faith in the Lord. Trust in the hand of Yahweh that overcame the hand of the Philistines. That's likely what Samuel preached to his people as judge. We need to hear that message as well. Trust continually. In the works of God's hands, especially in good times, when we may be tempted to do otherwise. Guard against the dangers of prosperity. Matthew Harmon, a biblical theologian, lists four dangers of prosperity for us to consider. I can give you these later if you want. I'll just go through them fast. One, our hearts become more enamored with what God has given us than God Himself. Two, we let our guard down against the enemy. Three, we conclude that our prosperity abundance is the result of our godliness. And fourth, our trust and confidence are placed in what we possess rather than who possesses us. It is in times of peace that we must be more vigilant than ever before. May our trust and confidence be only in the Lord. When our lives are filled with repentance and worship and trust, we can live fruitful lives filled with meaning and purpose. In the midst of sorrow, repent. In the midst of struggle, worship. In the midst of peace, trust. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you with contrite hearts. Knowing that we've messed up in so many ways. Lord, like the Israelites at the beginning of this chapter, Lord, we are humbled. Lord, we are eager to repent. And we thank you for your word that teaches us how. May we put away our idols. May we worship you for what you have done for us. your son. May we trust in you even when things are going well, when you have blessed us with Peace, material wealth. May we seek you more. May our lives be filled with praises and sacrifice of praise. Prayers of thanksgiving. Appreciation for what you have done through your son. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.