In his classic work, A Christmas Carol, Charles Dickens writes of a wretching grasping, scraping, covetous old sinner named Ebenezer Scrooge. It is because of this nature of this man that his work partner, now dead these seven years or so, has by his own procuring a visit for his dear friend on earth with three spirits The ghost of Christmas past, the ghost of Christmas present, the ghost of Christmas future. It is of the gross of Christmas presence that we want to focus our words and our attention. For when it was time the Spirit came to Ebenezer, and he said these words, We spirits do not live only one day of our year. We live the whole 365. So it is true of the child born in Bethlehem. He does not live in men's hearts only one day of the year, but all the days of the year. You, Ebenezer, have not chosen to seek him in your heart. Therefore, we will seek him in the hearts of men who have. I'm wondering tonight, as we think about Christmas one more time, if that perhaps tonight I might stir you to start a new tradition. Not get rid of any other ones that you have, but just add this one to it. A new tradition. A tradition in which when Christmas comes You will not be a spectator, but that you will be a participator For God does not seek people to just be spectators. He expects them to be participators all the days of the year. So we're going to look this evening briefly, quickly, at the Christmas coin. A coin has two sides. I wish this one didn't, but it does. And we can't escape it. So I ask you this question as we look at the Christmas story. Where are you? Years ago, we used to have on the back of life serial thousands of faces And at the bottom it said, Where is Waldo? I ask you, as we look at all the faces in the Christmas story. Where are you? And behold, there came wise men from the east. To Jerusalem, saying to King Herod, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and we have come to worship him. God has spoken through creation, through a star. And these wise men saw it, and they came to worship. Is that where you are? A worshiper? Now consider how great this worship was. It involved a long journey. No jets, trains, or airplanes. Camels, deserts, snakes, dangers. It took time, a long time It took a lot of money. It took a lot of planning. It took a lot of resources. And they had to come through dangerous territory. They had to stand before the king and say, Where's your replacement? For we have come for him, and we want to worship him. And they laid before him gold, frankincense, and myrrh. But that wasn't the act of worship alone. The whole journey was an act of worship. Is that where you are? Or are you abiding in the fields, watching over your flock by night? And lo, an angel of the Lord appeared unto the shepherds, and the glory of the Lord shone round about, and they were so afraid. And the angel of the Lord said unto them, Do not be afraid. For I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be for all people. This was something great. These were shepherds, you know, the trash collectors of our day. What do you do for a living? I throw trash That's it? You're a trash fur? I scrape bugs off windshields. That's it. You're a bug scraper? Not highly praised in society. Dirty people. Rotten, torn, worn clothing. looked down upon. And if God was going to speak to anybody, surely it would be the rich. Surely it would be to the political upper echelon of life. But no, he came to the lowlife, if you will, so called by the people of their day. The lowlife You might see them on the streets. They have signs. Can you help me out? Can you donate to me? You see them in the streets. They can't stand up. Too drunk. They're freezing. They're cold. Drive over in Glen Burney. They live in tents. Just as the shepherds probably did. And this was for all people. Not some people. This word's not being used as a figure of speech. It means all. Not all as in, well, yeah, some from America, well, maybe a couple down in Africa and a couple over here in India. No, it means all. Each and every person. It is for all people Good tidings of great joy, for unto you, shepherds, and unto you, people, is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Well, they were excited. It says, as soon as the angels had departed, I would have probably stood there and watched it too. And as soon as they departed, it says, come now. You knew it was important. You knew they had a change of heart. You knew they were going to check it out. Why? Because they said, come now. Come now. It's that important because it has to be done. Why? Now We gotta go now. It has to happen now. How many times have you sat there and heard the Christ the Christmas story and you have not responded like the shepherds? The shepherds heard the story and they said, come, let us go. What? Now. Gotta do it now. The Bible says, now is the day of salvation. Behold, now is the accepted time. How many Christmases have you gone through? How many more will you go through before you will take the time and be a shepherd and go check it out? And make sure that these things which are made known to us by the angels are so. And you know they said, let us go. They didn't say, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa. This is a job for Abraham and Moses and I. The rest of you guys hang tight. We'll bring you word. No. It was all inclusive. Let us all go. Each and every one of them there, David boy. This is a man's job. You're just a little tyke. You sit there and play your harp. Write a couple songs while we're gone. And we come back. We'll tell you all about it. No. We will all go. And it says, and they went with haste. Why? Because the Savior is born. They realized they needed a savior. A savior implies you need to be saved. But saved from what? Global warming? Some man over in Korea? North Korea China? Earthquakes? Natural disasters? Poverty? Sickness? Disease? These are nothing. Atom bombs, nuclear bombs, hydrogen bombs. There's something far worse here that you need saved from. It is a terrible thing. Vicious, wicked, mean, and more powerful than all those that I have previously mentioned. And it is no one else but yourself. You are your own worst, what do we say, enemy The shepherds, not me. Not gonna be me. I'm not my own worst enemy. I'm gonna go. That's shepherd's part one. They went and they saw the child laying in the manger. And they went out. This is shepherd's part two. And what they do? They spread abroad what they had seen and what the angels had made known unto them, for they were evangelists. What they saw, they couldn't hold back. They went and told people, hey, we've seen the Savior. I got saved. Hey, I've seen the Savior. Hey, the angels came to us and told the story. We went. It was just like they said. And they went everywhere spreading the word. The Savior is born. Do you see yourself as that? Is that where we'll find Waldo? Is that where we'll find you? But there's Shepherds Part 3. After they did that, they went back to the flocks. And you know, this is amazing to me. When they talk off, it's like, hey, oh, what about the flocks? Don't care. Well, what if they get scattered? Don't care. What if a wolf gets them? Don't care. Some of them might steal them. Don't care. Everything I have and own I don't care. This is more important than all of that Don't care. They went back praising God and glorifying God. There you go. Shepherds part three. Is that where you are in your life? Boy, you're just consumed with the praise of God. You just want to bring glory to God. Oh, and I just thought you were walking around. You know, at work. Praise God. Praise God. Glory to God. Oh, just smashed up the vehicle. Praise the Lord. You know, just not with words, but in our lives. They showed it. They went everywhere and spread the word abroad. And then there's Mary. An angel of the Lord appears unto her and says, Fear not, for thou hast found favor with God, for you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son. The Holy Ghost shall come upon you, and that holy thing shall be called the Son of God. And what did Mary say? Oh, let's have a debate about this. This doesn't sound too good. No, Mary said what? Behold, the handmaid of the Lord. A servant, not a voluntary servant. The word is for an involuntary servant. Doesn't matter, Lord, what you want to do is fine with me. It's okay. It's just fine. I'm all right with it. I'm here for you, Lord. Even though you came for me. I'm here for you. Be it unto me as you have. Spoken. Why God would choose to use some of these calamitous things in a people's people's lives is beyond me. You know? Sickness. Disease. People die. They lose everything they have. Fire takes over their house. Yet, Mary knew. That God was the creator and she was the create it. He was the potter. We are the clay. And it's okay. Lord, it's okay. Or maybe you're Joseph How can you imagine that? He was a just man. I can't put this girl away. Man, I was in love with her. She broke my heart. What am I going to do? I'll just try to do something and I won't embarrass her. And while he thought upon these things, how did God speak to him? An angel of the Lord appeared to him and said, Do not fear, Joseph, to take Mary to be your wife, because she has conceived of the Holy Spirit, shall be called the Son of God Now can you imagine that? Can you imagine the embarrassment? Being ashamed The ridicule, the name calling, the whispers behind your back. Am I going to be able to go in to the meeting with the rest of the people to worship worship God or are they going to sort of say you need to stay up, buddy? You've been up to no good. Who would even believe him? And yet He awoke from his dream, and one word, he did as the angel had commanded Why? Because the Bible says the just shall live by faith. As it is written, from one area of faith to another area of faith to another area of faith, Joseph was a just, faithful man living by faith. Where are you? Is that where you are this Christmas season? And then there's the angels He makes his angels spirits, the Bible says. Flames of fire, ministers to those who are heirs of salvation. Is that where you see yourself this year? Is that where we can find you? In the Christmas story, your minister, oh, not somebody that stands up here and talks or is in charge of a church, but one who seeks to meet the needs. Of people, whether through teaching, or whether through helping people that are uh elderly and can't get out, and You take them places, you see the sick, you go visit them, you help in the church, you help in Iwanas, you help to minister This is all part of the Christmas story. The angels. And last week we learned there's another group, the heavenly host. Do you remember him saying this is a military term? No surprise. He said, why? He w is invading the territory of the devil. Probably needed an army to go along because God said, Angel, go down to those shepherds and wait a minute. Satan wanted nothing to do with that. He was going to throw everything he had and stop that angel, just like he tried to stop the angel in Daniel. Who came just wanted to come to Daniel and said, you look I the day you you pray, it was answered. I came, but I was hindered. No, not this time. God said, take the army with you. They're warriors fighting in the realm against the realm of the devil. I appreciate people like that They're all over the place. There are scientists who stand up against this thing called evolution. There are men who go around in universities and colleges and debate. with philosophers and teachers at great places of high learning. We had one in our Bible college. Dr. David Sumbak Tim, if I pronounce him right. Would go from University of Maryland, Bowie, you name it, he was there, and you know what? He won every time Never loss. He's over in Korea, South Korea, right now. Pastor of a huge church. President of a seminary and a Bible college. But you don't have to do that. You can pray. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and spiritual wickedness in heavenly places. Is that where you are this Christmas Eve? All of these we have mentioned so far are about one side of the Christmas coin. There's another side I'd rather not talk about, but we must, because it's a coin and it makes up the whole. There's Herod The wise men came to Herod, and God spoke to him. We have seen he that is born king of the Jews. Where is he that is born king of the Jews? We've seen his star, and we have come to worship him. And so Herod says, well, yeah, okay, well, it just sounds like a good idea. You guys go check it out, find out what's going on, what's happening there, and bring me backwards so I too can worship him. He didn't want to worship him, he wanted to kill him. So it is today. Try to be a Christian in North Korea. See what happens there. Tell me how that works out for you. Try it in China. How'd you like to be in their youth group where they don't teach their kids they teach their kids not only the Bible, they teach them diversion tactics, how to escape and get away from the communists, one young girl. Came in all dirty and muddy. They were chasing me. What happened? She crawled under a metal bridge and laid down in the water and looked up as the guards were there and she said, Lord, please don't let them look down What about India? You think India's any better? They have thousands, millions of gods. Yeah, they're real tolerant over there. Yeah, try it. Go over there and see how your Christianity works. Start a church. Start a work. Go somewhere. In India. My brother-in-law was there and he wandered off the confines, and before long, not long, he was surrounded by a bunch of them. And if he wouldn't have been rescued by the Christians, who knows what would have happened? They said, don't ever walk off like this again. It's dangerous out here for Christians. Oh, Herod is alive and well on planet Earth. And then there are his entourage, the scribes and the priests, we call them, the religious people, all the isms of the world. Hinduism, Shintoism, Taoism, Mormonism, Confucianism, Islam. Well, they all have a little element of truth. They all say things like, you know, you shouldn't hurt people. You ought to be good and obey the laws of the land. They all have it. Some element of truth. But they aren't the truth. And here were the people who were supposed to be the ones that surely should have known And I would have expected the account to say, and lo, the scribes and the priests said, Let us too also go to Bethlehem and see this thing which was made known to us by the wise man. Nope. Not at all. We're interested. Didn't want to lose their position. We're in with the king. We got a good here. We're not going to lose it. Are you there? Are you involved in another religion, another faith? Have you ever come To be an investigator like the shepherds of the claims of Christ Christianity, this time we call Christmas There's another group. And the shepherds departed, and made known abroad the things that the angels had told them. And all the people wondered. At these things. That's Christmas crowd. That one's really alive in America. You know, we we want white snow and mensel toe and ho ho ho. And we decorate our houses to the tilt. I know there's no life in space because we decorate so great the light shines so far. They have to know we're out here We trim our trees, we make cookies, we get together with loved ones. They get caught up in the wonder. They ride the shirt tails of Christians over the wonder. Oh, this is they even sing about it. Why, it's the most wonderful time of the year, they say. I would have expected the scripture to say, lo, they said, let us now go to and see this thing. Which the shepherdship made known unto us. Nope. Not at all. Didn't turn. Wasn't interested. They love the glamour, love the lights, like the enthusiasm, like the sights. Wouldn't go. And then there's the Industrial merchants of the world. We call them innkeepers. He's the one who provided a place for the child to stay in the first place You'd think surely after the uh shepherds went around and they would have been in the inn screaming and hollering, guess what? The Savior's born. Man, the Savior's here. No. Strike four. Not a word. Not one word. He went out there and checked it out. That's the dark side, the sad side of the Christmas coin Where are you? Where are you? This question is a question asked by God. Did you know that? It's as old as man himself, for it was God who said, Adam! Where are you? This was not a question of hide and seek. God knew where he was. But Adam, look what happened. Look where you are. Look what your sin has done. When I used to call, you'd come. Now you run. When I used to call, you'd be filled with glee. Now you hide in fear. And you used to say, wow, this woman. Now you say, this woman. And then you say, this woman that you gave me. Look where your sin has taken you. Look where you are. You and me. Broken relationship. All society shot At the core, the family. Your family life's destroyed. You're blaming everybody. You just can't fess up. Where are you? And I'm going to say this. The question really isn't where are you? This Christmas Eve. The question is this. Who are you? Well, I know quite a few people here as I look around. I'm asking you, who are you? Do I know you? Do you know me? So as we think about this Christmas season, a new tradition, maybe from now on for the rest of your life. Till you pass away or the Lord comes back, you'll ask this question: When Christmas comes around, where am I this year? You say, well, I sort of see myself in uh in a couple different places. Well, Christian, that's good. We're supposed to live a complete life. I'd hope you'd be a worshiper. I'd hope you'd be evangelizing. I'd hope you'd be praising God. I hope you'd be humble and walking by faith What about you? Have you ever, ever in your life kneeled as the wise man before the manger of Christ? For he's the savior of the world. He doesn't come to live in men's hearts but one day of the year, but the whole 365. Have you sought him in your life? You need to, Jesus said, you must be born again. And Nicodemus said, How can a man enter back a second time into his mother's womb? Jesus said, You're thinking in physical terms. No, it's spiritual. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. You need to be born again. Why not tonight? You know, if I heard this message, I'd go home tonight and investigate. If I heard this message, And I bel I would believe it and I would say here right here right here right now I don't care. I raise my hand. I want to know how to trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. It's not hard. One man said it this way: God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I have sinned. I need rescued and saved from me. I'm my own worst enemy. Have you ever done that? You need to. Why not make this Christmas And this Christmas season for the rest of your life of time where you remember not only the birth of the Savior, but your second birth. Won't you do that? It's not too late. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the Christmas story and all those who partook And we thank you that each and every person throughout this entire earth, everyone, everywhere, somewhere is found. In the Christmas story. Thank you for coming, humbling yourselves, taking on the form of a man. Taking upon yourself as a man to be a servant. And as a servant, death And the worst possible death, the death of the cross. We thank you for this time. And we pray, Lord, if there are any here. Who do you know? Never trusted Christ as their Savior, that they might hear the gospel story and realize the Savior is born and that they need to be saved from their sin. And they return to you and ask you, Lord Jesus, come into my life and save me. For it's in Jesus' name we ask this. Amen.