You're all here um a little spread out. Usually I tell you to get together, you know, and get the back people up in the front, but we we're doing the opposite of that now, so I'm I'm not gonna say a word. Um you're you're nicely uh spread out, I guess is what I should do. Uh it is a joy to be with you. Uh I want to thank you first of all for your uh kindness to me and uh to my family individually and remembering us uh um earlier uh that was completely unexpected and uh Frankly, humbling. So I I just thank you for your kindness to us. and the Lord's uh grace. And by the way, the uh scripture reading, Jeremiah 2, reminded me that uh some of you are actually uh now attending my Miles Bible class on Zoom. on uh Tuesday mornings at ten o'clock where we are studying Jeremiah. And if you haven't uh joined us uh yet you can either email me or e email uh uh sung or someone and find out how to do that and we'd love to have you and we haven't made that much progress yet. Uh we're only I think we We f finished chapter three. So that's ten to eleven on Tuesdays. And so if you have a phone or have a computer, you can uh join in that uh study. It's just an hour of uh Bible study. So it's uh At least I I think it's a um uh it it's been a study that's gone on uh from the beginning of uh uh m uh George Miles, the founder of B uh Washington Bible College and Capitol Bible Seminary, started it. And I'm continuing it even though there isn't a Washington Bible College and Capitol Bible uh seminary, but uh Lancaster does uh at least uh did up until the virus allow us to uh meet together uh in their greenbelt location. And now of course it's on Zoom. So Um there are no um physical limitations to joining. Well, um as you know, if you remember back this far, and I do not expect you to remember every message that I've ever preached, but uh we we actually began a series on uh Isaiah, I think we can call it a series back in um uh twenty eighteen in May and we have finished ten messages in that series and uh so I thought you know I thought about doing something else. I really did, but I came right back to uh Isaiah and some fantastic uh chapters and uh uh the one we're going to look at this morning is Isaiah 55. I want to say it's one of my favorite chapters in the Bible, but I pretty much seem to say that and almost any uh chapter uh that I preach, but this is just an incredible um chapter. And I would ask uh the question, what do you want most in life? And what do you spend most of your time uh thinking about. Maybe that's changed a little bit in the last few months. Maybe it's your health. Uh it's hard not to think of our health when we're all wearing masks and uh all of that. Maybe it's in keeping uh your job or making ends meet with uh a reduced income or uh maybe uh very little income at all Some people, especially as they near retirement age, are uh uh spending a lot of time pondering their investments and uh figuring out whether they have enough money for retirement. Or maybe uh you're thinking about what you'd do if you had more money. Uh you know, maybe if you went on one of those uh uh TV shows and won uh a ton of money or maybe if you entered the lottery, not that I think you should be playing the lottery, but that's another issue. uh what how your life would improve um if uh you did um uh uh get a whole bunch of money. And so Certainly some of these things that I've mentioned are more important than others, but what is actually the most important thing in the Lord's eyes And the chapter that I want to look at this morning, Isaiah 55, I think gives us the answer to that question. God's thoughts and God's ways are far different from ours. And Isaiah 55 speaks of the wonders of his ways and specifically the wonders of his salvation. And as I mentioned a moment ago, we began our series of messages on Isaiah in May of 2018. And we've had 10 messages from then until this time. And since they've been so scattered, you don't have to worry. I'm not going to give you a quiz. or anything like that. If you're like me, you can barely remember what happened last week, not uh weeks ago But we saw that while there are many prophecies of salvation and restoration in the earlier part of the book, and I gave you just a little tiny outline there in the in I was going to say in the bulletin, in the handout. I'm not sure what we're calling it now, but I think it's a handout. Isaiah 1-39 spoke largely of the fact that the nation Israel uh had uh sinned against God and as a result would have to go into captivity, as they did first in seven twenty two BC when the northern kingdom fell to Assyria, and then in And in chapters 40 to 48, God's sovereignty was stressed that He alone knows and controls the future. And as far as I'm concerned, that's a very comforting thought in these times when the future often seems uncertain. But in these chapters as well, extending through the end of the book, chapters 40 really through 66, the emphasis is that God would restore Israel one day. And he would use his servant to accomplish a great redemption and restoration. In particular, chapter 53, which is actually the one that we looked at the last time I was here in March. It's an amazing prophecy of the suffering and death of the servant on behalf of his people. And uh it's actually the culmination, if you remember, of the servant passages in 42, 49, and 50, and then 52, 53 for the final one. And from the New Testament, of course, we realize that that servant that is prophesied can only be the Lord Jesus Christ. Chapter 54 continues that theme by saying that God would one day restore Israel completely. And verses 7 and 8 of chapter 54, I think, express the theme of the book thus far. He says, and this is Isaiah 54, 7 and 8, for a brief moment I forsook you, but with great compassion I will gather you. In an outburst of anger, I hid my face from you for a moment, but with everlasting loving kindness I will have compassion on you, says the Lord, your Redeemer. Isaiah 55 and 56 continue the theme of God's redemption of his people. But these chapters add a new twist. In these chapters, the Lord issues an invitation, not simply to the nation of Israel, but to anyone at all, Jew or Gentile, to partake of his salvation. His mercy and his grace. You know, a lot has changed in the past seven or eight months since I was uh last uh uh here because of the COVID-19 threat, and I certainly don't want to minimize uh any of that. But the most important things, the things that matter the most haven't changed at all. It's good for us to remember that. As we focus on chapter 55 this morning, I see four aspects of God's salvation that are stressed in these verses. And they bring to light what really should matter most to us every day of our lives. First of all, we see in verses one to five that God's salvation can't be bought. God's salvation can't be bought. Verse 1 is one of the most beautiful appeals to come to the Lord to salvation in all of the Scriptures. In this verse, the exhortation is made three times for the needy to come. The thirsty should come to the water. Those with no money are to come and buy wine and milk. without any money at no cost to themselves. Of course, water satisfies our basic needs. Milk provides nourishment, and wine is used for joyous occasions The lesson to us is clear. Salvation from the Lord is a free gift. There is nothing that you or I can do to merit it. It can't be bought. It doesn't matter how much money we have. Even if we did win a million dollars, we couldn't buy the most important thing in life We are spiritually as those who are needy with no means to satisfy that need. We are simply to come. Doesn't matter what our financial uh state is or anything else. Well, I don't know about you, but when uh I I tend to be a a natural born skeptic on everything else except for the Bible. And when someone calls me on the phone or sends me a letter or an email these days uh telling me something is absolutely free My first reaction is, yeah, right. I'll believe it when I see it. One of the members of my family. Now this is a while ago uh sh uh she would know better by now, uh signed up for one of those free offers. Uh oh and uh and they were going uh than to bill their uh their credit card uh uh automatically for $54. 95 annually after the free period ran out Well, uh, I'm sorry, but that's not free. Everyone knows that you can't get something for nothing, right? But in God's universe, you can. God's salvation is completely free. And the irony is, of course, that some people have problems with that, and they think they have to continually work for their salvation. Well, that doesn't work very well because uh in in in God's eyes none of us are righteous. And so we we uh if if it did cost something, such as our own works, we would fail miserably. But it's free. Now let me mention, and I know that most of us here this morning know this, that while God's salvation is free to us, in one sense, it's free. Surely it was not entirely free. It cost God's servant, the Messiah, his life, as chapter 53 of Isaiah made plain. God's Son Jesus Christ paid the price for our sin on the cross at Calvary so that you and I could pay absolutely nothing. And it was that same person, the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave a gracious invitation, you remember, to the Samaritan woman at the well in John 4, verse 13. Jesus said, whoever drinks of this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I should give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. And it was the same Lord who cried out on the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles in John 7 37, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Well, while verse 1 is an invitation to those who have no money to partake of the Lord's riches, verse 2 is a rebuke to those who do have money but spend it unwisely. on things which do not ultimately satisfy. The picture in verse 2 is that of a person carefully weighing out his hard-earned shekels, but for nothing. And how many times do we see those who are wealthy who have accumulated all kinds of material wealth, but they aren't truly happy? And yet so often you and I mistakenly think, well, if only if only I get this new car, or if only I get this new house, or if only I get this new computer or outfit or whatever. then I'll be happy. But these things aren't really bread. They're more like candy. They taste good for an instant, but they have no lasting nutritional value. And I think this is an essential lesson for us to emblazon in our hearts and our minds, because we do live in such a materialistic society. where the emphasis in commercials and everywhere else is to get money, to get stuff, and then we'll be happy. And that just is not the case. And maybe one of them Uh nice side effects of this whole virus is that uh people aren't quite as materialistically oriented in the same way these days. They're certainly not thinking about where they're going to be taking their next cruise. That's for sure. Um even the purp purpose of going to college, i it you know, it used to be to make a difference in society or to help people. But instead, these days it seems it's all about picking a career that will pay me the most money the fastest. And then we'll be happy. But that's not true. It's a mirage. As Jesus said to the crowd in answer to the man in Luke chapter 12, you remember who is worried about his inheritance? Jesus said, take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses. I've probably quoted that verse a few times before because to me it's one of those things that I continually have to remind myself. It's so easy to store up more and more, but one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things that he possesses. How foolish it is to reject the gift of salvation and try to get true, lasting satisfaction by our own efforts So, what should we be thinking about? What should matter most to us? The end of verse 2 and verse 3 gives us the answer: not money or possessions, but God Verses 2, the end of verse 2 and verse 3 give us five imperatives that all focus on hearing what God has to say. He says, listen carefully to me, and eat what is good, and let your soul delight itself in abundance, incline your ear, and come to me here, and your soul shall live. and I will make an everlasting covenant with you. And so these are five imperatives. And the first verb is actually repeated in Hebrew in a construction that intensifies its meaning. Listen, listen to me, or better probably listen intently to me, is the idea. Now, sometimes a husband may be guilty of not listening intently as his wife tells him something. He's sort of listening, but not really listening uh intently uh uh you know, because he's kind of thinking about something else. Now I'm sure none of the husbands here are guilty of that. I will confess to have been guilty of that uh on occasion. And God is saying here, drop everything else. Don't just listen. And by the way, it seems like we're more distracted and more divided in in this day and age than ever before. You know, people can And this I don't get. Keep back when we were in restaurants, people can be in restaurants and uh you know, just two people and each one staring at their cell phones Without communication, that just boggles my mind. I don't get it. I mean, that's maybe a supreme example of not really listening and not really communicating. Well, God says, drop everything and focus your attention on me. Eat what is good, which is what God offers, not the world And the result will be that your soul will delight itself in abundance. The Hebrew word here means literally fatness. Do you want abundance? Then eat from God's table. And the imperatives then continue in verse 3. Stretch your ear toward me and come, the same word that was used three times in verse 1. Come to me, listen, that your soul may live. This isn't just bread and water that God will give. He will give us food for the soul. Everybody's so concerned today about prolonging. their life. And of course, uh perhaps with again with COVID there may be even an increased emphasis on this. But even before that, exercising right, eating right, uh taking all kinds of vitamins and all the rest. And that's all well and good. I'm certainly uh not against that. Um personally I've been uh taking a walk every day for a couple of miles, uh and I started before COVID, continued. Through that and I think it's been helpful. But the most important thing is the state of our souls. My dad used to take great care of himself physically. He played tennis twice a week, and even in his 80s, he swam regularly three times a week And yes, he succeeded in his goal. He died just a few days short of his 91st birthday. But the sad thing is, he neglected his soul. Uh I don't know if he was a believer or not, but he didn't spend a lot of time listening to God and his word. And w when I would try to broach the subject with him, he would try to To change the subject to some uh something else. Uh what good is it if he lived a few extra years if he neglected his soul? Listen to the Lord that your soul may live. The promise at the end of verse 3 is that if we listen to God, He will make an everlasting covenant with us, even the faithful mercies of David. The faithful mercies of David go back to the Davidic covenant that God made with David back in 2 Samuel 7. God promised that David's son, Solomon, would build him a house in God's name. God would establish the throne of his kingdom forever. He would chasten him in his iniquity. But God's mercy, verse 15 of 2 Samuel 7 says, His mercy would not depart from him. And David's house, kingdom, and throne would be established forever. The ultimate fulfillment of the Davidic covenant lay not with Solomon, but with the servant. The rod from the stump of Jesse, as Isaiah 11, 1 puts it. The faithful mercies of David, then, refers to all of the promises bound up in Christ and his reign. Paul uses the verse in this way in Acts 13, 34, which quotes this verse here in Isaiah 55. saying that it finds ultimate fulfillment in Christ's resurrection from the dead and his eternal reign. Verse 4 of Isaiah 55 may refer to David, but I think it probably refers to the Messiah. And verse 5 is probably direct. Verbs here change from plural to singular. God's salvation would be a fulfillment of his covenant promises to David and would be accomplished through his servant descended from David. Through the Messiah's leadership, verse 5 tells us that salvation would be extended beyond simply the Gentiles. It would be extended. I'm sorry, beyond simply Israel, it would be extended to the Gentiles as well. He says, nations which do not know you will run to you. And since we're not going to cover chapter 56, I would mention that chapter 56 emphasizes that aspect of chapter So it's not simply for Jews, but it's for Gentiles also. And if you remember in the servant passages in Isaiah 42, in Isaiah 49. It uh speaks of the servant's mission not simply to restore Israel, but to restore the Gentiles as well. So summing up verses 1 to 5, God's salvation can't be bought. It's free, and it will result in great blessing. which even the in which even the Gentiles will participate. And this is an amazing thing. This isn't in the New Testament. That isn't in the book of Acts. This is right here in the Old Testament, in the book of Isaiah. But I see a second truth about God's salvation in verses six and seven. Not only must uh Can God's salvation not be bought? The second thing in verses seven and eight, or six and seven, is that God's salvation must be sought. We have seen this truth in the imperatives of verses 1 and 3, but here they are stressed with even more urgency. There are two more second-person commands in verse 6 and uh and two third-person commands in verse 7. Seek, call, forsake, and return. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call on him while he's near There will come a time when the Lord cannot be found, when the Lord isn't near. Therefore, it's imperative to seek the Lord now. Paul says the same thing in the New Testament, in 2 Corinthians 6 2, first quoting Isaiah 49, 8. For he says, In an acceptable time I have heard you, and in the day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. And so some of you may be saying, well, I've got plenty of time to get serious with the Lord. First I'll enjoy life, and then later I'll get around to spiritual things. Well, um I'm not quite sure how many people are saying this in this particular environment, but let me say that the only lasting enjoyment we can have is enjoyment in the Lord, as we see in verses 12 and 13 of this text. But second, nobody knows how long you're going to live You may think you're going to live for many more years, but so did the rich young fool in Luke chapter 12. And God took him that very night. So that's uh maybe one thing that I think has been good about this COVID business is it causes us to think about the possibility of death, which we would just as soon rather ignore. Um and in fact uh a book that I've been uh teaching in my Sunday school class uh over the past uh number of months has been Ecclesiastes, which I think is a fantastic book for this kind of time because it says, look End back to now instead of looking at it day by day. But see, okay, where do I want to be at the end when I die? And the same kind of emphasis we see here. What is involved in seeking the Lord and calling on him? I think verse seven gives us the answer. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, let him return to the Lord, and he will have mercy on him. and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. We've got to turn away from our sin and wickedness and return to the Lord. Now, when I say that, I'm not advocating what's called lordship salvation, which says that you must uh first turn from your sins before you can truly accept Christ. No, salvation is a free gift. It doesn't involve works on our part. But I think that sometimes we go to the other extreme and not acknowledge that there must at least be a willingness to turn from sin. A heart attitude. that says that I want God's way and not my way. We may not understand all that it entails, but we can't want to hold on to our way and be saved. Salvation speaks of turning from my way to God's way and accepting his free gift through the perfect salvation. And the perfect sacrifice of his son Jesus Christ on the cross. Now, you may say, well, this verse is talking about the wicked, but I'm not wicked. I've not never been arrested. I'm not really a bad person. And uh so on and so forth. Oh, really? Well, you know, it's the comparison game, isn't it? If we compare ourselves to somebody really bad, and the first person that comes to my mind, and I I'm thankful that many of you are this around the same age or even older than I am, the first person that comes to my mind is Charles Manson. You know, well I'm not as bad as him or or uh Adolf Hitler or someone like that. Well, yeah, I'm pretty good compared to these guys. Um is that who we're comparing ourselves to? How about comparing ourselves to God? Who are the wicked in God's eyes according to his standards? We are. And it was for our sins that the servant, the Lord Jesus Christ, had to die. Going back to Isaiah 53. verses four to six. Um just a couple of pages earlier in our uh Bibles. He says, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Notice, by the way, that that same expression, his way, is used in Isaiah 53. 6 and here in Isaiah 55. 7 So, how many of us have gone astray? Isaiah 53, verse 5 says, all of us, we have all gone our own way, and we need to trust in the one who died for us. in our place. And if we do that, the end of verse 7 promises that God will be merciful and abundant in his forgiveness. In verses 8 to 11, I see a third truth about God's salvation. God's salvation is beyond human comprehension. Or if I could keep the ought and bought and etc. going by saying it's beyond human thought It's beyond human understanding. Verses 8 and 9 are incredible verses, but often they are not read in the context of this passage. In verse 8, a contrast is introduced between the ways and the thoughts of the wicked that we saw in verse 7 and the thoughts and the ways of God in verse uh eight. And there are all kinds of chiastic. uh arrangements a b prime a prime etcetera in these verses uh and my thoughts your thoughts Your ways, my ways, etc. So it's a beautiful expression of it. But the point is that God's thoughts and God's ways are far higher than man's, just as the heavens are higher than the earth. And you and I would say that the most important thing in life, the salvation of our soul, should cost a fortune. But God says it's free to us. And it cost his son instead. You and I would say that our bodies should be free from disease and illness. I think about maybe the diabetes that I've been struggling with for so many years or the cancer that some of you have gone through. But God says that He'll allow these things in our lives to mold us and to draw us closer to Him. You and I would say that cancer should take the life of uh you know somebody uh uh you know who is uh maybe uh not living it for the Lord and is or maybe some preacher that's preaching heresy. But in s instead It takes the life of someone such as a few years ago, James Montgomery Boyce, who was doing a great work for God, and we can think of so many others. But God says that he has purposes which you and I don't always see down here on earth And that is the one difference. One way, at least in these years that I think I've matured, is that I don't ask why. I don't ask why. It's kind of pointless. I mean, uh if if if you're afflicted with something, it is good to say, to evaluate your life and to say, okay, Lord, you know, Um is are you trying to get my attention for some reason? Uh uh and so sometimes he is. But uh other times we will not have a clue as to why God does something. And simply to keep on asking why is the wrong question. My issue is I need to trust in him Just as a a child would trust his parents, we need to trust our Heavenly Father that he knows what is best, even if we don't understand it. And we won't, I would add. So you and I would say that an innocent man should not suffer and be killed for crimes that he didn't commit. But God says that's exactly what he allowed his son Jesus Christ to do, so that you and I, as wicked as we are, might be saved if we trust in him. You remember the story of Naaman, the great commander of the Syrian army? 2 Kings 5 tells us he got leprosy. and was told to go to Elisha in Israel to be healed. And he brought a huge amount of money, silver and gold, to Elisha. But when Elisha didn't take his money And instead he told them to wash seven times in the Jordan. Naaman at first refused. After all, the Jordan was just a muddy river. And in fact it really is. And uh somebody years ago gave me I am not kidding you here, he had like a a vial or something that he gave me from the River Jordan. And he was so excited about this. You know, he'd go into the Holy Land and he brought this back to me. And I did keep it for a number of years until I said, this is really, really stupid. And I kind of thought it was stupid at the time, because I mean it's muddy water. There's nothing significant about the Jordan. It's not, I mean, then Naaman's gotta be thinking, are you kidding me? You know, this is we got well he said, we got a lot better water, you know, where I'm from. Uh it didn't make a bit of sense. But then when he finally just did it God's way and he didn't try to figure it all out, he was healed. God's ways are not our ways. When are you and I gonna stop trying to do things our way instead of simply trusting his way? Well, verses 10 and 11 tell us another truth about God's ways. Unlike man's ways, which are ultimately futile, as verse 2 says, God's ways always accomplish what he desires. Just as the rain and snow fall, and they don't return to heaven until they cause the seed to grow, so God's word that goes from his mouth does not return empty, but accomplishes what he desires. Isaiah again turns to the imagery of water, so important in the Middle East, and he goes again to water and then bread that he began the chapter with. Who, after all, provides the water so that people will not thirst and so that the crops will grow and bread can be made. It isn't the futile efforts of man. It is the work of God. God is responsible for all of these things, and His word is effective. And that same thought is expressed in Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 8, where it says, The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. As Hebrews 4. 12 says, the word of God is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner. of the thoughts and the intent of the heart. And if we compare Isaiah 55, 11, my word shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I send it. With Isaiah 53, 10, the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand, using the same two verbs. And the idea then would be that God's ways and thoughts are accomplished in the salvation. provided by the servant, the word of God. And if we think about it, this use of word in Isaiah fifty-five may have been in the back of John's mind when he i identified Christ as the Lagos. and the word in John chapter 1, verses 1 and 14. How thankful we can be that God's word is unchangeable and efficacious. God's ways aren't like ours, and his purposes are always accomplished. How thankful I am that my salvation doesn't depend on my thoughts and my ways or my human effort or accomplishments. It depends on God and therefore it is certain. And finally, I see a fourth glorious truth about God's salvation in verses 12 and 13. God's salvation results in everlasting joy. God's salvation results in everlasting joy. And I tried to get some um rhyme with aught, and I really couldn't do it. You know, bought every other point I've I I was able to do that, but not with this one. Unless I say something like, God's salvation brings uh joy that's not for naught. But that's not very good. So forget it. Unless you can come up with something better, then please email me. Uh I couldn't think of anything uh with ending in R because it would help this. But it's a fantastic bo uh uh point. And uh it just concludes this chapter by explaining that the salvation that's accomplished by the Lord would result in the people's going forth in joy. and peace. And it's one of the reasons, I suppose, why I wanted to preach on this passage because people right now are living in fear And even Christians are living in fear. And I guess I understand it to some degree, but we as believers should be living in joy, it seems to me. Remember uh we did have a few messages in Philippians, which is my favorite book of the Bible. Isaiah is only my favorite in the Old Testament. Philippians is my favorite in the Bible because it speaks of joy. And that's because Paul's life was ideal. Uh in the jail cell where he was. Right? Yeah. Not exactly ideal. You know, sometimes we think, oh gee, uh well when things get better then I'll my joy'll be back. Really? I don't think it works that way. I don't think it works that way. So the emphasis on verse 12 is on the words joy and peace. They are the first words in each of the respective clauses in Hebrew placed there for emphasis. And the picture is that of the redeemed marching from captivity to Zion. And the time frame of these verses, I believe, is the millennium where there will be true peace. The mountains and trees are depicted poetically as rejoicing along with the people. All of nature rejoices in their salvation. Just as Paul tells us in Romans 8. 22, that now the whole creation groans and travails in pain. Verse 13 says that instead of thorn and briar from the curse of Genesis 3. 18, will grow the cypress and the myrtle. During the millennium, the land will become quite fertile, as other verses in Isaiah have stated as well. Isaiah 35, 1 and 2, Isaiah 41, 18 and 19. And these natural phenomena will be for an everlasting sign that will not be destroyed. They will show the greatness of the Lord, the superiority of his ways, and the wonder of his salvation. So I would ask this morning, do you and I, do we want joy? Do we want peace? There are lots of ways to have temporary joy and peace. And the world knows all about those drugs or alcohol or sex or money or human success, some of which these things are bad, some of which are fine, but they all can produce temporary joy and peace. But what about joy and peace that lasts? For that you have to do it God's way, not your way or my way. And his ways truly are amazing I close with the words of Isaiah 55, 6 and 7. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call on him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way. And the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, and he will have mercy on him and to our God. For he will abundantly pardon. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for the joy that we have in Christ. Lord, while we may not always see joy around us, and we certainly don't see peace in our world today, yet we realize as believers that we Know the Prince of Peace. We know the source of true joy. We know the salvation that you have given us already. Father, I thank you for these things that are certainties that nothing can change us, Lord. There's no virus, there's no election or any other thing that can change that joy or that peace which you give us. And I pray, Father, you would help us to focus on these things. The world is all distracted, Lord, maybe now more than many other times that we've seen in the past. They're distracted in so many ways. Help us, Lord, as believers, to reflect your joy. Your word is just as true today as it was yesterday. A year ago or 500 years ago, Lord. Help us to recognize that, to rest on that, to rejoice in it, Lord, and to spend our time. Focusing on you and desiring you and seeking you, Lord. And then as an outreach of that, then to reflecting that joy to those around us who may not have that joy. Lord, both unbelievers who may not know Christ, that we might witness to them, Lord, and believers who are suffering in various ways, that we may encourage, Lord. in whatever way we can. Help us, Father, never to forget the source of our salvation, Lord. It's a free gift from you. Thank you, Lord, for all that you've done for us. Jesus Name, Amen.