A month ago we looked at the call of Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6, focusing on the essence of true worship And we said that true worship requires a proper sense of God, His holiness, His glory in creation, and His mercy in salvation. It also requires a humble submission to God, recognizing our own unworthiness and need to submit to the Lord in everything. And finally, it requires sacrificial service for God. Isaiah yielded himself totally to the Lord and to his will, and he was available for whatever the Lord desired him to do. And if you remember, I I noted that so many people when they preach on Isaiah 6, they stop at, here am I, Lord, send me But they don't happen to give the the last part of it, which uh is not so much fun, because it he indicates that, no, these people aren't really going to listen to you. But you're supposed to what? Be faithful anyway. And for me, the humility of Isaiah stands out in chapter 6. Isaiah knows who God is, he knows who he is, and he humbly submits to God's plans. In chapter 7, we're going to see an entirely different response to God on the part of King Ahaz, king of Judah. And what stands out to me in this chapter is the Lord's graciousness and mercy to Ahaz, providing him reassurance and deliverance. But Ahaz's response is not at all like Isaiah's. Instead, Ahaz stubbornly chooses to go his own way. And continually in our study of Isaiah, we're going to see that we've got a choice. We follow God's way or we follow our own way. I'd love to think that we would always follow God's way. But sadly, that's not always the case, even among believers, even for me. So let's look at this amazing chapter together. First of all, in verses 1 to 9 of our text in Isaiah 7, we see a crisis of faith And then God's reassuring promise. There's a crisis of faith in verses 1 and 2, and the Lord's reassuring promise in verses 3 through 9. The year is 734 B. C. and Ahaz is king of Judah. Notice that verse 1 gives his pedigree. His grandfather Uzziah and his father Jotham were generally good kings of Judah. who trusted the Lord. But that wasn't true of Ahaz, as 2 Kings 16 makes clear, and as we'll soon see here in Isaiah 7. The northern kingdom king of Pekah and the Syrian king Rezin were both very worried about the quite real threat of Assyria invading their lands. So they tried to get Judah to go along with them in a coalition against Assyria, but Ahaz refused. He had always, of course, warred against either Syria or the Northern Kingdom. And so he didn't really trust them. So they decided to war against Judah and Jerusalem and replace Ahaz with a puppet king. And the result was that Ahaz was scared and all Judah with him. I love what verse two says quite picturesquely, that his heart and the hearts of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. They were shaking and quinking. So this was indeed a genuine crisis. But in this time of crisis, the Lord takes the initiative. In verse 3, he tells Isaiah and his son to meet Ahaz in a specific spot. And the message in verse 4 is this. And by the way, um, if I'm here long enough, and I'm hoping providentially that I won't be here all that long because you'll have had a uh gotten a new pastor and everything's gonna go great. But in case plan B is still happening and I'm here in Isaiah 36 and 37, you might want to just put in the back Well, it's not that far away. I'm not going through the whole book. She don't think I'm, you know, talking about three years from now. It's uh it'll be W would be fairly soon. At any rate you're gonna get me off track here. Uh uh so uh uh th the point is that you really need to put in your memory banks, in your deep memory banks Verse 3, because it's going to come up again in chapters 36 and 37, but not for today. You can sort of forget about it for now. But he tells them to meet in that very specific spot. And the message in verse four is this Don't worry about these two kings. They're just like firecrackers on the fourth of July. didn't say fourth of July here, but there's a lot of smoke and there's what? No real damage. The Lord knows their plans to replace Ahaz in verses five and six. But he says these plans will not come to pass. In fact, within their lifetime, the northern kingdom won't even exist, verse 8 says. How does the Lord know this? Because he says Rezin and Pekin are quite uh Pekka are quite fallible leaders, and they don't have the Lord on their side. So the Lord challenges Ahaz to believe. And in verse 9, there's a play on words in Hebrew using the same root word amon, from which we actually get one of our few Hebrew English cognates. Amen, right? Or amen, however you say it, uh, is from this uh root, and it's used in both clauses If you don't amen, if you don't believe, you won't be amanded. That is, you won't be established. So when you say amen, you say, I believe it. That's really what you're saying. The Homeland Christian Standard Bible translates it, if you don't stand firm in your faith, then you won't stand at all. That's pretty good. So, yes, there's a crisis in Judah, all right, but it's not a military crisis or a political crisis. It's a crisis of faith. It's a spiritual crisis. And the Lord clearly indicates that in verse 9. And he reassures Ahaz that there's nothing to worry about. But then he challenges Ahaz to believe and to trust. So first we have a crisis of faith and God's reassuring promise. Well, how does Ahaz respond The second we see in verses 10 to 12, we see an unbelieving king. I want to point out the Lord's graciousness here once again. We already saw that the Lord took the initiative in the first place and had Isaiah meet with the king to deliver this quite reassuring message. And now we see in verses 10 and 11 that the Lord tells Ahaz to ask a sign from the Lord that things would turn out exactly as he said. And so he says, and I ask you to listen to these words or read them. Moreover, the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, saying, Ask a sign for yourself from the Lord your God, ask it either in the depth or death. Or in the height above. How gracious is this? He senses that Ahaz is unsure, so he tells Ahaz to ask for a miraculous sign as deep as Sheol or as high as the heavens. I have often wondered this, and I know it's kind of a silly thought, but you know, if the Lord told me to ask for a sign, What would I choose? Maybe that the sun would shine for 24 hours straight, or that my type 1 diabetes that I've had for 53 years would go away completely. No pancreas tran transplant, nothing, just poof, go away. Or that the Redskins would win the Super Bowl in two thousand nineteen. Okay, maybe the Ravens if we're far enough up to we're close enough to Baltimore where probably more Ravens fans aren't. Aren't we? Well I'm a mixed bag because I'm hoping that the Orioles will win the World Series. But that's not gonna happen this year. Uh I mean, uh even a miracle wouldn't make that happen unless they're changing the rules of baseball and the current standings. But uh that would be a fantastic thing and it'd certainly be a miraculous sign. Well, I'm not sure what I'd choose But it would be quite something. Can you imagine that? Think about that, what you would choose. Imagine how accommodating the Lord is being. To Ahaz to demonstrate the truth of his word by providing a sign of Ahaz's own choosing. So all I can say to this is, wow! But Ahaz didn't say wow, he said no, that's right He refused. Now, at first glance, when you look at this text, Ahaz seems to be extra pious. He responds in verse 12, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. Well, doesn't that sound good? Oh, I have no need to ask for a sign to test the Lord. You know, I I believe it would be wrong for me to ask for a sign. Well, that sounds all well and good until we actually go back to verse 11. The Lord didn't say, if you like, if you feel like it, you can ask for a sign. He didn't say it that way. He said, ask for a sign. It wasn't a request. It was a command. And Ahaz refused God's command. Why did he do so? Because he had no need for a sign since he had already believed? No. Far from it, the Lord's response in verse 13 indicates he knew Ahaz didn't believe him. Not only that, Ahaz's actions proved that he didn't believe the Lord's promise. It's hard to know the exact sequence for sure, but Ahaz had probably already begun to put in motion his own plan. to deal with this crisis. And that was in 2 Kings 16, verses 7 and 8, where it says, Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pelezer, king of Assyria. saying, I am your servant and your son, come up and save me from the hand of the king of Syria and from the hand of the king of Israel who rise up against me. And Ahaz, it says, took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the king's house, and he sent it as a present, that is, a bribe, right, to the king of Assyria. So Ahaz's grand plan was to call on Assyria for help. Well, what was Ahaz's problem? Well, we've already said that his main problem was unbelief, a lack of faith in the Lord and his promises. But going right along with that was that his plan was too short-sighted. The only thing he could see was that Israel and Syria were waging war against him, and he needed an answer now. But you see, Assyria was only too happy to oblige to have Judah become a vassal state and have Judah give her money to do exactly what she was planning to do. anyway, attack Syria and then Israel. In the process, Judah was helping to make Assyria's position stronger. And Assyria was the main long-term threat, not uh uh uh uh uh Syria or Israel. Now let me ask you a question. Do you ever do what Ahaz did here? Do you sometimes nettle in order to fix a short-term problem? Only to find out that you created a worse long-term problem in the process. Sometimes I think that in recent years, and I can give many examples of this, Our United States foreign policy has done exactly that kind of thing. For instance, and I'm going back years by the way, uh in case you're wondering what I'm talking about. Bolstering Iran. You remember? The Shah of Iran. Some of you do. A few. Then opposing Iran, right? And then supporting Iran once again. I think we're back to now opposing Iran. You know? Now I don't claim to be a foreign policy expert, and it's not always easy to tell what to do. But in this case, the Lord had told Ahaz exactly what to do, and he didn't believe him. Instead, he took matters into his own hands, and in the process He made things far worse for the long term, even though it may have helped in the short term. The Lord's reassuring promise was made met with doubt by an unbelieving king. Well, if I were the Lord, at this point, and you're all glad that I'm not the Lord, because I would have told those children of Israel many times in the Old Testament, I am done with you. I'm finished. That's it. So you're quite happy that I'm not the Lord. And I would have certainly said to Ahaz at this point, forgive it. You're through. Uh but he doesn't. You know, you're a miserable unbeliever. That's what I would have told him. And so that's it. I'm giving up on you and on Judah as well. Instead, in verses thirteen to sixteen, the Lord gives an amazing sign of deliverance. And that's our third point. An amazing sign of deliverance. Now it's true that the Lord is no longer talking to Ahaz. In verses 13 to 14, the Lord addresses the whole house of David, not just Ahaz. For you see, the promise goes beyond Ahaz and the current crisis. And by the way, you can't always see that in our English Bibles, because we don't have a like a southern you, like y'all. As you kind of almost need it here, because it's a plural in Hebrew. The Lord Himself will give you plural a sign. Don't worry, I haven't You know, I haven't changed my uh state residency or anything, but uh uh in some cases it comes out really handy. We just have the same word, you But uh Hebrew differentiates. So this is a plural. It's to the whole house of David. And uh so he this promise goes beyond Ahaz and the current crisis, and it deals with other aspects of deliverance that Judah and all of us will receive in the future in the person of the Messiah. But first in verse thirteen, there's a rebuke to Ahaz and all of unbelieving Judah. They are wearying men, and maybe he has the prophets uh themselves involved in that. And even worse, he they are wearying that is testing the patience of God Himself. Notice the change from your God in verse 11 to my God here in verse 13. Ahaz has rejected God, so then in that sense he's no longer Ahaz's God. But instead of giving up entirely on Judah, which as I've already said I would have done, he doesn't do that. The Lord promises deliverance. And that deliverance is primarily long-term deliverance, though it also includes a short-term promise as well. In verse 14, the prophet Isaiah boldly exclaims, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. You refuse to ask for a sign, Ahaz? No problem. The Lord's got a backup plan. The Lord Himself will give you a sign. And so, and he's going to give the whole house of Judah, not just unbelieving Ahaz, this sign. Now, before we look at this sign in detail, let me point out that this scene has been set up already for a miraculous sign. That's what the Hebrew word translated sign here normally conveys in this kind of context And certainly that's exactly what God intended Ahaz to ask for, since it was to be as deep as Sheol or as high as the heavens, according to verse eleven. And the word behold, which begins the declaration of the sign in verse 14, also indicates the importance of the announcement of this sign. Now this sign has three elements, and I'm sorry I get a little carried away here. I'm just warning you in advance. Uh b but I'm gonna have to get a little bit technical as we look at verse fourteen. And that's because there are so many people that misunderstand these verses and basically say, well, there's really not a prophecy, a long-term prophecy at all. And I think they're entirely wrong. So I'm just gonna Take a few moments here to indicate some of these particulars. First of all, in the beginning of verse 14, the Lord promises a miraculous conception. Now notice that I didn't say an immaculate conception, which is the erroneous doctrine of the Catholic Church that Mary, the mother of Jesus herself, was conceived without original sin. There is no justification for that doctrine in Scripture. But the sign of verse 14 is a miraculous conception. Literally, the Hebrew says, Behold, the virgin is pregnant and will bear a son. It's a predicate adjective construction. As Isaiah sees it, the sign of the is a pregnant virgin. It is not a virgin who will later conceive. The miraculous sign is a pregnant virgin. And that's why there's such an argument over the Hebrew word Alma that is used here. Some say that if virgin was the intended meaning, then another word, bethula, should have been used. But that's not correct. Bethula is sometimes used of a married woman, as it is in Joel 1. 8. Alma is the word that refers to a young woman who has never had intercourse and is therefore a virgin. It has that meaning in all other six Old Testament occurrences of this word. including Genesis 24, 43, which is where it's used of Rebecca, who verse 16 clearly says was a virgin. And in Exodus 2. 8, where the term is used of young Miriam, the sister of Moses. Not only that, the pre-Christian Greek translation of the Hebrew word here in the Septuagint is Parthenos, which unequivocally means virgin. Now, exactly who is this virgin? The definite article is used, the virgin. So I think it's a virgin that Isaiah sees as part of his sign. Some people think that the woman is one of Ahaz's wives and the child is Hezekiah, but that fails on three fronts. First of all, Ahaz's wife wasn't a virgin while pregnant. Second, the child's name wasn't Emmanuel, but Hezekiah. And third, and this is the fatal blow, Hezekiah was already six years old at the time of the prophecy. I think that should be a bit of a problem. Uh i uh indeed. And so that's fatal to the idea that Hezekiah could be the child. Other people think it's Isaiah's wife and the child who is born in Isaiah 8, 1 to 4. And surely that prophecy is linked. to this one as the Lord provides a second visual aid to Judah that the Lord will deliver his people. But once again, Isaiah's wife is hardly a virgin. Since, according to chapter 7 and verse 3, as we already read, Isaiah's first child, Yahshu, was uh tagging along with Isaiah at the time of his meeting with Ahaz. And second, in Isaiah 8. 3, the Lord tells Isaiah to name his child the nice, mellifluous name of Maharshal Hashbaz Does that just flow off the tongue, Maharshallah, please? I wouldn't encourage you to name your child Maharshal Hashbaz. Uh and it's not Emmanuel, which I think is a lot easier to say, frankly. Uh no, the miraculous uh sign is a pregnant virgin, and there's only been one of these in history, Mary, the mother of Jesus. If there's any doubt that this is the intention of the prophecy, the scripture that was already read uh this morning, Matthew one, twenty-two and twenty-three, after speaking of the fact that Mary was with child of the Holy Spirit, not through Joseph, says, so all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold the virgin shall be with child, shall bear a son. They will call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. That is the birth, which Isaiah foresaw 700 years ahead of time in this amazing sign. First, a miraculous conception. Second, in the second part of verse 14, the child is get given a comforting name. A comforting name She shall call his name Emmanuel. As we know, the name literally means God with us. And if we didn't know that, we weren't paying attention, right, to this song that we sung this morning, which says exactly that. uh God with us. Well does let's see, does that fit little Maharshal Hashbaz, Isaiah's son, or Hezekiah? Uh uh the king who is a good king, but he surely had his flaws. No, it doesn't. But it does fit precisely the Lord Jesus, the second person of the Godhead who became man, so that God could literally dwell with us. And that's what we celebrate at Jesus' birth. God became a man, and so he became one of us, and he is with us. As John put it in John chapter 1 fourteen, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. First Timothy 3. 16 says the same, without controversy. Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit. seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up in glory. The name Emmanuel, God with us, speaks of the miracle of the incarnation. What a comforting truth that the God of the universe, the God that created all things, so cares about us that he became a man. Emmanuel. God with us, so that He might provide us complete deliverance, not just a temporary deliverance from a near-term crisis, but a complete and utter deliverance once and for all. And that's the third element of this amazing sign that I'd like to point out. Not only is there the sign of a miraculous conception. and of a comforting name, but third we see in verses fifteen and sixteen and later in chapter eight verses five to ten that the sign is a promise of deliverance both now and in the future. A promise of deliverance both now and in the future. First, as God had already promised Ahaz, the child's birth and early life is a promise that the threat of Syria and Israel would soon pass away. using the lifespan of the child that Isaiah sees in the sign, he says at that period of time from the conception which an Isaiah envisions to when that child shall know good and evil will be the measure of time when Syria and Israel would no longer be unoccupied lands. What would be unoccupied lands. So we see the promise of deliverance, immediate deliverance, in Ahaz's day. But there's also a future promise of deliverance. The Lord points out in chapter 8 and verses 5 to 8 that Assyria will be the main threat to Judah. Listen to verses 7 and 8. It says, now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the river Euphrates, strong and mighty. the king of Assyria and all his glory, he will go up over all his channels and go over all its banks. We don't have to talk about the And when we're here uh in in Maryland at this point, we don't have to talk about the devastating effect of what? Water that is overflowing, do we? I don't think so. We've seen enough of it uh this uh summer. Uh and uh so that's exactly what it's talk talking about here in that picturesque language. He It says he will pass through Judah, he will overflow and pass over, he will reach up to the neck. Now if the water goes to the neck, you're not in great shape, but you can still what? Breathe. Right? If it goes just another foot, well we you know we'd all have major problems and that's exactly what uh he is predicting here And he says he will uh reach up to the neck, and the stretching out of his wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Emmanuel. Assyria is like a flood water that will reach right up to the neck of Judah, but Assyria will ultimately not defeat Judah. Why not? Because it's Emmanuel's land, and Emmanuel will rescue Judah. And that's exactly what happened in 701 BC when Sennacherib invaded Jerusalem, taking all the towns nearby. And the godly king Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, sought out Isaiah for counsel, and in Isaiah 37, 35, the Lord promised to defend this city. To save it for my own sake, the Lord says, and for my servant David's sake. Verse 36 tells us, That the angel of the Lord killed a hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrians and Sennacherib withdrew from Jerusalem. This is one of those few places that we have extra biblical confirmation of a fact that is in the Bible, although, of course, slightly a different take on it. Sennacherib in his journals boasts that, and I quote, I shut up Hezekiah in Jerusalem like a bird in a cage. What he doesn't happen to mention is the bird escaped. He doesn't mention that little detail. He never mentions he couldn't delete and defeat him because the Lord Emmanuel defeated Jerusalem. Now going back to Isaiah 8 for a moment, in verses 9 and 10, the Lord generalizes and says, this is going to be the pattern for those who fight against Judah. Verse 10 says, take counsel together, but it'll come to nothing. Speak the word, but it won't stand for Emmanuel. God is with us. The enemies of Judah can plot and plan, but it won't stand any more than the threats of Syria and Israel would stand, as the Lord announced in chapter 7 and verse 7. Why won't it stand? Literally, the text says, for Emmanuel. Most of our translations, I think they wimp out and they what? They translate it. For God is with us. But it's the same word that's there in verse 8. It's Emmanuel's land, and why won't it stand? Because Emmanuel is there, and he won't let it happen. And that's exactly the same today. We know that whenever Satan, our enemy, has in store for us and has planned, it will not stand. Why not? Because Emmanuel, God, is with us. He was born of a virgin. He lived a perfect life. He died on the cross for our sins that w so that we would be delivered once and for all from the power of Satan and the power of sin and we who have trusted in him will have eternal life and forgiveness of sins. Isn't it comforting to know that whatever things are bothering uh you or me, whatever troubles we may have, how comforting it is to know, and whatever troubles the world may have, and it seems to me there's a plenty of troubles in the world today, we have Emmanuel who will be with us and ultimately he won't allow the enemy to be victorious over us. God is with us and he will deliver us. Jesus told his disciples that they should not expect an easy path. But they should expect victory in the end, as he said in John 16, 33. In the world you'll have tribulation. I always wonder why are we so shocked when Christians have tribulation? Jesus told us we'd have tribulation, right? In the world you will have tribulation. But he doesn't stop there, does he? But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. What a fantastic statement. Truly, verses 13 to 16 give us an amazing sign of deliverance. A miraculous conception, a comforting name, Emmanuel, that promises deliverance both for Israel and ultimately for all of mankind. But sadly, we've got to finish the chapter. That's a problem sometimes in Isaiah, isn't it? In chapter 6, hear my send me. I said most people stop there. Most people stop here, but no, doggedly, we're going to continue very briefly, but with the last point. And that is in verses 17 to 25, we have a reminder. of the foolishness of man's ways. A reminder of the foolishness of man's ways. Emmanuel's coming, yes. The ultimate future for Israel will be secure in the promises of God. But what about Ahaz and his plans? Remember, he rejected the Lord's reassurance, and instead he sought the assistance of the powerful military of Assyria. Well in verses 17 to 25, do you think the Lord knows what Assyria what Ahaz has in mind? Of course he knows. Of course he does. And so he says, and he warns Ahaz in these verses that the Lord was going to allow Assyria to come and attack and devastate Judah. This would happen first in Ahaz's day, but then in his son Hezekiah's day. And the rest of chapter 7 warns of the dire consequences of Ahaz's pro-Assyrian policy. Assyria would come and devastate Judah, as we already mentioned, chapter 8, verses 5 to 10 explain that that devastation wouldn't be complete and ultimately Jerusalem would be spared, but Hezekiah and the nation would have to pay for Ahaz's short of man's ways and man's plans. And so as we close the message this morning, I want to leave you with two simple questions, but I think they're absolutely essential. First of all, can you and I fathom God's plans and his ways? Can you and I fathom God's plans and his ways? Maybe we're like Ahaz and we think that our plan is good enough. So we really don't need to follow God's plan. But as we saw this morning, that's pretty stupid thinking You know, there was a show on TV for a number of years that um that we always like to watch called The Mentalist. Anybody watch that show? Uh anyway, well I don't know if you did or not, but Uh regardless, he would this guy who is very, very smart, would have a plan and it oftentimes seemed like an absolutely crazy plan that nobody thought would work. But it would usually work out in the end and eventually the chief of the uh police department simply let him uh you know do whatever he did because it uh virtually always worked out. Well That guy, even though he certainly was uh fallible, but it would work out pretty well. And I think, oh, what if you have the Lord is the one who's making the plans? Well, in that case You better trust in him because he knows how all of it's going to work out. What are we supposed to be doing and thinking that we can somehow compete with our plan? uh when we really can't ever fathom God's pl plans. They're way beyond what we do. And I believe that you and I need to do more seeking the Lord through prayer and reading his word and meditating on it. rather than relying on our own brilliant but fallen and limited human minds. We can never fathom his ways entirely and how foolish it is for us to dream up some alternative short-term plan. And even if as I say this, I can think of instances in my life when I've done exactly that And probably you have too. So I'm saying how dumb it is, but then how easy it seems to be for us to forget this absolute and basic truth. His plans and his ways are long-term. Not short term. He is far-sighted, not nearsighted. He can see right into eternity. And second, do we trust God no matter what? Do we trust God no matter what? That's the real question, isn't it? Ahaz didn't trust God, so he didn't believe what he said. He trusted in his own thinking and said Instead, I said when we began this series on Isaiah that the key theme of the whole book of Isaiah, I believe, is in whom do you trust? In whom do you trust? And it's the key theme for us today. Look at God's amazing plans He didn't simply provide a plan for Judah's short-term victory over Syria and Israel. He outlined his plans for the one who would ultimately deliver all of us who believe from the bondage of sin. Emmanuel, God with us. In Isaiah 55, 8 and 9, which are two of my absolute most favorite verses in the whole Bible, the Lord reminds us, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. When are you and I going to learn this basic truth and incorporate it into our daily decision making? Let's trust in him, Emmanuel, our deliverer, no matter what, no matter what public opinion says or what a public opinion polls say or whatever. Let's trust in him and his plans. and his ways because they're always far better than ours. Let's pray. Father, when I think of this amazing uh chapter of your word, I'm of course uh drawn to the prophecy of the virgin birth. Over 700 years in advance of Christ's actual birth. What an amazing prophecy, Lord, that is recorded and then, of course, confirmed in Matthew's gospel. And certainly that is a a major aspect of this whole chapter. But I'm also just drawn to the fact that again and again you're telling us to trust you. Because you alone have a plan for the future. And in you alone is the hope for true and lasting deliverance. Lord, if we ever think that salvation is a product of our wealth or our intellect or our bank accounts or something else like that. uh or our influence among people. That's just not the case. Salvation is totally dependent upon trust in you, the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who did indeed become flesh and dwelt among us And is God with us? I thank you, Lord, so much. If there's anyone here this morning that's never trusted in what Christ has done on the cross when he died in our place for our sins, I pray that they would do that even today, to trust in Him for eternal life and forgiveness of sins What a joy it is for the rest of us to know this, to believe it. Help us, Lord, to act on this day by day. Help us, Lord, to trust in your ways and not our ways. We pray in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.