I'm willing to bet a lot of you asked to many of uh each each other, how was your week? I've often asked that to people and then I get asked the same question. Often I freeze because a week has flown by and I can't recall any significant detail. Like I say it was good to buy some time, but I'm trying to reach into the deep recesses of my mind to remember maybe a person I met out of the ordinary, an event I attended or a place I visited I wish I could just tell the Inquisitor to wait a minute and pull up my calendar and see what I did. But we often go through each week without much time to stop and reflect. And then we wonder what happened. I could hope that all of us had a productive and fruit fruitful week, but Is productivity and fruitfulness the gold standard for a good week? What if you went on a vacation and you were productive? I suppose the idea of a good week is relative to a degree. But I think everyone can agree that wasting one's time is the worst thing we can do in a any given week One time the veteran preacher, Chuck Swindol, played the devil's advocate and came up with five ways to waste your time. So make sure you write it if you write these down, just make sure that this is something you shouldn't do. Okay. One, worry a lot. Start worrying early in the morning and intensify your anxiety as the day pass. passes. Two, make hard and fast decisions and don't be flexible 3. Fix your attention on getting rich. You'll find plenty of advice on secular bookshelves. Four, compare yourself with others. Five, lengthen your list of enemies. If there's one thing above all others that will keep your wheel spinning, is perfecting your skill at the blame gate. Put these five surefire suggestions in motion and you will set new records in wasting your valuable time Well, we probably didn't need this warning to realize that we figure out eventually lots of ways to waste time. But time is so precious. The Bible is clear that our time on earth is valuable, and decisions we make now have eternal consequences. As Moses said in Psalm 90, verses 11 to 12, you know, the fear of the Lord in his anger keeps us accountable In the use of our days and gives us a heart of wisdom. He already spoken, uh he already he has already spoken of the most intimate human needs, our need to worship Artistic creation of images, our vocabulary and speech in the first three commandments. Next, in the fourth commandment, he dictates how humans are to spend each week. For those who may think, who may not think, that work and rest are important, observe how out of the all all the Ten Commandments, more words are devoted to the fourth commandment than any other. God has much to say and we should pay attention. So let's read Exodus twenty verses eight to eleven. You have it in your bulletin insert. along with the sermon points. So Exodus twenty, verses eight to eleven. Remember the Sabbath day to keep Keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work. You Nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. So there are three principles from the fourth commandment I observe. 1. Sabbath is for remembrance of God and his perfect works. 2. We have refused to rest in God. 3. Jesus changed the way and the day, his followers rest. Much of what I say in the first two principles are historical and deal with what has happened in Israel. The third principle leads to the most relevant applications for us Christians. First, Sabbath is for remembrance of God and his perfect works. Verses eight to ten gives us Specific instructions that guide us in remembering the Sabbath day. Sabbath means ceasing, the noun form of the verb for cease, which we find in Genesis 2. And a word that sounds similar to seven. While there were other holy days and extended periods of rest in the Israelite culture The most fundamental and regular practice of Israel was to cease to work weekly on the seventh day, the Sabbath, the Saturday. And remembering the day meant setting it apart. It should not look like the other days. Keeping that day holy meant refraining from work. This law was binding for everyone in the land of Israel, the free and the servant, male and female, human and animal, citizen and The reason for this practice follows in verse eleven. And we see the parallelism between God's work and rest and human work and rest. Just as God worked to create the universe and all that is in it in six days, Israelites were to work for six days. Just as our Creator rested on the seventh day, they were to rest on the seventh day, the day of God's blessing. Just as the Lord consecrated the Sabbath, his people had to consecrate the Sabbath. the Sabbath. The words blessing and hallowing in verse eleven are found in Genesis 2. 3 So the idea of rest goes all the way back to the first week of the universe. The first 144 hours of material existence were filled with divine activity. But in the last 24 hours of that week, God ceased from his creative acts. Though of course he's always sustaining the universe But why did he cease? Because God's creation was originally perfect. By remembering the Sabbath, the Israelites were remembering the past, the way it was supposed to be before Adam and Eve fell into Satan's lies and plunged the world into corruption. We recall the beginning of humanity, a world without thorns and thistles, sweat and blood, pain and suffering that come from sin and its effects. Such remembrance is good for the soul as well as the body. Sabbath was given for Israel to look back so that they may look forward. I like what Alan Ross said about the Sabbath day, quote, before the fall, it represented the perfect creation, sanctified and at rest. After the fall, this rest became a goal to be sought. On the other side of Genesis, there is a constant reminder that not all is the way it should be. We are looking forward to new creation in Christ. And I'll discuss them discuss that a little bit later. For now, let's stay in the new Old Testament. In every book of Moses, there are reminders to consecrate the seventh day and to enforce its observance on pain of death. Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers. It was a sign of the covenant through Moses which addresses the human tendency to forget him and his works When Moses reiterates the four commandments in Deuteronomy chapter 5, 12 to 15, we see another way to look back so that they may look forward. In Deuteronomy, the emphasis is not on the create God the creator of the world, but God the creator of the nation Israel. Every time the Israelites rested from their labors, they will remember how no such rest existed existed as slaves back in Egypt. God redeemed his people from Egypt by a mighty hand and an by an outstretched arm Putting those two together. Sabbath is not about hobbies or recreation, but God's glory as creator and redeemer. Businesses were closed in ancient Israel so people can take time to remember the Lord. The Israelites rightly apply the four commandments into the fabric of their lives by devoting Saturday to rest and attending the local corporate worship, the holy convocation, to hear God's word taught. Sacrifices were prescribed for offering at the altar of the Sabbath. Such worship is not considered work for the Israelite. Consider how the outside world would have viewed Israel and their sign of Sabbath. Gentiles and foreigners. would speak incredulously. If those hardworking Hebrews worked every day of the week, they would make more income, accumulate more wealth, and retire earlier. Or maybe they shook their heads and thought, you can't own a business and take a day off? What are those people thinking? But by ceasing to work every week for one day and gathering for worship, they will show the Gentiles That they trust the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who owns it all. Our time, our labor, our money, and he is worthy of receiving sacrifices precious to humans. And not very many treasures in life are precious as time. Sadly, Israel was not consistently signifying God's glory through obstacles. Now we must review how Israel has failed in the fourth commandment. And as we do, we turn to the second principle. We have refused to rest in God. In Exodus 16, just after the great miracle of the Red Sea crossing, Israelites got an opportunity to establish God's ordained pattern of the week. By working and gathering bread from heaven for six days and resting on the seventh. On the sixth day they were gather they were to gather twice as many What do you think happened? Well the some people went outside to gather on the Sabbath because they still refused to trust the Lord. Even right after he has delivered them mightily out of Egypt. Throughout their history, Israelite continues to struggle to obey the command. to keep the Sabbath. They worked on it like any other day. They sought their ways and desires. They have profaned and defiled the day, just as they have profaned God's name and defiled themselves with idols. God would not endure their hypocritical ways which tainted their Sabbath meetings. The problem with Sabbath persisted in the New Testament times. But Sabbath controversies in Jesus' ministry are not so much about blatant breaking of Sabbath, but keeping the Sabbath in the wrong way. In other words You could say that the religious leaders did not fall short, they went too far. We can look at two episodes in got in the Gospels when Jesus faced conflict with the religious leaders of his day. Concerning the topic of Sabbath. I'm going to go through Matthew 12, but you see the parallel passages in Mark 2 to 3 and Luke 6. First, on one Sabbath, Jesus says disciples pluck the heads of grain in a field, rub them together, and ate them. Leviticus 19 and Deuteronomy 23 allow for poor folks like Jesus and the twelve to glean from the excess of the harvest by pucking with hands, but not using a sickle. The Pharisees did not have a problem with the law of cleaning, but with their practice of rubbing the grains, which was to them the same as threshing. It was a work prohibited and a clear violation of the fourth commandment in their eyes. Jesus took time to demonstrate from scriptures that one could be exempt from the obligation to follow the Sabbath rule in special cases For example, priests definitely work on the at the temple on Sabbath without blame because that's just the nature of their job. Also, in cases of emergency, such as the one that David faced as a fugitive on the run from Saul, exceptions can be allowed. The unchanging principle is that God desires mercy for the needy and not sacrifice. Savat as a way to help mankind, not to hinder human flourishing. It goes back to the great benefit of Sabbath as a sign for us. Jesus is the Lord of Sabbath, God the Son, through whom all the universe has been made. He has the right to dictate what the day of rest signifies and how it is observed. The religious leaders refuse Jesus' lordship over this matter of Sabbath. The resistance continued at another Sabbath when Jesus healed a man with his right hand withered at a synagogue. The religious leaders, the scribes and the Pharisees, watched Jesus closely to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath and in their minds break the fourth commandment. There is a Jewish oral tradition that allows for the overriding of Sabbath when a person is in mortal danger. This man with the He was to them the perfect bait to track Jesus, who of course desired to help those in need. Jesus goes on to heal the man, but not before asking whether it is lawful to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it. The dichotomous way in which he asks this question reveals that for those who have the ability to do good, the refusal to do good will be the same as doing evil. If one has the ability to save life on Sabbath and refrains, he or she has destroyed it. That's why I think Healthcare professionals, lifeguards, firefighters, law enforcers, all who do good for humanity would be exempt from the fourth commandment due to the nature of their jobs. If special people can work at all times, how much more Jesus, the good uh the great physician In addition, Jesus revealed the hypocrisy of the leaders and their low view of mankind. If a poor man owned only one sheep, and that one sheep fell into a How much more valuable is this man created in In the Gospel of John, Jesus again Rebukes the leaders in Jerusalem for their abuse of Sabbath. In chapter 5, they attacked Jesus for healing a lame man on Saturday and opposed his claim to be equal with God the Father. Jesus argues that if circumcision is allowed on Sabbath, so should the healing of an entire man in chapter seven. If they would judge with righteous judgment about this miracle, not according to appearance, they would understand that Jesus is the Son of God. Later, Jesus opens the eyes of a man born blind on Sabbath The conclusion of the Pharisees, this man is not from God because he does not keep the Sabbath. So whether it was blatant refusal to observe the Sabbath or upholding transact uh traditions more in more than the Word of God, the four commandment was repeatedly violated. Israelites from both testaments devalued God and his works or devalued God's image in man. They decided that either the individuals or leaders were the lords of Sabbath, not Jesus the Son of God. Whether it was unbiblically loose living or unbiblically strict tradition, they have decided that times is theirs to parcel out and use. Not God. By resting in their own way, they have refused to rest in God. That might be true of us as well. Such attitude with time has led to the rejection of Jesus. The lack of faith in Christ would mean that they would not enjoy the true rest God intended for all mankind. They couldn't realize the third principle for today. Jesus changed the way and the day we rest. We know from Matthew 11, 28 to 30 Which I put it for you there, and then we sang about in that hymn, that Jesus came to provide lasting, meaningful rest The words are so inviting and uh comf comforting that I should just read them out loud for you. Let them give you peace. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I'll I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is right. In contrast to the religious leaders who placed unnecessary burdens on people, Jesus invited us to come to him by faith and find rest for our souls. And that's what the fourth commandment look forward to. The rest that Jesus gives is not limited to twenty-four hours out of a week. It starts now with our relationship with Him and lasts for eternity in the world. Kingdom of God. It is a rest not founded upon our castles made of sand, our insecure works of vanity that is here today and gone tomorrow. The true rest offered here is founded upon Jesus Christ's identity as God's Son and his work. And what is the work that he has accomplished? As both God and man, Jesus lived a perfect life, died in our place for our sins, rose from the dead, and ascended to heaven. And because this work of God in Jesus Christ is perfect, God's rest that comes through Jesus Christ is perfect. I pray and hope that all of us have this wonderful security in Jesus. If you haven't already experienced the rest that Jesus gives, all that you need to do in response to the good news of Jesus is to stop refusing the rest in God and have faith in Jesus. As the writer of Hebrews tells us in chapter four, we must not harden our hearts We must cease to work for eternal life because we can't earn it. We must be diligent to enter heavenly rest by faith alone When Jesus came to save us, he changed the way we rest by revealing the works we can trust in. His finished work on the cross. and the empty grave. And once Jesus saves us, He changes the day we rest. We understand That the Sabbath day was a sign for the reality of Jesus. As Paul says, it was a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ in Colossians 2. Hang on to this truth. No teacher or preacher should burden Gentile like us to obey the fourth commandment because its purpose has already been fulfilled If we read from the uh scriptures from front to back, from the Old Testament to the New Testament We follow our eyes up the long shadow of Sabbath until we reach Jesus, who is the Lord of Sabbath. Here's an analogy. When we behold our lovers, children, or face to uh friends face to face before us, there's no need to keep our eyes on their shadows or pick Things that for a time helped us to look forward to our time our meeting with them. Our beloved is here. Again, as Paul says in Galatians 4, 9-11, Christians know God and are known by God intimately, so we should not settle for anything less than the reality of our relationship with him. In whom we are complete. For all these reasons, I believe we are not under the obligation to obey the four commandments. As new covenant saints. The Sabbath rule is the only command out of the ten that is not cited or presented as binding to the church. In the Great Commission of the Church, we are commanded to make disciples of all nations, and since the Sabbath was a sign and sign of the Mosaic covenant for Israel, and it was a shadow of Christ. And signify the substance that has already come, its purpose is now fulfilled, and now it's a non-issue like circumcision. As disciples traveled to new places in the world, their agenda was not to make Gentiles Jews, but to make disciples of Christ, and that would allow biblical diversity in their council. We at Five of Faith Bible Church do not observe the Sabbath on Sunday, as my Presbyterian friends insist. Sabbath is consistently a Saturday. The last twenty-four hours of the week. We infer from 1 Corinthians 6. sixteen one to two that the early church traditionally met on Sunday, the first day of the week, to remember Jesus' resurrection. Now we meet during the day in the morning, but they must have met in the evening service because it was a normal work day. Now what did Jewish Christian evangelists like Paul do? Well, he would have spent Saturday trying to reach his fellow Jews at the synagogue, then next day went to work on Sunday morning and then met the church after So then how do Christians find time to rest if the fourth commandment is not binding to them? us. Shall we set a day apart to rest? Yes. Please do. We're blessed to live in a country where both Saturday and Sunday are accepted as days of rest. So if you're able, take advantage of that. By resting biblically, not just lounging around and watching TV for twelve hours, but like reading the word, remembering God, his redemption, and his creation. We we are preventing work from becoming an idol in our lives. We need to rest because we are not immortal You know, as much as pastoral ministry is a joy, I must repent and remind myself that what I do and how much I work does not define me. I'm defined by what Christ has done at Calvary and what the Holy Spirit is doing through me. I need both physical and spiritual rest because I'm not the master. I am a servant of Christ. I don't need to do, you know, check off my to-do list immediately and open my work email every hour. Like everyone else, I need to discipline myself to be still and know that he is God. I hope that you have the same discipline. So the setting a day of rest becomes a matter of individual devotion to God, uh not an obligation over the congregation. But like I said, our tradition is to follow the pattern in the New Testament church to meet on Sunday. In Romans fourteen, we are told that the diversity of calendars and special days should not lead to disputes, harsh judgment, and grievances. Rather there should be individual convictions, acceptance of one another, peace and edification in the local body. However you work and rest, whether it's the traditional nine to five work week within weekend, twelve hour shifts, a schedule that looks different every semester because you're a student, we are to give an account to God as As stewards of resources God gave us, one of the greatest resources being time. I tell you you will not regret the time you spent to remember God, the Creator, and reading. We must take time to realize that our lives and identity are not to be found in our work or rest, but in God's work and rest. The good news of Jesus Christ is that He changes the way and the day you rest. We no longer rest in our ways, but now rest in the finished work of the cross and the empty grave. Now, the church does not have the Sabbath as a sign of the covenant, but we do have the Lord's Supper. It is the ordained means by which we remember God's work of new creation. Let's dedicate the next few minutes to the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, we come to your word and Realize that even the most basic things of life, we have approached it the wrong way. Though we say things like you are sovereign, yeah we like to have control over our schedules and our calendars and our time. And we don't acknowledge your sovereignty in certain times of the week, certain times of the year. But Lord, you own it all. We gave our lives to you. And we pray that we would acknowledge it more and more. Lord for the Israelites it was really spending twenty-four hours in a week. Staying home, going to the local worship. We may not have that restriction as the Gentile church, but we need to remember We need to cease from activity and know that you are God. That our retirement funds, our overtimes, our budding careers over Our ascension in the s um in the society. All these are good things as gifts from you But they're not to shape us and to define us. We are defined by what you have done for us. Your perfect work Just as you created the entire world and rested and that you command us to rest and to remember that But we are thankful for the new creation that we have become through your work of the Spirit. And now we can rest secure that our eternal Destiny is set. We can lose everything in this world, but we know that we have gained it all because we have the God of the universe in our side. We thank you for your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, we thank you that we are heirs of all things through Him. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.