So many years ago, the late R. C. Sprohl taught a college course on theology, and they were studying the names of God. He was trying to illustrate the significance of the names of God and what they reveal about God's character. Just before class, a girl whom he called Mary walked into the room in a strange, somewhat awkward manner, so that anyone could see the glittering diamond ring on her left hand Sproul said, Mary, are you engaged? She pointed to a man in the back room and said, yes, to John. The professor said, congratulations. When you say you're going to marry him, I assume you love him. Is that a safe assumption? She said yes Sproul said, Why do you love him? She said, because he's so handsome He s he said, yes he is very good looking. But look at Bill. He was the escort to the homecoming queen this year. Don't you think he's good looking? She said, yes, Bill's very handsome. He said, there must be something else about John besides the fact that he's handsome. She said, he's also athletic. He said He's yes, he's good. But Bill's the captain of the basketball team. Why don't you love Bill instead of John She was starting to get frustrated and said, John's so intelligent. He said, he is a very good student Of course, Bill is probably going to be the valedictorian of the class. So Mary, there has to be something else about John that distinguishes him from Bill in your eyes. Something unique to him that causes you to have this great affection. What is it about him that makes you love him so much? She became almost upset and said, I love him because I love him because I love him because he's John And Sproul said, there you go. When you want to focus on the crystallized essence of who he is and what he means in terms of your relationship and personal history with him. It all comes back to his name. Sproul turned to the class and explained, that's why when we look at God, we know his name is wonderful. In that name he reveals manifold things about the excellency of his being and the perfections of his character. And that's why the saints of old, if we asked, tell us everything you know about God, they would finally say, Yahweh. I am who I am. He will be who he will be. The subject of today's study, the Third Commandment, is not just an academic exercise. Or just another checkbox in the list of rules. It's a way to protect a holy relationship with God, whom we love dearly. We love him because he is God and he has the name of Yahweh. And for that very reason, we must always protect the dignity of that name. The third commandment exists for that purpose. Now before I get to the passage, let's contextualize the third commandment properly amid the foregoing commandment. The first command says we must not have any gods before our true supreme God. So beware of idols. The second command demands that we must not make carved images that rep misrepresent God. Our worship ought to be word-focused as a result, not image focused. So then it is logical that the next prohibition, the third one, should be this one. If we are to be word-focused in worship, there's ever-present danger of misusing words That's why Jesus warned against praying with excessive amount of words during prayer. Matthew 6 7 James cautions prospective teachers that they will receive a stricter judgment in chapter 3 of his letter. Everyone stumbles in speech We fail to recognize the power of the tongue, which is likened to a destructive fire, is untamable, poisonous. No wonder he said in earlier in his letter, in chapter one, verse nineteen, that we should be slow to speak. He is echoing Solomon in Ecclesiastes 5. 2. Do not be rash with your mouth, and let not your heart utter anything hastily before God. For God is in heaven and you on earth. Therefore let your words be few. So we understand that our words are meaningful and powerful. Yet that has not slowed down our word count. It is estimated by one British author that an average person speaks about 860 million words in a lifetime. That's actually less than I thought it would be. And here's my personal application. I will inevitably make mistakes with my lips, but I've tried to minimize my mistakes up here in the pulpit or teaching situations. Since I'm not a natural speaker and often fall into ums and like and other filler words, I usually write my sermon out word by word. That's not an application that everyone needs to make. But it's the one that works for me. Now on the receiving end, just I'm a pretty gracious listener, so I don't worry about filler words unless you use them every single minute or but e or every single second. Um I'm listening more for content anyways. And it's the content of our speech, whether in this church, work, or home, that we should be careful to analyze. If we were to have a recording of every word in our lifetime, all 860 million of them, how many of them would be God or about God? How many phrases and sentences are praises and thanks? With your prayers and conversations With family and friends be filled with adoration and testimonies of God's goodness. Our words matter because they can be used to bring great glory to God. On the flip side, words can be used to disgrace God's glorious name. That's why we have the third commandment. You'll find the third commandment right there for you in the bulletin insert along with other notes and passages. So let's read Exodus 20 verse 7. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. I want to present to you two principles for living based on the third commandment. First, we are all guilty of taking God's name in vain. Second, we should all praise God's name instead. First, we are all guilty of taking God's name in vain. If you're not convinced that you have broken this law, the phrase in vain is general enough to include all kinds of verbal vices. Kevin DeYoung explains that vain can mean empty, nothing, worthless, or to no good purpose. David Guzik presents three ways this command is commonly disobeyed. Profanity, using the name of God in blasphemy and cursing. Frivolity, using the name of God in a superficial, stupid way, and hypocrisy, claiming the name of God, but acting in a way that disgraces him I would like to add a fourth way, partiality, claiming the name of God for one's own agenda. We profane God's name when we use his name in blasphemy and cursing first. We have the example of Shalomed's son in Leviticus 24, verses 10. It says in verse 11 there that he blasphemed the name of Yahweh and cursed. The Lord spoke to Moses and instructed the witnesses to come forward and lay hands on him and then the congregation to stone him. In ancient Israel, no one, native or foreigner, can escape the death penalty for blasphemy God's name. And why was this sin so serious that it merited the death penalty? As you see in verses 15 and 16. Blaspheming the name of Lord is tantamount to cursing God Himself. Let me show you other passages. See, God's dignity, reputation, and character are so closely tied to his revealed name that insulting his name is an insult to God Himself. Consider what happened earlier in Exodus. In chapter 33, verses 18 to 20, Moses asked the Lord to show him his glory. And God's response is not no. He will see the glory of Yahweh. But see how he responds there. I will make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. And you see in the next chapter, as the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with Moses, there was no sight of God's face. for the prophet, lest he die. But the Lord did just as he said he would. He proclaimed the covenantal name of Yahweh, who is merciful, gracious, long suffering, abounding in goodness and truth. Through his name, people understand both his merciful, forgiving nature and righteousness that demands judgment for in Iniquities. God's name reveals God's glory. Another way we can violate this commandment is frivolity. We are frivolous when we use God's name in a superficial and stupid way. When we invoke God's name in vows and oaths without following through, we profane God's name as Leviticus. 1912 tells us. We should not be swearing at all, not by heaven, not by earth, not by Jerusalem, not by our heads, let alone our God's glorious name. As Jesus warned us in Matthew Matthew five, thirty-three to thirty-seven. Of course, there are times we submit to oaths to protect God's ordained governmental justice, as when we testify, I swear to tell the truth, the whole truth. And nothing but the truth, so help me God. In such cases, of all people, Christians should be the ones most concerned about truth. We should not be frivolous with God's name. Have you been frivolous? Our words often reveal our deeper problems. Our superficial and stupid uses of God's name reveal how superficial and stupid we can be. Our Lord Jesus warned that for every idle word men speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Matthew 12 This is why we need to beg the Lord for forgiveness of our sinful words now, lest we pay for them in eternity. Now at this time you might say to me, I never blasphemied or curse God's name. I have not been frivolous with it either. Well, you can still profane God's name while taking it seriously, and the way to do that is hypocrisy. Claiming the name of God but acting in a way that disgraces him Throughout the Bible, we see that even by our non-speech acts, we can profane God's glorious name. We can praise God's name, but also at the same time praise idols in violation of the first and second commandments. And Leviticus 18. 21 warns against such syncretism. The worship of Yahweh and Molech, worship of God and then some kind of idol in your heart. When priests misuse holy offerings belonging to the Lord, they also misuse the holy name belonging to the Lord. Lord. Leviticus twenty two verses two to three. As we go throughout Israelites' history, they fell deeper and deeper into their idolatries. And God did not stand for it, and he punished them by exiling them to foreign nation. They blasphemed God's name and promoted blasphemy among the nations, as we see in Ezekiel 36. 16 to 23. Even after they came back to the land, while worshipping the true God, bringing what's less than their very best, Sacrifices that were stolen, lame, sick, and blemished, they profaned God's name. Malachi 1, 10-14. Fast forward to New Testament. In Paul's time, hypocrisy was the reason for the condemnation of Jews who knew and taught the law to Gentiles, but failed to live up to their standards. Romans two seven. seventeen to twenty-four. We too, the church, can take God's name in vain through hypocrisy. We can also invite blasphemies of God's name. For example, 1 Timothy 6. 1 says that we need to count our bosses and employers worthy of all honors. Lest we invite blasphemies of God's name and doctrine. We'll talk more about hypocrisy a little bit later. But the fourth way we take God God's name in vain is to partiality, claiming the name of God for our own agenda. In Jeremiah 23, verses 25 to 27, God upfrades false prophets who spoke lies, the deceit of their own heart. And by using God's name or claiming God's name, they were making his people forget his glorious name. And they were trying to predict events that would never come true and this and thus they were defaming him, ruining his reputation. Diong is helpful here. We must not throw around phrases like God told me to do this or God wants us to do that. We should be very careful when we say things like that. We must not attach God's name to our selfish agendas or our favored political leaders. Elders and deacons, we should present ideas and projects carefully. Instead of saying God spoke to us, so you must follow us. As much as that might be an easy way to get people to follow you, it's better to say we've sought the Lord and spent a lot of time researching all the options. As your leaders, we all feel that this is the right move for the church, and we think God will be honored if we move forward together. Expect to hear a lot of that. So in terms of even more application here, I'm wary of certain forms of the charismatic movement, which too quickly attributes God's name to what is at best. a hunch or a guess. Often what is claimed to be prophecy never comes true. And what's the result? God's name is marred. I wrote against the idea of fallible prophecy in my master's thesis, and I had a lot of time to think about it On the one hand, trying to authenticate your predictions with the formula, thus say it the Lord, will mean you're claiming authority on par with God's revelation in scriptures. So I'm not sure if people realize what they're saying when they say say that. So then I asked someone like that, I mean, does God make mistakes and ruin his own name? Or maybe you label your thoughts as God's. On the other hand, how can you call yourself a prophet without saying, Thus say it the Lord? Perhaps that person is mistaken The leading of the Spirit, which is done through providence, and the guidance to the word and circumstances as prophecy. But that's not prophecy. Don't add God's name. into your forecasts for your agenda. So through profanity, frivolity, hypocrisy and partiality, we often take God's name in vain. I'm sure that with our restless evil, that is our tongue, we can think of many more ways. But instead we should strive to speak of God and his name with careful forethought and deliver faith. John Calvin sums it up well in his Institutes of Calvin Christian Religion. Quote, we ought to be so disposed in mind and speech. That we neither think nor say anything concerning God and his mysteries without reverence and much soberness, that in estimating his works we conceive nothing but what is honorable to him. End quote. So I hope that every time we speak of God, his name is revealed in the scriptures, there is behind every utterance reverence, soberness, and honor that is due to him. So I have said much to try to convince you that one way or another we have broken the third commandment. Now I want to tell you why we should keep the third commandment. The second application of the sermon for us is that we should all praise God's name instead. This is applicable for both the ancient Israel and the church throughout the ages. And here are just two verses from Psalms that demonstrates this principle. Psalm 8:1 says, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Psalm 29 verse 2. Give unto the Lord the glory due to his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. That's why we make it a practice at our church every Sunday to read a psalm and immediately pray afterwards to praise God, His name, reputation, and works The emphasis continues in the New Testament. Jesus taught us to begin the prayer, begin our prayers with, Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Matthew 6. 9 and Luke 11. 2. Now why is this, and myself included, why is it that we so often rush to the petition part? Give us our daily bread. Instead of asking God to give, how about we give glory to God's name? Do you like it if only time your spouse, children, or friends call your name is to ask for things? Or they just ask, you know, thing for things before they ask you how you're doing or just getting to know you first. Jesus knew the pa father perfectly. And what kind of prayer would please him? A prayer that praises God's glorious name first and foremost. Jesus not only taught us to set apart the Father's name, he lived out the command perfectly in obedience. He lived for God's name and died for its glory. Near the end of his public ministry, while at Jerusalem, Jesus was speaking to the crowds about the approaching hour. He has spoken of this hour since the beginning of his ministry years ago. Now it is his moment of truth, as we like to say today. That's the equivalent of the hour Jesus is talking about. This hour meant excruciating pain and suffering physically, but even more dreadful is the separation from the Father. He will be crucified and be shamed before the world. But this dreadful hour is in actuality the hour of Jesus' glory. John 12, 22. Three. What appears to be foolish and weak is really the power of God and the wisdom of God. How so? Because Jesus didn't just die a criminal's death for nothing. He died as the substitute for our sins. Every idle word and speech, every instance of profanity, frivolity, hypocrisy, and partiality connected to God. God's name. He himself never failed to glorify God's name. In fact, facing the terrible cross, he prayed in John 12, 27 to 28. Now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name The Father immediately answered from heaven, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. The first glorification of God's name came through Jesus' incarnation, obedience, teachings, and wondrous signs, everything that has happened up to that point. Now another glory awaits at Calvary and the empty tomb. You see how God's Son was glorified because he glorified the Father's name As Paul tells us in Philippians 2, 9 through 11, therefore God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. That's not just Christians. All mankind will acknowledge this, whether blissfully in heaven or sorrowfully in hell. Now I pray that every one of you will willingly bow and confess now before it's too late. Confess that you're a sinner and that you need Jesus Who is both God and man, Lord and Savior? To invoke the name of Jesus is to invoke the name of God. As Peter preached after the resurrection and ascension, Of Jesus in Acts 4, there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Whether we are Jews or Greeks We can call upon the name of the Lord Jesus, whom God has raised from the dead. Romans ten. So repent from your sins. Admit that you're a man of unclean lips, as Isaiah did. Confess that you have dishonored God's name with your words and actions. By calling upon the name of Jesus, you can be cleansed from sin. Receive the free gift of eternal life by faith, apart from works. And praise his name forever in this life and next Someday we will stand before God in heaven and sing, Who shall not fear you, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. For all nations shall come and worship before you, for your judgments have been manifested. Revelation 15, 9 Until that day, we are in a mission to promote the glorious name of God. As Christians, we bear the name of Christ. And we make him famous by sharing the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ, the name by which we are saved. Now there might be a temptation to shrink back. Perhaps we will take the approach of Jews who refrain from saying God's name altogether. Perhaps we will become what I like to call silent Christians, shy about proclaiming Jesus Christ. Our approach should be biblical boldness. First, study the names of God and titles of God in the scriptures. From cover to cover, from God in Genesis 1-1 to Lord Jesus Christ in Revelation 22-21. Revisit Kerry's sermons from last year. Pick up books that concentrate on God's attributes and ways, like A. W. Tozer's Knowledge of the Holy and J. I. Packer's Knowing God Then don't just keep this knowledge to yourself. Proclaim God's name the right way with courage. If we claim to be a Christian, we should strive to live as he did. And speak as he did, and live up to the glory of his name. Many years ago, um now almost twenty. When I signed up for Evangelism Explosion, I heard the late doctor D. James Kennedy on cassette tape tell the story about the great Greek conqueror Alexander the Great. One day the conqueror was holding court, and a young man was brought to him who was guilty of being a coward in battle. Something Alexander absolutely despised. Alexander was high upon his throne above the man and asked him, What is your name? The young man, knowing that Alexander had the power of life or death over him. was shaking and could barely speak. He answered in a trembling voice, Alexander. Alexander the Great stood up from his throne and with passion asked, What is your name? The young man responded in an even shakier voice, Alexander. Alexander stepped down from his throne and shouted, What is your name? By this time the man could hardly speak and responded in a barely audible voice. Alexander. Alexander the Great shouted, change your conduct or change your name What is your name? Christian, Christian. By the grace of God, change your conduct or change your name. And we're not going to take God's name in vain. We must lift up God's name with purpose and resolve and courage. Defend Christ's holy reputation in Speech and act, as Paul said in Second Timothy two, nineteen. Let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Suffer for his name like the prophets, even if everyone else in the world is dragging it through the mud. James 5. 10 Peter says in his first letter 4. 14, If you are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed are you, for the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. On their part he has blasphemied, but on your part he is glorified. As we have been called by name to bear Christ's name, I pray that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 to 12. Let us confess that we are taking God's name in vain in various ways. And we avail ourselves to grace and mercy with such confession. We are forgiven and called by name to glorify the name of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we can call you Father because of your Son Jesus Christ. You are Yahweh, and you are sa you are the one that exists independently of circumstances of environment, you answer to no one except yourself. And Lord, we praise you. We want to praise you with our words, we want to praise you with our lives. And we want to take that name which you've glorified, the name which you have exalted, the name of your Son Jesus Christ. And take it all over the world. If you would have us stay here in this area, may we take it to our neighbors, may we take it to our coworkers, may we take it to our friends. friends and family. Because we want to hear from every lips, every lip, that you are glorified in their lips That you are praised. No, may that start with us this week. May that start in our prayer life, in our speech. in our in the way we talk to each other, the way we talk to um people who don't know you, that your name will be taken up in praise and glory. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.