True story. In nineteen seventy-seven, there was a lady in New Mexico who baked tortillas, Mrs. Maria Rubio. The Chicago Tribune recorded the story. One day she was frying a tortilla, and she took the tortilla out of the pan and she said with a great amount of shock. It is the face of Jesus. Burned on that tortilla were skillet burns that she said looked like Jesus And so she was so thrilled she showed it to her oldest daughter and her husband who agreed. She showed it to her family and they agreed, and a neighbor, and she agreed. And she went to her priest to have the tortilla blessed. And the priest, who had not been really Uh accustomed to blessing tortillas, was somewhat reluctant to do so, but nevertheless he did it Then she took the tortilla home and she built an altar in her house. She put the tortilla in glass and put piles of cotton around it so it looked like Jesus floating on a cloud. And within a matter of months, Mrs. Rubio had over 8,000 people come to the shrine of the Jesus of the tortilla. And everyone unanimously agreed that it looked like Jesus, except one reporter who said it looked to him like the boxer Leon Sphinx. And so she worshipped the tortilla and she wrote her testimony, which is recorded in the Chicago Tribune, and she said the tortilla changed her life. And her husband couldn't deny it and agreed. She'd been a more peaceful, happy, and submissive wife ever since the tortilla had arrived. Does that end just a little bit of a few years ago? between worship and veneration of images, which I'm sure the priests who blessed the tortilla had to struggle with it. Was Mrs. Rubia worshiping Christ through the tortilla or worshiping Christ in the tortilla? Whatever the case was, I think the homemade altar and the eventual public spectac spectacle point to the violation of the second of the Ten Commandments. Now the story of Mrs. Rubio is illustrative, not just of certain Catholics or ancient Israelites, but all of us. We Protestants also struggle in worshiping the Lord in the right way. But still I'm firmly a Protestant. I don't get how we can split the difference of meaning between worship and veneration. There is no practical sense in attempting it. That's why the Reformation brought physical changes to churches for good reasons. The pulpit became central, and pews were turned toward it to give more attention to the spoken word. The table for the Lord Suffer was less central Images and pictures of saints were removed. So whether it's hundreds and thousands of years before Christ or hundreds and thousands of years after Christ, The second commandment is relevant. If we are to worship our God, we must worship him in the right way. Today we're going to see from the second commandment what that right way is. So let's turn to Exodus 20, verse 20. Verses 4 to 6. You have the passage there for you in the bulletin insert. And as you can see, there are a lot of passages that talk about the second coming. Commandment and related topic of idolatry. But we'll read from Exodus twenty first. Verse four to six. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and four generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands to those who love me and keep my commandments. I believe there are three principles we can reap from these verses. First, the second commandment honors God's uniqueness and his revelation. Secondly, the Second Commandment protects men made in God's image. Thirdly, the Second Commandment anticipates Christ as his fulfillment. As I discuss each principle, I will point to a few key passages and provide some illustrations. First, the second commandment honors God's uniqueness and his revelation. To properly understand how the commandment honors God, we need to differentiate between it and the first commandment. You look back in verse 3 and you see and in your Bible in verse 3, you shall have no other gods before me. Anything that you put before God is an idol. And so how is this one, the third, I mean the first commandment, different from first fourth, second commandment Here are some of my findings. In this classic book, Knowing God, by J. I. Packer, he says that the second does not merely repeat the idea of the first. Rather the second, quote, deals not with the object of our worship, but with the manner of it. End quote. Kevin DeYoung's new book on the Ten Commandments Is also helpful. Quote, if the first commandment is against worshiping the wrong God, the second commandment is against worshiping the God in God in the wrong way. He adds, quote, the first commandment in saying you shall not have speaks of possession, while the second commandment in saying you shall not make speaks of manufacturing. End quote. I'll add one more quote by Charles Hodges, who noted: quote: idolatry consists not only in the worship of false gods, but also in the worship of the true God by images. In Exodus thirty-two, the Israelites were guilty of the latter, breaking the second commandment. While Moses was up on the mountain receiving the divine law, no less, they dared to make gods and bow down to a golden calf at the bottom. They proclaim before the statute, this is your God, O Israel, that brought you out of the land of Egypt. What a lie. The violations of the Second Commandment continued in Israelite history. Carvings of idols continued. Even sacred things God sanctioned were used falsely to break God's law. In 1 Samuel chapter 4, the Israelites went out to battle against their enemies, Philistines, and they thought they could guarantee a win by marching out the Ark of the Covenant as a representation of God. They lost the battle and the ark. Later, Jeremiah warned those living in Jerusalem to repent, not taking comfort in the existence of the temple in Jerusalem. their city. They lost the city and the temple. To make an image of God from anything that is in heaven above. Or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth, is an insult to God's glory. There's nothing on earth that even comes remotely close to matching Him. He is the creator. Everything else is created. Isaiah asks in chapter 40, verse 18. To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare to Him? That's not a multiple choice question. It's a rhetorical one, because there's nothing that compares to God. The prophet Isaiah clearly differentiates in a few verses after that between God's glory and the vain idols of gold, silver, and wood. Okay, so like we're good, right? We're not gonna create physical images, but we have this thing called imagination Now, imagination is good for creating images of the world in our hobbies with our paintbrush, with our photography skills. It's good for our work presentations and PowerPoint slides. But when our imagination is used to portray God Himself, we are going to limit him to be something less than who he is. When we bow down and serve that image, we are not really bowing to God, but something inferior. We who are created in God's image foolishly make God in our image. From our thoughts proceeding to the works of our hands. We need to remember that God's thoughts, not ours, are the source of all our knowledge of Him. Many of you have probably memorized Isaiah fifty five, eight to nine. So you don't even need to turn to it. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. How do I apply this? That means our conceptions of God will always be limited. That's why we need God's conceptions of God. His self-revelation from the scriptures. Ironically, the free use of our imaginations to understand God limits God while limiting our thoughts to God's word frees him to be who he says he is. Simply put, to properly obey the Second Commandment, we need to study the Bible. You know, during the Reformation, some religious leaders argued in favor of using images in worship because most normal people of the day could not read. They were illiterate. They were used to learning visually from icons, statues. Uh stained glass windows. So what did the reformers do? They taught them how to read. So That's what we need to do, right? As Protestants, we maintain that the worship of God must be based on words, not images. We read from scriptures that when God gave the Ten Commandments, Israelites did not see any form of God, but only heard his words out of the fire. Deuteronomy 4. And as Jesus said in John 4, God is spirit, and his worshipers must spirit must worship in the spirit and in truth. He didn't say his worshippers must worship in images and icons. Now, I'm not saying that picture Bibles and paintings of Jesus are bad things. But let's remember that the Bible does not really give much detail about Jesus' physical appearance anyway. You know, nothing like the basic info we find in driver license. We don't know about his height, weight. We know he's he's a Jew. We know he's a male. But we don't really know much about what he looks like Let's be satisfied with that. We don't need to go beyond the scriptures. That's usually a recipe for disaster, violation of the second commandment. The consequences of breaking and keeping his um keeping this law are laid out in next verses five and six. That leads to the second The second commandment protects men made in God's image. Now what is this protection from? God's jealous wrath. God gave us a command to protect us from Himself. Because we belong to him and we are to worship him. And when we don't, there are consequences. You know, when we speak of God, we immediately turn to passages that may say things like, God is love, 1 John 4, 8 to 16. 8 and 16, sorry. But more frequent in the Bible are verses that clearly say God is jealous. Aside from Exodus 20, we have elsewhere in the book of Moses. Exodus 34, Deuteronomy 4, 5, 6, and chapter 32. Joshua speaks of God's jealousy near the end of his book in chapter 24. ASAP wrote against the provocation of it in his Psalms 78 and 79. Paul warns the Corinthians who ate meat sacrificed to idols before coming to eat the Lord's Supper. That they are stirring up God's jealousy. First Corinthians ten. When we speak of jealousy, we may confuse God's jealousy with human jealousy. J. I. Packer is again helpful. Quote, Vicious jealousy is an expression of the attitude, I want what you got, and I hate you because I haven't got it. We'll talk about covachas later in this series, but there is also a good kind of jealousy. Quote, zeal to protect a love relationship or to avenge it when broken. The sp uh the scripture speaks of both types, condemning the former and promoting the latter. The prime example of good jealousy is found in marriage. John Calvin is helpful in his Institutes of Christian Religion. Quote, The Lord very frequently addresses us in the character of a husband. As he performs all the offices of a true and faithful husband, so he requires love and chastity from us. That is, that we do not prostitute our souls to Satan As the purer and chaster a husband is, the more grievously he is offended when he sees his wife inclining to a rival. So the Lord, who has betrothed us to himself in truth, declares that he burns with the hottest jealousy whenever, neglecting the purity of his holy marriage, we defile ourselves with abominable lust And especially when the worship of his deity, which ought to have been most carefully kept unimpaired, is transferred to another or adulterated with some superstition Since in this way we not only violate our clighted troth, but defile the nuptial couch by giving access to adulterers. And once we understand the jealousy of God, we can be zealous for God. When the Israelites fell into the idolatry of Bel Peor in Numbers 25, Phineas, Aaron's grandson, killed an idolater and his mistress and turned God's wrath away from the congregation. The Lord responded in verse 11, Phineas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, has turned back my wrath from the children of Israel Because he was zealous with my zeal among them, so that I did not consume the children of Israel in my zeal. Or consider how Paul displays godly jealousy for the Corinthians. He desired to protect them from counterfeit Jesus, fake spirits, and the distorted gospels, until the day he presented that congregation to the groom Christ as his bride. Corinthians eleven. God's jealousy for his own glory applies to every generation. The phrase visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me requires some explanation. The point is that if the later generations repeat the sins of their fathers, they too will share their fate. As commentator Walter Kaiser says, children who repeat the sins of their father evidence it in personally hating God. Hence, they too are punished like their fathers. Now, it is true that children suffer all the time from the indirect effects of their parents' sin, but they do not share in their guilt, as Ezekiel 18, 1920 tells us On the flip side, those from every generation who obey the second commandment receive mercy as verse six tells us. us. Now note how the violation of or the adherence to this law is a matter of love or hate. No mixture there. You choose one or the other It is a love of God that leads us to obedience to Him. Idolatry keeps us from enjoying God's bountiful mercy. Why harm yourself by disobedience? And if such curses and blessings from God are not enough motivation for you, let me provide more. The failure to obey the second commandment can lead to to the disrespect of God's image bearers. Now we are in a way acting as corrupt creators and make images of God, and we are challenging The incorruptible creator and those whom he made in his image, the crown of creation, humans. It won't be long after we turn to idolatry that we will slander our fellow humans. Unable to love our neighbor as ourselves. Of course, such loading of those divine image bearers goes both ways, like a double-edged sword. Instead of reflecting God's goodness, we become conformed to the vain idols we worship and become vain ourselves. We become like whom we worship. We read about that earlier in today's service from Psalm 135. It's right there in the bulletin for you. So allow me to repeat a few of the verses, verses fifteen to eighteen. The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they do not speak. Eyes they have, but they do not see. They have ears, but they do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths. And here we go. Those who make them are like them. So is everyone who trusts in them And the same idea is found in Psalm 115 and Isaiah 44. We become spiritually mute, blind, deaf, lifeless, and useless, just like the idols we worship. Every ever-present danger to our souls is a misrepresentation of God, mental or real, that is not in accord with the testimony of Scriptures. If we imagine a God that is only loving or only just, we are made of caricature of him. A straw man that must be discarded. C. S. Lewis is helpful in revealing such sin in our hearts. Quote, What would really satisfy us would be a God who set up anything we happen to like doing. What does it matter so long as they are contented? We want in fact not so much a father in heaven as a grandfather in heaven, a senile benevolence who, as they like to say, uh like to see young people enjoying themselves. And his plan for the universe was that it might be truly said at the end of each day, a good time was had by all. Not many people, I admit, would formulate a theology in precisely those terms, but a conception not very different lurks at the back of many minds. We need to shatter and destroy any comfortable images of God within us and without us, which caters to us. We do that through carefully studying the Bible. And that's why it's important that your interpretation is not on an island. We come to church, we study the Bible together, we check commentaries. I'm not the final authority. You're not the final authority. If you walk away every single time from a Sunday school, sermon, Bible study, or personal devotion with smugness, self-contentment, And euphoria, I'm not sure you and I are worshiping the same God. If your idea of God is formed by happy memory verses and nothing about God's wrath for non Christians and discipline for his children, You have an incomplete understanding of him at best. A false depiction. May we repent from such imperfect representations. Let us not only bury idols, but obliterate them. God is not here for our consumption. Our God is a consuming fire. And here's another quote by Lewis that helps us transition to the next point. Quote: Images of the holy easily become holy images. Sacrosainct. My idea of God is not a divine idea. It has to be shattered time after time. He shatters it himself. He is the great iconoclast. Could we not almost say that this shattering is one of the marks of his presence? The incarnation is the supreme example. It leaves all previous ideas of the Messiah in ruins. End quote. The production of divine images needs to stop because it is a direct insult against God's glory revealed in the incarnation of his son. And that's why we have the third point. The second commandment anticipates Christ as his fulfillment. Before Jesus went to the cross to die for our sins, he was teaching his apostles many things about himself, his relationship with God the Father. And one of his disciples, Philip, requested in John 14, 8, Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us. Listen carefully to how our Lord responds in verses 9-11. Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. So how can you say show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you I do not speak of my own authority. But the Father who dwells in me does the works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, or else believe me for the sake of the works themselves. themselves. So you see how Jesus maintains the distinction between God the Father and God the Son But Jesus says by seeing him, Philip has seen the Father indirectly through the Son. Jesus That's because as Paul says in Colossians 1. 15, he is the image of the invisible God. The same idea is found in 2 Corinthians 4. If Philip saw God the Father directly, he would have died, just as Moses would have died in Exodus 33. God the Father remains invisible, dwelling in unapproachable light. Timothy six. No one has seen or can see him. First Timothy six again and John four. First John four. So how can we approach him? This God who seems so distant from our sight, how can we draw near to him? And this is the gospel That God has drawn near through Jesus who has declared the Father in John 1 18. That is the good news we preach. We have bowed down to and served the idols of our hearts and carved images of wood, silver, and gold. We have failed to love him with all our hearts, all our soul, all our strength. We have hated God by worshiping him in wrong ways. For our transgressions, we deserve hell, the wrath of the jealous God. But Jesus took our transgressions, hell, and wrapped in our place as a substitute on the cross. He paid the penalty of every sin, every idolatry, every false worship. He was buried and rose from the dead as proof that he is who he said he is. He ascended to heaven and now offers everyone eternal life through him. We cannot earn it with good works or our best efforts. We can only receive it as gift by repentance and faith. Turning away from other gods to the true God in the scriptures. I hope you will turn to Christ who will show you the Father and bring you to Him. And once you begin a genuine relationship with Christ, the image of God, you will never be the same. You will be transformed. The principle of we become like whom we worship will be true in a positive sense. When we bow down and serve Christ, we begin a process that is the opposite of the effect of idolatry. Romans 8. 29 says that our Father predestined his elect to be conformed to the image of his son. In the future, we will bear the image of the heavenly man Jesus that is clothed in incorruptible bodies at his return. But the transformation into Christ-likeness has already begun. Our eyes are unveiled, and as if through a mirror, we gaze into the glory of the Lord. We are transformed. into that same image through God the Spirit. Praise the Lord that unlike those Satan has blinded, we have seen the shining light of the gospel of the glory of Christ Leaving our old self behind, we have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of Christ. I like what one pastor said. Quote, it would be well if there were as great a similarity between the life of Christ and the life of Christians as there is between a just copy and the original. What he was by nature, we should be by grace. Jesus obeyed the second commandment perfectly on our behalf. He honored God's uniqueness and revelation. As God's son, he protected human dignity by becoming human himself. As the image of the invisible God, he has shown us the Father so that we do not bow down to any man-made idols. We not only worship God the Father and the Holy Spirit, the invisible persons of the Trinity, but worship God the Son, the visible. He cannot be made into our image. He is the one making us into his image. image. Let us forsake the works of our minds and hands, our false idols, and trust in the finished work of Jesus, the image of God. Let's pray We are grateful for just what you have done for us by creating this world. And Lord that through creation we can see the Creator. And that's what you intended. That we would see the the beauty of nature, the complexity of the DNA and Would enjoy the weather and just be able to say, What a God, what a creator But Lord, not just our ancestors, but all of us have at times just forgot to worship you. And sadly, we have forgotten you altogether. And that we have just lost the aim. We have become fanatics for things of this world. We have become workaholics, or we have become interested in building our own kingdom. Works of our hands are goals, accomplishments Nor those things have often become first place in our lives, which you do not tolerate as the jealous God. Nor, whatever those may be, And as diverse as that may be, because all of our hearts are uniquely gifted and at the same time uniquely corrupt, but we pray that you would reveal it to us. As we open up your word, not just on Sundays, but at home, may you break us and may you break our idols. May we realize how feudal futile our creation, even our conceptions of who you are, can be be. Lord lead us to repentance. And as you have always done with kindness, we pray that this week we've willingly come before you. And ask that you would expand our minds to know who you are, to know the riches of your mercies, to know your character better, to see how you're working in in uh history. So that we may bow down to you and you alone. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.