So about five years ago, an article was on the CNN website entitled, quote, Behold, Atheists, New Ten Commandments. An executive of Airbnb and a humanist and a humanist chaplain at Stanford University tried to crowdsource what they called ten non-commandments. They solicited input from all over the world and offered $10,000 to the winners who contributed a good principle to be included among the ten. 2800 submissions later, 13 judges selected 10 winners. Now here are their contributions. Now don't waste your ink or energy writing these down. Okay. One, be open-minded and be willing to alter your beliefs with new evidence. Two, strive to understand what is most likely to be true, not to believe what you wish to be true 3. The scientific method is the most reliable way of understanding the natural world. 4. Every person has the right to control their body Five, God is not necessary to be a good person or to live a full and meaningful life. Sixth, be mindful of the consequences of all your actions and recognize that you must take responsibility for them. Seven, treat others as you would want them to treat you and can reasonably expect them to want to be treated. Think about their perspective. Eight, we have the responsibility to consider others, including future generations. 9. There is no one right way to live. 10. Leave the world a better place than you found it. Now, you don't have to be an atheist to realize that this list is very typical of the spirit of this age. Kevin DeYoung begins his book on the Ten Commandments by showing how the atheistic alternative to God's Ten Laws are fraught with just logical problems. Non-commandment number five says you don't need God, but number seven is basically a summary of Jesus' golden rule from Matthew 7, 12. The scientific method has its roots in Francis Bacon's method of inductive observation, but it was the Christians who helped promote it in studying the world, the natural revelation. I mean, although these are called non commandments, they are commands. So that's another issue. the the ninth principle they give is that there is no one right way to live. So they are claiming as absolute truth that there is no absolute truth. So I I shudder to think what would happen if this counterfeit replaced the divine ten truths. Recall that the Ten Commandments were removed from the public school curriculum. I believe in 1980. When we think carefully about the deception and the nonsensical nature of man-made laws, we begin to appreciate how simple Clear and unified the Ten Commandments are. We understand why they were often used in catechisms, creeds, and discipleship of children. Like the Apostles' Creed and the Lord's Prayer, they have a masterful and elegant way of encapsulating God's character and his will for humans. Now we're not certain whether public educators will ever teach the Ten Commandments again, but I think it's imperative that we do as a church. As Paul reminded Timothy, the law is good if it is used lawfully. That's in first Timothy one nine. We can use it in our evangelism to convict unbelievers and urge repentance. Once under the burden of the law, we can point them to Christ who frees them from. it's crushing rate. Wait. But before we do that, we must be thoroughly familiar with these ten. Our starting point each week will be Exodus twenty, but we will jump around to various places in both Old and New Testaments. Now, before I dive into the commandments and the verses, I want to give a big picture of Exodus. this because we are sort of jumping right in in the middle of the book. Much of what I'm about to say, I've said already during our Wednesday evening Old Testament survey. If you wish to have any of my trans transcripts and notes, please let me know. Email me. But the main idea of Exodus is that God forms the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob into a nation with himself as their king. And for God to accomplish his plan, he had to first redeem his people. That's what we see in the first eighteen chapters, one to eighteen. Then from chapters nineteen to twenty-four, God makes a covenant with the Israelites. Israelites at Mount Sinai with Moses as their mediator. From chapters twenty-five to forty, God tells them his laws by which he may properly worship him. So Exodus can be divided into three parts, redemption from chapters 1 to 18, covenant from chapters 19 to 24, and worship from chapters 25 to 19. 40. So you see the Ten Commandments within the covenant section. So now that now that I have placed Exodus 20 in the context of The entire book. I want to also explain the covenant of Moses in relation to other covenants in the Bible, especially the covenant God made with Abraham, which is the foundation for the new covenant with the first time. A good summary of the covenant of Moses, or the what I call the Mosaic Covenant, is found in Exodus nineteen, three to six Now I believe I put it in there for you, but you can also turn to your scriptures. So Exodus nineteen Which is right before our today's passage, three to six. This is a good summary of the covenant, covenant God made with Israel through Moses. And Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel, Israel, you have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will And a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. There's much to unpack here, but first I just want to focus on one phrase. In verse 5, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant. The if you will part is what makes this covenant distinct from the covenant with Abraham. The Abrahamic covenant was unilateral, one way, unconditional from human perspective, because Abraham does nothing to guarantee its success. It's about God saying, I will, not you will. When two parties came together for ancient covenants, they would walk together between torn animal pieces. As if to say, if one of us breaks the covenant, let him be cut off like these animal carcasses. So it's very serious business to enter into a covenant. But what we find in Genesis 15 was that God alone passed through the animal pieces while Abraham was sleeping. All that was required of Abraham was to believe in God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. There's no chance that this covenant with Abraham would fail because God alone guarantees success. All we do is believe. The Mosaic covenant can fail, not because God is unfaithful but because people are. It's about God saying, If you will, then I will bless you. It's a bilateral, not unilateral covenant, two way, conditional upon human obedience. If you guess that this is not going to end well, you're on the right track. Please note carefully that the goals of the Mosaic Covenant are not the same as the purpose of the Mosaic. The goals are listed there in verses five and six. Underline there for you. There are three goals for Israel in the law. They are to be, one, a special treasure. Two, a kingdom of priests. Three, a holy nation. Just basically to be a blessing. These are wonderful and desirable goals. Yet we know by experience that they will not keep their end of the deal in this covenant. You can turn later, but in Exodus 24, 7, they vow before God, all that the Lord has said, we will do and be obedient. And then the golden cap happened. We know how that turned out. It is theoretically possible that they could keep the covenant and receive the blessings of obedience, but their hearts were not up to it. So why does God give a covenant to people knowing that they won't keep it? And the purpose of the covenant was to show them that they couldn't keep it. And it may sound strange at first, but by giving the Israelites such laws, transgressions are multiplied. As Paul says in Romans five and Galatians three. And I'll just read one of those passages. I'll just read Galatians three for you. And see how it's contrasted from verses nineteen through twenty-four between the covenant with the same thing. Abraham and the covenant with Moses. What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made, and it was Now mediator does not mediate for one only, but God is one. Is the law then against the promise Certainly not, for if there had been a law given which could have given life, truly righteousness would have been held by the law. But the Scripture has confined all under sin that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. But before faith came, we were kept under guard by the law. Kept for the faith which would afterward be revealed. Therefore the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ that we might be justified by faith. And I'll just read verse twenty-five as well. But after faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. So So what is what are they to do? What are the Israelites supposed to do? They must humbly fall back to the unconditional covenant. Of Abraham, knowing that they broke the conditions of the Mosaic covenant. The law was given so that all of us would experientially, not just theoretically, understand our need for grace. Grace that would come through Jesus, the promised descendant of Abraham. We come to realize we are cursed because we cannot keep All of the law. And failing to obey one makes you guilty of breaking all. That's what Galatians 3. 10 and James 2. 10 says. The law leads us to Christ whose work reveals the righteousness of God apart from the law. Romans 3. 21. So as long as we understand that the purpose of the Mosaic Covenant was not to obtain righteousness through efforts to keep it, we are approaching it correctly. The law both limits and exposes human sin. God's word is like a mirror that reveals the faults in us. Our sin. The law of Moses points us to Christ, who kept the law perfectly, but died as he as if he transgressed it. The ultimate curse was dying hanging upon a tree, and Jesus did just that when he was crucial. Crucified. But he rose from the dead and now extends the gift of eternal life to you. You would repent and believe in Jesus Christ, you will be saved. We cannot earn it, we cannot work for it, we can only humbly receive it like a beggar. And that's what a picture of faith is So now that we understand the flow of Exodus, the Mosaic Covenant, its nature, goals, and purpose, we can finally get to the contents of chapter 20. Ten Commandments. I once visited Grace Community Church where John MacArthur preached and it was about maybe like a fifty minute sermon. I think he was like thirty minutes in and said now that I've d done my introduction, let's get into the text. I'm not you know going that far but but as you can see there's a lot of introductory material here. Verse 1 says that these commands are literally words, right? That's why they're also collectively called decalogue, right? ten words. They are the basic requirements of the covenant, a helpful summary or abstract of hundreds of laws in the book of Moses. There are 613 laws according to Jewish tradition, but they can be summarized by these ten. First four have to do with our relationship with God, and last six with fellow humans. Based on that division, Jesus reduces them even further to two commands. Love God with everything. And love your neighbor as yourself. No. But whether we have hundreds, tens, or just two, we must always remember that we cannot keep the law in our strength. So with that in mind, let's read from verses. One, two, three. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the I believe we can draw two principles from these verses. I'm sort of working backwards here because the first principle is a very important thing. Principle is from verse three. God wants all of our worship from undivided hearts. And the second one, which I derive mostly from verse two, God has proven his word in his redemption. First, God wants all of our worship from undivided hearts. The flip side of the first command, you shall have no other gods before me, is what you want Jesus said to Satan, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only you shall serve. When it comes to the verb of worship, there's only one proper direct object: God. Now some relationships that God gave us are meant to be multiplied. I think having a lot of quality friends is a good thing. I think you can have multiple best friends. Sorry. Siblings, children, having a lot of good cousins, good things. But God did not design every relationship to be like This. When I married Ira, I entered a either-or, not a both and relationship. I promised to forsake all others for her sake The first command of our marriage is that I shall have no other wives before her, and she will have no other husbands before me In the same way, even more demanding, God demands that we have no other gods before Him. Now from verse three, one might conclude that there exists in this universe many gods as if there's some kind of kind of pantheon. We must understand that the word God with the capital G properly applies to the one being, the God of the scriptures. Revealed in three persons. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. When we see God with the lowercase G, we're not talking about the creator of all things. The uncreated one who was and is and is to come. The lowercase g gods have been used to refer to lesser beings, angelic and human authority. They are so-called gods, counterfeits that really do not deserve that title. Paul in 1 Corinthians 8, 4-6 clearly confirms the truth of monotheism. When he says that there is only one capital G God, the Creator will not share his title as God with any inferior beings. God has no rival in reality, but we place other gods before him in foolishness. That is what we call idolatry. I used to think that idolatry only has to do with physical objects of worship, such as the statue of the chubby laughing man at lobbies of Asian restaurants. No, is is that a idol? I don't know. I used to think that when I was little. That that's gotta be an idol, right? But here's what author Richard Keys says about idols. The idea is highly sophisticated, drawing together complexities of motivation and Individual psychology, the social environment, and also the unseen world. Idols are not just on pagan altars, but in well-educated human hearts and minds. And God did indeed warn against the idols of the heart in Ezekiel fourteen one to eight. Statues as physical visible displays are simply symptoms of underlying soul disease. Weeds that have deep roots in the heart. Heart. Think of the possibilities of Number. These idols can outnumber the thirty-three million deities of Hinduism and exceed the seven point seven billion total of humanity As unique as each fingerprint. And that's because as Isaiah tells us in chapter 53, verse 6, we have turned everyone to his own way. We're going to talk more about how each of us makes images for worship next week. But for now, I would like to point out two idols that have been especially troublesome. In Israelite history. They are the infamous couple. And it's important to realize that behind these idols are good things that sinful men have distorted. Both of them were gods of fertility, attractive to the wife who aspires to be a mother at home, working man and single men were also attracted to called prostitution and Fertility rites where extramarital sex was shamefully practiced at these altars. Since the idolatry was trendy, the allure was strong. While Baal and Asherah are archaic, drive for success, money, sex, status are constants throughout history. These are good things when pursued within God's will. I think we shouldn't be too humble to achieve greatness or strive for greatness. We should do our best to find a marriage partner if some God brings someone into your life. But when these good things are placed on par at the same level of priority as As God, we have violated the first commandment. Good things in life should be distant second, far, far behind our first priority. relationship with the Lord. And what happens when we harbor idols in our hearts? Well, we have divided hearts. Here's what Hosea ten one and two says. I also have that printed there for you. Hosea is speaking to a northern kingdom of Israel that was prosperous. But they have serious issues. Hosea ten, one to two. Israel empties his vine. He brings forth fruit for himself. According to the multitude of his fruit, he has increased the altars. According to the bounty of his land, they have embellished his sacred pillars. Their heart is divided. Now they are held guilty. He will break down their altars. He will ruin their sacred pillars. Heart is divided. Whether it's some familiar ancient idols that Joshua warned about before his Whether it's bail that Elijah railed against, whether it's money that Jesus warned against, or the world in general that James And John warned against. God demands that we forsake all for Him. He wants absolute loyalty. He's not here to beg for your affection. He doesn't beg. He commands hundred percent devotion, not a slice or chunk of the pie of your life. This is not some secondary concept of faith. It's the first commandment, the foundation for the greatest commandment, from Deuteronomy 6, 4 to 5. I also have that listed there for you. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. Now people say that Christianity is a relationship, not a religion. I don't really like that cult. Because I want to tell them okay, Christianity is a relationship, but it's a very demanding relationship. God wants all of you. He doesn't share you with others. If you have thought differently about your relationship with God, repent. And we need to constantly repent, even as believers. Don't expect the first commandment to be kept easily, even after conversion. Now part of the reason I listed all those passages for you is that whether you're in the new covenant or in the old covenant, idolatry is to be shunned. First commandment applies. In bolt. Even Christians, seasoned Christians, struggle with idols. Jerusalem leaders told the Gentile brothers to stay away from altars of idols. See that in Acts fifteen. Paul says that work of the flesh includes idolatry, Galatians five. He told Corinthians to flee from it, first Corinthians ten. Apostle John ended his first letter with a warning against idols. Verse there. And Jesus rebuked the church in Diatera for participation in idolatry. Revelation 2. From Genesis to Revelation. Now God is no doubt demanding, but he has always proved himself to be worthy of unwavering loyalty. And that leads to the second thing. God has proven his work and his redemption. Now I drew the first principle, like I said From verse 3, but I'm deriving the second one from the previous verse 2. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. I've heard a friend mention something like this as a tired father raising his voice boy. Quote, this kid is going to grow up and as a teenager say, don't tell me what to do. What have you ever done for me? I hate you. Yeah. If this brings back painful memories to any of you as parents, um or if you never heard that, praise God, but you know Teenagers. But uh I told my friend, um, I'll stand as your witness that you have done very much for your child. And I told I think that's the wisdom in taking pictures. Um not for your memory's sake, but the kids' memory's sake. So they don't forget the sleepless nights and the endless life. Now if the Lord gives us children, I'm not taking them to uh Disney World or these nice places until they have the mental capacity to remember events vividly. So that's They can be thankful. Um But that's a more of a picture of us, right? Children remind us of our Simpleness too, from our own rebellious hearts, we have raised our fists, stomped our feet, and threw a tantrum saying, Don't tell me what to do, what have you ever done for me? We react this way as God says no to us, when we fail to love god the Lord with everything, when the when God says I need to take away When we tolerate God's before Him, remember who God is and what He has done for you. He is the Lord your God, right? 2 says. When you see L-O-R-D in all capital letters, the English translators are trying to communicate to you that this is the covenant name of Yahweh. Yahweh. The name of Yahweh signifies that He is who He is. When God says I am that I am, he is saying that He is in absolute control of Himself. We humans cannot control the weather, the circumstances. Things just happen to us and we're at the mercy of our circumstances. Not so God. He makes things happen because he is absolutely sovereign. He has revealed himself to Moses and his people as the one who will act in his own. History to fulfill his promises made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He is the self-determined Yahweh. And he has determined to save his people from the bondage in Egypt. And when he saved them, he didn't just save them from slavery, he saved them from empty idols and the yeast like influence of the world. He set them apart as a people in covenant who worship him and him alone. And just as he did with Israel, and he did far better, he did too for us. Through Jesus. He has made an everlasting new covenant, so now he is Lord your God. He has determined to keep his promise Of salvation. He saved you from sin and consequences of sin. Eternal punishment in hell. That is why he demands all of us. Why worship anyone else? As J. I. Packer cited this passage in in a chapter called Adequacy of God. God is adequate. to worship. And what will it take to worship God alone? I want to take you back to Genesis as sort of an application When Jacob fled from home, he left behind a father whom he deceived and a brother he manipulated. Little did he know he was about to face someone more conniving than him and in in his uncle Laban. His life was filled with tangled relationship problems with parents, twin brother, uncle, his two wives, his sons, and people of the land. But what kept them going was the encounter with the Lord in a place named Bethel. He saw angels descending and ascending upon it. uh uh on a ladder. From above, God spoke and promised him the same blessings promised to his grandfather Abraham and Father Isaac Now, after many years of trouble and toil, Jacob was journeying back with his family to the same location. A lot has happened from chapters 28. I bet he aged a lot, right? Including an ugly violent incident with the people of a city called Shechem, right? The last stop before arriving at Bethel. Now what will Jacob do before revisiting Bethel? I'll read for you. It's right there for you in verses one to four in Genesis thirty-five. Then God said to Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there, and make an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Edom. Esau, your brother. And Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves And change your garments. Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make an altar there to God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and have been with me in the way which I I have gone. So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hands, and the earrings which were in their ears, and Jacob hid them under the terabin tree which was shut Now we're not going to build and approach a physical altar, but we will come before the Lord in prayer. Yeah, hopefully more than today on Sunday, we'll come before the Lord in our daily devotions, in our Bible studies, in our various opportunities to serve in our church As we come before the Lord, we have to make sure there are no gods before him. Would you do an inventory of your heart? Identify your idols and bury them forever. That's right.