Good morning. It's good to be back with you again. I uh I wanted to mention that this evening actually our son will be with us. My son Stephen has been in Haiti for three years as a missionary, and he was going to share a little bit of what the Lord has done there. It's pretty exciting. I was there a year ago in December and uh actually got to speak in a Haitian church and uh it was it was different. Uh but uh I would like to just say a brief word of prayer before we look into God's Word this morning. Father, as we just sung, open our eyes. Lord, search us, know our hearts, show us any wicked way, lead us in the way everlasting. Father, as we consider the things from Scripture this morning increase our faith, make us people whose hearts are set on pilgrimage, who uh uh are looking to you, not to our circumstances. And so equip us, Lord, and make us the people that we ought to be. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn with me in your Bible, if you would, to Genesis chapter 12. And I'd like to share some thoughts this morning about God's promises to Abraham. Some years ago, as you know, I started teaching in the jail and I like to teach chronologically through the Bible And I found over the years that if I'm teaching and I happen to have someone in the group that's then a little bit indoctrinated by the Muslims, you never get to Abraham's story without having a lot of arguments. about some of the details. And it prompted me to kind of dig a little deeper into some things. And I actually wrote a little course on Abraham that Emmaus Correspondence Ministries is gonna publish sometime this year. Unfortunately, it's not out yet. But what I want to share with you this morning and and potentially next week as well are some thoughts from that. uh study that I've done. You know, when you think about Abraham, you know, uh it it it's I'll put it this way, some years ago I was going I noticed a headline on, I think it was Time, but it might have been Newsweek, one of those magazines, Abraham, superhero of the faith. And I don't normally go to those magazines for, you know, learning things about built Bible characters, but I did go to the library and read that article just to see what in the world you know, that was that article was about. Basically it was very basic stuff saying Abraham is revered by Christians, Muslims, and Jews, and therefore he's a superhero of the faith. But it made me stop and think, what is it that makes Abraham an important person? It wasn't that during his lifetime he had more followers than other people. He was a wealthy man. He had, we find out later, 318 servants that were ready to fight, which means he had other probably at least two or three times that many of other servants that were household servants and whatever. But he wasn't defined by his wealth. He was a man that followed God, but had his own flaws, as we'll see as we get into the message today. But yet scripture at 16 times mentions the Lord identifies himself. I am the God of Abraham. And it it it as you look at the story, you begin to realize it's not what Abraham did, it's what God did for him. That made him famous. And what he did for him is kind of condensed into promises, most of which didn't even happen during his lifetime. And that gives us encouragement today because you know we're ordinary people. I don't know about you, but I'm I'm probably ordinary or or less than ordinary, I consider uh in the scheme of things. Uh but The God of Abraham could be the God of us as well. And so, having given you where we're going, let's go and look at the scriptures now. Let's start at Genesis chapter 12. Genesis chapter 12, verse 1. Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your family and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. Then Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their possessions and all that they had gathered and the people they had acquired in Haran, and they departed to go to the land of Canaan. So they came to the land of Canaan. Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem as far as the Terebinth tree of Morah. And the Canaanites were then in the land. Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants I will give this land. And there he built an altar to the Lord who had appeared to him. The story starts with Abraham being given a command and a promise. The command was, get out of your country from your family, and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. We learn from the New Testament in the book of Hebrews 11 that Abraham went not even knowing he didn't check out ahead of time the land that the God was leading him to. He went just because God had said so. But then there's the promise. And here's the thing about that. When he got up and went to the land that God had told him to go to, He got there and according to verse uh uh six the Canaanites were already in the land. And they had built cities there and little city states, some of them I I'm imagining had walls and You know, if you ever hope to do something or get somewhere, you know, you go to your favorite park and the spot you are really hoping to have the picnic at, somebody already is there and them and their relatives are spread out. Oh well, we've got to find another place. And you might have expected Abraham to say, well, you know, God, uh here I am, but uh maybe I'll just go find another place where there isn't anybody. But no, instead, he uh he goes out uh and and he's he's there uh in the land And he decides to stay there. He builds an altar and worships the Lord because this is a land to which God had led him But God had given him some promises, and the promises begin there in verse 2. He says, I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Now, from our perspective today, it's easy to see how these things were fulfilled. But at Abraham's time, these things looked impossible. Let me explain. I will make you a great nation. We know today that the nation of Israel came from Abraham. It's still here today. And it is a great nation. Especially when you consider that most of the Israelites don't live in Israel. It's quite a nation. And yet at the time that Abraham said this, Yeah, other families were spreading out from the Tower of Abel after the confusion of the languages and becoming nations, but how did they do that? Usually it was by consolidating the relatives, you know, picking a family leader, and it was sort of like gathering your clan to claim your land. God is telling Abraham, leave your father's house, leave your clan, and I will make you a great nation. That doesn't sound like the way that it ought to be done Not only that, but he says, when I make you a great nation, I will bless you, I'll make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. Forming a nation in a land that's already inhabited by other people is rarely a way to be a blessing to people. It's usually a way to start a war, which actually did happen. But there was more to this blessing than just what was going to happen by Abraham there. It's true when Abraham went there, and especially in the days of his son Isaac, that The Canaanites realized he was blessed of the Lord and actually, you know, made a treaty with him, so there was some residual blessing from Abraham's presence there. But the real fulfillment of these things. Happened after Abraham died, not just after he died, long after he died. I believe the ultimate fulfillment of this promise is when Christ returns. And I'll say more about that as time goes on. But then the last part of the promise: I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And that promise, again, is ultimately fulfilled in Jesus. How can people be blessed until sin is dealt with and I think in next week's message we're going to look at that in more detail. But let's look a little bit now at what happened. You might expect that given this promise, that the promise would be interpreted by Abraham as, this is something that I'm supposed to help make happen. But God says, I'm the one who's going to make you a great nation. I'm the one who's going to curse those who curse you and bless those who bless you. And so Abraham seems to have felt like it wasn't a mandate for him to go and conquer this land. He was supposed to go and stay there. But it becomes clear in the things that follow. Here's what I mean. What happens next? Well, before we get into how he inherited the land, I want you to see something about the heroes of the Bible here. When God does a work with people, he doesn't gloss over the flaws of his chosen people. In fact, if anything, he exposes them. So that the glory goes to him because God is the God who does this. It's you know, I I I was reasoning once with a Muslim about some things to do with Abraham and I mentioned something about Abraham and his wife and He said, we don't believe those bad stories about the prophets of the Bible. It takes away from the message of the Bible. Well, it does if you think like a Muslim, but it doesn't if you understand Scripture correctly, because it's the God of Abraham. Who's the hero here, not Abraham? And God does what he does in spite of the flaws of his people. Rather than just tell you about it, let's just read the account of the remainder of chapter twelve. Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to dwell there, for the famine was severe in the land. And it came to pass when he was close to entering Egypt that he said to Sarai his wife, Indeed, I know that you are a woman of beautiful countenance. Therefore it will happen when the Egyptians see you that they will say, This is his wife, and they will kill me, but they will let you live. Please say you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and that I may live because of you. So it was when Abram came to Egypt, that the Egyptians saw that the w the woman, that she was very beautiful. The princes of Pharaoh also saw her and commanded her, commended her to Pharaoh, and the woman was taken to Pharaoh's house. He treated Abram well for her sake. He had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male and female servants, female donkeys and camels. But the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say she is my sister? I might have taken her as my wife. Now therefore, here is your wife, take her and go your way. So Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. Must have been a humbling thing. After such a grand start that Abraham heard God's command and promise and left the land to go to a land that he wasn't And off to those tremendous promises and acts of faith, you might expect that the whole story would just be uninterrupted faith and blessings. But no, God puts this in here. You know it's a humiliating thing to be escorted out of the country by soldiers. That hasn't happened to me. But I had been asked to leave a college campus once by the security because of Some things that happen in an open-air meeting. And it's kind of a humbling thing. But there Abraham wasn't. Can you imagine Abraham being reunited with wife? Hi, Sarah. uh, you know, uh and all of his servants knowing that uh, you know, his that that they had their understanding what had happened. But uh again, God doesn't gloss over the flaws of his servants. But Abraham, as I said, he didn't look at it as a mandate to take the land, and that becomes obvious because what happens next is him and Lot have so many possessions That their herdsmen are out there saying things like this. This is my area, this is my watering hole, this is my pasture, go find somewhere else with your animals. And they're having conflicts. over over things because there's so many so many their possessions are in the form of animals and herds and and so Abraham seeing this And hearing about this, takes the lead and and he tells Lot, he says, look, look around you and let's separate. You just choose where you want to go, and I'll find somewhere else. And Lot looks around and he chooses what he thinks is the best part of the land. He was the nephew here. He should have said, Abraham. You're you're the God's the one that God promised this land to. You're the leader. Why don't you choose the best part? And I'll find somewhere else. But no, Lot chose for himself the best land. Turns out the area that he chose was down near Sodom and Gomorrah where later it would be destroyed and wouldn't be so fruitful anymore. And he actually ended up leaving there to a land that God said that he appointed for him, the land of Edom on the other side of the Dead Sea. But uh I mean the land of yeah um uh the land that Lot went to was not the land of Edom. Um But he gave him his own land. But you would expect God to say, Abraham. What are you doing? Giving what? The best part of the land that I promised to you. But instead, look at chapter 13, verse 14. The Lord said to Abram after Lot had separated from him, Lift up your eyes now and look from the place where you are, northward, southward, eastward, and westward. For all the land which you see I give to you and your descendants forever. And I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if a man could number the dust of the earth, then your descendants also could be numbered. That doesn't sound like a rebuke. That's another blessing. And so Abraham, given this best part of the land, God's fears to Abraham, and I I tend to think at this point, you know, God had told Abraham, leave Your father's family, your father's house, and I think this was really the completion of that when Lot separated from him. But God appears to him and says, I'm going to give this whole land to you. Even though you just let Lot have the best part, God said, I'm going to give you the whole land. Well, you might think, well, yeah, Abraham was generous because to Lot, because he was family, he was his nephew. But then another thing happens with the land that shows some more things about how Abraham thought. A war breaks out A coalition of four kings from the land that really where Abraham's ancestors came from, the land of uh around Babylon of Ur the Chaldees, was led by a man named Keterliomer. And he comes over and attacks the kings down in the very area where Lot had been. There was a coalition of city-state-states down there, Sodom, Gomorrah, and Coalition of five kings that were going to fight the four kings that were trying to and they'd already had a some sort of a conflict before because they had been subject to Keterliomer for a lot of years. And now they rebelled against him. And so the war happens, and Abraham is just staying out of the whole thing until he learns that his nephew Lot was taken captive. And let's read what happens in chapter 14. Pick it up at verse 13. Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew, for he dwelt by the Tereban trees of Mamre. the Amorite brother of Eshkol and the brother of Aner, and they were allies with Abram. Now when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his three hundred and eighteen trained servants who were born in his own house. and went in pursuit as far as Dan. He divided his forces against them by night, and he and his servants attacked them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is north of Damascus. So he brought back all the goods, and also brought back his brother Lot and his goods, as well as the women and the people. Now, Abraham's little attack here, it says three hundred and eighteen trained servants. These men were men that were his shepherds, his herdsmen. But when it says they're trained, he had them organized like a little militia. Because when you had that many flocks and herds, you had to be aware of people making raids and stealing your stuff, so you had to pr call everybody together to be like a little army. But he joined that, and there were some other people with him, the uh Anor and Eshkol, and they went in pursuit of Keterliomer to rescue Lot. And when they found them, they were successful. They completely surprised them at night, defeated them. But now look what happens. Verse 17. The king of Sodom went out to meet him in the valley of Shiva, that is the king's valley, after his return from the defeat of Kedarleomer and the kings who were with him. Then Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God most high. And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And he gave them a tithe of all. Now the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the persons and take the goods for yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have raised my hand to the Lord God most high, the possessor of heaven and earth, that I will take nothing from a thread to a sandal strap, that I will not take anything that is yours. Lest you should say, I've made Abraham rich. Accept only what the young men have eaten and the portion of the men who went with me, Anner and Eshkol and Mamre, let them take their portion. So here they are, the land that God had promised to Abram, and after this successful route, wouldn't you expect that maybe Abraham would say From now on, I'm in charge here. Instead, he meets with this guy, Melchizedek, King of Salem, and Some people think this was a theophany. Good Bible teachers disagree on this. I tend to think that he was a Canaanite family head One of the descendants of Canaan, who, if you look at the genealogies of the descendants who came from the flood, some of those men lived 400 years. And I think Melchizedek was likely one of those people, saying he was a king of Salem. Salem was the old name for Jerusalem. Uh but it was a real city that was inhabited at that time, which leads me to think that he probably was the Canaanite family head that made offerings for the family. Why do I think he's not a theophany? Because in the book of Hebrews, where it talks about Christ being like Melchizedek, it says he's like Melchizedek. He doesn't say that Christ was Melchizedek. But again, good Bible scholars. But either either way, either way you take it. Even if he was a Melchizedek Here's Abraham paying a tithe to him, and uh and not only that, uh. He's at peace with Abraham being in charge in this land. This king of Salem. And then the king of Sodom speaks up to speak to Abraham. And what he says here You know, if you don't realize the context, it sounds almost generous. Yeah, yeah, I'll just I'll I'll take the people back and you keep the plunder. See, the king of Sodom was thinking that, oh no, now Abraham's going to be in charge of us like Keter Leomer was. And that would be the logical thing to happen. If you're just thinking of it in purely human terms, you know, okay, I rescued you, you pay tribute to me. And the king of Sodom was kind of hoping to get out from under Abraham by saying, just Take the plunder and let us be. Instead, Abraham says, I don't want anything that belongs to you. Because I don't want you saying that you made me rich. Abraham knew where his blessings came from. But don't miss this. This is one thing that Islamic people would strongly disagree with. Because they feel like that, you know, these are the kind of opportunities that shows Allah's will and that why didn't Abraham rule over the people of the land? He probably could have made a couple of good reforms down there in Sodom. But uh it wasn't what he felt like God wanted him to do. He didn't feel like this was a holy war where he had to subdue and drive out the people. Now later in the days of Joshua that does happen. under God's command. And we'll see a little bit later why it happened then and not in Abraham's day. But in any case Abraham didn't feel like it was his place to conquer and subdue the land because God told him, I will give you the land. Was God upset with Abraham? Well, look at how chapter 15 begins. After these things The word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward. You know, after a maneuver like Abraham did, surprising the armies at night and routing them, he might have wondered, you know, these people that I chased all the way up through Damascus, I wonder if they're going to regroup and come after me. I wonder if they're going to make a surprise attack on me at night. God says, don't fear, Abram. I am your shield. Your reward is going to be great, your exceedingly great reward. But Abraham had a question. Verse 2, Lord God, what will you give me, seeing I go childless in the heir of my house, says Eliezer of Damascus? Now this kind of sounds kind of strange that the heir would be his child. Why wouldn't it be Lot, his nephew, or some other close relative? Well in fact, this is actually a confirmation of the biblical's historical accuracy because we found in recent years there was a city dug up in the Middle East called Nuzi or Nuzi, I'm not sure how it's pronounced, N-U-Z-I. And when they dug up that city, they found kind of a library of clay tablets that was sort of like the town records. And there's translations of them. You can find bits and pieces. I have a book with translated some of those tablets at home. But one of them is a record of a servant inheriting his master's estate because he was the head servant, he was kind of in charge, and as he got older he just The servant was childless, and he ended up being the one who just managed the estate and it was kind of handed over to him. Interestingly enough, in those tablets, there's also a record of uh a barren wife arranging uh uh so that another woman would bear a child so that the family would have an heir. And these things that happen in Abraham's story that sound kind of strange to us today were just the way it was at that time in history. Nuvee, by the way, was near Ur of the Caldes where Abraham came from. But Abraham has a question. How are you going to give me this blessing when I don't have an heir? Verse 4. Behold, the word of the Lord came to him saying, This one shall not be your heir, but one who will come from your own body shall be your heir Then he brought him outside and said, Look now toward the heaven and count the stars if you are able to number them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. And he believed in the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. God promised Abraham your descendants are going to be like the stars of the sky. Just look at the sky. Go out there and look at the stars. Can you number them? No. So shall your descendants be. And the promise was that it's going to be one that will come from your own body in verse 4. Abraham should have understood by that, because his wife and he, there's a one-flesh relationship, a man and his wife, that that meant his wife was going to be the one to bear the child. uh but somehow we find out in the next chapter that uh that that he he was willing to consider other options uh at Sarah's suggestion But here God gives them this promise, and Abraham believes it. And just because Abraham believes God credits it to him as righteousness. This verse, as you know, is quoted in the New Testament in Romans chapter 4. It's actually quoted several times in the New Testament But in Romans chapter 4, in particular, it's quoted as an example of how people were declared righteous, not just by works, but by faith, even in the Old Testament. You see, the only way that a person could really have robes of righteousness, it tells us in Romans 3, is through Christ who died for our sins. He died even for the sins that were committed beforehand. And that could be something that would never be earned or deserved. Even when the Israelites made offerings, it was by faith. We know that from the New Testament as well. Luke 18, where the tax collector and the Pharisee went up to the altar to pray. And God, the tax collector, went home justified. Why? Because when he said, God be merciful to me a sinner, he wasn't just saying, go easy on me. He was using a word that meant, let that offering be for me. God be propitiated for me. And so Abraham was justified by faith. And this sounds almost disconnected because the conversation Abraham comes right back to saying, well, how will I know that I'm going to inherit the land? But really, this is how God was confirming to Abraham that he would be a part of God's kingdom. Because without the robes of righteousness, nobody is going to be a part of God's kingdom. You know, in Genesis there were Adam and Eve were given animal skins when they went from the garden. The animal died in their place that day. When they made offerings in the Old Testament, the priests often skinned the animal and were given them given the people robes. Isaiah talks about being decked in robes of righteousness, like for a wedding feast. Jesus mentioned a wedding feast where where the people that didn't have a white uh uh the correct robe on were cast out, not just out of the feast, but where there was weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth And finally, in Revelation, it tells us that the saints in heaven wear robes of white washed in the blood of the Lamb. And so Abraham's part in the kingdom was secured. How could he know that he would inherit it? Because God credited it to him for righteousness, his faith. This was part of God's assurance to Abraham that he was going to inherit the blessings that God had promised. Um and it wouldn't be in his lifetime. It would be in the resurrection. Well, let's read a little bit further here. Abraham in verse 8 says, Lord, how shall I know that I will inherit it? He believed God that he was going to have descendants, but But Lord, if I have descendants, how are my children going to inherit this land when there's all these Canaanites here and there's all this uh you know will they really inherit the land? This land where I must pilgrim and a sojourner? Lord, how shall I know that I will inherit it? Verse 9. So he said to him, Bring me a three-year-old heifer, a three-year-old female goat, a three-year-old ram, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. Then he brought all these to him and cut them in two down the middle, and placed each piece opposite the other, but he did not cut the birds in two. And when the vultures came down in the carcasses, Abram drove them away. This would sound like what what in the world is he doing? Cutting animals in half? What he's doing here is he's preparing to make a covenant. And this same process is mentioned in Jeremiah 34, where some people made a covenant before God and they cut the animals in two and they said, We're going to release our slaves like we were supposed to do in the day of Jubilee. And and you know in Jeremiah when the people made that covenant, they actually broke it. And they went back and didn't do the thing that they had promised to do. And God said, you know what? Yeah, Babylonians are going to come in here and kill you, and the birds of the air are going to eat your flesh. And when a person made this kind of a covenant, when they were making a vow before God, may this happen to me What like this animal be to me if I break this agreement that I made? It was it was a very serious binding oath that they were making. So Abraham got all this ready, he kept the birds away. Verse 12. Now when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and behold, horror and great darkness fell upon him. Then he said to Abram, Know certainly that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them, and they will afflict them four hundred years. And also the nation whom they serve, I will judge, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. Now, as for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace, you shall be buried at a good old age But in the fourth generation they shall return here, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. And it came to pass when the sun went down and it was dark, that behold there appeared a smoking oven and a burning torch that passed between those pieces. On the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. To the Kenites, the Kenesites, the Kadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Reef Rephaim, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Gergeshites, and the Jebuzites Now, the fact that he lists out the boundaries of this land means this is a literal promise. Sometimes people want to spiritualize everything. No, he was going to inherit that specific land and he gives all the boundaries of it. And that is mentioned numerous times later, uh, especially during the conquest. of the land and in the days of Joshua. But he goes back to Abraham and And puts them into this trance-like sleep, and God alone walks between the pieces of those animals. Normally, both people who were making the agreement would go through the pieces together. And they would make a vow, each of them were going to keep this agreement. In this case, it was God who was going to make the agreement. Why? Because again, Abraham would be dead when God does all these things. But he gave them a little glimpse of some future things here that would also be a sign. Abraham said, how is this going to happen? And uh he tells them in verse 13, know certainly that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them, and they will afflict them 400 years. We know from Bible history that that happened at the end of Genesis when Joseph brought his brothers down to Egypt during a time of famine, and they stayed there 400 years. In verse 14, also the nation whom they serve, I will judge. Afterward they shall come out with great possessions. That happened in the beginning of Exodus, when Moses, 400 years later, the Israelites were in Egypt, another Pharaoh arose that didn't know Joseph, and they were enslaved. And there they were in Egypt, and God brings them out with Moses. How did he do that? Did you ever stop and think of the amazing thing Because he tells them when when Abraham when Moses goes to the children of Israel, he says, The God of Abraham has met with me. And he tells them, and when God appears to Moses at the burning bush, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And he tells them, I'm going to bring them to the land I promised them, and he lifts out the boundaries again, the land of the Canaanites and all those ites that he mentions there. He says, I've seen their oppression, but I'm going to keep my promise to Abraham. You see, God could have gone to Egypt and said, I've seen what Abraham is doing, what Pharaoh is doing to Abraham's children and oppressing them, and he could have given them liberty right there. They would have preferred that, because at many points during the time in the wilderness they said, let's stone Moses and go back to Egypt. But God did it in such a way that he kept his promise to Abraham. The first thing he did is he made them miserable by the plagues when he announced to Pharaoh that it's time to go. The first response was, Pharaoh made their lives bitter. And then as the plagues progressed and they got more serious, the Israelites were saying to Moses, let us alone, you're making things worse. Because you know what? How many Israelites would have been willing to pack up and follow Moses without first being driven out of Egypt? And then the final plague happens, and man, when the first plagues happened, the Israelites, Pharaoh made it harder on them. And when the final plague happens, they must have thought, he's going to kill us for sure. But no, what does he do? He drives every one of them out of Egypt. None of them were left behind And they go all the way down and and they're led by the pillar of fire and the pillar of of uh a cloud, and they get by the Dead Sea Red Sea, I'm sorry, not the Dead Sea, the Red Sea And they're camped out there, and Pharaoh comes out to chase them. And God parts the sea, and they go through, and then he closes the sea in the Egyptians. There's many reasons given in Scripture why that happens. I found it interesting. This morning we talked about it in Sunday school, but one of the reasons was to keep the promise that he made to Abraham. Because how else would he have got all the children of Israel? They had lived there 400 years. You know what? If somebody comes and oppresses me and my family today, my ancestors came here in the 1730s from Germany. Am I going to say, you're not treating me right? I'm going to move back to Germany. Huh. Do I know anybody there? Do I even know what house anybody do I there's nothing there for me today. And the Israelites, the Canaanites have been there all those years. And this is the land God promised them, is it going to be any less inhabited now than it was back when Abraham was there? But God said, I'm going to bring them back to the land. And he kept his promise and he destroyed a national power to do it. But he used Pharaoh and his unreasonableness to drive the Israelites out of Egypt, and then the sea closed, and you know what? It was a long hike to get around that Red Sea back to Egypt. And some Israelites wanted to do it, but it was a desert, and without the manna and without the God's provision, nobody was going anywhere. But God said, I'm going to bring them back to the land. And they spent forty years in the wilderness because they went up to the land and refused to go in, refused to follow God. But at the end of the forty years God brought him in. And when he did bring him in, you know what he said? Well, he said in Deuteronomy chapter 9, verses 4 and 5, I'm not bringing you into this land because of your righteousness. I'm bringing you in because of the promise I made to Abraham, and I'm giving you their land not because you're better than them, because you're stubborn stubborn and stiff-necked. 40 years in the wilderness proved that. I'm bringing you in because these people are wicked and they have to go. You see, in Abraham's lifetime, Sodom and Gomorrah had to go. It was time for righteous judgment to fall on them. But God tells Abraham here in Genesis chapter 15. He says in verse 16, chapter 15, verse 16, In the fourth generation they shall return here, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. Amorites means Westerners. So it was all of the uh the Canaanites were from the perspective of the Middle East, that's the West. uh the land of Israel. And so the Amorites, the iniquity has not yet complete. In the days of Joshua it was. And God's conquest in Joshua. You know, when I teach the Bible in the jail, a lot of people begin in Genesis and start reading through, and it That a lot of people have problems with Joshua. Why did God tell him to kill every man, woman, and child? That's a hard thing that it's not a it's not a battle plan that God has given us for how to wage war today. You know, that's that's not God's intention. It was an example, though, of divine judgment. And if people don't like what Joshua did, they're not going to like what happens when Christ returns. Because it's going to be something similar. God has the right to declare who should live or die, God who's given life. Well, in any case, the iniquity of the Amrite is not yet complete. Abraham, it's the land you can't inherit it yet, because these people are not wicked enough that they gotta go. Well, I want to jump from Genesis now and I want to look at a couple of passages quick where time is running out here. But I want you to see some things that are said here. I mentioned that when he brought them out of Egypt, God told them that. But you know, when they inherited the land, that was not the ultimate possession of it. Go to the book of Leviticus, chapter 25. The Israelites came out of Egypt. Yeah, that fulfilled the promise to Abraham that his descendants would inherit the land, but The real possession of the land happens in yet a future time. And let me show you what I mean by that. Look at Genes uh Leviticus chapter 25 and go down to verse 23 Leviticus chapter 25 and verse 23. The land shall not be sold permanently, for the land is mine, for you are strangers and sojourners with me. You know when the Israelites entered into the land, this was the laws of redemption that the families had to keep the land and the family. But he said, This land is mine, and your pilgrims and sojourn is here. When the Israelites came out of Egypt, their pilgrimage, in one sense, it ended when they got to the promised land, but in another sense, they still were only possessors of the land as they followed the Lord. And in fact he had warned them back in Leviticus 18, if you adopt it the practices the Canaanites adopt, the land is gonna vomit you out just like the Canaanites were, and that actually happened to the Israelites. Because they were sent into exile. In fact, God foretold that. Flip over to Leviticus, a couple of pages over to Leviticus chapter 26, and look at verse 40. He talks about the judgment that would happen upon the Israelites if they didn't follow him, and and that they could be driven out of the land and and waste away in a foreign land and have no power to deliver themselves. But in chapter twenty-six verse forty, But if they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, with their unfaithfulness, in which they were unfaithful to me, that they also have walked contrary to me, and that I have walked contrary to them, and have brought them into the land of their enemies. If their uncircumcised hearts are humbled and they accept their guilt, then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, my covenant with Isaac, and my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember, I will remember the land. And he tells them the land will be desolate for the number of years, the Sabbath they missed. That happened in the days when they were taken captive to Babylon. But God brought him back to the land. Why? Because of his promise. He remembered the covenant that he made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. That's what he says right here. This kind of blessing was an encouragement to the people. Flip over to Isaiah chapter 51 for a minute. Isaiah chapter 51. All these things should have been a comfort to the Jews. All we have to do is follow God's law. And we'll be okay. But nobody can really follow God's law. Time and again the Israelites would, you know, be okay for a little while and then they would go astray. And Isaiah had a message to people that were kind of familiar with that. Look at Isaiah chapter 51, start at verse 1. Listen to me, you who follow after righteousness, you who seek the Lord. Look to the rock from which you were hewn and to the hole of the pit from which you were dug Look to Abraham your father and to Sarah who bore you, for I called him alone and blessed him and increased him. For the Lord will comfort Zion, he will comfort all her waste places. He will make her wilderness like Eden and her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness will be found in it, thanksgiving and the voice of melody. Listen to me, O my people, and give ear to me, O my nation. For law will proceed from me, and I will make my justice rest as a light of the peoples. My righteousness is near, my salvation has gone forth, and my arms will judge the peoples. The coastlands will wait upon me and on my arm they will trust. Lift up your eyes to the heavens and look on the earth beneath. For the heavens will vanish away like smoke, and the earth will grow old like a garment, and those who dwell in it will die in like manner. But my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness will not be abolished Listen to me, you who know righteousness, you people in whose heart is my law. Do not refear the reproach of men. Nor be afraid of their insults, for the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool, but my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation from generation to generation. This passage started out with a reminder of looking at Abraham. Here was this man with a barren wife And God told him, I'm going to make a great nation of you. And when people look back at how all those things were fulfilled, how God had not only multiplied his descendants, and it took a while. You realize while Abraham's son Isaac was having two sons, Esau and Jacob, that his brother Ishmael had 12 sons and already kind of had his own thing? Do you realize while Isaac's sons, Esau and Jacob, Esau was the child of promise, and while he was getting pretty old and and having, you know, h his own problems that his brother h his descendants were going down to Egypt to spend four hundred years. Esau already had twelve tribes and was building up his nation. But when you look at God's promise, how it unfolded in the long term, God says, look to Abraham, look to Sarah. Look at how hopeless their case was, but I blessed and increased him. In the same way, God's going to keep his promise. And what promise does he mention here? And several points. I read a long passage here, but he mentions his righteousness. And this whole passage is addressed to back in verse 1, you who follow after righteousness. But it's not our righteousness, our own righteousness. Later in Isaiah he mentions that our righteousness is like filthy rags. God says, my righteousness is near in verse 5. My salvation is gone for. The end of verse 6. My salvation will be forever. My righteousness will not be abolished. Those who, like Abraham, receive righteousness by faith, have something that is unshakable. They have a place in God's kingdom And God's plan that's going to be, as he says in verse 8, my righteousness will be forever, my salvation from generation to generation You notice in the middle of this passage that he says, verse six, Lift up your eyes to the heaven and look on the earth beneath. The heavens will vanish away like smoke, the earth will grow old like a garment, and those who dwell in it in like manner. You realize in the New Testament in 1 Peter 3, let's just close with this passage in 1 Peter 3. 1 Peter 3 verses 10 through 14. First Peter chapter three, verses ten through fourteen I mean Second Peter chapter three, I'm sorry. Second Peter chapter three But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in a night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Therefore, since these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? Looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace, without spot and blameless. That's the application we should get from Abraham's story. We're pilgrims and sojourners here in this earth, just like Abraham was. We're gonna, you know, the meek shall inherit the earth, but it's gonna be a new heavens and a new earth. But it's only those who have God's gift of righteousness that are gonna stand, because the new heavens and a new earth Nothing false or deceptive or unclean is going to be allowed there. God's righteousness, his salvation will be forever And just like Abraham, we're pilgrims and sojourners on this earth. You know there is a literal regathering of Israel. If you doubt that, I encourage you to read the end of Ezekiel 47 and 48. We're not going to look at that, but. He talks about a time when he's going to regather the tribes of Israel and divide the land up among them. And the boundaries are not what happened in Joshua's day. That has to be something to do with the Millennial Kingdom. But we have a place in God's future if you're a child of God. And just, you know The promise to Abraham, I hope I was able to picture how ridiculous it looked. Sometimes today we are believers and we're not to conform to the world. We're to be transformed by the renewing of our mind. That brings ridicule. That brings it takes a resolve to trust what God says and do what God says. But what kind of people ought we to be, knowing that this heavens and earth are going to be dissolved with fire? We should be looking for the new heavens and the new earth new earth in which righteousness dwells, and right now. Right now, he tells us down in verse 14, looking forward to these things, be diligent to be found by him in peace without spot and blameless. Let's close with a word of prayer. Father, here we are, the last day of last Lord's day of 2018. Time passes by. But you remain the same in your years. You never change, Lord. And so, Lord, as we look forward to the days and years ahead, help us to have that resolve like Abraham had, to trust you. To look for your promises, to walk by faith, not by sight. Lord, if there's spots and things that clung to us, if we've allowed ourselves to be conformed to the world. We thank you that you're the good shepherd who calls us out just like you did with Abraham. Help us to respond the right way. And Father, use us as channels of blessing to other people, just like Abraham that through us that your blessing would come to others, especially the gift of righteousness. Lord, this is a truth that we know that other people don't. And so help us to lay up our treasure in heaven, to walk with you each day, and to gain strength and encouragement from the example of how you, the God of heaven, The Creator of heaven and earth called Abraham and blessed him. Lord, truly your blessings to us are just as great. We thank you for that in Jesus' name. Amen.