The famous American author William Zinzer, whose book on writing well is in its thirtieth edition, had this advice for aspiring nonfiction writers. It's about how to end your writing project. When you're ready to stop, stop. If you have presented all the facts and made the point you want to make, look for the nearest exit. Paul didn't know Zenser, but I think the apostle would agree. Having said all that he needs to say to Titus, it was time to stop. From our perspective, it's tempting to view the last four verses of Titus as an addendum or just afterthoughts. But if we believe in the doctrine of plenary inspiration of scriptures, we shall study these words. Plenary inspiration means every part of the Bible, prose and poetry, legal and prophetic. simple and complex all proceed from the mouth of God, albeit uh channeled to human writers. All parts are perfect. All parts are relevant. That includes Paul's last words after the main body of his epistles. I doubt any verse from today's passage will be included in the Awana Honeycomb Handbook or Navigator's Topical Memory System, but Still, we have God's word inspired and open before us, so we must study them. Now, to my surprise, while studying Titus 3:12 to 15, I believe I've located some valuable insights. These verses are great relevance for me as a pastor and really for anyone who wants to live for God. So let's read the first uh read let's read the text before I comment any further. So it's Titus 3, 12 to 15. When I sent Artemis to you, or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there. Send Zenus the lawyer and Apollos on their journey with haste, that they may lack nothing. And let our people also learn to good maintain good works, to meet urgent needs, that they may not be unfruitful. All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen. No surprise, there isn't a complex structural outline here. The agenda is simple. Move workers from point A to point B Get congregants active helping others and be fruitful. Sign off with final greetings. But even in passages like this one, there are some valuable insights for living. Since Paul's anticipating winter, like us here in December, I guess winter is already here, as you can see outside. And I'll make my main point like this. How can we keep warm our relationships with God and his people? If your spiritual temperature is dropping, how do we gather around the hurt with our church community, church family, toss in some firewood and add some fuel? I see four ways to do that. There's really four words. First in verse 12, Paul prioritizes accountability. Secondly, in verse 13, Titus is expected to display hospitality. Thirdly, in verse 14, we see there's learning for productivity. Fourthly in verse fifteen it's vital to have a community. That's accountability, hospitality, productivity, and community. community. I want to major on these four ITY ending words as I prepare for 2026, Lord willing, and I hope you do too. The first Paul sends for Titus to have ongoing accountability. So let me see here by two Recall in chapter one verse four that Paul considers Titus a true son in common faith. And that's remarkable as Titus is not a Jew, but a Gentile. That matters little though, as they serve together the same Lord Christ Jesus. We also recall from chapter 1 verse 5 that Paul left them in Crete, that he should set in order the things that are lacking, and appoint elders in every city as he commanded him. So because the three chapters are full of instructions, directives, and commands, there's enough to keep any pastor busy for a while. It's as if Titus has been handed a syllabus for a seminary course entitled Pastoral Ministry 101. And like any class, it's fitting to have a time for grading and evaluating. There should be reports and reviews, quizzes and exams. Now how is that to be done? I sometimes wonder whether Paul, if he was alive today, would use Zoom or video conference. To keep in touch with his disciples. My guess is that he'd see value in them. But he'd conclude nothing replaces face-to-face accountability. Remember our studies in 1 Thessalonians. I got the passages up there for you. Listen to him, Paul, describe his desire to be with that church. 217-18 says, I'll just read it for you. Revisit it later. We brethren, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavor more eagerly to See your face with great desire. Therefore, we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and again, but Satan hindered us. Later in chapter 3, 9 to 10, still in 1 Thessalonians, he says, What thanks can we render to God for you for all the joy with which we rejoice for your sake before our God, night and day, praying exceedingly. That we may see your face and perfect what is lacking in your faith. Similarly, he wrote in Romans 1, 9-12, without ceasing, I make mention of you, always in my prayers. Making requests if by some means now at last I may find the way in the will of God to come to you. For I long to see you That I may impart to you some spiritual gift so that you may be established. That is, that I may be encouraged together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me. That doesn't sound like a man satisfied with long-distance relationships. Accountability is best achieved face-to-face, not through FaceTime or Facebook. That's why Paul made the arrangements you see in Titus 3. 12. We're not sure where Paul was previously, but the apostle wants to rendezvous with Titus in Nicopolis. A poor city located in northwest Greece. Just for background, it was a monument city, literally a victory city. That's what Nicopolis means. celebrating the Battle of Actium as Caesar Augustus founded it after defeating Mark Anthony and Cleopatra about 90 years ago. Relevant to us here is Paul's plan is to winter there, that is, stay put for about three months there, suspend travel until seat-bearing conditions improve. We're not sure of Paul's next move when warmer spring arrives. One hypothesis is that he's attempting to go westward as far as Spain as he had wished from earlier. You'll see that in Romans 15. But before all that, Paul wants to see Titus and Nicopolis. I looked up a distance from Crete to Nicopolis. A Google search yielded the result, traveling on both sea and land, Titus must cover over 460 miles. Keep in mind this is not the age of jet airplanes, bullet trains, motorboats, and Uber rides. So that's quite a distance But for accountability's sake, it's worth all the trouble. Now someone would have to cover for Titus while he's away from Crete Paul's planning to send one of two men to relieve him temporarily. We know next to nothing about Artemis. Tychicus, on the other hand, is a familiar name in the New Testament. He's from the Roman province of Asia and Western Turkey. He was one of Paul's travel companions on his journey to Jerusalem. He's a beloved brother, faithful minister, a fellow servant in the Lord who brought latest news concerning Paul. Another time he was sent to Ephesus, presumably to relieve Timothy. So now Tychicus might be sent to Crete to relieve Titus. We don't know which one ended up in Crete, Artemis or Tychicus, but you see the reasoning. Paul sends one of them here so that Titus can come you know, to meet Paul. They have to meet up for accountability. But this plan will take some time to execute So meanwhile, in verse 13, Paul directs Titus to send off two workers named Zenus and Apollos. So not only is Paul concerned for accountability, he wants to see Titus display hospitality. So before we get to hospitality, here's some background on the two people named here. Like the two names in verse 12, we know next to nothing about one and know a lot about the other. Like Artemis, we know very little about Zenos. We don't know whether he's a Jew or a Gentile. Correspondingly, we know he's a lawyer, but even that's vague. Is he a lawyer of the Jewish religious law or is he a lawyer of Roman civil law? We're not sure. Either way, he's been with Titus helping him and his ministry. We have much more data concerning Apollos Luke tells us in Acts that Apollos was a Jew born in Alexandria, Egypt. He was eloquent, mighty in scriptures. After Aquila and Priscilla explained the gospel to him. He greatly helped the believers and refuted the naysayers. As one of the ministers at Corinth, Apollos built on what Paul started, watered what Paul planted. And it looks like Apollo's continued to help uh to be of help to Paul, even at a different place like Crete Next, he and Xenus are preparing to leave. Titus must send them all properly. The command send on their journeys, one word in the original language, is used for dispatching individuals and accompanying them. We expect to see that word a lot in Paul's travels and correspondences, and we do But most relevant to Titus 3. 13 is what Apostle John wrote in his third letter. He commands his friend Gaius for practicing hospitality to fellow believers, especially itinerant preachers. The Apostle John writes From the middle of verse six to eight in third John, if you send them forward on their journey in a manner worthy of God, you will do well, because they went forth for his name's sake, taking nothing from the Gentiles. We therefore also receive Such that we may become fellow workers for the truth. Like Gaius, Titus receives instructions from an apostle to show hospitality to kingdom workers as they stay and as they depart. Now you see in in uh in the New King James version that we use that adverb attached to this command with haste. When I read that I was like haste gives the impression that Titus has to get them out like as soon as possible Like I suppose if you're like too eager to send someone off, it might seem like you don't want them around anymore. I don't know if you'll feel like that around this time of the year during holidays, but that's not what's meant here, right? It just means Titus must care, take care, to have the two men equipped for the journey ahead. Other translations work better here. New American Standard Bible says diligently help on their way. The New English translation has made every effort to help underway. The purpose behind all the effort and diligence is clear. You see at the last part of verse 13, that they may lack nothing. The hospitality not only anticipates needs and provides during one's stay, it also anticipates needs and provides as one goes away in their journey. So we're not just providing food and lodging like a hotel service. We're concerned about departure and arrival at the next destination. So Titus is busy going for accountability, busy standing with hospitality. Next, Paul wants Titus to turn to his own people, those who will stay right where they are in Crete. So look at verse 14. This is where we learn the importance of productivity. So every congregation has its weaknesses and strengths. The problem with the Cretan Christians is that some act like Cretans more than Christians. That's not good. I mean it's true we're American Christians, but it's more important that we're Christians and less important that we're Americans. Right? That's not controversial, is it? I hope not. I only say that because Titus three fourteen reminds us a bit of what Paul said earlier So if you put back a few pages in your Bible to look at chapter 1, verse 12, while warning about opposition and creed, the apostle cites one of their own poets named Epimenides. Epimenides had this to say about his people as one of them, a prophet of their own. He said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. Wow, yeah. Well this may sound like stereotyping, but Paul's an inspired writer of scripture, and he confirms his testimony is true in verse 13. So the natives of Crete, as a product of their own culture, and by nature sinners, fit those descriptions. Now there's uh what do we do about that though? But well there's a gospel, and thank God once they're saved, they're transformed. Now there's hope for change. While Cretans are always lying, Cretan Christians acknowledge truth that accords with godliness. While Cretans are evil beasts, Cretan Christians are purified as God's own special people. And now connecting to Titus 3. 14, whereas Cretans are lazy gluttons, Cretan Christians learn to maintain good works. That means they can be productive for the glory of God We discussed the phrase maintain good works last time. In the middle of Titus 3 8, Paul states, those who have believed in God should be careful to maintain good works. Good news leads us to do good works. Good works do not save us, of course, but good works can be fruits and evidences of a lively faith. And maintaining good works is not only doctrinal but practical. Such productivity meets urgent needs. We should not only be concerned about our retirement, vacation funds, and nest exes, we should work hard to help others in trouble. Paul emphasized this kind of generosity to the Ephesian church leaders and members as he ended his address to their elders and Meletus in Acts 20, 34. 4 to 35. He testified. These hands are provided for my necessities and for those who are with me. I've shown you in every way by laboring like this that you should should support the weak. And remember remember the words of the Lord Jesus that he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. Then he wrote Ephesians 4. 28 to the entire congregation, let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give him who has need. Back to Titus 3:14 to complete the thought of this verse. Look at how maintaining good works is not only doctrinal, it's practical, it's also transformational. The last phrase of the verse reads, That they may not be unfruitful. We've got to believe this: that working and giving and doing things that are good changes you as a person. You bear fruit and become fruitful yourself and grow in sanctification. So productivity is a good thing, not just for your work life, but also for your spiritual life. As we're productive in our respective careers and our studies, we leave a quiet life, mind our own business, work with our own hands and walk properly toward those outside. But it's also good to work together as a church. Hebrews 10, 24-25 says, Let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but exhorting one another, and so much the more. as you see the day approaching. Learning to maintain good works, meeting urgent needs, being fruitful are things best done together in a faith community. So Paul lived by that principle and taught it. Read the New Testament carefully, and you'll find he's a man of relationships and connections. His passion is for the saints. They were his beloved, the longed-for brethren, joy and crown. His deep concern for all the churches came upon him daily. Also true church man. Even this one short verse at the end of a short book reveals that to be the case. The first sentence in verse 15 reveals that Paul's not alone. We already discussed how Artemis and Tychekus were with him. Probably more by his side. The second sentence tells us that with Titus are those who love Paul and his companions. That love is based on the common faith in Christ. Common faith is more important than common backgrounds, race or politics. Again, common faith unites Paul, a Jew, with Titus a Gentile. Common faith makes them a loving family. Sharing love and faith, we wish the best for each other. The third sentence in verse 15 is a prayer for grace. There's nothing better than wishing someone something good and undeserved, especially from God. That's grace from God the Father and Lord Jesus Christ our Savior. Because grace comes from above, there's no shortage of it. Already it is exceedingly abundant. There's more in ages to come as God will show the exceeding riches of His grace and His kindness toward us. There's plenty of grace to go around for ourselves and each other today. That's the grace to which we say amen and share in our community. So that's how we keep warm our relationships with God and His people, accountability, hospitality, productivity, and community. I could rephrase these points as forekeepers. Keep each other accountable by meeting together. Keep each other in mind, even as we depart. It's not out of sight, out of mind. Keep moving and working, maintaining good works, meeting needs, and being fruitful. Keep in touch, right? Greeting and wishing the best for each other To close, I'll use the rest of the sermon time to make four applications based on the four keepers. First, concerning accountability, I want to highlight the importance of meeting up in person Okay. I confess that as I get older, I'm becoming more of a homebody. I'm a family man with young kids, so many of you understand. But even as a bachelor, I was never a big traveler. I'm not like my wife who by age thirteen had lived in three different continents My favorite travel locations are more modest. Local parks, coffee shops, public libraries, just shuffle between those three All within like 15 minute driving distance. But if there's anything we're getting all of us ready and out the door, even in a cold day like this, is accountability. Right? Just before we married, and a few years after we married, there were two important series of accountability meetings for I Re and myself. First, there was a premarital counseling in 2016. So both of us lived in Northern Virginia at the time, and I was in another church ministry. So the only time we could meet our counselor, Dr. Beale, was midweek. And some of you know Dr. Beal lives in Maryland. So we fought through 495 traffic in hot summertime after a long day of work during busy wedding preparation season. Often exhausted. But we made it through all the workbook material and sessions, and I believe our marriage is stronger because of accountability Similarly, in 2018, at our former church, Capitol Hill Baptist, there was a small group for newlywed couples led by an older, more experienced couple. Again, it was a tumultuous time in our lives with E-Ray working in the hospital ships, 12-hour ships, and me finishing up my PhD studies We're exhausted on Fridays when we met with the group. We barely got the readings done in time and often we didn't feel like going, right? But we never once regretted going after words. As we're heading home, we always return home encouraged. I believe our marriage is stronger because of accountability. Now I'm not saying you never do, you know, some kind of session virtually But my take in general is that unless you're a shut-in and invalid or in some dire circumstance, accountability should not take place mostly online. If you can drive to grab chips and soda before attending a Christmas party, surely you can venture out to meet fellow saints for spiritual nourishment. If crazy college football fans from all over the nation show up on Fridays for tailgating before a Saturday game. Surely Christians can carve out their schedule and prepare in advance on Saturday for Sunday service. Next concerning hospitality, I don't need to say much. Most of us know how important it is to open up our homes to welcome guests. If that's not possible for you and your family, you might team up with another saint individual or another couple for the effort. Or if the Lord has blessed you financially, you could go out and treat someone to a meal or dessert. Listen to what our Lord Jesus says in Luke 16, 9. Make friends for yourselves by unrighteous mammon. That means use your earthly earnings to practice heavenly hospitality. Do so with diligence, do so with haste. I think in a transient area like Gars, you never know how long we'll have with someone, right? So how many opportunities you'll have to help them on their journey. On to productivity. There's a very specific application. Our church has a custom of designating holiday offerings for special causes. Our big three are Easter, Thanksgiving, and Christmas. This year the two earlier special c collections were for hospitality and fellowship. The one coming up later this month, the Christmas offering, is for Helping Hand. I know David explained a little bit, but for those who don't know, Helping Hand is a ministry to assist those having material needs. So Phil Garbado, the leader of this ministry, does a good job of making sure every request is properly evaluated If the one asking for help is not a Christian, he makes sure to present the gospel. We don't make repenting and believing in Jesus a prerequisite for to ask and get help from us. But we don't want to waste any opportunity for wisdom. Anyways, we think that this is a good faith Bible church ministry, especially in fulfilling Titus 3. 14. Through helping hand, we can learn to maintain good works, meet urgent needs, so that we may not be unfruitful. In the past, through this ministry, we've helped members and outsiders pay for medical bills, moving expenses, and Christian counseling. As you can imagine, these are urgent needs that usually are not anticipated. Unexpected and unpleasant surprises do happen Having some reserve funds ready and on hand can be useful. To conclude, here's a good work in work you can do this month. feel like a fundraising campaign guy right now, but contribute to the Helping Hand Ministry to the Christmas special offering. So finally here's a word about community. Make this application in two parts. First, if you're already a born-again Christian, please consider joining us here as members at Faith Bible Church So merely attending here on Sundays doesn't make you a member. You know, the service is open to everyone, even non-Christians. Besides, life in the church is not limited to 70 to 80 minutes. Okay. In membership meetings, we talk about our human resources and material resources, the key voting decisions concerning officers and the budget later today. We need more commitment to go deeper in discipleship, to fulfill all the one-another commands. Many more opportunities to serve beyond what you see today So to join us, all you have to do is read over a membership packet with key information, agree to our mission, covenant, and doctrines, and then meet a few times with me and lay elder Kerry. So please think about it and pray about it. You can talk me at talk to me at the door if you're interested. And finally, concerning our community, I turn to those who are not Christians. Maybe someone listening online. I hope you feel warm and welcome at our church. But the best we can do is reflect and point to the true source of love, God who is love. And to know him you must know and accept the gospel, the good news of Jesus. I'm going to actually just repeat the contents posted on our church website under next steps. To join our community, the first step is to become a follower of Jesus. We would like for you to attend our church, but this is not our main concern for you. Our main concern is that you know for sure that if you were to die today, you will go to heaven. You can know for sure. But no one deserves heaven. You have sinned, and holy God cannot allow sin into heaven. He must instead send you to rightful punishment in hell. There's nothing you can do to earn heaven. No good works or sacraments can save you. But God has made a way to heaven. That one way is to the death of His perfect Son, Jesus Christ. He died to take your punishment for your sin. Three days later, Jesus came back to life, proving his power over death. You can accept Jesus as a substitute for you and have a home in heaven. Admit you have sinned and cannot earn heaven. Believe Christ died and rose to take your punishment for your sin. Trust Christ alone to save you. That's what's on the website, but that's represents what we believe as the gospel, the good news. By repenting and trusting in Jesus, you can be saved. Save and join our community of faith. So I hope you make the decision soon. Think about it carefully, but do decide urgently. Your next day is not guaranteed, next hour is not guaranteed. Pray that our last song we sing today becomes your personal profession of faith this winter. In Christ alone, my hope is well. Let's pray. So we thank you for our short study through Titus. Thank you for Thank you for the gospel. Thank you for your kindness. Thank you for your grace. There's so many things to think about as we approach the Christmas season, but really all year round and through all of our lives we can be grateful. Lord help us to apply what we have learned today, the importance of accountability, hospitality, productivity and community. community. Lord just we pray that there will be applications rich and practical this week as we think about how we may best serve you. We thank you for bringing us here together and as we go through the rest of the day, as we have fellowship and as we We have our meetings. Pray that you would unite us to serve you better, to love you more. And we thank you for your son, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.