Open your Bibles now to Ephesians chapter 6. Ephesians chapter 6. We'll begin this morning by reading the passage. On the armor of God. As we read, allow the word of God to soak into your soul. Consider, for example, the action words that God Himself is pressing down upon you, things that you must do. Consider also things that are concepts that are associated with the illustration. Truth, righteousness. Dwell on the fact that this armor is ours to possess. It is available to us. And it is powerful. Look at its abilities. This is Ephesians 6, verse 10. Finally, my brethren. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world Against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins gird about with truth. And having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto, with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. If you've been a Christian for longer than a day, you probably have begun to learn that Christianity is not a religion. Now let me just let me explain what I mean by that. Christianity is not Islam, which by all appearances appears to be a religion of physical war. But even having said that, Christianity is also, there is a sense in which it is not a religion of peace. It is, in fact, we see from passages like this, a religion, if we call it that, of spiritual conflict. Men and women do not fight one another. We see that from the passage in verse 12. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. But we do wrestle against principalities and powers and so on, what we see in verse 12 The fact is, if you've been a Christian more than a day, you've experienced this in your life. All of us here probably could just say by virtue of our experience and what we observed in our life and the lives of others. that it is not easy being a Christian sometimes. That there are those moments when we feel like we are literally in a battle for our very lives. Not only our lives, but the lives of our children and grandchildren. And by virtue of our own personal walks with Christ, when we come into this building, is there not a sense in which we are battling for the very existence of faith, Bible, Church? Spiritual warfare is a real thing. But rather than depending on praying more loudly, Or casting out demons, or commanding diseases to leave, which are all methods that you will not find in the New Testament for us who have lived past the days of the apostles. Rather than resorting to magic and superstition And vain tradition. You and I are to take up the whole armor of God. So let me start here. How are you doing? Do you feel like you've developed any kind of a habit where you're putting this armor on? Briefly, let's remind ourselves of what we have already gone over. First, there is This thing in verse 14 called the belt of truth. Having that on enabled the soldier, the Roman soldier, to move. He could gird up his loins. And he had greater opportunity to move across the battlefield. It was also a belt that held his armor on. You and I as Christians need to know what is true and what is not true by virtue. Are you able, for example, to go out into our culture and even though the smog of secularism and postmodernism has just descended upon America, are you able to cut through the the pollution? And see what is true. That is true. That is not true. And I will hold on to what is true. Are you also someone who is taking righteousness as a breastplate? This speaks of the protection that a righteous lifestyle affords us. Certainly, as Christians, we have been justified and given the righteousness of Christ, but then there is the protection that someone enjoys who is living a real righteous life I mean, it's true, folks, if you stay away from certain influences, you will be safer spiritually if you're careful of who is your best friend. You'll be able to resist certain temptations. If you build boundaries into your life and try to walk in the Spirit, you're going to have a certain kind of lifestyle that protects you. This is seen in the life of Joseph, who resisted Potiphar's wife, who already had as a standard operating procedure, I will not sin against God or Potiphar, and he runs away. This is seen in the life of others who in the book of Acts had as their lifestyle, as their habit. The fruit of the Spirit. And so when they were placed in jail, they sang. This is seen in the life of Job. Who, even when he was pressured with intense physical suffering, emotional agony, and poverty, said, Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. Him, the breastplate of righteousness. Do you have that on this morning? Is your lifestyle a lifestyle of righteousness? Can it protect you? And then if you look at your Bible, there is They're the feet. You look down at verse 15, the feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Last week we saw, at least in part, that this has to do with you having a proper understanding of the peace between you and God that the gospel has created. You put your faith in the death of Christ on the cross, and now there is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. God is not looking down from heaven with all his weaponry ready to destroy you. In his just wrath. Because his just wrath is satisfied in the cross, you now have been reconciled to him. He is your friend. He is your father. And you have peace with him. A proper understanding of that is like having on shoes that enable you to have the right stability in the face of conflict. You can move on that. You know what to do. You have a sense that you and God are okay, so now you can face this battle. And it also has the implication that you are quick to share the gospel of peace. You're able to do so. You understand it, it stabilizes your footing, and you're able to share it. As a result, although I wouldn't say that's the first interpretation, it's certainly an application of the passage: truth, righteousness, and peace with God That is so different from casting out devils and commanding sicknesses. It is so much more robust, satisfying, and of course, more than anything, biblical. It's right here in the text. Now that leads us next, if you look down at your Bible, to this wonderful concept in verse 16. Above all, now that is not to say it is first in priority. Probably the meaning here is that it is something that we are taking in our arms and placing before us. Above all, taking the shield of faith Wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. A couple things we should note right off the bat. First Once you put your shoes on and you have your belt and your breastplate, they pretty much stay on you. Okay? There's nothing else you have to do In modern terms, we might have to tie our shoes occasionally when they our shoe strings are loosened, but that's not the idea here. You've got the gospel, the p the gospel of peace, footwear, you've got your belt, you've got, but the shield is different, isn't it? We find that it's different if you look at verse 14 because I'm sorry, at verse 16, because there is this added taking the shield of faith. And the very by virtue of what it is, it involves extra movement and ability. We're not constantly adjusting our breastplate, so to speak. But we have to take that shield up and we have to put it between us and the devil's, what does it say here in verse 16? Fiery darts. of the wicked, and that could be translated the wicked one, capital W, capital O. This is a reference to the devil himself. On the battlefield, the devil is shooting at us with fiery darts, and we have to take the added action while we're there to lift this thing up. And do something with it. That means that there are going to be those moments when we have a sense that we are really under attack. The darts are coming at us. And we have to make that decision. You know, just from this passage and the context, I would define the shield of faith this way. I would define it as. An act wherein you affirm your belief in the Word of God in the middle of an onslaught. You're using the shield of faith. It's an act of your will when you are affirming your belief in the Word of God in the midst of an onslaught. What does that look like and how does that work? Let's find some illustrations from the Hall of Faith. If you'll turn there quickly to Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 11. You're all familiar with this, but let's pull out of this what it's going to look like. And then we'll make some applications and illustrations for you and me in modern day life. Hebrews 11, of course, is the hall of faith. It gives a list of individuals who do amazing things. They don't do this by virtue of their genius or their wisdom, they do it by faith. And we see that in Hebrews 11, verse 7, by faith, verse 8, by faith, verse 9, by faith. We also see that there is a lot that can be accomplished by faith. What is faith? Well, the writer of the Hebrews has a definition that's very interesting in verse 1. He says faith is the substance of things hoped for. Could also be translated the assurance of things hoped for And it becomes the evidence of things not seen. So you have an individual like Abel. And he has a personal assurance that there is the word of God, God wants him to present to God a certain kind of sacrifice. And so this assurance and this hope that Abel has that his sacrifice will be accepted if he does it the right way. The fact that he goes out and offers unto God, verse 4, a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, this becomes a kind of evidence That God is real, even though we cannot see God. By extension, you and I, the fact that you are here today That you live a certain lifestyle and you have a certain understanding of the true God that none of us can see. You and I, in the course of church history, become evidence to those around us. That there are things that cannot be seen, but that they are real. Folks, let's face it: no one here has seen God When I was a teenager, I was not satisfied with that. Have you ever been dissatisfied with that? I would imagine someone here has been. I've been saved since I was five, and I've told you that there was a day when I went up into the woods and I said, Lord, if you're real, you've got to show me. And I was serious. I had a crisis of faith. I said, God, if you're real, I want you to do something to show me that you're real. And I went up to the this big tree, I don't know what kind it was. About this big around. And I said, Lord, just just knock this tree down. Surely that's not too hard for God. You've made the tree. I mean, can you just knock it down? The fact that he made the tree evidently wasn't enough evidence for me at that time. Time that he was real. I needed them to knock down. I needed God to destroy something, you know? That would be great. That doesn't make any sense, but I I was trying. He didn't knock it down And I remember other times in my life when I have prayed for things and he hasn't done it. And that's been tough. When I was in Egypt for my missions trip, I went up to the top of a building. I prayed for God to knock the mosques down. My view of God, I guess. He's very destructive. So just knock these mosques down. I'm tired of hearing this call to prayer. He didn't do that either. Have you ever had that moment in your life when you ask God to do something? And he didn't do it. Let's look at some of these people and see what their potential crisis of faith and the necessity of faith, how that would work out in their lives. You look down at first at verse 3. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. So that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Here is our idea of ex Nilo, out of nothing, God created, Genesis chapter 1. Folks, let's be very clear that even though we uh we have Christian scientists, and I don't mean Christian science, I'm talking scientists who happen to be Christians. And we have the Creation Science Institute. We have the Museum. How many have been to the museum, by the way, in Kentucky? Anybody? Okay, just wow, only one person. So I'd like to go there sometime. There is still the fact that you and I cannot prove empirically that God created everything. We can't use science to prove that. 1 Corinthians 1 to 3 teaches us that God revealed it to us. That it's not now. Can we sort of confirm it with science? And can is science useful? Absolutely. I'm not saying that. But what I am saying is By faith, through faith, we understand the creation of the world and the universe. There will always be the necessity Of faith when it comes to human origins and Christianity. Now we can keep studying and we can go, we can certainly listen to people who have PhDs in geology and archaeology. But still there comes that moment when we just say, you know what? I accept what Genesis 1 says by faith. And I believe Believe that it's so. When you think of that, verse 3, and you go back to Ephesians 6 and our definition of the shield of faith, affirming your belief in the Word of God in the face of an onslaught. Would you not agree that one of the onslaughts we have in our culture today is against what I just said? I was just talking to someone a few weeks ago about the state of, actually last week, about the state of American Christianity when it comes to evolution. when it comes to this whole idea of origins and the reliability of Genesis. And this individual said that many Christians today are cutting off Genesis from their Bibles. They're just cutting off Genesis and then they kind of cut off Revelation too. They're really not sure about the future, and they're really not sure about the past. And this individual was saying that this is epidemic in evangelical Christianity. So many people are just throwing away Genesis 1. I would caution us. Let scientists dig up as many bones as they want. It's great. Great. Let them find a new strain of Bronosaurus or I don't know, I don't even know all their names. I love dinosaurs. I have ever since I was a kid. Kid. How is that going to change my faith? I believe what the Bible says. And in so doing, I might not understand how it all fits together, yet still I trust. In the Word of God. And that ultimately is where I stand. Have you ever felt that way when it comes to evolution and creation and how all this works? You say, well, as soon as I get the right answer, I'll let my spirit rest. You might never get the right answer. We might never understand how all the true science and the biblical data fits together in this lifetime. Really, let's be realistic. Will we ever come to that place where we understand how it all works? That should not affect the fact that you believe, that you trust in what Moses wrote in Genesis 1, in the Word of God. The writer to the Hebrews says it's by faith. Through faith, we understand this. Not only that, but we have Abel and Enoch, and let's talk about them for a second. In Hebrews 11, verse 4, it says, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. By which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead yet speaketh We kind of move from creation to this whole right there in the first pages of Genesis. We're still at the very beginning, and we have mankind Trying to give something to God that God will accept. Now you know the story. Adam and Eve sinned, the world was full of sin now The family that was rather small, there was Cain and Abel and Adam and Eve at this point. And God wanted something from them But he wanted something. Look at verse 4. He wanted a more excellent something. There was a limitation to what he wanted. There were certain things he would not accept, we know from what Cain gave him, and certain things that he would accept. That's what Abel gave him. And this was not, folks, think about this. It was Abel believing God, believing that whatever God wanted, that is what God really wanted. That was his act of faith. So how does this apply to us now today? What do you think will please God in your life? What do you think God really wants from you? Well, if you want to be saved, there's only one thing he wants, but he doesn't credit that as salvation, but he wants you to look away from yourself to what he did on the cross. When Jesus died on that cross and paid your punishment, your penalty, he wants you to believe in that and he'll save you. The problem is that does require faith because the cross is empty. You go into a Catholic church, you see Jesus on the cross, right? He's not dead now, though. As Protestants, our cross is empty, and our tomb is empty too. Right? It's easier sometimes for you and me, people, to say, you know what? I don't I'm not sure I can believe in this Jesus thing. So instead of Jesus, I'm gonna give God something else. I'm gonna be a really good husband. You know, all these other guys are jerks. Well, I'm not gonna treat my wife like that. I'm gonna be a good husband. And I know God's gonna accept that to save me Or, now obviously I'm not preaching for all us guys to be bad husbands this morning. Okay? Yeah, go ahead, guys. Be bad husbands. You can just be a Christian. Now I'm not saying that, obviously. Or what about this? You know, I'm going to give some money to UNICEF this year, and I'm going to do it every year of my life. And when I die, I'm going to give all my money. To do something good. And I think God will be satisfied with that. The problem is God only wanted a certain kind of sacrifice from Abel, and he will only accept a certain kind of sacrifice from you and me, the one that he already provided. And he requires faith. He will not accept UNICEF donations. He won't accept really, really good husbands or really, really good wives. He won't accept. Giving your body to be burned. He only accepts Christ. He only accepts faith So it's interesting that the writer to Hebrews begins in his litany of what people have done by faith with creation and in a sense sacrifice. Salvation. So let me ask you, which which of the two are you depending on today? Are you trying to give God a sacrifice that He won't accept? Or are you willing to, by faith, accept the sacrifice that He already gave in Christ? Well, he moves on from there. Look at verse 5. And we're not going to go through all of this, but we're just pulling out from we've got Enoch. He was translated. The idea there is he was carried up into heaven so that he should not see death. And was not found, and because God is the one who did it, God translated him. But for before his translation, he had this testimony that he pleased God So we have a break in verse 6. But before that break, we have creation, sacrifice, and now this idea of just pleasing God. And even that requires faith. So someone reading this might go, wow, that is faith really that important? I mean, I've got to have faith to believe that God made the worlds. I've got to have faith to give a certain kind of sacrifice to God. I've got to have faith to even please God. I mean, that's a little bit extreme, isn't it? And so the writer says in verse 6, Look, without faith, it's impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The writer just throws down the gauntlet and says, look, if you don't have faith, you can't even get into the game. You cannot even please God at all. There's there's it's impossible. He requires it. Now go back to Ephesians 6. Flip back there quickly. So, where does this take us to next? Those are some pretty basic things in those first couple of verses in Hebrews 11. Creation, sacrifice, and pleasing God. That would be a message for someone here today who might not be a Christian, who's never come to Christ and never really believed on Him for salvation. But what about the rest of us who have been Christians for two, three decades, and we want to take something home for ourselves today? I want to be careful how I say this. I want to give you just a little bit of a testimony this morning. This past year in my life, I have had to make some really hard choices. Probably some of the hardest choices I have ever made in my life. Life. Choices that have to do with life and death for the people that I love. Have you ever had to make a choice like that? Do you keep them on life support or don't you? Do you go with this medical regimen or that one? Those are tough times. And in my own life, I have had to fall back hard Sort of on the refining fire. Did you know God refines your faith? There were a couple times in my life this past year when I prayed something and God did not do it. And he didn't do it in such a way that it almost put me in a crisis of faith because I believed something was biblical that wasn't And so I had to go back to the drawing board and study the word to make sure I understood correctly. Have you ever had a moment like that? When you there was no when you your options were limited and everything was very clear and you had to decide. And then that you come to this point where am I going am I going to believe? And here's what it came down to for me. This is a testimony that I think will help you as well. I'm not just saying this. Because I like to talk about myself. If you go to James 1. And then we'll look at this for more for all of us, not just me. James 1. Verse 5. It says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. That giveth to all men liberally and abbreideth not, and it shall be given him There was at least two times this past year. It's hard to describe, but I think you can relate to this. When all that existed in my universe was me and that verse. And whether I was going to believe it or not. That was That was it. Your opinions didn't matter. I love you, but your opinions didn't matter because you couldn't decide for me. Have you ever been reduced down to that in your life? It's you and a verse and whether you're going to believe it or not. And there were times when I had to get up every day, and it was me and this verse. And that's not easy, is it? But what happens is, God loves us. And he who began a good work in us is going to see it all the way to completion. And the Spirit of God is within us, empowering us. And we have a whole lot more in the Word of God than just that one verse to look at and study as well. And we have a Christian family around us encouraging us. But it still comes down to, am I going to pick up the shield and face the onslaught of unbelief in my life or not? Folks, I'm here to tell you that by God's grace, I did pick that shield up. And I did put it in front of me above all to deflect the fiery darts of the devil. I believe that the world was created by God. I believe there's only one sacrifice that we can get into heaven with, and that is Jesus. And I sure believe that the only way to please God. is what this book says. But there are those moments in the Christian's life. What about you? Is there a moment right now as you're sitting there when you know that there's something you've got to believe to move forward in your spiritual growth? There's something that God just wants you to believe. It's really correct. Face it through. Lift up the shield. Are you willing to do that? Are you willing to believe? Are you willing to just say, Lord, I bow the knee. I believe that Jesus Died on the cross for my sins. I want to be saved. Or, Lord, my attitude right now is not right, and I'm just going to yield that to you, and I'm going to trust that into your hands. That's what it means to yield this shield of faith, to wield it, I should say. Affirming your belief in the Word of God in the face of an onslaught. And you and I have to do it. Do you have a verse like that that you can go to? Go back to Hebrew to uh Ephesians now, quickly. How does the devil attack us? Well, we've talked about how he gets into relationships and false doctrine But let me just point out to you a few things and we'll be done from Ephesians. Here is how The devil attacks us. Ephesians five, verse twenty-two God has commanded wives to follow their husbands' leadership. Submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife The devil will attack a wife and her submission. He will call it into question. He'll point out all the weaknesses of the husband. And he'll try to make it very attractive to not submit to a Christian husband Wives, the answer is not for you to go trade them in for a perfect husband. I ain't found one yet. Any guy here know another guy who's a perfect guy? I don't know anybody. The answer is just hold that shield up and say, Lord, I will follow my husband. I'll trust you. Husbands, verse 25. Love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church And gave himself for it, unless, of course, she nags you every day. Then you better not love her. Instead, you better just ignore her. Is that what it says? Now, I'm not saying that there's a woman like that here, but often a husband will put in a clause. He'll add to the Word of God. And so, husbands, the devil will attack us in this area. Spiritual conflict, remember now. Against, against, against. It's a spiritual wrestling match. They're complex and organized and powerful. Ephesians 6. The devil's gonna say, why in the world are you spending so much time and money on your wife trying to disciple and love her, look at how she treats you. And what you have to do as a husband is lift up the shield of faith and say, I don't care how she treats me. I'll do what God wants me to do. I affirm my faith in the Word. I'll do what's right. Loving sacrificially. But it only gets more complicated when we get down to children. Children probably have it as one of the most difficult often one of the most difficult things is just to grow up. Ephesians 6:1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. And if there is anywhere that the devil attacks today, surely in the lives of our kids, there's an entire mechanism. It's called public education. And it is secular and anti-Christ and anti-God at this point. And I'm not saying you shouldn't put your kids in there, but if you do, you better make sure you really carefully disciple them when they're in that machine. But sometimes a child, as they grow up and they're in their teen years, they're sorely tempted to cast off any submission to their parents. It might be 14, 15, even 16. They're growing up. They want to stretch their wings, and that's good. Every parent in here wants their kids to grow up. But there'll be those moments when a child just has to say, a Christian child, I will put my shield up, and even though I know my dad is not perfect. But I'm going to keep obeying my dad and following his lead because God's word tells me to. Folks, sometimes you just have to faith it through. And when you do, when you do, if you look at Ephesians 6 again and look at that phrase in verse 16, you will be able to quench To put out, to extinguish the fiery dart. In other words, there'll be that moment when the shield is lifted up, you've put it before you, the dart hits it, the fire is very bright, and then It's out. And that moment of onslaught is over, and you can, as it were, put the shield down and rest. You've succeeded. You've won the day. And at the end, you're still standing. This is no minor thing. You know, folks, the Bible says that faith is the victory that overcomes the world. It really does. What Jesus taught us, believing it, affirming it every day in our lives, we cannot, three times, the just shall live by faith, by faith. It is no minor thing in Christianity. So here's what we'll do before we have the Lord's table. Let's all pray together. Okay? Let's pray together. And remember. You folks are loved more by God than you can ever comprehend. He loves you so much. He sent his own son to die for you. Let's close our eyes and let's have a moment of quietness. Here's what I'll ask you. Sometimes we have a logjam in our spiritual walks, and it really does come down to what you're going to believe. You might not even have recognized it, but you might have slowed in your spiritual progress and this in the sanctification. And it and because God wants you to believe something from His Word and obey, and you just haven't done it. I believe that the Spirit of God can bring those things to our minds and help us. Is there anything? Talk to him now. Is there any log jam in your spirit? Is there any verse that you've You're holding out on. Any promise of God that you said, I'm not going to believe that. Pray to Him and see if He'll bring it to your mind, to your heart.