Ephesians 6, verse 11 says this: put on the whole armor of God. That is, don't leave one piece sitting on the floor. That ye may be able to stand against the wiles. And the word there means the schemes, the deceitful plans of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. Against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day And having done all to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto. With all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. And we'll throw in verse 19 Because he makes it personal and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. I'm looking at a group of people this morning that in spite of the fact that you might be wearing a suit or a tie or a lovely attire for a Sunday today, you do have armor strapped on. Some of you do. But I can't tell because it's not a visible kind of armor, is it? And so it is with spiritual battles and spiritual warfare. We are in fight In fact, fighting an invisible antagonist. An invisible antagonist, evidently, that is very Organized. That's verse 12. There are these principalities and authorities and rulers of the darkness of this world. There is this this incredible spiritual wickedness in some other place, high places. They are not within the realm of flesh and blood that we can grab the ankle of a demon as it flies from our house or somehow talk vocal cords to vocal cords with a demonic spirit. They are invisible and they are dead set against God and his people. We see the repetition of that word in verse 12. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against, against, against, against. And we see that word wrestle. And it has reference to a hand-to-hand kind of wrestling. There is nothing between us. And our antagonist, we are locked in deadly combat. It is personal. It is you. And the invisible antagonist, who is organized and powerful. And so we see from this passage that the devil has a hierarchy. He has an overwhelming power. And we could say that there is a complexity and an organization to what he does. Wow. Look, how would we put this in American sort of business terminology? The devil is well staffed, is he not? He's not laying off anybody The devil's factories are churning out evil widgets day in and day out. He runs a shift, three shifts, four shifts. The devil has amazing production facilities. He has a thriving industry of hate against God and his people. Folks, that is sobering. That is put there for us. Paul is writing to the Ephesian Christians, and he's saying, finally, put on the armor. He wants them to remember this and to take it seriously, to not just sort of put on one piece on Wednesday and another piece on Friday. It's the whole armor, it's the whole armor that you might be able to stand. I want to do this before we get into feet shod with the preparation of the Gospel of Peace. I want to just tie some things together and even make this more weighty. We go from the context here of Ephesians 6. We go from the complexity, the organization, and the hierarchy and the power that is that is implicated or Expressed in these verses, and we go back and we tie that into a few things that the devil does, how he does it. Look at 2 Corinthians 2. Just try to follow me, and I want to tie this together and go someplace with it. Follow me on this journey. It will be a short one. 2 Corinthians 2, 3 to 11. We're going to do a math equation this morning, but it's very simple. It's only, let's see here. Oh, it's 1 plus 2 plus. Actually, it's 1 plus 1 plus 1. I think we can handle this. 2 Corinthians 2, verse 3. The context here is church discipline. You're probably aware of that. It says, I wrote this same unto you, lest when I came I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice. So Paul is writing to the Corinthians and expressing to them his motivation. He wants them to obey, he wants them to do what is right so that he can rejoice. It was verse 4 out of much affliction that he wrote. And so the Corinthians obeyed. They did the hard thing. They practiced church discipline. And the person repented. Hallelujah. That's the purpose of church discipline, not to cut someone down to size, but to lift them up and restore them if they repent. So now, what does he say? Well, verse 6, sufficient to such a man is this punishment which was inflicted of many. So that contrary-wise ye ought rather to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your love toward him. For to this end also did I write that I might know the proof of you, whether ye be obedient in all things, to whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also For if I forgive anything to whom I forgave it, for your sakes, forgave I it in the person of Christ, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices or his schemes. Here is an example of one of the ways the devil attacks. Here is an individual who could be, verse 7, look at it, last phrase, swallowed up with overmuch. Sorrow. He was church disciplined. He committed a horrible sin, and his loving brothers and sisters had to come around him and say, Brother, you've sinned. You must repent, or we can't have you be a part of this church anymore. And he had repented, and it had meant a lot of devastation in his life from that sin and the consequences of that sin. And so now the church needed to confirm, look again at verse. 7. Ye ought to forgive and comfort, lest he be swallowed up. Verse 8, you ought to confirm your love toward him When a brother repents, the other brothers and sisters need to come in and say, look, we forgive, we love you. Lest Satan. Swoop in because here's an opportunity for the lion that looks for the weak. Kind of keep that in your mind. relationships attacked by the devil and turn to 1 Timothy chapter 4 I believe we looked at this before, but I'm reminding you, and we're not going to stay long in this frame of thinking, but 1 Timothy 4:1 Now the Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and the doctrines of devils. The word devils is the idea here of people working for the devil. It's people because there are mouthpieces of flesh and blood, false prophets, heretics, but the source Spirits that entice, devils that teach, demons that teach. We could put it this way that Paul is pointing out to Timothy. That this is going to happen. There's going to be this departure from the faith because people are going to listen to the devil. The devil is active in teaching and seducing. And we learn from this that the source of heresy, by the way, is Islam a heresy? There's a sense in which it is not. It's a completely different religion. We would put that under the category of false religion. A heresy would be something close to Christianity, but not Christianity. It would be something that looks like Christianity, but it has a major heresy within it. Sometimes we use the word cult and we refer to Mormonism or Jehovah's Witness movement as a cult because they name the name of Jesus, but they do not believe in his deity, so it is a heresy. But it is so close in many other ways to Christianity that it could fool you. Who is the author of all such heresies? Who was it that got Joseph Smith into those woods to see? The angel Moroni. First Timothy chapter 4, verse 1. It was predicted that in the latter days the Spirit is going, the Spirit told Paul and thus Timothy. That the devil would do this. Here's the point I want to make. Here's the math. You put together the fact that the devil is organized powerful, that he has that he has a hierarchy, a complexity to what he does. He has a well-staffed production facility. You put that concept together out of Ephesians 6 and you put it into what he can do to our relationships with that. The well-oiled satanic machine descends on a church. You put that together with how the devil can just spew out heresies and false religions, which is another category. You put that together and then if you go back to Ephesians 6 Quickly go back there. You pull out the word schemes. That we might be able to stand, or the wiles, verse 11, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil, the fact that the devil's plans are just out of view. You're never quite sure the method that he's using. We're not ignorant of how he works, but all the details are not always visible. That he is smart, crafty, wise, and deceiving. That how old is he? He's pretty old. Now, you know what? When I was three, I could deceive my mother. How old is the devil? Thousands of years old. And he's observed humanity for all that time. He was able to deceive Adam and Eve in the garden right from the beginning. You put all this together and what so there's this deception of the devil, that would be one part of the equation, plus his organized complexity and hierarchy. plus what he does how he brings this to bear upon relationships and false doctrine. And my question to you Is how in the world are we going to face all that powerful temptation, complex relational situations, and carefully organized heresies? How do we do that? Here's how I see, here some Christians do it. If I pray really loud and claim authority over the devil, I will have victory over him. Have you ever heard a Christian pray that? Paula worked at the Baltimore Rescue Mission in the Karas home for a year before we were married. And sometimes charismatic groups would come in there and do the devotions. And the Pentecostal groups would pray really loudly. And the idea was that the louder you pray, the more victorious you'll be. Folks Can you even get your kids to do what you want when you raise your voice? You think the devil's gonna do what you want because you raised your voice? What about this? What about directly addressing him in prayer and saying, Satan, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ? Is that going to give you victory over the devil? To address him? Or what about singing that old song? If the devil doesn't like it, he can sit on attack? You guys remember that song? That teaches good theology to our kids. Thank you, Sunday school teacher. Tack? I don't even know if that would hurt the devil. So so here's what I'm trying to do That's not how Paul handles it. He says the answer is armor. The answer, if you look at your Bibles, and let me just pull out the terms without the metaphor. The answer in verse 13, well, we'll go to 14, I'm sorry, is truth. Verse 14. Truth Righteousness. Verse fifteen. Gospel peace. Verse sixteen. Faith Verse 17, Salvation and the Spirit sword. This is the answer. Now Nobody's back there at the sound thing, so I'm gonna come down and I hope this doesn't mess the recording up. Somebody said it does. Why do you yell at your kids? Don't say, oh, that's a that's a loaded question. Let's see, let me repeat this. That's kind of like, have you stopped beating your wife? You say yes, and you admit that you were, and you say no, and you're still beating her. That's a loaded question. I know none of you have yelled, raised your voice at your kids, but when you do that, isn't that kind of a last resort? You've tried everything and you kind of give up, and so you raise your voice because you're trying to take control of the situation. I've never done that, though. I'm joking, okay? I'm trying to get us to lighten up a little, but it's not very effective. And typically we resort to ineffective methods because we've given up on the effective ones, because they're often too hard. Too complicated. They've all too much work. The temptation for me as a dad is to turn, and I'm not a sports guy, but to turn the TV on, uh turn it up a little louder, and to just let just to entertain myself and to not worry so much about the hard The point I'm trying to make is the armor is not always easy to understand and apply to your life. You can't yell the devil out of your life. You have to take the time to learn the armor. Do you know it enough to make use of it? God of heaven looking down right now on you, does he see armor on you? I mean, do you even have it on at this exact moment? I ask myself that and I think, wow, have I thought these things through enough to make them a part of my life, or am I just going to yell at the devil today? Or if I just gonna hope that he leaves me alone. I have learned since I've become a pastor, this the level of spiritual warfare in my life has quintopled. The devil wants me dead or defeated. Folks. Beyond a shadow of a doubt, this last year has taught me that the devil wants to take me out. And I think he wants to do the same to you. So how do we do this? Well, we've already looked at If you look at your Bible again at verse 14, we've looked at truth, we've looked at righteousness, and now we're in verse 15. We have to have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Now, what is this? Well, the Roman soldier wore shoes that often had nails poking out of them, like cleats. And so the Roman soldier would go into battle with this footgear that would enable him to walk and push his feet down into the ground so that he could stand his ground, so that he could firm up against the enemy and not move. And not only did it enable him to be stationary and resist, but it also gave him the stability over rougher terrain and wherever he was. I don't think he wore those home and walked on his dad's carpet with those cleats, but they were for the field a battle, and that's what it did for him. What we have here is this comparison to the gospel of peace And its ability to prepare us for stability and movement in the Christian life Now, I'm going to have to get you to turn to a couple other passages here, but before we do, I want to explain to you how I interpret this. I do not primarily interpret this as a readiness to preach the gospel. The preparation that you need in the morning so that you know that you're ready to speak the gospel. That's not my interpretation. My interpretation is that the Christian's proper understanding of the peace the gospel gives him If he makes that his foundation, the thing that he walks on, it enables him to move about the battlefield with stability. It enables him to resist the devil with power. the peace of God that all of us enjoy that are here today that have put their trust in Christ the forgiveness and the righteousness of Christ that's been imputed to our account, that peace of God, a proper understanding of the fact that you are justified and have been imputed with the righteousness of Christ. Gives you stability in your Christian life. Now, before I talk about the peace, let's talk about what you could use, what you could put on your feet for battle that would be wrong. Okay? Let's do that first. Go to Colossians. The theme of Colossians is that you are complete in Christ. That Christ is our sufficiency, that we need nothing else. That we are, in fact. We have been given the peace of God through another means. Look at Colossians chapter 19. Colossians 1, verse 19. Colossians 1, verse 19. He's talking about Christ and he says, it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell and having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, where whether there be things in earth or things in heaven, And you, Colossian Christians, or Christians here at Faith Bible Church, you were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now has he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight If you continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel. Now, before you were a Christian, last week I talked about your attitude toward righteousness before Christ. And I was sick, and I didn't give you enough data from the Bible to support my point. Here is one of the points that shows your attitude before Christ when it comes to God. Verse 21. Alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works. This is called the fact that you are not, you are unreconciled to God. Romans 5 describes us as Enemies as well. Before you come to Christ, before you hear the gospel, you do not have peace with God. And the more you learn about the God of the Bible, the more you hate him. The truth today from Romans 1 is not that religion is an attempt to find God. Religion, according to Romans 1, is an attempt to avoid God and the righteousness that He demands. When the law of God is revealed to us, our conscience responds. We understand the accusations of the law and the condemnation of the law, and we don't like it. We are know that we are not reconciled to God. And so we make ourselves the enemies of God by wicked works. We do not like it. Do you remember what that was like? Do you remember what it was like when suddenly you realized God expects me to be perfect in order for me to go to heaven? I can't do that. That? Do you remember what it was like when the Spirit of God and the Word of God accused you? You are not righteous. You are not righteous. You are not righteous. And then you realized the wages of sin is death. That all those who do such things are worthy of death, it says in Romans 1. And as I mentioned last week, that's not a pleasant thought. No one likes it. And so before we come to Christ. Our hearts do not, the more we learn about the gospel, it really is true, folks, the more people will either resist it or they'll be drawn to the Savior, the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. When you come to Christ, when you come to Christ, look at this, look at look at your Bible. Verse 21, we were alienated in enemies. Verse 22, he's now reconciled us to himself by the body of his flesh through death. The death of Jesus on the cross changed everything because it paid the penalty for all those accusations and condemnations of the law. And so now we have no reason to hate God. Because even though God is still a God of the law, He is a God of love. He loves lawbreakers. And He sent Christ to die for us And now, look at this very carefully. Look at verse 22 very carefully. He presents you holy and unblamable and unreprovable in his sight. This is the imputed righteousness of God given to you of Christ. There is no gap here. There is no, after 20 years, he notices, wow, he's doing pretty good. I think he's a righteous person. I think I like what I see in his life. There is this immediate, instantaneous change of outlook by the way God sees you. You might see yourself in the same way, but this is in his sight. His viewpoint of view has changed. Look at those words again. Holy, unblamable, unreprovable. This unblameability and unreprovability, it is from the mouth of God. Now God cannot fuss. This is what you have to get a hold of, and this is your footwear God will never accuse you again as the law accused you before salvation. He will never blame you and say, I will not have peace with you. You sinner, you are condemned. You are now unblameable and irreprovable in his sight. Turn to Romans 5 quickly, Romans 5. Romans five, one It says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace. With God through our Lord Jesus Christ. When you get married, something happens to you. Now, you have a ring on your finger. You're living with someone you didn't live with before. You have a lot more responsibility. But you've also ended in entered into a covenant which is sort of It's a legal thing and it's a covenantal relationship that is supposed to be indissolvable until death. It's a permanent thing. And you don't really know the full extent of it. You sort of live through it, and as the years go by, you're committed to your spouse. Do you ever have to earn the marriage covenant? Now, don't misunderstand me. Sometimes we have to earn our spouse's trust Sometimes we have to show how much we love them to make the relationship blossom and grow. But do you ever have to prove And earn that marriage certificate again. In other words, it's like this. You get up in the morning and you don't make the bed and you're like, oh, now I'm not married today. Honey, let's go back to the judge. We got to get another marriage certificate. I am not married today. Look what I did Or the trash, or you forgot to wash the car, or oh man, it's her birthday. I forgot. That doesn't happen. Right? There's this legal transaction that took place, and you're married. Now, yes, there could be a divorce, but that's a different issue. We're talking about the nature of a covenantal relationship. That is similar to what's taking place. In Romans, it says that we've died to the law, and now we're in this new relationship with Christ, and we might not, it never has to be re-earned. You don't have to say to God, I really blew it today. Are you sure you still like me? Are you sure you still have peace with me? Look what I just did. Or, oh boy, I'm heading for the trees like Adam and Eve. I am so out of here because I know he is going to come after me. I will chasten you if you sin, but that's because he loves you. Folks, the accusations and the condemnation and the peacelessness and the war that you had with God before you were saved, it's all gone. And you have been justified in his sight, given a new position, a new peace with God. And you have, verse 2, a continuing access with God. Now in Ephesians 6. What this is, is your ability to move in the midst of spiritual conflict in battle, your ability to stand up when you're tempted and when you face that complex powerful hierarchy of the devil. Your ability to stand your ground is completely dependent on your understanding of your peace with the gospel that you have with God. The gospel of peace. Whether you have those shoes on, whether you can move and be stable, you've got to understand your justified status before God. I was going to tell you about some of the replacements from Colossians and I jumped ahead, but don't turn there. Just think: what have you been replacing the gospel of peace with? What shoes have you been wearing? Has it been your track record? Well, I think I might have peace with God today because I was really good for two weeks, and then there was Friday And now I did some bad things, and now I know I don't have peace with God. And it's like you're wearing flip-flops. You got the Roman armor on, but you got flip-flops on. Or worse, you've got like those toe socks. Have you ever seen those? They're really weird. I don't know. I don't ugh. You put you put your toes in like a glove. What good is that? So if you're trying to use your track record for footwear and not the blood of Christ and your justified status, that ain't going to last long. Because here's the thing. The law of God will continue to convict you of your sin. That doesn't stop. The Spirit of God will continue to convict you with the law, but now, as I mentioned last Sunday, your heart is different. You love the law. You want to obey the Word of God. But you'll still be convicted. So what do you do? Well, you have to remember who can bring a charge against God's elect. You might have messed up. And the truth is, folks, you and I mess up more than we ever realize. What do God's eyes see in your life that your spouse's eyes can't see? What do God's eyes see in your life that even you can't see? And yet You are irreprovable and unblamable in his sight because he has imputed to you the righteousness of his son, and he wants you to grow and change. But your footwear is solid. You can move on that. So this brings me then to this The true stability that you and I enjoy in Christian warfare is not something that has anything to do with us. It is the gospel. The peace that we have with God, our ability to be prepared and ready for conflict, is completely dependent on. What he did for us. But you must remember Colossians 1 said, if you continue in the faith, I'm not saying you lose your salvation. Only that it's possible that you are here this morning and you are not growing as a Christian and you are struggling in your relationships because you're trying to build your life on another foundation and you've got the wrong shoes on. You're using your track record. In Colossians, there was asceticism, this idea that if I deny myself certain things and I have a special diet. Or I practice certain holy days, then I'll have peace with God. There was also the idea of visions that I've seen. Oh, I had a dream, and now I have peace with God. That's all irrelevant. It's all Christ. It's all Jesus. When was the last time you made sure your feet were shod with the gospel of peace?