In 2003, John Piper wrote a book entitled, Don't Waste Your Life. And then he recounts two real stories. One's tragic, the other's epic. Let's see which one you think is which First, Piper told the story of two elderly women in West Africa. Ruby was a single woman over 80 years old. She was in Laura, who's almost eighty, a widowed medical doctor. Together, Ruby and Laura were on mission in Cameroon to make Christ known among the lost, the poor, the sick. But as they were driving, their brakes failed, the car went over a cliff, and they died immediately. Here's the other story. There's a married couple from the Northeast. The husband 59, the wife 51. They live in Punta Borda, Florida. They cruise on their 300-foot trawler, play softball, and collect shells. They lived the American dream. Piper's point is that living the American dream is the tragedy here. To be clear, I'm not against retiring early or enjoying the fruit of your labor. It's okay to take vacations. Giving thanks to God our provider. But if all we have to show for at the end of this great gift of life are seashells, then our story would be a tragedy. Don't waste your life. Not surprising that models of heroic faith would be and should be older saints. We look to them. Like it or not, we're headed in that direction. Wait one day you wake up and you're like, oh my goodness, I've just become like my dad, or I talk like my mom. We're all headed in that direction. More on a positive note, there are many of you I observe as examples today. And if I reach 70 and beyond, I want to love God and His people like you do. I want to care for my wife and pray for my children and grandchildren like you do. So I'm thankful for churches like ours with older and mature believers We might envy congregations fill with those in the prime of their lives, with children and youth. I guess it's possible to have holy envy, so I'm not saying give up on that But it's good for every church to have believers of all ages. And even better to have godly interactions between generations. That's what we want to see at the pews and at the atrium, our homes and in the community. As we start a new chapter in Titus, it's as if we're moving the camera from the pulpit to the pews. Chapter one covered various pastoral concerns. The pastor's role model in Apostle Paul, a fellow pastor in Titus, the enemies of pastors in Crete. Chapter 2 will show us how faithful pastors can not only build up individuals. Over time, a pastor can be a catalyst for a trickle-down effect that benefits saints of all ages. See how we turn to Titus two, one to five. Titus two one to five. But as for you, speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine. That the older men be sober, reverent, temperate, sound in faith, in love, in patience. The older women likewise that they be reverent in behavior Not slanderers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, that they may they admonish the young women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet The structure of the sermon text is easy to discern. Picture a wishbone or an upside-down bee. At the middle or the joint is verse 1. It's the duty of the elder, bishop, pastor to speak theologically and doctrinally. From there, we move on to one of the cabicals or branch, as Titus instructs older men in verse 2. But keep in mind this wishbone doesn't break symmetrically when you pull it apart. That's because Paul spends more time giving instructions to older women and their ministry to younger women, and that's all in verses 3 to 5. Back to the top is Titus's responsibility to set up a brotherhood and set up a sisterhood, a holy fraternity and sorority, if you want to call it that. We have some semblance of this at our church with men of faith and ladies of faith. If we follow Titus 2:1 to 5, we must ask: what kind of men should lead the men? What kind of women should lead the women? Don't say the pastor and his wife. Don't say let the oldest guy and the oldest gal be the bosses. Do say, let's see what God wants from older members of our church. I'm going to make two points from this passage, and these points are what I call priorities of seniority, right? The first priority of seniority, stressed to older men, is sound doctrine that leads to godly traits and pursuits. The second priority of seniority, stress to older women, is sound doctrine that leads to model instruction. So first, we prioritize sound doctrine that leads to godly traits and pursuits. In the original language there's an emphasis put on that word you in verse one referring to Titus. You could say like this, but as for you, or more woodily, but you Titus stands in stark contrast to the ones described in Titus one ten to sixteen, the previous passage. He's nothing like those who profess to know God but in works deny him, abominable, disobedient, and disqualified for every good w work. Pastor Titus must be different. If Paul was standing in front of him, saying verse 1 in person, He'd be pointing at the man. He looked like one of those Uncle Sam posters. I want you for God's army. And it's up to Titus to speak to others as Paul spoke to him when he speaks. He does not offer his opinions, his take on a haughty debated issue, or be a spin doctor. He must speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine. As I said last week, that doesn't mean you s you know No uh you stop your ears to what's going on around us, the news, what's happening in the culture. It also doesn't mean we only read or recite the Bible and nothing else. Going back through history, the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter one of which is concerns the Holy Scripture. Part six this help us discern what's proper for sound doctrine. You can look it up, it's online, but I'll just read it for you here. It goes Quote, the whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, man's salvation, faith, and life, is either expressly set down in Scripture or by good and necessary consequence. may be deduced from Scripture, unto which nothing at any time is to be added, whether by new revelations of the Spirit or traditions of men. So let me comment here. Not only do we have what's expressly set down in scripture, like the obvious statements about God's existence, like just something that we memorize, wrote memory. We also study what's good and necessary consequence deduced from Scripture. Such deductions include doctrine of the Trinity, right? Piece together, right? God's sovereignty and salvation. More complex. And practical theology of the church, its polity and ordinances. So in healthy churches, pastors preach and teach sound doctrine the whole council of God. But if we only hear God's word coming out of my mouth, then we have ways to go. If I'm the only man studying and applying the Bible and sharing the lessons to others, I'm not going to be able to do that. then the church eventually will have issues. The Australian Evangelical Anglican Peter Adam warned that a church's gospel ministry should be pulpit-centred, but not pulpit-restricted. All of us should be talking about sound doctrine when we gather. And the oldest among us must set an example. Now, as I was preparing this week I realize I'm not 100% sure who's the oldest male member of this church. I guess I could ask right now, but I don't think any of us men are jumping out of the seats to say, oh pastor, it's me. It's me. You don't get a prize for this? You know who you are, and most of us know who you are. And it's m reasonable to expect more maturity from our older saints. I know there are exceptions. People get saved later in life. But if in most cases, like if you walk with the Lord longer than us, we should see that sound doctrine yields godly traits over time. Let's look at some of those traits in verse 2. First, the older men are to be sober. We're not talking about abstaining from alcohol here. Sober here has to do with the state of mind, it's sober-mindedness. This is similar to temperate later in the same verse, so we can treat them together. When I think of temperate, I think of temperature control. One doesn't get too hot or too cold. He's not swayed by his internal passions or shaken up by external circumstances. He thinks clearly, he's discreet, he's self-controlled. The word reverent is elsewhere translated as noble, like Philippians 4. Older brothers are to be noblemen, not by rank or title, but in character. Other translations have dignified and worthy of respect. It's not mere outward air of dignity or show of composure. All of these have character qualities, sober, reverent, and temperate, are rooted in godliness. And I emphasize godly traits because we might know a non-Christian who's very calm, cool, collected, very stately in appearance. You might read about Abraham Lincoln or Winston Churchill and and think that's the kind of leader we need at church. We're not really sure about the religious convictions of Lincoln or Churchill. Churchill. But we should be sure about the religious convictions of our older brothers in Christ. And those convictions surface as Titus exhorts them. By sound doctrine, he exhorts them to be sound in faith, love, and patience. To be sound or spiritually healthy in faith, love, and patience, one must turn to Christ, nowhere else. That's where we get this quality and character. You may recall from our time studying the disciple-making seminar that this trio of virtues belonged to the Thessalonian believers. 1 Thessalonians 1, 2 to 5. Paul began his first letter to them in gratitude, remembering without ceasing their work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope. In our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. So genuine were their faith, love, and patience That Paul was sure they were God's elect. So effective were their faith, love, and patience that credit must be given to God, obviously. The gospel powerfully applied to the Holy Spirit. And this is 1 Thessalonians 1, 2 to 5 again. Any hope of abstain uh obtaining godly traits must begin with the acceptance of the good news of Jesus Spiritual maturity cannot be attained in our own strength and effort. That's because we're weak in our flesh. Human wisdom is fleeting. It's fleshly wisdom. We're not sober-minded, reverent, or temperate. We break God's laws, lusting and hating. And lying. That's why we deserve God's just and holy wrath. God did not leave us like this This is the good news of the gospel. He sent his son Jesus, God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life. But we sinners did not receive him or glorify him as he deserves. He was betrayed, arrested, and crucified. Though he was innocent, he suffered for our sakes, paying the penalty of sin we should pay. He satisfied the righteous wrath of God against us. Having finished his work on the cross, he breathed his last and died. He was buried. But on the third day, Jesus rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection. He ascended to heaven after forty days, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. This good news calls for a response. All must repent, turn from a lifestyle of sin and self-righteousness. Forsake your evil works. Stop trusting in your good works. You cannot earn God's favor at all. Only put your faith in Jesus. Jesus. There's grace for all who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Cling to his promise of life and be patient until the coming of the Lord. Having the foundation on the gospel and building on it, you'll be sound in faith, love, and patience. We need older men to lead the charge here. That sets the tone for the entire church. Turning to the younger men for a moment. Don't wait until retirement age when everything's settled to grow in faith, love, and patience. Start the pursuit now. As Paul told Timothy, O man of God, flee the things like love and money and Greed, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, gentleness. That way you'll be wise and mature beyond your ears Remember in your youth this priority of seniority, sound doctrine that leads to godly traits and pursuits. Okay, so now here in verse two it's implied that older men would teach younger men to be holy But Paul's more explicit about it among the sisters in verses three to five. But whether it's brothers or sister, it starts with sound doctrine in verse 1. Titus must speak those things which are proper for sound doctrine to older women just as he did for older men. That leads to the second priority of seniority, stress to older women, sound doctrine that leads to model instruction. Again, there should be a straight line and arrow from God, I'm sorry, good Christian theology to good Christian living. Just as older men were taught to own, display, and pursue godly traits, older women had the same responsibility. Row in sanctification. That's why Paul begins verse 3 with the older women likewise. That is sound doctrine spoken to the ladies also results in godlies. A consequence of such teaching is reverence and behavior. Reverent here is different from reverent in verse 2. With respect to males, they must have dignity and nobility among fellow men. With respect to females, the stress here is that they must act in ways befitting holiness before God. Rest assured, you don't have to become a nun, right? Don't go join a convent to be reverent in behavior. As first Peter three five says, trust in God as the as the holy women did in the former times. Next in verse 3, Paul tells us what reverence is not. Older women must not be slanderous. Slander is a false, you know, spoken statement that harms another person's reputation. In Greek it's diabolos, where we get the word devil. We resemble Satan when we use lies to defame others. These days it's really easy to be a slander. You don't even have to leave your home. Just take off your phone, log into social media, go to the comments section and just type something mean, nasty, and false, offensive. Bali women must stay away from that kind of talk. Another reverent behavior has to do with alcohol consumption. A godly woman, like the overseers and the deacons, is not given to wim uh to wine. Paul is not forbidding date nights when you enjoy a glass of bordeaux or cheese. He's saying she should not be enslaved or led astray by wine or a strong drink. And as a sister in Christ is not given to wine, but ages like fine wine spiritually speaking, right? She becomes a teacher of good things. Good things here are derived from the things that are proper for sound doctrine in verse 1. So mature women should be ready to teach. Now I'm wary of those who say men should major in heady seminary-level theology while women should not. If I had it my way, I'd have all the ladies of faith. Read the books on my shelf from seminary days, systematic theology, church history, the Puritans, Greek and Hebrew. Men should want their wives, sisters and daughters to know God as deeply as they do Of course that doesn't mean we appoint them to be elders, ordain them to be pastors, or have them teach or have authority over men. But we do equip our older ladies to make disciples of younger ladies, and not just children's ministry. It's true, it's right there. Trace the line from the things which are proper for sound doctrine in verse 1 to teachers of good things in verse 3 and move on to the purpose clause of verse 4. That they may admonish the younger women. This is how a healthy church runs a woman's ministry, whatever you want to call it, ladies of faith. But older women gathered by years of experience and personal growth in holiness, they pass on to the younger sisters in Christ. Here's a caveat as we move on to verse four. Now keep in mind that the pastoral letters were written two thousand years ago, and the typical life cycle of a woman was Very different from our days. Modern dating scene since the 1900s is nothing like the arranged marriages and courtships of the past. Um people are marrying lot much later than in the past. Also in the twentieth century there was a dramatic increase of women in the workforce. Saw the statistic in 1948, women made up about 32. 7% of civilian labor force participation. In 99, it was at 60%. But despite all these rapid changes, some things do not change. Many ladies will marry to become wives and mothers. To say that the future of humanity depends on that is not an exaggeration. That's why older women must help younger women in their indispensable roles as spouses and parents. It has to be more than babysitting. It has to be more than us directly teaching their kids in Awana, children's church, and nurseries. The young parents themselves must be equipped. Imagine empty nesters training those whose nests are full. Of course, there are various ways to approach this, but what's clear is that the scriptures must be central in the discipleship process. Just as good teaching leads men to be better husbands and fathers. Good teaching leads women to be better wives and mothers. So sound doctrine, properly taught and followed, leads women to love their husbands and children. Moving on to verse five, we find more qualities for emulating. That were discreet in the same as sober-minded, required of male overseers. listed in 1 Timothy 3. 2 and Titus 1. 8. It's the same as temperate required of older men we just saw earlier in 2. 2. Chaste means moral cleanness. It's elsewhere translated as clear and pure. Chastity certainly includes sexual purity, but it's not limited to it. Next in model instruction, we have homemaking. Again, we must account for the limited career options of women in first century Roman Empire. It was on them to hold down the fort at home, creating a suitable family environment for godly instruction and hospitality. Takes a lot of work. Just means you're a hard worker and that's what godliness entails. I'll be relatively brief on the next two qualities. Good is exactly as it sounds. It's a catch-all word to describe godly woman. Obedient to their husbands means respecting the man's authority as the head of the house. Of course, that's not always easy, especially when some husbands do not obey the word But as first Peter three once says, a Christian's submission and conduct can be winsome, even more persuasive than words at times. Mature saints trusting God's word in tough marriage circumstances They're also concerned for the reputation of God's word. They don't want to see it blasphemed. If somehow we lead the world to believe that Christianity wrecks marriages. and encourages wives to leave their husbands, then we be at fault. Then the word would be maligned. Quite the opposite, our religion rightly understood and rightly applied, strengthens marriages, makes us better husbands, wives, fathers, and mothers. That's how God's word is praised and not blasphemed. So these are the two priorities of seniority we find in today's passage. We want sound doctrine that leads to godly traits and perspectives. suits. We want sound doctrine that leads to model instruction. I'm going to end with two applications to help you make these priorities your priorities Okay, first we need to stop being ageist. Instead put a premium on maturity Yes, I heard the statistics about aging congregations. We could gather the data for our church and get the average age, and I'm sure it's high But that's not a major problem in my view. We're 100% qualified to follow the principles of Titus 2, 1 through 5. So when visitors walk into our church and see your gray hair, don't be ashamed. I'm not ashamed of you as your pastor. Don't put on a head covering. Don't go home and try to be young and hip, dye your hair purple like a K-pop star or something. Though I love to see the reaction of your grandchildren at Thanksgiving and Christmas, so send me a picture at least. Alright? Just put I'd say just don't do it. But seriously, as Proverbs 1631 says, the silver-haired head is a crown of glory if it is found in the way of righteousness. Proverbs twenty twenty-nine The glory of young men is their strength, yup, and the splendor of old men is their gray head You believe the word? You have something to offer. And if you're a younger Christian, look for a gray-haired man or woman to help you grow spiritually. I'm telling you, without one, you're missing out. There's so much potential and wisdom in these relationships. If you're interested in finding an older saint to help you spiritually, I'm happy to be that discipling matchmaker for you. Right. Speak with me at the door on your way out if that interests you. So, as there's value in spiritual maturity that comes with sanctification over time, we must secondly challenge those who are immature. In other words, grow up, right? In my reading list is a book titled Juvenilization of American Christianity by Thomas Bergler. Here's a quote from it that sums it up well. Might be a little small, so I'll read it. Quote Juvenilization is the process by which the religious beliefs, practices, and developmental characteristics of adolescents become accepted as appropriate for Christians of all ages. It begins with the praiseworthy goal of adapting the faith to appeal to the young. But it sometimes ends badly with both youth and adults embracing immature versions of the faith. To be more concrete. That means pastors dumbing down and shortening sermons. Praise leaders and music directors are neglecting doctrinally rich hymns in favor of shallow songs. My theology professor once called these seven eleven songs. Songs with seven words repeated eleven times. Worship service as a whole has become a seeker-sensitive experience, spectacle with pyrotechnics. We gotta entertain these people. They'll never come back. There's a rampant consumerism and self-centeredness encouraged at churches of all places. There's a seldom a call for contentment or commitment to God and to the local church. And of course, there's little room for intergenerational discipleship or theological literacy as envisioned in Titus 2, 1 through 5. What kind of church do we want to be? Now I think our church has done a good job actually of not falling into this trap or the tide of the culture here. But it's time we do more than avoid the bad. We must move forward and pursue the good. We must bring forth fruits to maturity and go on to perfection. We must become disciple makers and be discipled. That's going to require each of us trusting in God's grace for growth. Sing our final song and make it a corporate prayer as we obey God and progress in holiness. Now, Lord, I would be yours alone and live so all might see. The strength to follow your commands could never come from me. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for being a shelter of refuge for every generation. Lord, this church age has been going on for 2,000 years. And as long as you tarry, as long as the kingdom is still yet future. We pray that you would help us to grow. Lord, we progress in life. We go through our life meeting various milestones and Progressing in our career and our in various ways. But Lord, we pray that we would care for sound doctrine that leads to spiritual maturity. Pray for the older men and women of this church. That it because as long as there's breath in them, that they will set an example, that they would serve and challenge the younger ones to grow Lord, help us as younger believers to look to them as an example. Help us to find someone that can decide for us. But we just thank you that whether it was two thousand years ago in this island of Crete or whether it's in Maryland today, that there's opportunities here. As believers gather as they worship but also they look to each other to encourage and fulfill all the one another's. Pray that you'll give us that passion and vision, and may we take active steps even this week, even today. To pursue you together as a body of Christ. Christ's name we pray. Amen.