Sometimes as a pastor, even as I pray for others, I don't know how to pray for myself. So I look to other pastors not only to see how they preach but how they pray as well. Here's one in the Valley of Vision entitled A Minister's Evils. Blessed Spirit of God, four evils attend my ministry. The devil treads me down by his by discouragement and shame, arising from coldness in private meditation. Carelessness possesses me from natural dullness and dimness of spirit. Because in the past I have met with success and been highly regarded, so that it does not matter if I have now failed. Infirmities and weaknesses are mine from want of spiritual light, life and power, so that souls have not been helped, and I have not felt thee to be near. Lack of success has followed even when I have done my best. But thou hast shown me that the glory of everything that is sanctified to do good is not seen. in itself, but in the source of its sanctification. Thus my end in preaching is to know Christ and impart his truth. My principle in preaching is Christ Himself, whom I trust. For in him is fullness of spirit and strength. My comfort in preaching is to do all for him. Help me in my work to grow more humble, to pick something out of all providences to that end, to joy in thee and load myself, to keep my life, being soul and body only for thee. To carry my heart to thee in love and delight, to see all my grace in thee, coming from thee, to walk with thee in endearment. Then, whether I succeed or fail, naught matters, but the alone Helps me to put in words the type of struggles that pastors and ministers go through. And we have seen and heard of ministers burning out or failing morally. And today's passage is one of those accounts. But as we read it, I want you to know that 1 Samuel 2 is not just for pastors or ministers. is for all who strive to follow Jesus. So let's read it together And you'll find the um passage in the church bulletin as well. Chapter 2 of 1 Samuel. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoices in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. I smile at my enemies because I rejoice in your salvation. No one is holy like the Lord, for there is none beside you, nor is there any rock like our God. Talk no more so very proudly. Let no arrogance come from your mouth For the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty men are broken, and those who stumbled are girded with strength. Those who are full have hired themselves out for bread, and the hungry have ceased to hunger. Even the barren has born seven, and she who has many children has become feeble The Lord kills and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and brings up. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and lifts up. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the beggar from the ash heap, to set them among princes and make them inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the world upon them. He will guard the feet of his saints, but the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for by strength no man shall prevail The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken in pieces. From heaven he will thunder against them. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Then Elkanah went to his house at Rama, but the child ministered to the Lord before Eli the priest. Now the sons of Eli were corrupt. They did not know the Lord. And the priest's custom with the people was that when any man offered a sacrifice, the priest's servant would come with the three-pronged flesh hook in his hand while the meat was boiling Then he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot, and the priest would take for himself all that the flesh hook brought up. So they did in Shiloh all the Israelites, uh to all the Israelites who came there. Also, before they burned the fat, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who sacrificed, give meat for roasting to the priest, for he will not take boiled meat from you but raw. And if the man said to him, They should really burn the fat first, then you may take as much as your heart desires. He would then answer him, No, but you must give it now, and if not, I will take it by force. Therefore, the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, for men abhorred the offering of the Lord. But Samuel ministered before the Lord, even as a child wearing a linen ephod. Moreover, his mother used to make him a little robe and bring it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife and say, The Lord give you descendants from this woman for the loan that was given to the Lord. Then they will go to their own home. And the Lord visited Hannah so that she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the child Samuel grew before the Lord. Now Eli was very old, and he heard everything his sons did to all Israel. And how they lay with the women who assembled at the door of the tabernacle of meeting. So he said to them, Why do ye do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people. No, my sons, for it is not a good report that I hear. You make the Lord's people transgress. If one man sins against another, God will judge him. But if a man sins against the Lord, who will intercede for him? Nevertheless, they did not heed the voice of their father because the Lord desired to kill them. And the child Samuel grew in stature and in favor both with the Lord and men. Then a man of God came to Eli and said to him, Thus says the Lord, did I not clearly reveal myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house? Did I not choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon my altar, to burn incense, and to wear an ibad before me? And did I not give to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire? Why do you kick at my sacrifice and my offering which I have commanded in my dwelling place? And honor your sons more than me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel, my people. Therefore the Lord God of Israel says, I said indeed that your house and the house of your father would walk before me forever. But now the Lord says, Far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed. Behold, the days are coming that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there will not be an old man in your house And you'll see an enemy in my dwelling place, despite all the good which God does for Israel. And there shall not be an old man in your house forever. But any of your men whom I do not cut off from my altar shall consume your eyes and grieve your heart. And all the descendants of your house shall die in the flower of their age. Now this shall be a sign to you that will come upon your two sons on Hophne and Phineas. In one day they shall die, both of them. And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest who shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind. I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before my anointed forever. And it shall come to pass that every one who is left in your house will come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and say, Please put me in one of the priestly positions, that I may eat. a piece of bread. So I believe there are three principles for us, both clergy and laymen, to follow, and they're all in that bulletin insert for you. One Worship the Lord in prayer of praise, verses 1 to 11. 2. Dedicate to the Lord a lasting legacy. Verses 12 to 26. 3. Honor the Lord with sacred sacrifices, verses 27 to 36. First, worship the Lord in prayer of praise. Verse 11 properly closes the portion of the narrative that began in chapter 1, verse 24. As Hannah, after three years, brought her son Samuel up to Shiloh to give him up to a lifetime of service. But before she leaves, she utters this beautiful prayer. It's difficult to overstate its importance. Mary, the mother of Jesus, modeled her prayer magnificat after this. John MacArthur extols its doctrinal value. He writes, quote, Even the briefest overview reveals how thoroughly familiar Hannah was with the deep things of God. She acknowledged, for example, God's holiness, his goodness, his sovereignty His power and his wisdom. She worshipped him as savior, as creator, and as sovereign judge. She acknowledged the fallenness and depravity of human nature as well as the folly of unbelief and rebellion. In short, her few stanzas were a masterpiece of theological understanding. But this was not mere academic theology. Hannah spoke about God from her own intimate knowledge of Him. Her words of praise were filled with love and wonder. We can also better understand biblical theology through Hannah. Commentator David Sumura notes how Hannah's praise helps us understand the major ideas of 1st and 2 Samuel. Which is originally one book. He writes, quote, the literary themes of the books, 1st and 2 Samuel, seem to be built into the Song of Hannah. Into the initial section of the first story of the books. They are one, Yahweh's holy sovereignty. We see that in verses one to three, six to seven, eight to ten. Two, the reversal of human fortunes. Four and five and part of verse eight. Three, the theme of kingship in verse ten. All these themes appear and reappear in the entire book of 1st and 2nd Samuel. So allow me to highlight these three themes briefly as we exposite this passage. First, this prayer is mainly about Yahweh's holy sovereignty. Some believe Hannah is referring to her rivalry with Panina in verses 1 and 5, but that seems forced as Hannah ends up with six children, not seven. Besides, that's missing the point. She's not focused on her individual situation, but on God and his dealings with the corporate Israel. Her horn symbolizing strength and her joy is in the Lord who saves. It's about Him. God's holiness is plainly expressed in verse 2. His sovereignty is explained in this verse. And next, also in verses 6 to 10. He is the incomparable rock, the God of knowledge, who weighs all actions. No man shall be arrogant as he is in control of all affairs, natural and supernatural, from the womb to the tomb. From death to resurrection, from racks to riches, from mountaintops to valleys. He is the one who established the earth's foundations. Since Yahweh the judge owns heaven and earth, his wicked adversaries have no retort, no strength to hold themselves together before him, no place to hide from him. The saints, on the other hand, are protected in their steps. If we go back to verse 8, we observe how Yahweh's holy sovereignty is closely related to the reversal of human fortunes. The poor and the beggar are lifted up from dust and seated among princes upon thrones We learn in verse 4 that the bow and arrow cannot help the mighty if God opposes them. But he clothes with strength those who stumble. From verse 5, we know that God can destabilize those who have stable income for food. He can change a mother of none to a mother of seven and completely bereave a mother of many. The third major theme of 1 and 2 Samuel, given in seminal form here, is the theme of kingship. We read in the second part of verse 10, he will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. And God has long ago promised Abraham that kings would come from his line. He says in Genesis 17, 6, I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. But here we have the first reference of anointed to describe the coming king of Israel. This reference is speaking of all Israelite rulers in general. That by strength no man will prevail, not even a king, unless God enables him. We're going to have more opportunities later in the sermon series to speak on this theme of kingship. But before we move on from these verses, here's a practical application. Now we have nine men here who pray the public prayer of adoration. Right? So we heard Tim today, got Carrie, John Snyder, Phil, right, Ben, Randy, Bernardo, Bob, Wally, right? They have an opportunity to pray prayers like this one. And they can show us by example how to take scripture, derive doctrinal and biblical principles from it, and worship the Lord in a prayer of praise. This is not just a time for us to close our eyes. It's time for us to join these men in worship. They're here to pray a prayer of adoration. It's a prayer not focused on ourselves, but on God. Not asking God to give us things, but giving Him glory. Speaking of His holy name. Of course, standing here for a few minutes should not be the only time we worship. We honor God with our entire lives, at home, at work, in all our relationships. And Hannah does just that. That leads to the second principle: dedicate to the Lord. A lasting legacy. Though this principle is derived from verse 12 onward, we need to start with verse 11. See how in verse 11, verses 18 to 21, and verse 26, we are given repeatedly snapshots of Samuel's progress. We learn about this his tutelage under Eli, his mini priestly garment, his blessed parents, his growth in stature and favor. Now similar progress reports are given for John the Baptist and Jesus in Luke 1-2. But here in 1 Samuel 2, there is an interesting contrast between the son of Hannah and the sons of Elah. As Samuel progresses, Hophne and Phineas regress. As the boy priest ascends, the adult priests descend. The root of the problem is identified in verse twelve. Now the sons of Eli were corrupt. They did not know the Lord. The Bible is clear that moral corruption is ultimately decided by whether one knows God or not. I've seen non-Christians come from Christian households. I've seen Christians come from non-Christian families. You're looking at one. So there are many intermediate factors. The same choice remains for you as an individual today. Will you know him? Hopte the Amphanaeus had many opportunities for an informed decision, serving as a tabernacle where God's holy things were located. But as we see in verses 13 to 17, they chose to steal from portions of animal sacrifices that belonged to the Lord. The law clearly states in Leviticus 7, 31 to 34, that priests may partake in the breast and the right dye, but they took indiscriminately all that the flesh hooked brought up. At other times, they have no regard for giving first to the Lord the fat portions in fire. Their sin was great before him, and they abhorred his offering. In verse 18 to 21, we shift to a happier scene. As Eli's sons disgraced the uniform, the young Samuel was growing into it. Literally. The little priest would be vested with the linen Ibat and a little robe made by his mother Samuel's mother was first and foremost devoted to God. Sacrifices and vows. Eli was so impressed with her devotion that he blessed her as he did back in chapter 1. God used his prayer again and Hannah conceived and gave birth to three more sons and two daughters. See how Hannah and Al-Kanah gave to the Lord, but they could not outgive God. David Sumura makes an interesting comparison. They gave one to God and received five more without losing the first. Just as Abraham gave Isaac and received many offspring without losing Isaac. End quote. As for the offspring of Eli we learn more of their deplorable practices in verses twenty-two to twenty-five. Exodus 38, verse 8 suggests there were serving women who would help with the care of the tabernacle, instead of treating them with respect and purity. They committed fornication, that is, they had premarital sex with them. Eli rebukes them, revealing how their open sin led the people astray. How they abuse their privileged positions of priestly influence. He leaves them with a chilling question in verse 25. If one man sins against another, God will judge him. But if a man sins against the Lord, who will intercede for him? This is not just a question for these two men, Hofni and Phonas, it's a question for all of us. There are many questions in life, but few as important as this one. The Bible is comforting in assuring us that all sins against humanity will be judged by someone greater, God Himself. But the same God is discomforting in warning us that all of us, we all sin against God. Really, all of our sins, even when we don't intend to commit them against God, are against God because He commanded us to love our family and neighbors. So who will intercede for us? You know, God intended priests to fulfill that role, but then who will intercede for us when the best of us look like Eli, Hopni, and Phineas? Since the fall of man, there has been a longing for someone to intercede on our behalf. Someone in high places who will lead us up to God, our very own representative priest. Now I encourage you to meditate on the passage of Hebrews Tim read earlier. But now let me just point you to the first hymn and first verse of the hymn we sang earlier. And I hope that you meditate on that as well. Before the throne of God above, I have a strong and perfect plea. A great high priest whose name is love, whoever lives and pleads for me. My name is graven on his hands. My name is written on his heart. I know that while in heavenly stands, no tongue can bid me thence depart. This great high priest is Jesus, the sinless Savior who died for us. All of us have sinned against others and God in thought, word, and action. As a consequence, we all deserve a place in hell, eternal torment, and separation from the Lord. Jesus took upon himself that consequence, paying for our sins upon the cross, dying in our place as our substitute. Rising from the dead to ascend to heaven. There he lives forever to plead for us, to intercede for us sinners So the question, if a man sins against the Lord, who will intercede for him? Is answered in 1 John 2, verse 1. If anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. If you want Jesus to become your advocate, your great high priest, to intercede for you, turn away from self-reliance. Self-indulgence, and turn to him in faith. You cannot earn God's favor with your good works You can only approach God through Jesus and his good works. Come to Him today by grace, through faith. Do not be like Hophne and Phineas, who will not listen to their earthly Father's voice, let alone the heavenly father's voice. They spurned their father's legacy of faith, so their own legacy would not last The choice to rebel was theirs, but the holy sovereign Yahweh knew this all along and had a plan to kill them and replace the current priesthood with the new one. And that leads to the third point, honor the Lord with sacred sacrifice. A mysterious unnamed figure appears in verse 27 to prophesy against Eli. There is a reminder of why the priesthood exists, why God chose Aaron, his ancestor, for the priesthood. office in the days of Exodus. The man recounts what God intended in the dignity and duties of priesthood. But Eli has failed as a priest because he failed as a father. He dishonored God because he honored his sons above God. The penalty for his sin starts in verse thirty. On one hand, Lord maintains his promise to Aaron and his sons, that priesthood shall be theirs for a perpetual statute. That's Seen in Exodus 29, verse 9. On the other hand, he will not tolerate dishonor. So there will be a transfer of uh the privil priestly privilege within the same Levite tribe. from one son of Aaron to another, from one arm to another. So Aaron had four sons, and the first two, Nadab and Abihu, died childless. That's Numbers 3, 4. From one of the remaining two sons or arms, Ithamar came Eli, whose priesthood continued until King Saul nearly wiped out all of his descendants at Nob. That's in 1 Samuel 22. Abiathar escaped that massacre, but in first Kings chapter 2, verse 27, as Solomon began his reign. Abiathar rebelled and he was deposed from the office. So came the end of Eli's priestly line. Another priest, Zadok, from the line of Aaron's other son, Eleazar, took Abiathar's place, fulfilling the prophecy mentioned here. Zadok will be the faithful priest mentioned in verse 35, whose house Yahweh will build, whose purpose is to please God and support the king. Then the descendants of Eli, expelled from priesthood, will come begging for the privilege they once held. Now, Eli will not live long enough to see the full um final fulfillment of this curse upon his house But the suffering would start now. In verse 32, the initial phrase, you will see an enemy in my dwelling place, is better translated in the New American Standard Bible. You will see the distress of my dwelling. That means that despite the prosperity of Israel, the priest will see the decline of the tabernacle, where God's glory dwells. And even in his lifetime, he's gonna see the Ark of the Covenant stolen by enemies. What an agony for the priest. If that does not grieve him enough, his priestly staff and sons will continue to induce tears in his eyes and break his heart. It's a sign that all his priesthood will fade and his youths be cut off prematurely. Both his sons will die in one day. If only Eli had honored the Lord with sacred sacrifice. If only he honored God above his sons If only he respected the priesthood, the altar, the sacrifice, the offering, the dwelling place of God. Sacred things must be kept sacred, guarded from sacrilege. And that's true in every age and dispensation. Here are some examples for us. As we live under the new covenant, we do not have the office of the Levite priest. But all believers belong to the universal royal priesthood, 1 Peter 2. 9, and we have the offices of elder and deacon. Application. We need to protect these holy corporate and individual callings. Again, under the new covenant, Jesus is our Passover and He is the one sacrifice for sin forever. As we read in Hebrews 10 verse 2. An offering and sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. Ephesians 5. 2 But still we gratefully offer spiritual sacrifices. 1 Peter 2. 5. Sacrifices of thanksgiving, which I mentioned during the prayer, praise, and good works on behalf of others. That's Hebrews 13, 15 to 16. That means we need to guard our sacred worship and our sacred ministries. Let's also look at ourselves individually. God desires that we present our bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God. Jesus set an example for us as our high priest, as he worshiped the Lord in prayer of praise, dedicating to him a lasting legacy. And he honored the Lord with sacred sacrifice, laying down his own life. And it is his prayer, legacy, and sacrifice that gives us access. Access to pray to God, to live for Him, and to offer a sacrifice of praise, thanksgiving, good works. Our own body and soul devoted to Him. Let's do that this week. Let's pray. Lord, we look to your word and we see Lives intermingled. We see a mother who dedicates her son to ministry. We see a father who has failed to raise his sons properly. We see youths profaning the sacred things. We see another youth Growing up into his own, but devoted to you every step of the way No, we come before you just as we are, because at times we are like Hannah, other times we're like Samuel, but unfortunately, other times we're like Hopni and Phineas. And we're like Eli. And the words of that man of God rightfully apply to us. That we honor people, we honor our families, we honor others above you. And we confess that we have not worshipped you in the proper way. But we are also thankful that we have an intercessor. We have your son Jesus Christ. Though we fail, though we sin repeatedly We have him to intercede for us at your right hand. For those of us who do not know you, who do not know you through your son Jesus Christ, I pray that you would work in their hearts. That they would know you, that they would see their need for you, need for the gospel, and to see you as holy And that we would live a holy life for you. Pray that you will help us this week by the power of your Holy Spirit. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.