I know you're gonna make it hard for the last time. But I made it. I was looking forward, I was thinking we're gonna have the orchestra today, and then I was told I had have to come back tomorrow night. So for those of you who live closer, you better be back here tomorrow night because uh I sure want to be but can't be. But uh I'm looking forward to it for you. Um, I sure hope you pay attention to the words that you sing. Uh I really I've never heard of this song that we just sung. God has whispered through creation, spoken through the scriptures. Shouted through the Savior. That's a completely new one to me. Uh and it's fantastic. I just actually uh gave last night to our um uh our daughter and uh son in law and their four children they came over for to celebrate an early Christmas and gave them a uh a DVD called Is Genesis History? Very good, makes an excellent Christmas present, at least I think so. I have to watch it all completely. before I gave it my uh okay. But talking about the importance of the witness of creation, which Romans chapter one tells us. But I like that. He whispered through creation, he's spoken through the script scriptures and he shouted through the Savior. Fantastic. Okay, and then your first one I do hope you all pay attention to what you're singing, because when you sing it, you're what? You're affirming it. And uh Uh that's a fantastic thing to affirm. And then Angels from the Wel realms of glory. And this is actually one of three uh Christmas hymns that I'm aware of that has the phrase something like this, seek the great desire of nations. Right? So of course you being I mean this is safe Bible church So you all know exactly where that's from. Amen? Okay, there's one hand coming up here. Where is it from? Oh well y the hand was there. Okay. I I don't I don't hear it. Maybe I just can't hear well. Hag I two seven was on the tip of your tongue, wasn't it? Yes, I'm sure it was. Uh anyway, and and by the way, I don't agree with this in this case, the New King James translation. I hope I can still preach the rest of the message in this particular case, uh because I think it's the uh desire of nation will come is the way that should be. Which is in our um in many of uh at least three, maybe even four, I remember. Uh once I had seen that ma uh many years ago and then I kept seeing that same phrase in other uh hymns. Well anyway, uh you know, fantastic, uh fantastic uh messages in these um hymns and songs that we are singing. Uh I also, by the way, am am blessed this Christmas last uh Sunday afternoon my brother and his wife dropped off their car because they're getting a new car, so they gave me their old car, which is made in this um millennium. I have not had a car, my ninety-six and ninety-seven, which are very faithful, wonderful cars, but they're a little old. And uh so now I have have a two thousand nine. So I'm just letting you know because if you see me in this car and you think, Man, you know, where is he get you know uh no my priorities have stayed exactly the same and uh over the years uh no w My poor family and my poor wife, uh, we have had excitement in numerous of our cars as they've broke broken down on the side of the road at any rate. So if you see this fancy car that I can't get used to to you know this thing where you click the button and you can unlock your car. I that's a new feature for me. Okay, yes. You get the idea. I'm a little out of date here. I'm trying to now I'm scared to drive because I'm scared I finally have a car that if I actually had an accident, you know, it it it might be a a problem. Uh anyway. It is pretty funny, isn't it? Uh and insurance rates go up. There are all kinds of reasons why you shouldn't get and and this is a almost ten year old car, but for me that's That's a new car. So we were talking about blessings this Christmas. I also got actually a Christmas card yesterday from a uh a friend that had moved a away from the area. But uh My Sunday school class and the note on the card said that um um uh you know, a m a ma I was a major influence in his life, which I had no real idea, and uh he's now teaching in a Christian school. He's twenty nine, that's kinda scary when I think about it, but uh and wants to be a pastor. So that's always exciting. So you never know, right? Those of you who are um uh working with children, as was said, you never know uh how the Lord is going to to uh use uh your uh consistent uh testimony for him. Well I'm entitled this morning Morning's message. Have you missed Christmas? And already. Uh I got some of you worried. Somebody el uh else said to me, you know, now you're gonna be easy on us, right? You're not gonna be too hard on us today. I thought, Well, I'm never hard on you, I'm just you know, just speaking the word of God, right? Um uh stanza two of the hymn that we just sang. Uh in fact, boy, the behold your God and the scripture reading, I wanted to preach on Isaiah forty. So, you know, if we could have a double header We can do it in baseball, w why not? The only time I've ever had a double header in sermons was in Russia in a little town called Shore where they didn't have a passer. And there they they actually really had a triple header because because I preached two sermons and they had communion in between and you preach a sermon in communion, but they didn't regularly have a pastor. So if they had anybody that was a pastor that was stopping by, they took full advantage. But somehow I'm thinking, especially a couple days before Christmas, the doubleheader would not be a good idea here. But otherwise, Isaiah 40 is a fantastic passage. And you know It's from Isaiah, so what else could it be? Um Well, uh have you missed Christmas? It's pretty hard to miss Christmas, you might say, when the merchants are preparing you for two months or maybe even longer ahead of time. But I think that many of the people who are celebrating the holiday are really going to miss the essence of Christmas. And put in another way, the question that I would ask each of us this morning is how do you respond to Christ's birth? How do you respond to Christ birth? I didn't ask how you respond to Christmas. That's often a different question entirely. There's such a mix of of the secular and the sacred, the greedy and the giving, peace and busyness, that it's often tough to separate our feelings towards Christmas. But how do you respond to Christ's birth? In the New Testament, we see different reactions to the birth and the ministry of our Lord. And I've put them into four groups. So this is going to be a more topical message than I usually give. I usually like going through one passage. Verse by verse. But here to look at these groups, we'll be looking at various passages. And as we look at these groups, I would ask, in which group do you find yourself? Well, the first response to the birth of Christ is hatred or animosity. And I would certainly put Herod as a representative of this group. Uh if you would turn please to Matthew chapter two, a passage which I'm sure is familiar to most of you Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? We've seen his star in the east. We've come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, but you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod When he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child, and when you have found him Bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. I was actually reading this scripture last night when we do the nativity with our their our four grandchildren and I couldn't help but say Liar at that point in which the you know the kids are going, Wait, w you know that he they they knew this this story and they said Well, he's a liar. I mean he's just a liar. It just it gets me it gets me mad every time I read it. You know? And it still gets me upset. So I can't s I all I'm thinking is you're just you're not interested in worshiping him at all. Okay, I'm done now. And then Herod when he saw that uh he was deceived by the wise men Uh now going to verse uh sixteen after the uh after the they came, uh Herod when he saw that he was And in all its districts from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. I figure the wise man gave him a time and he went one year plus or minus. That's the way I I figure it. But at any rate, um uh you know what a tragic uh thing that Herod did. Herod's response to the birth of Christ was simple. Get him out of here He may have pretended to worship, verse 8, so that he could look good, but in reality he wanted nothing to do with Christ. Why? Well, he viewed Christ as a threat to what he wanted to do. Herod wanted to remain king and exercise unlimited power over the Jews. He had no desire whatsoever to share that power with anyone else. So we sought to kill our Savior. Well hatred of Christ comes in in In uh various forms. Uh certainly there's a subtle form and there's a not so subtle form. In the latter uh category I would put the remarks in this This is a number of years ago now, but I still remember it, uh, by Andrei Kodrescu on uh NPR, National Public Radio, right before Christmas And uh here's what he said. He saw a pamphlet uh speaking about the rapture, which uh I happen to think will actually happen. Uh is biblical. Anyway, but he commented, and I quote The evaporation of four million people who believe this expletive uh would leave this world a better place. So, you know, get rid of 'em all. Uh thankfully an apology uh by the station was aired a couple of days later. But that kind of anti-Christian Sentiment has only been growing in recent years. But there's another more subtle form of hatred for Christ. Uh uh Christian uh Christ and Christianity represent really a threat to anyone who wants to live as they please, to anyone who, like Herod, does not want someone to interfere with their ambition. Or their lifestyle. The animosity that we do see growing in our society today toward Christ is caused, I believe, by this kind of thinking. And John MacArthur in his little book, God With Us, has put it, uh, people are so fearful and jealous of losing their own self-determination as Herod was of losing self- his throne. And I think he's right. And if you're here this morning, I hope that you're not in this group, uh, Herod pretending to worship Christ, but in reality his heart was the farthest thing from worship. It's easy for us to pretend to be something that we're not. Satan is the best at being a deceiver and a a master of it. But many times you and I are not too far behind. If you reject Christ, if you want to be your own boss and be in control of your own life, then you, like Herod, have missed the essence of Christmas. Well, there's a second response to the birth of Christ that may be exemplified by two different groups of people The chief priests and scribes, on the one hand, and the innkeeper, on the other hand, both show indifference to Christ. Indifference to Christ. Now these are two entirely different types of people, but uh they have in common their indifference to the birth of Christ. First, look at the chief priests and scribes. We've already read in Matthew chapter 2, verse 4, that Herod consulted the chief priests and scribes to find out where the Christ, the Messiah, was to be born. Did they know the answer? Absolutely. Sad to say, they knew their Old Testament scriptures better than most people who call themselves Christians today. And I know that I've taught primarily uh Old Testament courses for the last 40 plus years, but it still amazes me when pe believers don't recognize the important Old Testament prophetic texts such as Psalm 22 or Isaiah 53, which speak of Christ's death, or Isaiah 7:14, which speak Which uh speaks of his virgin birth or Isaiah nine, right? Uh six and seven, for unto us the child is born, unto us the son is given, right? And uh The government will be upon his shoulders and his name will be called, wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. I hope. Anyway, I preached on it once actually a year ago. Uh and at um almost at Christmas uh last year here. And then we had separate uh a separate message when we went through that. So I'm hoping you of course would not forget that. I'm hoping. Uh a or of course of Micah five two, which speaks of Messiah's birth in Bethlehem. But even if a person knows the scriptures well, and this is my point It doesn't necessarily mean that they believed them. The chief priests and the scribes whom Herod consulted knew of the prophecy. in Micah 5 2, written over seven hundred years before the birth of Christ, which told them that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. It's an amazing prophecy in any um uh in in any regard. And so they reported that information to Herod. So far, so good. But we have no record that they did anything else And we know that later on in Christ's ministry, their indifference turned to opposition, as they came to feel just as threatened by Christ as Herod had earlier. The contrast, really, between the wise men and these religious leaders of Israel could hardly be more striking. We'll have more to say about the wise men later on. But suffice it to say that the wise men traveled a long way, probably from Babylon, in order to find the king of the Jews. That would be a journey of of about a thousand miles, the an equivalent would be uh traveling from Washington to Missouri. And they weren't going on a highway traveling fifty five or sixty miles or 65 miles an hour. Instead, they were traveling across deserts. And the wise men were Gentiles, not Jews. By contrast, the Jewish leaders, the uh chief priests and the scribes, were only five miles away from Bethlehem. In Jerusalem, but there's no evidence that they even visited the town to see about Christ's birth for themselves. Why not? Why the indifference? Well, they were self-satisfied and self-righteous. They had their own religious system and they didn't think they needed to worry about anything else. Why, and I really like saying this, they were the seminary professors of Judaism. I mean, that's what they were. the supposedly elite group to whom even Herod turned for religious counsel a and they had no need for a savior, or so they thought. So my warning is beware even of seminary professors. Right? Their own pride led them to be indifferent to the birth of Christ, so they didn't even travel five miles away to check it out for themselves. And you know, uh, even today there are lots of religious leaders out there who are totally indifferent to Christ. They teach in universities and seminaries all across the country. Many of them, sadly, are even pastors and priests. In the Society of Biblical Literature meeting each November, which I have uh often attended, though not in recent years, there are between nine and ten thousand Such leaders. There were over 10,000 just the last year. Most of these folks have little regard for doctrines such as the virgin birth of Christ. I, for one, have no idea why they are teachers and preachers in the first place. I would get another line of work if I didn't believe what the scriptures say But they hold meetings, by the way, those meetings go uh Sunday morning straight through without a single mention of the Lord on his day. I just Don't get it. They are brilliant scholars of religion, but they have no idea of the living reality of the Savior. Well, there was a second individual who also seemed indifferent to the birth of Christ on that night long ago, and that was the innkeeper. Luke 2, 7, as we know, says there was no room for them in the inn. Now the scripture doesn't exactly give us more details about the inn king. keeper, so maybe we're being a little bit too harsh on him. In fact I kinda think we are, but he he really fits my point. I hardly hardly ever do this. But I'm thinking, you know, I may have to apologize to this innkeeper. He may even know the Lord for all we know, and he just didn't have any room. Anyway, he's sometimes made out as a villain, and I'm simply saying that's Going a little far from what the scripture says, but maybe I'm a little too harsh even here. Uh it is likely, and this is where I'm going with this, that he represented many in that small town of Bethlehem that were simply too busy to notice the most important birth in human history. And he was too busy to help a very pregnant woman and her husband. No one else seemed to notice them either. So if you're gonna give the innkeeper a hard time, you better give a whole lot of other people I would say a hard time also. But after all, it was the time of the annual census, and so Bethlehem was very busy. busy. And I boy, when I think about Christmas uh for us today, how true that often is for us. Christmas is is an especially busy time of year. There are special events, there are c concerts, there are parties, there's shopping, there are guests, there are school activities, and even church activities. And sometimes In the midst of all of that activity, even we can get so caught up in it and we can get so busy to notice the most important event of all, the birth of the Savior. of the world. It all adds up to the same attitude that the chief priests and scribes had, indifference. Indifference because of religious self righteousness or indifference because of preoccupation with other things. neither group cared enough to pay attention to the events surrounding the birth of our Lord. They just didn't care And God forbid that you or I be either too self-righteous or too busy either to stop and and ponder afresh. the birth of our Lord this year, or really to worship him. If we're that busy, we're too busy. Uh-huh. I think immediately when I think about busyness, I think of the example of Mary and Martha in Luke ten, thirty-eight to four. forty two and I especially think about that this time of year. But I know how busy my poor wife was, just I mean, there were only nine of us for dinner yesterday and uh but the you know the preparation and everything and uh many of you women and maybe even a few men know what I'm talking about here and it's just it's a lot of stuff and you You can say, Well, don't you realize what I'm going through? Well, uh you remember that uh in Luke ten thirty-eight it says Martha welcomed Jesus into her house. She had a sister called Mary who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving and she approached him and said, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore tell her to help me I just love that. I mean, can't you hear that? Maybe in your own house, maybe not, but I can sorta get the idea. And Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you're worried and troubled about many things, but one thing is needed. And Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. I know that at least once a year. year on my wife's birthday. I'm the one uh you know, m making the meal and trying you know, and having guests over and my goodness, it gives me an appreciation 'cause I go, I don't know how she does this because my goodness I do uh something on a much smaller scale and uh it's just I'm happy when it's done. That's when I'm happy. And so I think some of you are the same way. But Jesus' words need to be foremost in our thinking. We don't want to miss the essence of Christmas by being either either uh self having self-righteous indifference or being too busy. Well we move now to the third response to the birth of Jesus A response which is far better than the hatred of Herod or the indifference of the religious leaders or the innkeeper. But it still doesn't go far enough. I'm speaking of the townspeople of Bethlehem who heard of the events of that wondrous night firsthand from the shepherds. Uh Luke 2, uh 15 uh tells us this, gives us this account. It says, So it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste. Don't you like that? They came fast And found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying, which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled this is the word I want to get at here, marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things. And pondered them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen as it was told them. And once again we'll look at the response of the shepherds in just a moment, but our focus right now is on these townspeople who were told the news by the shepherds, and their response is amazement. They marvel at those things. Which were told them by the shepherds. Now you may be thinking, wow, that's an excellent response to the report of the shepherds. And yes, I would say it's an excellent start. But something is missing. And what is missing is this. We don't have a record of a single one of these people. Now some may have, we don't have every uh event uh covered by scripture of course, but we don't have any record of it in the middle of the year. In the scriptures. These people were intrigued by what was happening, but it seems that it was only because it was something new and exciting. And that's about as far as it went. So they were attracted by the big event, but that's about it. And I'm reminded of Luke's description of the Athenians in Acts chapter 17. Verse 21, he says, all the Athenians and the foreigners who were there spent their time in nothing else but to either to hear or tell some new thing. Jesus had a host of people, you remember, who had uh followed him after the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000. There was a big media frenzy. Uh John 6 records the people wanted to come and they wanted to make Jesus their king. John six fifteen. But once The crowd found out that there was more to it. There was a whole lot more demanded if they were to truly follow Christ. The group seek seeking signs and wonders from Jesus left him. John 6. 66 says, from that time many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. Now maybe you think that I'm reading too much into the text here. After all, it does say these Bethlehem townspeople marveled at the things the shepherds told them. And that's true. But the word itself, uh the Greek word that's used here to marvel or be amazed, is found in both positive and negative contexts. Marveling in and of itself means nothing. In Luke chapter 20 and verse 19, the chief priests and scribes who were trying to trip up Jesus in his words so that they could accuse him. Marveled at his answers and kept silent. But they weren't exactly converted. And to me the saddest passage of all in this regard is Luke four twenty-two, just two chapters away from this account in Luke chapter two. The context is Jesus returning to his hometown of Nazareth and teaching When Jesus is speaking, verse 22 says, all bore witness to him and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said Isn't this G Joseph's son? They marveled, but they didn't believe, as both Jesus' words, when he says no prophet is accepted in his own country, verse 23, and the prop people's reactions indicate. You look at verses 28 to 29, it says, all those in the synagogue when they heard these things were filled with wrath and rose up and Thrust him out of the city and they led him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built that they might throw him down over the cliff. They marveled at him in one breath, but then when his words were tough, they threw him out of the city and they tried to kill him. I don't like that kind of marveling, do you? John 1, 10 and 11 is to me one of the saddest verses in the whole Bible says he was in the world and the world was made by him and the world did not know him. He came un unto his own, but his own did not receive. Him. No, marveling at Jesus is not enough. Our attention is too easily drawn elsewhere after only a short time. If Jesus is the in thing, then we follow him. But if not, then we forget it. Once he becomes too familiar to us, he is discarded like a new Christmas toy or video game that has outlived its usefulness. Still remember and I think I've told you the story of my son that he he would ask for these you know video games or uh games at that point on the computer. That's how old like it. Um I don't think they have separate video games at that point, but oh Dad, this will be great. Uh great. And you know it's like forty dollars, which for me is a fortune. You can tell by the cars that I've driven, uh forty dollars is a lot of money and uh and I say, Oh, oh you know I said, Now are you gonna just play this once and poof And it's uh gone. Oh no, Dad, I'll play you know. So I did it one more time one Christmas and sure enough, like three days later he played the game and it was that was the end of it. From then on I said, Okay You know, you got an allowance, you can get your own games, etcetera, save up and store up for 'em because uh dad is done with that. And even yesterday, even last night, I bought this book it was only eight dollars um for um the second oldest Nariah you know she read the entire book before she left our house. The entire book I knew it was only but she said she'll read it again and again and I actually believe her, unlike my dear son with the video game. Anyway, it's the Focus on the Family, the Imagination Station. I know some of you with children, you know that one. Well at any rate, uh you know it y i it gets attention for a while, right? It's something you think you really want, but then you know, it's sort of like a fad and it's done. Uh how sad that is Well if you're here this morning and you're at attracted to all the outward tripping trappings of Christianity in Christ, you you like the idea of the idyllic manger scene and peace and all of that. That's wonderful. But it doesn't go far enough. It doesn't last. Just like the Christmas tree with all of its beauty and tinsel and g glitter uh eventually What happens to it uh is uh not so pretty. Uh it gets thrown out into the garbage heap or maybe uh y recycled and if you're environmentally uh aware. Uh but your Christmas, just like that tree, is not going to last. Once again, as with the other groups, uh you will have missed the essence of Christmas if that's all it is to you. The essence of Christmas is not simply marveling at the story the shepherds told. The essence of Christmas is worshiping the child Messiah of whom And that leads me to the fourth and only right response to the birth of Christ, and that is, simply put, worship of the Messiah. And two groups already mentioned so beautifully represent this attitude towards Christ, the wise men and the shepherds. In Matthew 2, we see the wise men who are Gentile seekers. That part needs to be stressed. These are not Jews, these are Gentiles. Seekers traveling a long way, a great personal sacrifice, in order to do one thing to worship the king of the Jews. Verse 2. In Matthew 2, 10 and 11, Matthew records, When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy, and when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. They came at great personal sacrifice. They fell down and worshipped Christ and they gave him expensive gifts. And by the way, there were almost certainly more than three of them, right? Uh g coming across the desert. You're gonna you're gonna need a caravan, folks, not Three, even though we three kings of Orientar was the first uh Christmas carol I ever played on the piano, I still like it. But it's more than three, right? Why do they get the three? Because they're three three gifts. Does that mean they're just three um well no, it's crazy. Anyway. And they also I'm sorry, and I'm not trying to mess up any of your manger scenes Uh you know, I I was looking at my tie actually this morning. Thankfully it's only got Mary and Joseph and the baby, so I'm okay. But most of the manger scenes what and the one we did we enacted last night with our girls It's got the shepherds and then it's got, of course, three um wise men and they're all the same place in the manger, but they weren't in the manger, they were in what? The house, probably maybe a year later or some point later, we don't know. They w weren't there together. Okay. I I hope I haven't ruined anything for you. It's fine. If you've got a manger, don't throw your manger scene away. You know, you could just maybe put the wise men over no never mind A little further away 'cause they're still coming. Uh anyway, uh uh regardless, I mean I think that the giving of gifts at Christmas is a great tradition as we give gifts to those whom we love. And so that part of the giving of gifts uh I think is is wonderful. I personally love to give gifts to people. Especially when it's suited just right for the individual. I mean, I I delight in that. But the most important gift that we We should give is our worship and our adoration of our Savior. The wise men didn't give gifts to themselves, they gave them to Christ in an act of worship. What about the shepherds? The reaction of the shepherds was to go immediately to find the child of whom the angels spoke. They came, it says, again, as I emphasized when I read it, verse 16, they came with haste. And as soon as they found him, their first reaction was to tell all those around them concerning the child. Verse 17 tells them. Ultimately, their reaction was also one of worship. Verse 20 says the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. Now, even though they're not technically part of the Christmas story that we usually highlight, and I've never seen them in a necessity scene, even though they're a lot. Closer to the events than the wise men were. I think we should also mention in this regard both Simeon and Anna, who are mentioned later on in Luke chapter 2, verses 25 to 38. Simeon had been waiting for the Messiah, and the Holy Spirit had revealed to him that he wouldn't die before he saw the Messiah. So when Mary and Joseph brought Jesus to the temple to consecrate him to the Lord, uh uh Simeon was there and he took Jesus into his arms. He blessed the Lord and he uttered a hymn of praise to the Lord for the salvation that Jesus would bring, and Simeon says this, to Jew and Gentile alike. So what a tremendous testimony. Anna similarly was a devout uh woman who had been a widow for many years and yet she faithfully served God in the temple. She came in at the exact time that Jesus was presented and gave thanks to the Lord. But not only did she give thanks, she spread the news Luke 2. 38 says she spoke of him to all those who looked for redemption in Jerusalem. She wasn't too old to witness for the Lord. And neither are any of us here today. So what should our b response be to Christ, plain and simple, to worship him? with all of our beings. And that means putting him first in our lives and our time and our treasures second. That means having an urgency about telling others about him because apart from faith in Christ, there is no joy in Christmas. I'd like to read a s a section from a book called The Promise, written by Michael Card. You probably know him as a musician, which he is, but uh Uh he he wrote this excellent uh uh uh passage which I'm going to read. He says, If I need a cooling in the weather and the sight of familiar decorations to cause my heart to leap like a lamb If my heart cannot celebrate today as I consider the birth of our Lord Jesus, then Christmas reveals a problem in me. Maybe till now I've only been touched by the carols and tinsel, the romance of Christ Christmas, not gripped with awe and wonder at the living gift delivered to us all on that first Christmas night. The celebration of the birth of Jesus should be ever new, but for too many of us the scenery of Christmas has become too familiar and comfortable. It blocks our view into the depth of the stark mystery of it all. The mute classic shepherds cannot speak of awe and worship The posed porcelain wise men do not remind us of the search for truth. The tinsel star cannot possibly hope to kindle in us the light that has come blazing into the world. Perhaps the reason so many of us find it difficult to celebrate the birthday of Jesus is that we have confined the celebration in many ways to a single day And at that, a day that's become more cluttered than any other day in the year, a day that better represents the noise and busyness of all our other days. The task, it would seem, is to find afresh the meaning at the heart of Christmas, for when all the trimmings and wrappings are pulled away, the living heart of Christmas is a child, a man, a king, and we must discover most of all what he means. What if Christmas Day were both a beginning and an end, the beginning of a celebration of Jesus that wouldn't end until the next Christmas? When it would begin all over again? What if the wise men's worship and the shepherd's awe became, if not a daily, then at least a weekly occurrence for us? What if the peace and rest of the nativity became What if Christmas were no longer a holiday, but a holy day, infusing all our days with holy Well what's your response to Christ's birth? Do you say to Christ like Herod, get him out of here, I want to rule my own life, I don't want Christ to be my king? Or do you say like the chief priests and the scribes or the innkeeper, who cares about Christ? I'm too busy being important or making money or whatever. I have other things in life that are more important than Kim. Or did you find yourself uh uh saying at one time, Wow, isn't that awesome? What a wonderful story, but now you find Christ and the Christmas story so familiar that it's lost its wonder, its glitter, and its Appeal. I think there are many people in churches all over the world that are familiar with the story and all its wonder, but have never taken one all important step. And that is the step of worship that the wise men and the shepherds and Simeon and Anna took. If your response to Christ's birth is not uh that of wanting to get on your knees and worship Christ as your Savior and your God and then telling him of of uh to those around you then you've missed the essence of Christ. Christmas. It's all put so simply and yet profoundly in the first chapter of the Gospel of John, verses 9 to 14, some of which I've already quoted. That was the true light, which gave gives light to every man coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came into his own own, but his own did not receive him. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man. But of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Truth. Have you truly received Christ? I hope that you don't just marvel at Him and then forget Him. I hope that you worship Him as your Savior and your King. And if you do that today, you'll be assured of a joy and a peace that will go far beyond Christmas, going into it right into a blessed eternity with them. Let's close in prayer.