Well, it's a joy to be with you again. I'd invite you to turn with me this morning to A passage which is the antecedent of the one that we read from Hebrews. Genesis chapter 4, beginning at verse 1, reading through verse 12. Genesis chapter 4 beginning at verse 1. Now Adam knew his wife Eve, and she conceived and bore Cain and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Then she bore again, this time his brother Abel. Now Abel was the keeper of sheep, but Cain was the tiller of the ground. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground to the Lord. Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat. And the Lord respected Abel and his offering, but he did not respect Cain and his offering. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. So the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door, and its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. Now Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel, your brother? He said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? And he said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. So now you are cursed from the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you till the ground, it shall no longer yield its strength to you. A fugitive and a vagabond, you shall be on the earth Let's look to the Lord once again in prayer. Our Father, we thank you. As we have heard mentioned already this morning, that we live in a land where we can gather still freely Where we have your word in our hands and we need not fear that someone is going to take it from us Or we need not fear that we will be penalized for even possessing it. There are those in this world for whom that is true. Father, we pray for them this morning, especially on this your day. As some are gathering, Lord, even in secret. Some are in places where They are truly standing alone, perhaps, Father, having heard the gospel through a radio program or some other means. And having by the work of your spirit come to faith in Christ, are now standing alone in the midst of darkness, perhaps. Father, we pray your blessing and your overshadowing, especially for those this morning who are in such situations as that, situations in which they are not able to worship freely, must gather in secret, or perhaps have no one with whom to sit down and to read your word and to pray together. I pray, Father, that you would be especially close to them this day. And Father, we pray that you would be close to us as we look into your word this morning Thank you again for the privilege. We pray, Father, that you would open our hearts, that we might receive that which you have for each of us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the fundamental causes of many problems in life is working from the wrong starting point to solve a problem. You can get into a lot of trouble if you try to solve a problem using wrong assumptions. A doctor, for example, can make a very serious or life-threatening mistake if he doesn't really understand. What's going on with a patient if he assumes, for example, that a patient is just having a bout of indigestion when in fact there are the first signs of a heart attack? Working from the right starting point is very important. It's especially important as we look at God's Word. If we don't have the right starting point, we can draw a lot of wrong conclusions from the Bible. We can get bogged down in a lot of wrong things, wrong thinking, wrong doctrine. And so as we consider the account of the life and death of Abel this morning, as we think about the words that we read in Hebrews about Abel this morning. We need to make sure that we have the right starting point. And the right starting point is simply this, that the passage that we just read in Genesis chapter 4 is a historical account. It's an account of events that actually happened. A literal interpretation of the Bible as the inerrant word of God. That needs to be our starting point. One of the great problems in the church at large today is that many theologians want to tell us that the first 11 chapters of Genesis aren't historical, that they're allegorical or something else I think even of a man who was for many years a professor of Old Testament at at Dallas Seminary, later at two other seminaries, and this man wrote an Old Testament commentary back in the 80s in which he made it very clear that he did not believe that the first 11 chapters of Genesis were factual. But yet he was teaching in what we would consider a leading fundamentalist seminary in this country, and later at others. Still teaching today. We're told that the stories that we read in the beginning of Genesis are about events that uh Are just a collection of myths. One of the evangelical church's biggest problems today is that in many places people are putting up with that kind of nonsense. But the text of Scripture itself shows us that the events in the early chapters of Genesis are historical. There's no room left for doubt. The main reason is that these chapters are referred to so frequently in the rest of the Bible as historical fact. Jesus refers to them over and over again as historical fact. The later Old Testament writers refer to them as historical fact. And the man who wrote the New Testament under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the writer of the book of Hebrews, refers to the early chapters of Genesis and that great role of role of faith as fact. Jesus based much of his teaching on the factual nature of the book of Genesis. If Genesis isn't factually true What's the logic? The logic is if Genesis isn't factually true, then what Jesus taught is not factually true. If Jesus taught what is not factually true, Jesus cannot be God. And if Jesus is not God, we have no Savior. This is important. If we have no Savior, we have no reason for being here this morning. We might as well go home. Once you start doubting the reliability of one part of the Word of God, you're on a slippery slope that leads to the denial of the whole book. And that's where unfortunately many men are today in the church. We need to believe what the Word of God says about itself. As the psalmist says, the words of the Lord are pure words. They're not the words of fallen man. They're the word of the holy God, and that needs to be our starting point. If that's not our starting point, we might as well just quit. I I honestly wonder why I I was in a I was in a a liberal Presbyterian church on a Saturday here in Colombia. The Liberal Presbyterian Church here in Colombia for a piano recital that one of our relatives was involved in. And uh it was just interesting to look at the hymnal To look at bulletins, to look at what was going on there. That uh well, I I just wondered Why in the world would anybody who's in that kind of an environment, why in the world would you bother to stand up and preach on a Sunday because you have nothing? You have nothing to offer. If you don't have the inspired, infallible, inerrant word of God, what do you have? It's just my thinking or your thinking or anybody else's thinking, just as fallible, just as erroneous as anyone else's. But what we have before us is fact. So let's review the substance of this factual account here. We find that Cain and Abel, the first two sons that are born into this world, The first two sons born to Adam and Eve, they had reached adulthood. They had reached the point where they themselves brought offerings to God in order to atone for their sin. And Cain was a farmer. In other words, he brought an offering of the fruit of the ground, he brought the fruit of his own labors. What he had grown. Abel, on the other hand, was a shepherd. He brought an offering of the firstborn of the flock. And we're told that the Lord accepted Abel's offering, but the Lord rejected Cain's offering. And from the passage that we just read in Genesis, it's clear that both Cain and Abel knew certain things that aren't directly stated here. They both knew what kind of sacrifice would be acceptable to God. Doubtless they both knew about the fall of their parents And what that had done to mankind, what that had done to the creation. In fact, what we're reading here takes place no more than perhaps a few decades after Adam and Eve had disobeyed God and plunged. all of subsequent humanity into sin. So both of their sons knew that their parents is sin, both of their sons knew that their parents Sin had brought a curse on the world and had caused their offspring, their sons, to be sinners. And Cain and Abel understood that they were sinners both by nature and by habit. As we read in Romans, by one man sinned, by Adam's sin, that first Adam, death came upon all men because all have sinned. And both Cain and Abel also knew something else. They also doubtless knew, were told here, what kind of a sacrifice God Himself had made for Adam and Eve when they f when they first sinned. That it was a blood sacrifice. That God shed the blood of animals as a covering for Adam and Eve's sin, and God gave the skins of the animals to Cain and Abel's parents as a garment to cover their nakedness. And Cain and Abel both knew that God had promised their parents, that great promise which we have in seed form in Genesis 3. 15, that at some future day he would send a Redeemer who would take care of the sin problem once and for all. But given all this knowledge, Cain and Abel responded in two entirely different ways. Abel responded in belief, Cain responded in unbelief. And in that sense, those two men represent every one of us, don't they? Every human being who's ever been born, ever will be born. There are only two kinds of people in this world in the eyes of God. We might think in terms of a person's economic status or nationality or the color of their skin or many other things, but in the eyes of God. What are there? They're saved people and lost people. Two kinds. Abel believed God's word. Abel was saved. Cain rejected God's word, and Cain was lost. Cain's offering was the easy offering to bring. Look at what I did. Look at what I produced by my own skill. There wasn't any pain or death of a conscious creature associated with Cain's offering. There was no shedding of blood. But Abel's offering was the difficult offering to bring. I have to kill this poor innocent lamb. I have to put a knife to it. I have to take its life. I have to shed its blood. I have to bring more death and suffering into the world because of my sin nature that I've inherited from my parents and because of my own sins, my own disobedience of God that results from my fallen nature. God accepted Abel's offering. He rejected Cain's offering. And in that sense, Cain and Abel not only represent every human being who's ever lived, they also represent every kind of religion that's ever existed. There are only two kinds of religion in this world. There's man's religion and God's religion. And the difference between the two is just one thing at its core. Every man-made religion in the world has works, righteousness at its center. Man thinks he can do something to be saved. Man thinks he has to do something to be saved. Man thinks that God will accept what he will do. But in all the man-made religions, man never knows if he's done the right thing or if he's done enough of it. There's never anything like assurance of eternal life and works religion. But God's religion, biblical Christianity, this book, is the only religion that recognizes man for what he is and recognizes God for who he is. In every man-made religion, man is striving to make his way upward. In every man-made religion, we find the lie that man in his own flesh can succeed in reaching God. The only true religion recognizes man's unending spiral downward since the fall. We're not going toward God, we're going away from him. And the only true religion, biblical Christianity, recognizes God's holiness. And the immense truth of that holiness, that because God is holy, we have an insurmountable sin. problem. And only God deals with it. He deals with it in Christ. Only God's religion has real grace and mercy at its center and not works. There is a sense in which we are saved by works, yes indeed. We are saved by the works of one man, Jesus Christ The problem is that most people don't really want grace and mercy. We want self-satisfaction. Only God can do the work in a person's heart that makes us really want God's grace and really understand that there is no other way. But what about Cain? Cain wouldn't have it God's way. So Cain rose up in hatred. He killed his brother Abel rather than submit to the commandment of God. More death and suffering. And all the way at the other end of the Bible in 1 John 3, verses 11 through 13, we have a commentary on the Genesis account. If you would turn with me there, 1 John chapter 3, beginning at verse 11. The Apostle John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, writes about what we've just read in Genesis chapter 4. He says this, beginning at verse 11. It's interesting how he starts. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning that we should love one another, not as Cain. Who was of the wicked one and murdered his brother? And why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his brothers righteous. Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. Abel believed God Abel did what was right before God, and as a result, though he was loved by God, he was hated by man, by his own brother, by his own flesh and blood. That's the sad scene that we have before us in Genesis this morning. But out of that sad scene, God teaches wonderful truths. God teaches us three things. about this man Abel that I'd like to focus our attention upon this morning. The first is that this man Abel, righteous Abel as he is called, believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as his Savior from sin. Secondly, righteous Abel was the first recorded witness for the gospel in all of human history, and he was the first recorded martyr for the gospel in all of human history. We tend to think of Stephen in the book of Acts as the first martyr. First martyr is back there in Genesis, Abel. And thirdly, righteous Abel was a prophet of God. He's called a prophet. Jesus himself calls Abel a prophet. So first of all, Abel believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as his Savior from sin. Abel is our brother in Christ this morning. How do we know this? Well, we know it because of the words that we read in Hebrews chapter 11 this morning That by faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous. God testifying of his gifts. And through it, he being dead still speaks. Abel is one of that long list that we have there of Old Testament saints, Moses, Enoch, Noah. Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Jacob, Rahab, Rahab the harlot, all the rest. And we're told in verse 13 of Hebrews chapter 11 that these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, were assured of them. Embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. What were the promises that they believed? It was the promise that we first read of in Genesis chapter 3 verse 15, right after Adam and Eve first sinned, it's the same promise that we read. onward through the whole Old Testament. It's the promise that God would provide a Messiah who would take away the sins of his people once and for all. It's the promise that God would deal with the curse that sin had brought upon man in the universe. It's the promise that God would save a people for Himself through Christ and that God would take them to glory for eternity And the writer to the Hebrews, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is telling us that Abel believed those promises, along with Enoch and Noah and Moses and Abraham and Jacob and the rest. And the writer tells us that Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. And the sense of the original language is there that the sacrifice of a lamb, able sacrifice. The more excellent sacrifice was, in the original language, the fitting sacrifice, the proper sacrifice, as compared to the unfit, improper sacrifice of his brother. Abel offered the proper sacrifice, the one that God had prescribed, the one that points to Christ and not to human works. And the writer said that Abel's offering obtained witness that he was righteous. We need to note this carefully. It wasn't the animal sacrifice that made Abel righteous. It was his faith in the coming Redeemer that the sacrifice represented. That is what made him righteous. Salvation from beginning of time to the end is always through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, no one else, no other way. The sacrifice demonstrated Abel's faith And furthermore, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 4 tells us, as we read this morning, that that sacrifice demonstrated that he was righteous. eyes of God. And the word that's used here for righteous is the same word that's translated in many other places in the New Testament as justified. We could just as well read it here that Abel obtained witness that he was justified. That he was justified by faith The doctrine of justification by faith alone isn't something new that springs up brand new when we get to Romans. It's Old Testament truth as well. It's Genesis truth. It's not something brand new at the time of the Reformation. At the time of the Reformation, the doctrine of justification by faith alone was not discovered, it was recovered. Justification by faith alone, the heart of the gospel is God's truth from the very beginning of his word all the way to the end. And my question for us this morning is this. Are you believing in that more excellent sacrifice this morning? I trust that you are. Are you believing on the Lord Jesus Christ alone for your salvation, not trusting in anything that you can do instead of Christ or in addition to Christ? The way to heaven, the way to faith in Christ is the way of Abel. The way to hell, the way of faith, and anything or anyone else other than Christ is the way of Cain. So we see first of all that Abel was a believer on the Lord Jesus Christ. He's our brother in Christ this morning. One of our first brothers. We also see, secondly, that Abel was the first martyr for the gospel. Why did Cain hate Abel? Why did Cain kill Abel? It was because of a fundamental difference in belief, wasn't it? It was because of a belief in truth versus a belief in error. Abel believed in the way of salvation that God prescribed. Abel, or Cain rather, believed that he could make his own way of salvation. Cain was antagonistic toward the truth, and because of this, he was antagonistic toward his brother. He hated his brother. And so Cain committed the first murder. He murdered his own brother, and the victim of the first murder was also the first martyr for the cause of the gospel. Abel was the first of a very long line of martyrs for the one true faith that continues even to this day. In many cases in the Middle East, in many cases in North Korea, in China, elsewhere. Even here. In the 20th century, there were tens of millions of martyrs for the one true gospel in Russia under the Tsars and Nazi Germany. And then in the communist world, it's just gone on and on and on, and it continues in the 21st century. And today, in many of those places, the line of martyrs for the cause of the gospel continues. It is said that there were more martyrs in the 20th century than in all other centuries combined. I think that's probably the case. I think that's probably a very accurate statement. And already in the 21st century, the line of martyrs is increasing, not decreasing. We tend not to think about that because we live in a nation where we still have a large measure of religious freedom compared to many other parts of the world. We may not be called upon to give up our lives for the gospel. I've known two people in my life who did give up their lives for the cause of the gospel. One was the wife of the uh of an unbeliever who murdered her because she wouldn't stop going to church. And the other was a name that may be familiar to many of you, Chad Bitterman. My wife and I knew Chad and his wife, and uh he likewise was a martyr for the gospel. We may face hostility, we may face opposition. We may face ridicule in the workplace, we may face ridicule in the classroom As we take a stand for Christ. My my my nephew, who's a believer, didn't he he he opted not to go to a a Bible college, the particular field that he wanted to study in He ended up beginning his studies at a community college, and uh uh he faced a tremendous amount of opposition. there because of his stand for his faith from students and also from professors. Uh it's not uncommon. We may be called upon to face that kind of hostility and opposition out in the world, even within our own families. where there are unbelievers within our families. Jesus told us this would be the case. He said, Matthew 10, don't think I've come to bring peace on earth. I didn't come to bring peace. But a sword, I've come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. It happens. Even Jesus experienced that before his death, burial, and resurrection. His own brothers and sisters were opposed to him. It was only after the resurrection that they came to faith. So we've seen that Abel was a believer, we've seen that Abel was the first martyr for the gospel, but thirdly, we find that Abel was a prophet. The very first in a long line of prophets extending over 6,000 years of world history so far, men and women who have suffered opposition and persecution and even death for the cause of the one true gospel. And we also see we also see this very clearly in the Word. If you would turn with me to Matthew chapter 23. Jesus mentioned mentions Abel as he's talking to the Pharisees. Matthew chapter 23, beginning at verse 27. Let me set the scene before we read it. Jesus is condemning the Pharisees. The men who are the supposedly conservative religious leaders of that day. And he's condemning them for opposing the truth while at the same time claiming to embrace the truth. And so we read this at verse 27. Jesus just lets them have it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Even so, you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, he says it again. Because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous and say, if we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Therefore, verse 31, you are witnesses against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your father's guilt. Serpents, brood of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell? Therefore, indeed, I send you prophets, wise men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city. Now notice this, verse 35. That on you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel. To the blood of Zechariah the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Assuredly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Jesus is pronouncing condemnation on the religious leaders of the day, men who had turned the people away from the one true gospel to a false gospel of salvation by faith plus works. And he says to them, you're just like your fathers who killed the prophets that I sent. I, Jesus, sent, and times past, one after another. It happens in our English Bibles that Jesus is telling them, you've killed the prophets from A to Z, from righteous Abel at the very dawn of time. All the way to Zechariah the son of Barekiah, who you actually killed in the courts of the temple of the Lord. We read about that in 2 Chronicles chapter 14. That was something that had happened hundreds of years ago, but Jesus is saying You, Pharisees, are guilty of that. You would have done the same if you had been there But notice that Jesus says that Abel was a prophet, an Old Testament prophet. Well, what's the nature of a prophet? A prophet in the Old Testament is someone who spoke for God, quite simply. Someone who said, Thus saith the Lord. Someone who pointed the people to the one true and living God and the one true way of salvation. And we read in the Old Testament that some of the prophets not only spoke the words that God gave them to speak, God also commanded some of them to do things that would be object lessons for the people. God commanded the prophet Hosea, for example, to marry an immoral woman. As an object lesson of God's relationship to the unfaithful nation of Israel, the adulterous nation. God commanded the prophet Ezekiel to do perhaps the strangest thing of all. Lie on your left side for 390 days and don't get up. And then lie on your right side for 40 days. And that's an object lesson of the number of years of the iniquity of Israel and Judah until my hammer of wrath comes down on them. Now we don't know if Abel spoke any words as a prophet. We don't have a single recorded word of Abel in the Bible. But we do know that Abel was a prophet by his actions. Abel offered the sacrifice that was pleasing to God, the sacrifice that was the picture of the coming, perfect sacrifice of the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. who would take away sin once and for all by his blood sacrifice on the cross. And what Abel did brought a reaction in the unredeemed heart of his brother Cain. Prophets brought reactions. Now, today we're not prophets in that biblical sense. The Lord isn't giving us any new revelation to proclaim in his name, despite what some charismatics may claim. The Bible itself tells us that Scripture's complete. There's nothing more to be added, nothing to be taken from it. And when we take a stand for the truth, when we take a stand for the one true gospel, and when we live out the gospel in our lives before the unsaved, when we come together to worship like this, When we come together to partake of the Lord's Supper as we will today, we're coming in the line of the prophet Abel. We're making a statement by what we do 1 Corinthians 11, 26 tells us this. We hear these words so often in a communion service. As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you what? proclaim or show forth the Lord's death until he comes. And that word that's translated proclaim or show forth literally means you tell it with conviction. You publicly proclaim the truth of Christ with conviction when you partake of the Lord's Supper, when you do that in remembrance of him. Our coming together as the people of God is our public proclamation that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. We publicly proclaim today that we are resting on the finished work of Christ alone, just as Abel 6,000 years ago offered the firstborn of his flock. as the type and figure of what Jesus would do for him on the cross in the future. Abel looked forward to that day. We looked back on that day, but our faith is the same. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation. Always has been, always will be. And that's what our witness in this world is all about. The absolute truth of the Word of God and the perfect salvation that only Is obtained by faith in what the Lord Jesus Christ has done. Righteous Abel. He was a faithful witness for the gospel. We too need to be faithful witnesses. And we live in a time in America when it's becoming increasingly difficult to take a stand for Christ. And let me just say this as an aside, we've had a couple of. Supreme Court decisions recently in which people place great hope that perhaps that's changing. Uh I wish I shared that optimism. Those decisions were made on very narrow grounds. Deliberately so. And those narrow decisions leave wide areas open for further persecution of people who stand For their belief in Christ and for biblical morality. The philosophy of the times is that anything that anybody wants to believe should have equal merit with anything that anybody else wants to believe. So what happens when you say that you st when you stand up and say, I believe in the only one true gospel, the only one true Savior? What are you going to be labeled as automatically? You're going to be labeled as intolerant? As a bigot? In our pluralistic postmodern society, you're going to be subjected to a lot of criticism and hostility. But what else can we do when this is the only way? We have no choice. We have no choice. Some of that hostility may even come from within the organized church. There are many evangelical churches that are being caught up increasingly in an ungodly spirit of pluralism today. Second Timothy 3:12. Paul says, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. It's inevitable it comes with the territory. It's part of the job description. Often people want to shoot the messenger even when the message is true. But we're not supposed to shrink from that because as the Apostle Paul tells us in Romans chapter 8, not even persecution can separate us from the love of Christ. So don't fear to take a stand that's rooted in grounded in the Word of God. We always need to be careful to make sure that when we take a stand, that the issue is not people or personalities or anything else, but God's word. That's what we have to stand upon. Even if it puts us at odds with unbelievers, even if it puts us at odds with others who say that they are believers. The thing that we have to be careful to do is never to take a stand that puts us at odds with our Lord. Dear friends, let me encourage you this morning to take your stand with Righteous Abel. Treasure the redemption that you have in Christ. Treasure what it means to rest in Christ. Treasure what it means, as we heard earlier this morning, to be an adopted child of God. Treasure what it means to have this only supernatural book, The Word of God, in your hands this morning. Jesus. And may our consideration of our brother Abel this morning, may this consideration of this one who being dead still speaks to us, as the word tells us. May it increase our resolve to live for Christ. To bear witness for Christ no matter what happens. No matter from what source, and to stand firm for the sake of the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. Knowing that God will bless our stand here and now, and that we will also receive a heavenly reward. Let's pray. Our Father, you have truly been so gracious to us In giving us such a line of examples in your word, of course, the supreme example, our Lord Jesus Christ. But also so many others, from the beginning of your word all the way to the end. And as we consider our brother Abel, who is With you in glory even now, beholding his Savior face to face. Father, may we not shrink from taking a stand. For the one before whom we shall stand someday. And Father, as we come to the communion table this morning, as we come to this part of the service and we thank you for the privilege of doing it in obedience to our Lord's command. We pray your blessing upon it as a proclamation of what He has done for us. We pray in His name. Amen.