So in 2023 there was a ranking of the most popular TV genres in Hollywood. So at number five was the historical types, various documentaries, and of course, even non-fic uh of course even fiction shows, British shows like The Crown and Downton Abbey. At four was science fiction and fantasy like Star Trek. Coming in at three was romance, no surprise there. Love is blind, married at first time. I've never seen these. But the top two genres are interesting. I want to treat them together. Number two is crime. Number one is drama. Seems very broad, but and sometimes they mix as crime drama And so it turns out we like extraordinary stories about ordinary individuals, that's the drama part, but we also like how they fight evil, they overcome evil Or they even become evil themselves, apparently. So we watch episodes after episodes. No wonder there are twenty-two seasons of NCIS. So that's Eres, one of Era's favorite, and I know because I've heard that theme song very often. It's ringing in my head. But crime drama is also popular among podcasts and books. I remember one called Serial by Sarah Keenick, and it was the first season covered the 1999 murder of a Woodlawn High School student. So it was gripping. You find yourself asking, like, who did it, why? You know, was it Adnan? Was it one of his friends? Was it someone else? And not just today, but from the very beginning, we're fascinated by man's struggle with sin and evil. We can relate to it, we can speak to it, but it's not just for entertainment's sake It's good for us to ask why are mankind and all kinds of evil intertwined other than happen in the first place? Where did evil come from? If we're going to arrive at the final solution, we must return to the first source. The earliest chapters of Genesis attest to the first sin and the first sinners. There there's here a human drama and crime. It's a non-fictional account of real p people facing real problems. So we saw the first sin itself last week. We'll return to that chapter today. We'll go there as a sort of like crime scene investigators. We might uncover remains of a half-eaten, forbidden fruit. We'll see dead bodies, spiritually speaking, of course. So let's read Genesis 3, 8 to 13. Genesis three eight to thirteen And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? Then the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. Just six verses today as we move slowly through this chapter and meditate on this on the doctrine of the fall. The passage moves in normal narrative sequence and pace. And this happened, then that happened. But if I were to make an outline, I say there are three parts here, three rounds of questioning. Round one, after Moses sets the scene in verse eight, we hear the Lord asking a where question in verse nine. Adam's answer in verse 10 leads to the next round of questioning. Round two. This time it's a who question. In verse 11, immediately followed by a what I call a yes or no question. In his reply in verse 12, we see the man at his worst. He shifts the blame, points the finger at his worst. After questioning the guilty man twice, God turns to the woman in verse 13. Round 3. We have a what question in the first half of the verse. In the second half, the woman exposes the serpent, the serpent who is the author of evil, the tempter, the deceiver of the whole world, as we know him now. What unites all three rounds of questioning is the masterful way in which God as examiner examines our hearts. Our sinful hearts. If God is the auditor and we're humanity and company, it expose us as frauds, it'd submit a sad but true, adverse opinion. We'd be guilty and liable for wages of sin, we'd be paying for it for eternity in hell. To continue this analogy, here are three findings from divine examination of sinful man. First in verses eight to ten. We find that sinners hide themselves from the Holy God. Second, in verses 11 to 12, we find that sinners excuse themselves by flame shifting. Thirdly, in verse thirteen, we find that sinners are in themselves prone to deception. The first finding today is that sinners hide themselves from the Holy God. We start with the beautiful description of God's original relationship with man, is what makes the fall such a terrible tragedy. Look again at the first portion of verse 8 up to the comma. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. We have here some glimpses of life back in Eden. We're not sure how much time has passed since Creation Week, but I imagine that on typical work days, Adam and Eve Together tended and kept the garden. Life was good. Work was good. And it gets even better after a long day of work. Adam and Eve would enjoy sweet communion with God at the end of a productive day. That's even better than having a dream job with the best coworkers in a perfect environment. Just imagine feeling the calm breeze, late afternoon, watching the majestic sunset. Spending the evening in quality time with the creator of all things. I may be a bit technical for a moment. I think God appeared to Adam and Eve in what's called a theophany. Theophany is literally an appearance of God. More specifically, God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, would appear in Old Testament times in a visible and sensible form. He was not yet in a permanent fleshly form. Human form, he was in a temporary angelic form. And God took on this form to give our first parents a special sense of nearness and closeness. I'll take some liberty to borrow from that old gospel song by C. Austin Miles in the Garden, apparently one of Lorraine Claycombe's favorites. I know it's about Mary Magdalene meeting Jesus after the resurrection. It's about the joy and intimacy between believers and Christ. But the chorus does capture what life would have been like in Eden. With God walking among humans. And he walks with me and he talks with me and he tells me that I am his own. And the joy we share as we tarry there, none other has ever known. Many of us know the lesser but similar feeling of bliss with family. You rush home and fight through traffic. To be with your spouse and children. If it's around this time of the year on a nice day, you fight for those precious last few hours of daylight. You might even have dinner on your porch, sit around, recall how the day went, laugh and talk for hours. That's sort of how Adam and his wife enjoy God's presence. But on this day, this wonderful routine was broken. We saw last week how that took place. Satan did what he does best. He got Eve's eyes fixated on that tree. It was the forbidden tree of knowledge of good and evil. It was the one tree of the garden that she and Adam were prohibited from eating. It was the one tree there that would lead them to death and ruin. We saw the tragedy earlier in verses six to seven. I'll reread. From last week. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed big leaves together and made themselves coverings. And while the pig leaves might have sufficed to shield their eyes from each other, it did nothing before the all-knowing gaze of God. When the couple heard the usual sound of footsteps and rustling of grass in the path as they perceived God approaching them, the two hid themselves. It says in the second half of verse 8, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. What tragedy that is. Even before the Lord spoke and began the examination, sinners hide themselves from the Holy God Go on to verse 9. It reads, Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? Now why does God take time to ask such a question? What why not get to the point? I know God doesn't get tired, but figuratively speaking, why waste his breath? He knows, and we know there's no fleeing from his presence, there's no creature hidden from his sight. All things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. So why does God who's omniscient, meaning knows all things, ask, where are you? Sometimes you get a text from loved ones with the same question, where are you? I mean sure I'd like to know your location, but the thrust of the question is more like, why aren't you here? You know? Or he could be showing concern as if to say, is everything all right? I'm saying retrieving information is not the only motive. We're asking questions. Questions that express longing. Questions can build relationships. Questions may open venues for honest confession. I think David Goodzik, the commentators, right, in analyzing this particular question, where are you? Quote, the question was meant to arouse Adam's sense of being lost. The question was meant to lead Adam to confess his sin. The question was meant to express God's sorrow over man's lost condition. The question was meant to show that God seeks after lost man. The question was meant to express God's sorrow. The answer also says a lot. We find in verse 10 So he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. So here we see a dramatic contrast with Genesis 2 25 We saw at the close of day six, they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. Once they were innocent children, naked. And unashamed. Now they're rebellious children, naked and afraid. Once they loved to hear from God, now they loathe and fear his voice. Normally they run to be with them. Kind of like the way my beloved dog runs to my door when I come home. Since the ball were all like Jonah, who rose to flee to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. For all prodigals, runaways, fugitives, sinners hide themselves from the Holy God And once caught, we find that sinners excuse themselves by blame shifting. That's what we see next in the passage. Look at verse eleven. You'll find two questions, right? And he said, Who told you that you were naked? The first one, so before the fall, that didn't bother them one bit. Now it bothered them to no end. After the fall, they were uncomfortable, insecure in themselves. The correct answer to who told you that you were naked is the troubled conscience within us. It bears witness of our corruption that's within. It accuses us of sin before God Now maybe you think the answer to this two questions a bit deep, right? So then how about a really simple yes or no question Okay? That would give Adam a chance to reply with just one word. So the Lord now asks a very specific question. He asks, Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? Doesn't get any more specific than that, right? He's caught and cornered. Here's another chance for confession Just come clean. Admit you're unclean. Cry out like that tax collector in that parable, God be merciful to me, a sinner. But again, sinners excuse themselves by blame shifting. Look at verse 12 again. And the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate. I mean, sure, it's true that Adam eventually admits that he ate the fruit. But he and so he does say that at the end, but he begins with the woman. It's the woman you gave me. It's she who gave me the fruit. And yes, I did eat it. Adam could have just said, I'm sorry. Yes, I ate it. I've sinned. I did not protect my wife. Ruin myself. I sinned against you. He could have been a true leader as a man. Instead he became a man child, immature, irresponsible. Isn't this a tendency in all of us still? You know, we're raising a toddler and he can talk, maybe a little bit too much. In recent time, he sounds like a lawyer. Mom said, you can't have another cookie. You already have one. But but but I can have one more Um this and that, blah blah blah. And like, don't snatch things out of your sister's hand and No it's mine, I don't want her to touch it, I need it. So it's just a lot of circumstance flaming, you know, others blaming. All I need is a yes ma'am or yes. Sir, to your parents. Nature is real. It shows up in our blame shifting early on in our lives, obviously continues. And one aspect of genuine repentance is to stop the finger pointing, stop the unloving contention and rebuke. Take responsibility for your actions. First, remove your plank before there's speck. We'll talk more about repentance later, but for now let's turn to the last round of questioning. In verse 13, we have the third finding of divine examination. Sinners are in themselves prone to deception. So we start with the Lord's question. The first sentence of the verse goes: And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? Now again, it's not that God doesn't know, and it's not that he skipped over the consequences for Adam, it's just that he's being comprehensive. Right. He must examine both culprits, the man and the woman. He's doing his part in tracing the root of this evil. He's getting to the bottom of it as they say. So the Lord hears the answer to the question. The second sentence of verse 13 goes. The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. Now I have two important clarifications of this verse, of this response. First, theologically and philosophically speaking, notice how the serpent's ultimately responsible for evil. He's the author of sin. The passage does not continue with something like, and the Lord God said to the serpent, What have you done? And the serpent said, God, you created me like this. I only have acted according to your sovereign perpetual. It doesn't say that. No, you trace the line of sin and it ends with the serpent. As the saying goes, the buck stops here. Still not sure what exactly that means, but you guys get the point, right? The serpent must blame, get to take the blame at last, right? We'll see that next week in the next verses. Sin began with him in the first rebellion of Genesis. Sin will end with him in the final rebellion of Revelation. And secondly, and this is more relevant to us humans, anthropologically speaking, and maybe more controversial, but Some ask whether this passage implies that women are more gullible than men. I'll be clear, the Bible does not say that here or elsewhere. Now su are some women more gullible than men? Sure. But are there also men who are more gullible than women? Yes. Right? The question has to be whether women by nature are more gullible, right? And I have to say no. Why would God picture his wisdom as women in Proverbs? Right? Why would we entrust our sisters To teach children. When children are the most vulnerable and most in their most formulative stages of life, we entrust our sisters to teach them. But then you ask, what about Paul's commentary on this passage in 1 Timothy 2? The apostle says that in the church women should not exercise authority over men because Eve was deceived. That's in 1 Timothy 2. 14. Isn't this saying that women are more susceptible to Satan's wiles? Well, looking at the immediate context, Paul's promoting male leadership in three ways, and they build on each other. First, before the fall, God created man first to lead. That's verse 13. Secondly, during the fall, things went awry when man didn't take leadership. That's 14. Thirdly, after the fall, despite the curse, not all is lost. Women find their significance not in attaining positions of power over men, but in faith, love, holiness, with self-control. Verse fifteen. And back to verse fourteen, moments before the fall, when women took spiritual leadership, there was disorder in the first family. Adam did not do his job, there was subversion And the problem wasn't that Eve was too gullible, the problem was that she was too ambitious. That unchecked ambition led to Satan's deception. It's a deception that's more moral than intellectual. It's not the lack of brains in Eve, but the abundance of desire that the serpent used. And then obviously we saw this Adam Sin as well. And Satan's trickery continues today against all mankind, right? Male and female. All sinners are in themselves prone to deception. He continues to undermine authorities openly and subtly. That of course includes God's design for male leadership at church and home, but there's also the lack of submission to employers, right? Satan uses that, or lack of submission to police force Lack of respect for them. Satan uses that, or lack of submission to governing powers. Satan uses that too. If we don't respect all that the Lord has ordained for rule, we'll make this a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a same mistake as Eve. That's because, again, all sinners are in themselves prone to deception, as we read earlier from James 1, 14 to 15, each one Male or female is tempted when he is drawn by his own desires and enticed, then when desire has conceived it gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. And as we read last week from Second Corinthians eleven, verse three. Even entire churches are susceptible to the tempter schemes. Paul wrote, I fear lest somehow as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, so your minds, Corinthians, may be corrupted from the Simpli simplicity that is in Christ. That's why my point here is that sinners, both male and female, all sinners are prone to deception. When we do not follow God's will closely, we leave cracks and crevices open for the tempter. That's obviously what happened with Eve, and it continues today with all of us. So it turns out that we're not better than Adam and Eve when it comes to sin. If the Lord conducts a divine examination on us The result will be the same. We reinforce the same conclusions. Yes, we hide ourselves from the Holy God. We excuse ourselves by blame shifting. We are in ourselves prone to deception. It's true that we ourselves do the same things, offending our Creator. All of us also seek the Lord in hopes that we might grow for Him and find Him. He's not far from each of us. But we've turned away from him. We've sinned and thought, word, and action. We love darkness rather than the light because our deeds are evil. We hate the light and do not come to the light, lest our deeds are evil. Exposed. This is our condemnation. If law be our standard, we be convicted as transgressors. We fail to love our neighbors because of our partiality. We commit adultery by lusting. We commit murder by hating. Thus says it only to one wrongful act to condemn Adam and Eve. It's the same with thus. Whoever keeps the whole law yet stumble in one point. He is guilty of all. So we have nowhere to run. There's no point in pointing the finger None can escape God's judgment, the sudden destruction that comes from Him, there's no place to go And try as we may, like those people in the in times, mountains and rocks cannot hide you from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. So it turns out our greatest threat is not yourself, your imperfect spouse, or even the diabolical tempter. God Himself is against you. Here's a scary thought. 1 John 3. 8 says, He who sins is of the devil. And for the devil has sinned from the beginning. But thank God if you go on to the second half of that verse, 1 John 3:8, here's what it says: For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. God the Father sent his son to be Emmanuel, God with us. The word who is God became flesh, dwelt among us for fellowship with us Jesus' followers heard and saw him, they beheld and touched him. And unlike Adam, the first man who sinned, Christ the God man, never sinned. The first husband blamed his wife as they shared in sin, but Jesus didn't condemn his bride, the church, though he had everything. right to do so. Instead he gave himself for her to present her to himself a glorious church. So he went to the cross, he suffered in our place, he paid in full the penalty of sin that we should pay. He declared his work complete and said, It is finished. He breathed his last and he was buried for three days. But that was not the end. Christ rose from the grave. Through death, he destroyed him who had the power of death. That is the devil. He presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs. He was seen by his disciples for forty days. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. This good news calls for a response. Before it's too late, must repent. Know the truth, come to your senses, escape the snare of the devil, no longer be captive. To do his will. Do instead the will of the Father. He sent his Son Jesus that everyone who sees him and believes in him may have eternal life, everlasting life. If you trust in him only for salvation, you will not die in sin. Though you may die, you shall live. This eternal life is ours for the taking. It's not given of works, lest anyone should boast. It is a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. But this is the gospel message. In Christ, you don't have to be haunted by that question. What have you done? You can be comforted by this truth. Look what Christ has done. Because of his abundant mercy, we don't need to hide from God. We can hide in him. Things you are secure forever as your life is hidden with Christ in God. We're not only talking about being saved and destined for heaven. We're talking about seeking refuge in Jesus while fighting sin on earth in your sanctification. And do a quick study on that last hymn for today, the Augustus Topladies hymn. Verse 1 goes: Rock of Ages cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy ribbon side which flow be of sin the double cure, cleanse me from his guilt and power. So this talk of double cure is interesting. First, cure saves us from guilt. As we run to Christ and hide ourselves in Him, as we're covered by His blood, we're assured of our righteous standing before God But not only that, we're also free from the power of sin. That's the second cure. So the next time you you find yourself caught in temptation, or caught red-handed, maybe. Next time you think about hiding from God, pointing the finger. Or denying that you're called in deception. Don't run from Jesus. Don't run from Christ to embrace your sin. Run from sin to embrace your Christ. Remember the first cure from the guilt of sin, then also the second cure from the power of sin. Living Live in freedom. Make this last hymn your prayer. Sharing that intimacy with Christ. Rock of ages, cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Let's pray. So we think of just how terrible, horrific sin is We feel its effects. We see all that pain and suffering it causes all over the world in our lives And Lord, we are even more acutely aware as we're saved from the power of sin. But Lord, we know that the the struggle continues. And Lord, uh, we're thankful that our relationship with you is secure through. your son Jesus Christ. But Lord help us to not to repeat the mistakes of Adam and Eve in this in this tragic moment in the Bible. But to admit, repent, and come before you, not to hide ourselves, not to excuse ourselves, not to fall into deception, but to seek Seek you for truth, seek you for mercy, seek you for refuge. We know that you give us this righteous standing and help us to stand firm in this battle against sin. We thank you for this truth. Thank you that you teach us not only wonderful things of heaven and truth about eternal life, but you tell us about the simpleness of sin. And how we need to fight against it, how we need to grow in Christlieness. And we thank you that there is hope through the blood of Christ through our Christ's name we pray. Amen.