And if you want to turn to Ephesians 6, that would be good as well. We have up here on stage some genuine reproductions, replications of Roman shield and a Roman helmet From what I've read, this could be very accurate to what they looked like. And Benjamin says this is a centurion's helmet. Of course, the Romans were known, many of their helmets, to have these ornate plumes, neck protection, some of them had, some of them did not have. Very heavy. I'm not going to pass this around, Benjamin. Worry. We'll just leave this up here. If you'd like to after church come up and take a look at it. But I think probably just look but don't touch unless you ask Benjamin about that But that is a very interesting helmet up there. Thank you for bringing that in. We are in that section here in Ephesians called the Armor of God. I'll read it to you again, Ephesians 6, verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. Against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit and watching thereunto With all perseverance and supplication for all saints. So far we have seen What it means to take up the whole armor of God. The importance of it having to do with the fact that we have a vast array of enemies that are against us. And so Paul says in verse 12, with that repetition, he wants us to know that they are truly Arrayed as our enemies. He wants us to know in verse 12 that these enemies have some kind of complexity or order in what they do. That they do have a power. Of course, we know that the devil was defeated at the cross, but he still rages, and Christians can still be defeated by him. If we voluntarily do not resist him, but fall to his schemes. The word in verse 11, wild, has to do with the trickery and deceit of the devil. The devil does not play fair. He masquerades as an angel of light. He doesn't come at us looking like a drooling ogre, someone we would never invite into our homes. His ways are attractive to us. He is a master at fishing for men. He puts sinful things on his hooks. He knows all the right bait. He knows exactly how to cast out into the waters and hook a Christian into disobedience and temptation. Our defense is the armor. And Paul uses the metaphor of armor because it was well known in the ancient world Everyone probably had seen a Roman soldier. The Romans were the masters of the land. Their soldiers were garrisoned everywhere. And surely most Christians at that time had seen a centurion and his company, a group of soldiers plodding out or marching through their streets, or from road to road, those Roman roads, remember? From one place to another. And Paul exhorts us to put it on, put it on, put it on so that we might be able to stand. So, how did you do this week with the armor of God? Were you able to put it on? Did you, by an act of your own will, discern truth from error? Were you able to rely on the righteousness of Christ? Was it a protection to you? Did you lift the shield of faith and quench any of the devil's fiery darts? Are you so confident that you're at peace with God because of the gospel that you're prepared as well to share it? These are all the concepts that are here before us today. So It's difficult to do, but we can do it. The armor is available to us. We can possess it. Where are we at today? Well, if you look down at your Bible. We are all the way at verse 17. And it says, take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of the Word of God. Typically, when a soldier got dressed with their armor, the last thing they would put on is the helmet and take their weapon. The helmets, and if this is accurate to what they wore, this thing is fairly heavy. This is probably not something you would wear while you mowed your grass. I don't know how much this weighs. I don't know. Benjamin, you know how much this weighs? Where is Benjamin? Oh, he's out doing guard duty. It feels heavy, so I don't think you would want to wear it But it's the last thing you're going to put on your head because of that. The sword is the last thing. Even in a battle, even in a battle, you're not going to be Necessarily when you're what before you go into it or when you come out of it, you're not going to have that sword out. You might take that out right when you need it. So that's probably why Paul has left the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit at the end. Now, I want to say a few things about this whole metaphor of this weapon, of the armor. Paul is deciding to use this metaphor to make a point. There is a connection between each piece of armor. And the biblical term or concept that he's using. It's not without purpose. He could have said, take up the whole armor of God, and he could have just said, take truth. And righteousness and salvation. He could have just left it vague and general and not attached each concept with a piece of the armor. But he chose to do that. And so there is definitely something instructional by virtue of the choice of the particular piece of armor and the biblical term that is associated with it. For example, you look at your Bibles and you see here that in verse 14, it says, to have your loins girt about with truth, the belt of truth. Here is something that straps your armor on and holds all of it into place, as it were. It's the ability to gird up your loins and move more quickly. It's that thing that kind of holds it all together. And so it is with truth. You could have faith in a lie. You could be very fervent. in believing that something is righteous when in fact it is not righteous. Is it not true today, folks That we have love redefined and misapplied in our society to the point where a man looks at another man and says, I love you, and he may in fact love that other man. But the object of the love and the kind of love is According to a lie, it is not true. And so truth is the belt that holds it all together. Righteousness as a breastplate is by design as well. There is the concept of protecting that which makes our Christianity that part of us which is vital, these organs in our chest that keep us going. And a proper understanding of righteousness, it protects our vitality in battle. And so it is that breastplate that protects us. And so I think I can say when it comes to the helmet of salvation, there is something about salvation and the closeness to the human mind, perhaps. The fact that it's something that he's placing on his head and going out into battle, there is something there It's hard not to make a connection between salvation and a particular mindset or thinking, but I don't think I would take that too far. But let me begin with this. What is salvation? If I were to just throw out some words there like 911 or the tsunamis in Indonesia that kill tens of thousands of people. people. Or Pearl Harbor. Or if I were to talk about the line, the demilitarized line between South Korea and North Korea Or if I just mentioned the name Titanic, you would begin to sense that I was making a list of places and times which were highly dangerous. I don't think any of us today would want to get on a boat named the Titanic, and I kind of doubt, although I haven't checked on this, that anyone has ever used that name again to name a ship the Titanic. And now it's a bad omen, a bad sign to do something like that. But there were people on the Titanic that were rescued. And it's because of our brave men and women during the Korean War that South Korea even exists today. There is a sense in which all of South Korea was saved. From communism and what's happening in North Korea. When you look at your Bibles and you look at this word salvation, it has the idea of being saved from something. Delivered or rescued. The word liberated might take it too far as a synonym, but preservation might overlap somewhat in the English language with this idea of salvation. A mindset or an appreciation of salvation is what this is referring to. Let me show you something. If you'll turn quickly back. to 2 Thessalonians chapter 4. The only other time Paul uses this Well, this is a very important cross-reference. You should write this down. I'm sorry, First Thessalonians four, not second Thessalonians. First Thessalonians four, verses eight and nine. Here is where Paul uses his same metaphor. Did I write it wrong again, let's see? No, I got there. Oh, I gave you the wrong reference, I think. Hold on. Five. Five, eight, and nine. Thank you. Chapter five, eight and nine. All right. Let's read it. First Thessalonians five, eight and nine. For let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Here Paul is using the term salvation, and he's associating it with escaping the wrath of God. In this case, in this passage, it's the hope of salvation. Now let me frame this up a little bit, and framing can sometimes be a boring job because there's not a whole lot hanging on that frame. But what we have in 1 Thessalonians 5 is writings about eschatology, about the end times. Look at it in verse 1. 1 Thessalonians 5. 1. But of the times and seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you, for you for yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. Verse 3, they'll say, peace and safety. Then sudden destruction comes upon them, as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness that they should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all of the children of light and of the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of the darkness Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. The context here is of the future and of the day of the Lord. The great and terrible day of the Lord when he returns and he exacts his justice and his judgment on this earth. But we as Christians know That in that day we have a hope of salvation. When he refers to the helmet being the hope of salvation, the word hope there has to do with the anticipation It's the current faithful anticipation of a future event. It doesn't have to do with the here and now, but it has to do with the future. In the English language we say, I hope it's not going to rain today, and we're not sure. That's not the way it is in the biblical language. The word that's translated hope here in the Bible has to do with a confident expectation, not a what-if. In Oh, I have this. Hope that in the day of the Lord I'll be saved. No, it's this confident expectation. I am not of the night. I am of the light. And when that day comes, I know I'll be saved. But the helmet has to be worn now, Paul is saying to the Thessalonians. As they think about future events, they have to be completely assured now that on that day they will be safe. Look at verse 3. There is some who will not escape, but we as Christians will be saved. We will escape There are some who are appointed to wrath, verse 9, but we are not appointed to wrath. We will obtain salvation on that day. I'm bringing this cross-reference up because it's a little bit different here. It's the same metaphor, the helmet of salvation. But it has to do with the confident expectation in the day of the Lord we will be saved. It's important to point that out because if you go back to Ephesians, What we have going on here is there is no word hope there. It is the helmet of salvation. And in the context here and without that word hope, it appears that he's dealing with something a little bit different when it comes to To salvation. It has to do, I think, with a current confidence and assurance that you are now a saved individual. You have this helmet on, and you are so assured that you can put it on and go out into the battle, knowing that your head is protected. Now, what does this mean? Well, I could be talking to someone here who doesn't have that assurance. And maybe you who are Christians here remember what that was like when you didn't have that assurance. You would go. Okay, when the Spirit of God convicts our hearts, when when we lack confidence before we come to Christ, there's that moment of Of fear. Do you remember Christian in Pilgrim's progress who was running from the city of destruction because he knew that judgment was coming? that the city was going to be destroyed, and he had no confidence that he had a security in God and that he would ever avoid the wrath of God. O Someone who does not have an assurance in salvation is not sure from day to day whether if they died tonight, they would be in heaven or hell. If they wrote, you know, they're at the job site and they don't know. They're home sitting in their recliner and they're fearful about what the future will bring because they don't know. Everything tosses and turns, you know, puts them out of sorts because they're just not sure when it comes to them and God. I remember before I was saved at the age of six that I was really afraid of cars. I like to play with cars. But I was also afraid of the cars out on the road because my mom had died and I knew what death was, and I knew if I walked out into that traffic by accident or my ball went out there and a car hit me. I wasn't sure what would happen to me. When I was saved, at six years of age, the Spirit of God Didn't speak to me, but I remember one day walking by the road and looking at those cars. And I thought to myself, wow, I'm not afraid anymore of those cars. I was six, and I still remember this. If I did get hit by one of those cars, I'd be in heaven. Isn't that remarkable that God can give assurance of salvation to a six-year-old? But that is my testimony and what he did in my life. If you look at Ephesians and let's flesh out a little bit more this salvation that we've been given and look at the words in Ephesians where he uses that word for for saved. Look at Ephesians 2, 8. All right, the context in the first part of Ephesians is those who are dead in their trespasses and sins, and those, if you look at verse 3 of Ephesians 2 at the end of the verse, those who are by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Before salvation, folks, no one preaches on this anymore. And I need to maybe do some sermons on the wrath of God. You know, go back to Jonathan Edwards, sinners in the hands of an angry God. No one speaks this way anymore. But it really is true that God is angry with the wicked every single day. The psalmist says that even the ploughing of the wicked is sin. That is, even the mundane things that people do thinking they're just going about their life, it's all in the eyes of God sin. Because of the by virtue of who they are as sinners before an angry God. Jesus said that we shouldn't be afraid of men But we should be afraid of God who can cast both body and soul into hell. Sometimes I wonder if I'm not more afraid of Islamic terrorism than I am of God. Have you ever caught yourself like that? Folks, it's true. We should be very, very fearful of God. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Children of wrath. That sounds like something I don't want to be. And yet before we were saved, that's what we are. That's what we were. Well, thankfully, verse 4, God, who is rich in mercy, he loved us even when we were dead in sins, verse 5, he gave us life together with Christ. And it's by grace that we're saved. He has raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Jesus Christ. In this passage, like the one in 2 Thessalonians, there is this This connection, I mean, 1 Thessalonians, this connection between wrath and salvation from wrath. And it's the same thing here as there. We know that Jesus spoke more about hell than he did about heaven. And he made really I don't want to say perhaps gross statements about it. Not gross, that wouldn't be the right word. Probably Striking statements about hell, uh shocking statements. We know the one where he said it would be better for you to cut your hand off and to go into heaven than to go into hell with your hand He spoke of hell as with fire and brimstone and likened it to the garbage dump outside the city. He spoke of Lazarus and the rich man and what happened there. I mean, it's very clear from Jesus and the apostles that hell and the wrath of God is a real place. And you and I, before we became Christians, that is where we were headed. Folks, it's true. Hell is real, even if no preacher on this planet preaches about it. It is still very real I wish I could make it more real for us this morning. Because the helmet of salvation and what we have in Christ. Folks, it's not precious to us until we know what we've been saved from. The heat of hell on the back of our necks will to some extent determine the joy in our hearts that we've been saved from it and the and the motivation to go out and witness to others If hell is real, then we need to get out there and do something about it. And not only what we do out there, but our hearts should be filled with the gratitude that we've been saved from it. But if this is all there is. This American life, maybe hell isn't that bad. Someone who has been released From a fear of the wrath of God, folks, is almost careless with their life. In Revelation, it talks of the saints who love not their lives to the death. You take someone who is completely confident in wearing that helmet in his Christian life, and you beat them and put them in jail, and they are so confident that they're singing in that jail. Hymns of praise to God. You take Peter and John to the temple and you you arrest them and you say, stop preaching this, and they say, uh-uh, we're going to obey God rather than men. And they counted themselves, they praise God because He's counted them worthy to suffer for Christ. You take someone who's wearing this helmet and is so confident that he'll never see hell, and so fearless that he'll he'll say things like I quoted this morning, I'm persuaded that he's able to keep what I've committed unto him against that day. Putting on the helmet means a man will go down and he will sit by the lions. Putting on the helmet means that the three men will in a public way say, we will not bow down to that statue. And if you throw us into this fire, so be it. God is able to save us. But if not, that's fine with us. Wearing this helmet means you lie in your hospital bed at the very end. And you're this close to death, an inch from it. And yet, you know to be absent from the body is to be present with your Lord. And you just don't eat, it doesn't even enter your mind that you will ever face his wrath. That you'll ever have to worry about what's going to happen. Salvation from the wrath of God is certainly part of what it means: an assurance A current assurance of eternal salvation from the wrath of God in the middle of a battlefield, a spiritual battle. That's part of what wearing this helmet is. It's that assurance and confidence. But let's talk a little bit more about salvation and what God has done so we can appreciate what this is like, what it means. All right, so there are words that the Bible throws out, all kinds of words, and some of them are bigger words. Turn to 1 John And we pick these words out as theologians and we collect them like diamonds and put them in our satchel and then we examine them and we put them into systems to try to organize them, figure out what they mean. 1 John chapter 2. Here's a word I want you to see. It's in verse 2. It says that he, that's Christ, the righteous. is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Let's read verse 1 from the beginning. Pick up the context. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. That word propitiation has the idea of a complete and total satisfaction to the wrath of God. What we learn from this passage and others like it in the entire book of Romans and Galatians is that God the Father was completely satisfied. When Jesus died on the cross, all the anger and wrath of God, the just anger and wrath, was propitiated by Jesus Christ. The righteous sacrifice. He was sinless and without blemish, like a lamb to the slaughter. And when he was on that cross, it satisfied God. Our salvation is not dependent on ourselves, but on the spotless Lamb of God who propitiated the wrath of God. There are other theological words that you would do well to remember. There's the word redemption, and that has to do with Christ. buying us, purchasing us, his value, satisfying to God, God purchases us back to himself, redeems us through the blood of Christ. There is the word reconciliation. In Romans 5, we're described as enemies to God. We are not reconciled to God. And yet there are at least three passages in your New Testament that speak of God reconciling us. back to him through the work of the cross from enemies to friends. That's what reconciliation has to do with. The atonement and the propitiation that God has made, reconciliation and redemption, and of course there is justification, the fact that we have been given a standing before God. But let me put this in salvation or soteriological terms. In the propitiation of God, we are saved from his wrath. That's what we've been emphasizing. In the redemption of God, we've been saved from a life of perpetual slavery to sin. In the reconciliation that God has provided, we've been saved from remaining an eternal enemy of the true and living and loving God. The devil will always be an enemy of God forever When we were saved, we were reconciled and saved from that. But folks, it only goes on and on and on. There's the Indwelling of the Spirit of God, the fact that when we're saved, the Spirit of God, we are we are adopted as children of God, as sons of God. And so we've been saved from ever being alone again. That is how Christian prisoners can not languish in jail, but praise God in jail because they're not alone there. The Spirit of God is within them, comforting them, strengthening them. Surely you could add to this list. I mean, there's a lot of Bible students in here. You could come up with two or three or four more things. I mean, I haven't even mentioned heaven yet. Now that's the future, and maybe that would have to do more with the hope of salvation, the helmet of the hope of salvation. But but that is the future. Certainly hell has to do with the future. What about the power of sin? The prison systems in the United States of America are overflowing. I don't know if you've ever read the recent statistics. That are happening. But in the last three weeks, I heard a radio broadcast about part of the prison system in downtown Baltimore. There is a certain complex there, and a building in that complex that was so poorly run that the drug dealers were running their drug empires from their cell rooms They were having kids with the female guards, and it was like the pr the prisoners really were running the prison. And I don't know if you've heard, but they are finally closing that down. What is it like to be completely dominated and controlled by sin? I think you probably could have seen it in that prison Men given over to their passions, their violence, their personal desires without restraint. You have been saved from that. If you're here today as a Christian, the power of sin is broken. The reign of sin in your life, Romans 6. You don't have to be a slave to sin anymore. You can be a slave, you are, a slave to righteousness. So folks, here's what it means to put that helmet on. You're in the middle of battle. And you put that on and you are comp Completely assured that you will never face the wrath of God, that you are now reconciled to Him, that Jesus paid it all. That the power of sin is broken in your life, you are just confident, confident, and assured in these things. Com And you just, you know it in your mind. That is who you are. So, folks, isn't it true that tribulation and all these things mentioned in Romans, that famine and sword and tribulation, that none of these things can separate us from the love of God, isn't that true? true that you really are that person. I want to close this down this way The Bible says that the righteous are bold as a lion. What would it mean for you? I want to be careful how I say this, but what would it mean for you to abandon yourself to your salvation? To be so confident in it that you, you're so confident in this armor that you just give yourself over to the knowledge of your salvation and you say, you know what? No more doubts. I'm just going to believe what this book says and take it into my heart of hearts. And I'm going to be so confident in what I am in Christ that I'm going to go out there and I'm going to do some valiant deeds this week. I'm going to live in that confidence at work and at home and I'm going to do something about this. I'm not just going to sit on the bench this week. I'm going to wear that helmet of salvation. What would that be like? Well, we know the missionaries. Elizabeth Elliott died recently. We know what her husband said. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot earn. Jesus said, if you want to follow me, you have to take up your cross and deny yourself and follow me. And he said this: if you lose your life for my sake, you'll find it.