If I ask you for the names of your five best friends, who would they be? If it's true that a man is known by the company he keeps, what would these friends say about you? Now let me ask you the opposite question. If I asked you your top five worst enemies, who would they be? And could it be that we learn much about you through your haters as well? You might say to me, Pastor, I don't have enemies. I mind my own business. I never say or do anything to offend anyone. Well, I'm not sure that that's a good thing. Our Saviour warned in John fifteen nineteen, If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet, because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates. You. And even if you stay quiet, Paul says in 2 Timothy 3:12, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. So if I'm living for Christ and preaching the message of the cross, I'll have haters and enemies of the cross of Christ, and so will you. But that's okay. The polit politicians and CEOs are resolved to fight their naysayers and resolved to continue How much more us who are more than conquerors to Jesus who loves us? This week I was reminded of Margaret Thatcher's favorite poem, No Enemies from Charles Mackay. I think I shared it once already. FYI, the actress Jillian Anderson, who played Thatcher in the TV series The Crown, reads it beautifully. I'm not gonna fake a British accent here, but I'll do my best as I read. I think I have it up on the screen if you wanna. It's online, so you have no enemies, you say. Alas, my friend. The boast is poor. He who has mingled in the fray of duty that the brave endure must have made foes. If you have none, small is the work you have done. Done. You've hit no traitor on the hip, you've dashed no cup from perjured lip, you've never turned the wrong to right, you've been a coward in the fight. So the question is not whether we'll have enemies. We ask what kind of enemies will we face? We'll see as we turn to the sermon text. Let's read Titus one, ten to sixteen. Titus 1:10-16. For there are many insubordinate, both idle talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision. whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole households, teaching things which they ought not, for the sake of dishonest king. One of them, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts Lazy gluttons. This test testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply that they may be sound in the faith, not giving heed to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn from the truth. To the pure all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure, but even their mind and conscience are defiled. They profess to know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and disqualified for every good work. What a happy passage. Well last time we ended in verse nine, discussing an important task of the elder, bishop, pastor. Like I said, that's I believe those are interchangeable terms. He's appointed to his office for his teaching ability both to exhort and convict those who contradict by sound doctrine. But the question might be raised, who exactly are those who contradict? There's no need to guess. It's right there in today's passage. That's why the conjunction for in verse 10 is explanatory. It begins an elaboration. Basically, Paul's explaining how we need the good guys because bad guys are here and everywhere. It's akin to saying the barbarians are at the gate, so the army must be equipped for battle. That's too general to be a much help for us students of scripture. To make sense of verses 10 to 16, we must locate the central thought. Usually in a paragraph like this one, I believe it's the imperative. I mean the grammatical imperative. For those into parsing and linguistics, I'm saying that we must unearth and bring to surface a key idea which is in the command form. Instead of having you some do some kind of word search here, let me tell you what it is straightforwardly. The imperative is in a phrase in the middle of verse 13 after the period. Rebuke. Elders rebuke for the sake of sound faith. Sound faith is what we need. We want a healthy faith. We want a faith that develops antibodies against the disease of false teaching. So that sentence from the middle of verse 13 to the end of 14 is the main idea of the sermon text. All around, above and below this central point, our reason shepherds must take up the rod and place a wacamo. Titus and his fellow pastors must take aim, and I believe strike four obstacles to sound faith. First, they're up against the voice of the contrarians in verses 10 to 11. Secondly, the elders must navigate through the vice of the culture. This obstacle is discussed in verse 12 to the first part of 13. I'll also I'll treat the central idea in 13B to 14 under this second point. Moving on to the third point and the third obstacle, overseers are warned concerning the defiling of the conscience in verse 15. Finally, the fourth obstacle to sound faith. Is in s uh sixteen is the denial of the confessors. So first we have the voice of the contrarians One long sentence stretches from verse 10 to 11. Again, 10 is linked to 9 via the conjunction 4, showing us exactly who are those who contradict. It turns out those who contradict are many. That's why overseers are so busy. Before we get to how these contrarians talk, we hear about their walk. They're insubordinate. They do not recognize authority in the church. They never learn to follow in order that they might lead. They're lawless and contrary to sound doctrine. They're like immature children rebelling against their parents. Their divine attitude manifests in their speech, described in two ways. We may not be surprised to find the insubordinate spreading lies as deceivers, but they're also idle talkers. They say stuff that are at best unhelpful. There was the same problem at Ephesus, apparently. It appears Titus and Timothy have to deal with the same kinds of people around them, and this sort of a mixture from First and Second Timothy, those obsessed with disputes. disputes and arguments over words, useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, speaking words to no profit to the ruin of the hearers, profane and idle babblings that increase to more ungodliness. Again, there are many who walk and talk like this. But Paul's particularly concerned about his fellow Jews who act like this. and talk like this. He's especially bothered by those of the circumcision. Why? Go on to verse eleven These deceivers creep into households. They take captive the most vulnerable, those without access to education, those most susceptible to temptation. They start with one person and end up over subverting entire families. And to get their victims to bite, they bait their hook. They do so by teaching things which they ought not. What are these things specifically? If you skip down to verse 14 for a moment, these false teachers are riveting storytellers of Jewish fables. They probably also impress listeners with knowledge of lengthy genealogies. Next thing you know, the audience is hooked, subject to commandments of men who turn from the truth. Finally, they get what they want from you. Your money and your fortune. For the sake of dishonest gain, they've emptied your pockets and filled their own. Godliness was never their end goal. It was merely a means of gain. It goes without saying that the voice of these contrarians must be silenced, their mouths must be stopped. We're not supposed to use brute force to shut them up. We don't bear the sword like the government. But we can and must confront, reprove, exercise church discipline if necessary, if they're among us. We must do so even if such practices are out of step with the world, even if it seems very counter-cultural. Speaking of culture, watch how Paul, the astute theologian, also plays the role of the cultural anthropologist. That's what I see in verse 12, in the first part of 13. By studying the history, the customs, and behaviors of Cretans, Titus can overcome the second obstacle to sound faith, the vice of the culture. Paul doesn't hesitate to cite local sayings to further his point. This is not so different from what he did in Acts 17. Remember in Athens, he started the altar inscription to the unknown god and the poetry of one called Auretus, we are his offspring. Paul wasn't afraid to use artifacts and literature from the cult um from the world to point people to Christ. He'll listen and cite the voices of the culture to expose the vices of the culture. So the prophet mentioned in verse 12 is not Isaiah, Jeremiah, or Micah. His guy named Epimenides. a Greek philosopher from 6th century BC, a native of Gnosis, a city in Crete, as a Cretan himself. Epimenides knew his people. So Paul wittingly and skillfully uses a Cretan to criticize Cretans. Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. Seems like a good strategy to me. The popular Scottish American pastor Alistair Begg comments, quote, It's always good to use one of the people who are part of the establishment in order to criticize the establishment. So it's much easier for me to tell you that Scotsmen are notoriously stingy than for you to tell me that Scotsmen are notoriously stingy. If you're Scottish, I apologize. You can take it up with Alistair Bake, because I don't know if that's true or not. But you get the point. Back to Paul who with the help of Epimenides reinforces a widespread stereotype. And it was really widespread as commentator William Barclay cites more support, quote, so notorious were the Cretans that the Greeks actually formed a verb kretizane, to cretize, which means to lie and to cheat. And they had a proverbial phrase, Kretisin pros kreta, which meant to match lies with lies as a diamond cuts diamond. Now let's be clear, those in Christ, being conformed into his image, can escape such stereotypes But the unregenerate false teachers cannot help but fit the stereotype. That's why Paul immediately follows up the quote with this confirmation: This testimony is true. Ouch, The apostle writing his letter inspired by the Holy Spirit affirms it to be so. And Titus was my younger pastor friend. I tell him, maybe this is a lost cause. Perhaps it's not worth it. You got to do what's best for yourself, your family, and your ministry career. Run away. Take an easier position elsewhere. Paul, however, says none of that. The conclusion in the middle of verse 13, indicated by therefore is not give up or leave the island Therefore rebuke them sharply, he says, them referring to the perpetrators at Crete. The purpose of the rebuke is that they may be sound in the faith, not giving heed to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn from the Truth. Moving on to the rest of the passage, we see two more obstacles to sound faith. The third hindrance is in verse 15. The defiling of the conscience. Titus must not only address surface-level behavior and speech problems, he must delve deeper into people. As Paul makes mention of this word pure, he's addressing a certain form of legalism. It's likely a mixture of some Jewish practices and an early form of Gnosticism. Is Gnosticism being an idea that matter is evil and spirit is good? It sounds awfully similar to what we find in Colossians. If you were to bake or cook up this false religion in a kitchen, right, you put into the pot the following ingredients: rules about clean and unclean food and drink, calendars of festivals, new moon and sabbaths. Forbidding of marriage even? What results are a bunch of man-made rules? Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle. Now keep in mind those who adhere to such religions do not necessarily look evil. They're not witches concocting a potion with wrinkled skin, hooked noses, warts, and unkempt hair. They're not chanting double double toil trouble fire burn and cauldron bubble. They look like ordinary law-abiding citizens. They're your average Joe and plain Jane. Sorry, Joe, and Jane's finding a lot of people today. You pass them on the street and never notice that they're defiled from within. Yet as Paul says elsewhere, such false teachers give heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. This is really the scariest thing about Satan's plan. Make purity all about the externals. How we look outwardly and what we eat. Don't worry about inner purity and inner holiness. Show off an appearance of wisdom in self-imposed religion, false humility, and neglect of the body. Remember, none of these are of value against the the indulgence of the flesh. God must transform us from inside, purify us From our defilement. Without that miracle of gospel transformation, any human effort to cleanse ourselves is useless. The best we can do in our natural state is achieve a mere form of godliness. True godliness is unappealing to the ungodly. As Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2 14, the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. Nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But the one truly saved is spiritual and judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one. He is not judged with regard to food, drinks, and holidays. When it's meal time, the saint says grace, remembering every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it is received with things. Thanksgiving, for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. Before moving on from Titus 115, let me speak a bit on the matter of mind and conscience. Both are parts of our inner being. That's easy enough to understand. And I don't think Paul intends to make a huge distinction between them here. in this passage. Yet it'll do us do do us good to differentiate for clarity's sake. Mind is more general, I think, while conscience is more specific Mind is that immaterial side of us that reflects, perceives, and judges. Conscience is also immaterial, but it's also moral. That inner voice, it's that inner voice that guided you since you were little. For the longest time, my voice of conscience sounded like my mother's voice. Somewhere along the way it's turning to the voice of my wife. Talk about that later. Just kidding. Am I kidding? Well, I like Andy Naselli's vo book on this topic. In it he gives a good succinct definition of conscience Conscience is your consciousness of what you believe to be right or wrong. Conscience is your consciousness of what you believe to be right or wrong. To use an illustration, your conscience is like a compass on a backpacking trip in the wild. If its housing is severely cracked, the needle is broken, there's electromagnetic interference, the compass is not always reliable, it must be fixed, calibrated to help you arrive home safely In the same way our conscience is defiled by sin, is damaged by our simple choices and habits, as if it's seared with the hot iron. It's dirty and needs cleansing from dead works. Yet as warped as it is, it does play a key role in our moral decision. But there's even a bigger problem than a defiled mind and conscience. It's the fact that our relationship with God is severed. See in the middle of verse 15 that those who are defiled are unbelieving. That's unbelieving in respect to God. So what do we do in our wandering and unbelief? What do we do about our sin nature? This is where the gospel comes in, right? It turns out that what's said of false teachers and creatants is true of us, apart from God's grace. We're insubordinate. We're idle talkers. We're deceivers. We're evil beasts and lazy gluttons. Because we break the law of God and displease him. We're under his holy wrath, destined for hell. Our only hope is Jesus. He's God the Son, sent by the Father, truly God and truly man in one person. He came to the Jews to fulfill the prophecies of old and be the prophet foretold by Moses, yet even greater than Moses. As Christ the Messiah, he came from heaven to earth to testify what he has seen and heard, yet he was rejected by his own. The world hated Jesus because he testifies of it that his works are evil. Instead of listening to his warnings about vain worship, Jewish leaders held as doctrines, commandments of men, we read about that earlier in the sermon. These teachers did not seek sound doctrine from Christ. The authorities, the rulers of this age, had them tortured and crucified. But this was all part of God's sovereign plan. Jesus wasn't helpless while all that took place with purpose and resolve. He went to the cross There through the eternal Spirit He offered Himself without spot to God. He shed his blood to cleanse our conscience. He suffered as our substitute. He satisfied the righteous anger of God against us. And having finished his work of redemption, Jesus breathed his last. He was buried, but on the third day he rose from the grave. He showed many proofs of his resurrection before ascending to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Meanwhile, this good news demands a response from us. Now the question is whether you'll turn from sin and self-righteousness and turn to Jesus. Must repent. Realize that we're impure and defiled because of sin. Admit that no effort, no works, nothing can make us pure. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Put your hope of heaven in Jesus only. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And I hope everyone here truly confesses with their mouth, Lord Jesus. Jesus, know him as the Son of God, and believe in their heart that God has raised him from the dead, then you'll be saved. Now I suppose you can fool me and many of us with the fake profession of faith. You might even deceive yourself, so be careful. That's why Paul elsewhere in 2 Corinthians 13:5 wrote, Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless indeed you are disqualified? Speaking of disqualified, we now turn to the fourth and final obstacle to sound faith in verse 16, the final verse of Titus chapter 1. Heiders and the pastors are up against the denial of the confessors. Always a heartbreaking thing when someone says to us, yeah, I no longer believe. Well I never believed. I was just baking it. I was just trying to make you happy. I was just trying to go with the crowd. It's a not a new problem. So Titus and the passage are up against the denial of the confessors. And keep in mind These are not the League of the Militant Atheists, right? They're not the four horsemen of new atheism or other antitheists. Right. Paul's not thinking of Richard Dawkins or Christopher Hitchens. No, these are people who profess to know God. Sometimes those just as dangerous, if not more dangerous, are those who are outwardly civil and religious. Again, that's what we have here at Crete. Have some idea of God. Every time you press deeper Seems like evasive. Even if they do speak about God is kind of vague. You're never quite sure whether they worship the God of the Bible. So how do we know? Well, since we can't crack open one's skull to look inside or cut open someone's heart to do the same, well, you can't do that legally, we need other ways to test their sincerity. See if their works agree with their words. Our Saviour and Lord Jesus was clear on this matter. He said in Matthew seven, fifteen to seventeen, Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes? Or bigs from thistles, even so every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. Without the saving grace of Jesus. A person cannot help but be himself, which is be abominable, be disobedient, and be disqualified for every good work. Doing cannot be separated from being. God knows the heart and the Lord knows who are his. And for us to share in some level of certainty about someone, ask whether their walk and talk agree in this way. Use 2 Timothy 2. 19 as a test. Let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. But ask yourselves, has God really begun a good work in you? Without that foundation and conversion, none of your good deeds Count and stand in the last day. But if God did start his work within you through the gospel, we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. But be sure of it for yourself and your for people around you. Beware of the denial of the confessors. Now, before we end, I'd like to circle back to the four points and consider some applications for believers. First in verse 10, think about that word idle talk uh words, idle talker. You don't have to be a pathological liar to be insubordinate before God. God. Just talk about nothing and everything, and you've done it. You're an idle talker. Now that doesn't mean that you can't engage in small talk about the weather, local sports teams. I guess it's kind of depressing these days, but hey. Um pet and hobbies, your stock portfolio, we can talk about these things, but when we're assembled we must move from small talk to big talk. At a certain point, don't just spew words, but aim for godly edification, building up each other in the faith. You can't build a strong, healthy physical body with empty calories. Likewise, you can't build a strong, healthy spiritual body with empty speech. The next application concerns our culture. Remember that Paul read the poets, the philosophers, and the prophets of the places he visited. He exegeted the culture while exegeting the scripture. Again, there's no need for us to be experts on everything. But we might be better at fulfilling the Great Commission as we observe carefully what's going on around us. Study the culture, politics, modern history, ideologies, etc. I'm saying please use discretion and discernment, of course. But I I'd even say don't be afraid to open up some non-Christian books. Yeah. I can even recommend some authors and titles that give us insight into the world we live in. In my list of books I've already read and books I want to read are the following: Neopostman, Amusing Ourselves to Death, read Technopoly, I want to read. Jonathan Height, the Righteous Mind, read, and the Anxious Generation, I want to read. Once we're armed with the knowledge of God's Word and knowledge of our culture, we need to speak to the conscience. That's the word I want to revisit in verse 15. I won't be long here. I learned from Ray Comfort, right, how important it is to speak to the conscience during evangelism. It's easy to speak to the mind of the people, right? Get brainy and heady, argumentative and speculative. You may s want to sound cool and knowledgeable and look cool as a apologist. But it's far more effective to speak to the conscience by preaching the law, telling them about what's right and wrong. Even if it is defiled and not functioning as it should be all the time, it's the conscience that will stand up to bear witness against the sinner on the judgment day Romans 2 tells us that, right? It's the conscience that will follow him or her home after you've done sharing and evangelizing, convicting. Exhorting. That of course requires courage. So as the final application, we need courage to call out the works that deny God. Christians not only shine our light so that the world sees our good works and glorify our Father in heaven. We also need to speak up when sin abounds. If we walk as children of light, we must expose the unfruitful works of darkness, these that are done in secret. The walk as God's children requires us to walk by faith. That faith is sound faith. It's a faith that gives us victory, that has overcome the world. It's a faith that does not retreat in cowardice. It's a faith that advances in courage in face of foes and enemies. We see the hand of God at work in the lives of those who prove His faithfulness, who walk by faith and not by sight. Let's pray and sing our final song. What do we see? The noise and the din, the company around us. The tumult of the peoples, nations raging, the sounds everywhere, not godly voices, but ungodliness, blasphemies Lord, help us not to shrink back, but to exhort, to rebuke rebuke. Definitely those among us, those whose lives are not consistent with the faith. faith that they profess. But also, Lord, pray that we would have the courage to speak up. Not because we want to be self-righteous, but because we are righteous. In our standing before you through Jesus, that we have a calling here. Give us compassion for the lost. Or even as they are in sin, Lord, we were like them at once. And it might just be that you would use us in our rebuke, in our testimony. Even as we're ridiculed, that you might use us to share your word, to convict, to exhort, to re So we pray for that courage this week, maybe even today, or as we share the gospel and with those who are already believing, that we may as Um, as this proverbs say, as iron sharpens iron, that we will rebuke and encourage each other, edify each other, and may our speech be encouraging and build up the body of Christ. We just thank you for the way you use us for sound doctrine and sound faith. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.