All right, well good evening. Good to see you all here on our rainy day. Welcome back for another study on the titles of Christ. And for the past two weeks, you guys are aware we've been looking at the titles of Christ that relate to Jesus' ministry. And in our study so far, we've looked at six of these titles. These titles include The Seed, by which the ministry of Jesus is one of keeping promises. And we saw that he there were two promises we specifically looked at. That of blessing the nations by providing justification through faith. And also that of completely destroying Satan at the end time. The second title we looked at was the root and offspring of David in which we saw it was a ministry of origin and source of everything. There was a kingship and also a judgment. As Emmanuel, we saw the ministry of Jesus as being God with us. Not only the flesh as the perfect sacrifice, but also as the Holy Spirit indwelling us. And uh because we are his temple, and that's where he lives with the Holy Spirit. We looked at the title Cornerstone by which Christ is building up a church for himself, and it's going to be something marvelous to behold. and something I'm glad to be a part of. We all looked at the rock, through which the ministry is Jesus supporting and sheltering those that belong to him. And lastly we looked at Jesus as the heir of all things. And we notice that as the heir of all things, everything belongs to him. He owns everything. People, nations, all tongues. He has complete ownership. The main thing that seems to pop out regarding these titles, at least to me, is that the ministry that all these titles relate to are something that only God can do A person could not do these in any of these titles that we looked at so far, except God. And so tonight we're going to wrap up this particular theme of ministry so we can move on to another theme in a couple of weeks. But I think as we go through tonight's titles, we'll see this same idea that only God can perform these ministries. That being said, there are more titles out there, just like there were more titles of Christ's identity. And if you are curious as to what these titles are, you can do a search on Bible Gateway. And there you'll see a list of titles. And these are the titles that I took and have gone in and dug deeper looking at. for it and they have basically scripture references there to help you locate where the title is, but then you have to do your own work to dig any deeper from that point on. So if you'd like to do that, by all means look in there at this Bible Gateway. So let's go ahead and jump right into tonight's titles of Christ that relates to his ministry. And our first title that we're going to look at tonight is that of witness. And I'm sure we all have an idea of what a witness is and what that actually means. But to let let me give you Vine's definition. Because this way we can all be on the same page at least. Because I'm sure we probably have multiple definitions. Vine says that a witness denotes one who can or does avert Alright, so I had to look that up. I mean state or assert to be the case. So someone that asserts this to be the case of what he has seen or heard or knows. And so as an example, Paul, when writing to the believers in Rome, he tells them in chapter 1 and verse 8, for God is my witness. Paul is saying that God can assert that Paul is praying for these people, Jesse said, because God sees it, hears it, knows it. God of course is God, so he sees all things, hears all things, knows all things God is able to assert that Paul's statement is true because he knows it to be true, and he is therefore Paul's witness. Interestingly, this particular definition for witness is the Greek word that we get our English word martyr from. A martyr being one that bears witness by his or her death And we read of examples of witnesses throughout history that have given their life to spread the truth of God's Word. I think of one man that was killed for helping with the English Bible, William Tyndale. And Dr. Price wrote a book. He uh is Dr. Price is a executive editor for the Old Testament when they were writing out the New King James Version So he was part of that work there. And in one of his books, he was talking about the history of the Bible. And specifically, I read a part that I thought was interesting with William Tyndale and his role in the Greek and Hebrew translation to the actual English. English language. And he says that what got Tindell started was that he was having a debate with a learned man. And the learned man said this to him. We were better be without God's law than the Pope's. Upon hearing this, Tyndale answered, I defy the Pope and all his laws. Then he said, If God spare my life ere many years, I will cause a boy that driveth the plough shall know more of the scriptures than thou doest. And so this guy sitting there saying, I'm going to hold the Pope's Law over God's word. And Tyndale says, that's it. I'm going to make an English translation so that a boy driving a plough can know the truth about God. Doctor Price goes on to say in his book On August 10, 1536, Tyndale was sentenced to die the death of a heretic, strangulation and burning at the stake. The sentence was carried out October 6, 1536. After the godly martyr cried out his last words, Lord, open the King of England's eyes. What a prayer Although his life ended in martyr, William Tyndale's goal was fulfilled and his last prayer answered. Before the next year ended, 1537. The first volume of the English Bible ever printed in England, Tyndale's translation with few changes, came off the presses of the King's own printer. And was made available to the common people of England, making it possible for the plowboy to read and know it. Tyndale bore witness of the importance of God's word. And he died to make sure that we have God's word with us today, that we can know God for ourselves. In this book, the Bible, we are told of others who have been martyred as witnesses. For us to give us God's truth. We have synopsis of this in Hebrews chapter 1 11. If you turn they'll see this, Hebrews 11 and verse 35. These are the witnesses for us. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Still others had trial of mockings and scourges, yes, and of chains and imprisonment They were stoned, they were sawn in two, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being pestitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains, in dens and caves of the earth, and all these having obtained a good testimony through faith. Faith. The word testimony here is the verb to be a witness. And so we can see that being a witness may cause martyrdom. You may be martyred for it, but all of us still should be a witness because all a witness is doing is asserting the truth of what we have seen, what we have heard, or what we know. This may have been a roundabout way to define witness. I don't know. But now that we have defined what a witness is, we can now apply it to Jesus Christ. And we're gonna look at John chapter 5 for this afternoon. So if you turn to John chapter 5, and we're going to start out in verse 31. Jesus is talking to the Jews, and he says, If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. There is another who bears witness of me. and I know that the witness which he witnesses of me is true. Now I know we just started, but we've got to pause right here just to go back and look at what the law is talking about, or what the law is at the time. And so to do that, and you can hold your finger in John and flip over to Matthew chapter 18. In Matthew 18, verse 15 to 17. We see Jesus talking about offenses and the forgiveness of sins. And he says, in verse 15, Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses to hear the church, let him be like a heathen and a tax collector. In those verses, we see that Jesus recognized the law of establishing truth by the testimony of two witnesses or more. And so in John 5. 31, this is where Jesus is going with having other witnesses than himself to establish the truth. And of course we know that Jesus is truth. He is God. And as God, he is complete truth, and he has fulfilled all the law and the prophets. So he in his own right can and does assert that he is truth and that his witness is true without any need of any other witnesses. And we see this just a couple chapters after John chapter five and John chapter eight, verse fourteen, where Jesus answers and said to them, Even if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true, for I know where I come from and where I am going. But you do not know where I come from and where I am going. Jesus' witness is true, but in order to fully explain to the Jews on the basis of the law, he brings forth extra witnesses here in Jesus. John chapter 5. And so back in John chapter 5, verses 33 to 35, we'll see the first witness that Jesus presents to the Jews. You have sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Yet I do not receive testimony from man, but I say these things that you may be saved. He was the burning and shining lamp. And you are willing for a time to receive or to rejoice in his light. And so the first testimony given is that of John the Baptist, as his first witness. The guy who said when Jesus was coming down to be baptized, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me. The testimony of John In verse 36 to 38, we see the second witness that Jesus presents. But I have a greater witness than John. For the work which the Father has given me to finish, the very works that I do bear witness of me that the Father has sent me. And the Father Himself, who sent me, has tested You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form, but you do not have his word abiding in you, because whom he sent, him you do not believe. And so we see the second witness is God the Father, whose works Jesus did and whose words Jesus spoke. Remember what the father said on the mountain when Peter, James, and John were there with him and he was being transfigured. They heard a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved son. Hear him. And Peter, later on, when he's talking about this experience in 2 Peter chapter 1. He comes to this conclusion in verse 19. He says, And so we have the prophetic word confirmed, which you do well to heed as a light that shines in a dark place. Until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Jesus is confirmed as the word that all men should hear and obey In verse 39 and 40 of John chapter 5, we read the third witness that's given. You search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life. And these are they which testify of me. But you are not willing to come to me that you may have life. And so we have the third witness is Scripture that it testifies, and there's our word again that bears witness to Jesus Christ. as the one through whom eternal life is given. And we looked at some of this scripture when we were looking at the titles of Christ that relate to his identity. And you remember some of these titles, the way, the truth, and the life, the resurrection and the life, the living one, all titles of this life that he gives us So we have these three witnesses, John the Baptist, God the Father, and Scriptures their self, plus Jesus Himself, and they all assert the truth of who Christ is, because they have all seen, heard, or known. Who he is, where he is from, and where he is going. And so Jesus is given the title witness. And we see this in the book of Revelation, chapter 3, verse 14, where Jesus says, And to the angel, the church of the Laodiceans write, These things say the Amen, the faithful and true witness. There's our title. The beginning of the creation of God. John MacArthur, when he's talking about this verse, he points it back to the title of Jesus being the way, the truth, and the life. And he says this, Jesus is a completely trustworthy and perfectly accurate witness to the truth of God. And so by this title witness, we can see that the ministry that's related to this title is that of asserting truth. Something that Jesus does very well, because he is truth. He is God. And in him is nothing false. Jesus is the true and faithful witness. In Revelation 1 and verse 5, we read also of this same title of Jesus being a witness, but we also see another title related to Jesus' ministry, and that is the firstborn. And in this verse, we're going to see, well, we'll get to it when we get there. Let's go ahead and start at verse 4, and we're going to pick up with a salutation to the seven churches. And Paul's or John's got in his vision. He says, John, verse 4, John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace to you and peace from whom him who is and who was and who is To come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth. And so in this verse, we just read several titles that we've already looked at. We've seen the title, Who Was and Who Is and Who Is to Come. And we said that was a title of identity that showed the eternality of Christ. We just looked at a faithful witness, asserting truth. And with the King of the Earth statement here, that's a statement reflecting the title that we looked at of King of Kings and Lord of Lords that we previously studied. And so in the midst of all these titles, we have this one title, the firstborn. And it's from the dead. Based on the wording of the title itself, we can draw the conclusion that this is a ministry dealing with the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And I think that's a very good conclusion. But I want us to get a full picture of the firstborn, and that means that there's other things to look at. There's other descriptors out there to this title of Firstborn. So in the time we have left tonight, I want to look at a few of these verses that Vine's expository dictionary points out that has this qualifier firstborn, but there's this descriptor or context that is different. And we'll see how it all plays out. So the first one, and we'll look at four of these. The first one is found in Colossians, chapter one, verses fifteen to eighteen. And in this passage, Paul is talking to the Christians, and just to give you a little context, Paul just told the Christians here in Colosse to give thanks. And we see this in verse 12. Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light, he has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son. of his love, in whom we have redemption, through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. And so we have something here to be thankful for. Forgiveness, brought into a kingdom, and all because of Christ. Paul then begins to tell us who Christ is, and that's what we see in verses 15 to 17. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn, and there's our word, over all creation For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him. Him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. So here we see the title Firstborn Over All Creation. And by the context, we know that it doesn't mean that Jesus is created, because verse 16 makes that clear. Instead, it's that he was before creation and he produced creation. John Lightfoot, a commentator in the mid-1600s, stated this about the firstborn. The main ideas which this word involves are twofold. 1. Priority to all creation. In other words, it declares the absolute pre-existence of the Sun. 2. Sovereignty over all creation. God's firstborn is the natural ruler, the acknowledged head of God's household. And so as the firstborn over all creation, we see the ministry The firstborn in this case is the eternal Godhead at work in the sustainment and work of creation. In verse 18, we continue reading about Christ And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. There's our word again. That in all things he may have the preeminent In this verse we again see the firstborn from the dead, the same thing we saw in the book of Revelation. Now, what's interesting to me is that in the both the Book of Revelation and here in this passage, The shed blood of Christ is disgust. You don't have to turn back to Revelation 1, but back in Revelation 1. 5, the Bible says, To him who loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. And then here in Colossians 1. 14, we read, In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sin. And again in verse 20, he says, He reconciles all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross. Jesus had to die to make Forgiveness and reconciliation possible. But if he did not raise from the dead, all that would have been for nothing. Paul, I think, breaks this down very nicely for us in 1 Corinthians 15. In 1 Corinthians 15, verses 13 to 22, we read in sort of an argument or a make-you think type of statement. But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty Yes, and we are found false witnesses of God because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise. And uh for if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile. You are still in your sins. And that's a horrible thought to think about. Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiful. But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man, talking about Christ, also came the resurrection of the dead. Dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. Forgiveness of sins is made possible by the death and resurrection of Christ. Who is the firstborn from the dead. Now that was a slight rabbit trail, but I think one of vital importance in in our own Christian walk, to know that if Christ had not risen from the dead, all of our hope is is worthless. So let's get back to verse 18. And we'll see here there's a relationship going on between the firstborn of the dead and the church. And again I go to John Lightfoot, because I think he makes a great parallel. in these two verses. He says, not only does Christ hold the position of absolute priority and sovereignty over the universe, the natural creation, as he he calls it, which we read with the firstborn over all creation. But he also says Christ also stands in the same relation to the church, the new spiritual creation. He is its head and it is his body. This is his prerogative, because he is the source and beginning of its life, being the firstborn from the dead. Thus, in all things, in the spiritual order, as in the natural order, in the church, as in the world, he is found to have the preeminence. Jesus is supreme. He is God. And in the title of Jesus as the firstborn from the dead, we see this ministry of salvation through his resurrection, a ministry that began to And here's the key word, began to build his church and to fill his kingdom. And you'll see why I say began when we look at the next title related to firstborn. And that's in Romans 8, verses 28 to 30. In verse 28 we read, and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he foreknew, he also predestined, to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. There's our word, firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. Here we read that Jesus is the firstborn among many brethren, in which each of us that belong to him are being transformed into his image. Romans 12, a couple chapters over, let's just know how this is even possible. How we can do this, how we can be transformed into his image. And it says in verse 1 of Romans 12, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. God. And so we can be transformed to be more like Christ in our life if we do let our mind and and uh seek out to do good and do good works, which we can do with Jesus Christ helping us. us. And then as we're transformed, we'll be able to grow the body of Christ. And we see this body in verses 5 and 6 So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another. Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, let us use them. And then it lists some of the different gifts. So the idea is by using our gifts, we can grow the church. And of course, we can't grow it on our own. We can just help out. We know that God's the one that gives the increase. We read that in Colossians 1 19, where it tells us that it is the head, and we know that the head is Christ. It is the head from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together by joints and ligaments, grows with the increase that is from God. God. That's how we grow from God. But we still have our work there to do this. So in this title, we see that the church which Jesus began to build in the ministry of being the firstborn from the dead. He is now growing into this church that's going to be marvelous for people to see. And he's doing that with the title, Firstborn Among Many Brethren. Is the growth of the body of Christ, the church. Now the last verse book we're going to look at is the title found in Hebrews chapter 1. So in Hebrews 1, and last week you you may recall we looked at this uh this section for the title Air of All Things. And as we were going through this title, Heir of All Things, you may remember that Jesus was greater than all the angels, because he was given a greater name, that of the Son of God. And so with that in context, we see verse six. But when he again brings the firstborn into the world, He says, Let all the angels of God worship him. And so we see the firstborn into the world. Now what's interesting about this particular verse is the placement of the word again. You know, it's a small little word, but according to both Vines and Thayer's Greek lexicon The word again here in this verse means renewal or repetition of the action. And so we have the Son who's already come into the world as the incarnate Christ. He is now again or repeating the action of coming into the world, and the angels are going to worship him. And so we see this title talking about the second coming of Christ for his church. The firstborn again in this section, indicating that it is his preeminence. So when we put all these descriptures together, we see that Jesus Christ is firstborn from creation. He established his church. He's growing his church, and he's going to finally collect his church when he returns for us. When we think about that, it's a wonderful God we serve that cares so much for his church that he's willing to put in so much effort for us. So tonight we looked at just a couple more titles that relate to Jesus' ministry. We read how Jesus is the witness by which he is able and willing to assert that he is God, who became incarnate, did the will of the Father, suffered and died on the cross for our sins. Was buried, rose again on the third day, and he's going to come back for us who believe. Jesus can assert this because he is the true and faithful witness. He has seen it, heard it, and he knows it. We also read of Jesus being the firstborn, by which we understand it is a position of absolute priority and sovereignty over the universe. He's the firstborn over creation, the firstborn from the of the dead, firstborn among many brethren, and the firstborn who will come into the world again. As the firstborn, Jesus has the preeminence. We serve a very mighty God who performs a vast ministry as a second person. Of the Trinity, a ministry that encompasses all of time, all of history, and it revolves around his work of saving people, his creation. And it's in that work that we see the long suffering of the God who loves us. A God who wishes that none should perish, but that everyone should come to repent. So let us always thank Jesus for the ministry that He performs for His creation, a ministry that points mankind to salvation. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for another time being able to look at your word and look at different titles and the different ministries that are associated with those titles. And how it can be a blessing knowing that you love us enough to build us up into something that's going to be beautiful. You you made us a part of that We look forward to seeing what the final outcome will be. Help us as we go through our lives to strive to build your church more. To be witnesses as other witnesses who have gone before us have been. We thank you for your love, the forgiveness you offer us each day, and the strength you give us as well. We ask everything in your name. Amen