All right, well, good evening, everyone. It's good to see you all back again here tonight as we continue our study on the titles of Christ. And as many of you should remember, we have looked at three themes so far in our study. And each of these themes, we've looked at a series of titles. And all these titles basically help us to understand the themes that we're looking at just a little bit better. So the first thing we looked at was Jesus' identity, where we saw titles of Jesus that point to the fact that Jesus is God, the second person of the Trinity who created the world and everything in it. He is the creator. The second thing we studied was that of Jesus' ministry. And here we saw the titles of Christ that point out that before God created anything, He had planned out a ministry. A ministry in which Peter tells us, 2 Peter 3. 9, that the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness. But is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so it's a ministry of repentance which points mankind to salvation. And then the third thing that we looked at, and we looked at this last week, was the theme of Jesus' authority. More specifically, we looked at titles that were related to Jesus' authority to help us better understand what this authority looked like. And these were titles that included the Lord, the head of the church, and the prince. And we saw in these titles that Jesus was placed in a position of authority. By God the Father. And as such, he has the right to command belief and practice in our lives and in his church. After all, he is the head And so in these three things, we see Jesus, who is God, doing a ministry that only God can do with the authority that only comes from God. And all this for the salvation of his creation, us, mankind. So tonight we're going to look at some of these titles of Christ that emphasize this saving work that Jesus does for mankind, for us. Before we start looking at these titles, though, I thought it would be a good idea to at least look at the name of Jesus. Granted, Jesus is not a title, it is his name But when we look at it and how it's given to us in the Bible, we see that this name shows us Jesus' purpose for becoming incarnate In the Greek, Vine's expository dictionary tells us that the name Jesus is a transliteration of the Hebrew Joshua, meaning Jehovah is salvation That is, he is the Savior. Now the question to ask is the Savior of what? And that's where Matthew tells us right from the beginning what Jesus will be the savior of. And the Bible tells us in Matthew 1 and verse 21, and you remember the story, the angel comes to Joseph, and he tells Joseph in verse 21, and she, talking about Mary, Jesus' mother, will bring forth a son. And you shall call his name Jesus, which we know is Jehovah. Is salvation. And this is what his salvation is. It goes on to say. For he will save his people from their sin. Sins. One commentator said, the Bible does not say, according to the expectations of the Jews, he shall save his people Israel from their Gentile enemies, or from the temporal calamity or degradation. but from their sins. Thus, from the beginning, was the notion of a political messiah excluded from the minds of Joseph and Mary. Instead, the very name of our Lord, given by the divine command, lays a firm foundation for the trust of the guilty and opens the most glorious hope to man, even that of salvation. And so we read in Matthew that Jesus' purpose for becoming the incarnate was not for political salvation, though he will do that. But it's for spiritual salvation, which we will see more clearly as we look at tonight's titles. Titles that emphasize the saving work of Jesus So we're going to look at four titles tonight. And the first title we're going to look at is found in the Old Testament. Specifically, it's only found once in the Old Testament, and it's in Isaiah chapter 53. And it's the title, Man of Sorrows. And since chapter 53 is a very familiar passage for all of us, I would like to read it in a different translation A translation that was done by Dr. Alec Moyer. And for those of you who don't know who this guy is, I will tell you a little bit about him, all from the back of his book that I'm going to read from. He was a well-known Bible expositor, principal at Trinity College in Bristol, and he regularly taught on the book of Isaiah And according to the preface of his book, he translated the book of Isaiah with the aim of bringing us near to the Hebrew as he could, even following the Hebrew order of words. which he says is generally important to get the emphasis right, and as far as possible, using the same English translation for all of Isaiah's main vocabulary So all that to say that I think it's a pretty good translation. And so, if nothing else, at least it will give us a fresh eyes as we look at this familiar passage that all of us know, I think, fairly well. So follow along your Bibles, and this way you can double check me if something doesn't seem right. And I will read Isaiah fifty-three verses one through five from Alec Mortar's devotional translation on the book of Isaiah. So Isaiah 53, verse 1. Who believed what we heard? And Yahweh's arm to whom was it revealed? Seeing that like a delicate plant he grew up before him, and like a root out of arid soil. He had no physical form and no splendor that we should look at him, and no looks that we should take pleasure in him. Despised and lacking in men, a man of sorrows, and there's our title we're looking at. A man of sorrows and familiar with sickness, and as with the hiding of face from him, despised. And we thought nothing of him. At this point, Dr. Alec Morder says, we're left to make what we can of the reference to sorrow and sickness Presently, it transpires in verse 4 that Isaiah is referring to the servant's voluntary identification with our sinful condition. And so we'll continue reading on to verse four and five, but we'll go back to the title, Manasaros, in order to see if we can get this context that relates Jesus's identifying himself with our sinful condition. So back at verse 3 of Man of Sorrows, a man of sorrows and familiar with sickness, and as with the hiding of a face from him, despite Verse 4. Ah, but surely it was our sickness he himself bore, and our sorrows which he showed us. As for us, we thought him plagued, struck down by God and humiliated. As for him, pierced because of our rebellions, crushed because of our iniquities, the correction bringing us peace. And the doctor Alec Motor says that this impersonal and passive wording that looks away from the agent in order to emphasize the result that has been objectively achieved, this healing. Jesus took our sickness and our sorrows upon himself so that we could be healed of our sickness. And we see this idea of healing in the New Testament as it relates to the repentance of sinners. And you remember the story probably in Mark chapter 2, verses 15 and 17. We read about Jesus having dinner. Now it happened, as he was dining in Levi's house, that many tax collectors and sinners also sat together with Jesus and his disciples. disciples, for there were many, and they followed him. And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eating with the tax collectors and sinners, they said to his disciples, How is it that he eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to Repentance. Jesus was a man of sorrows who suffered for us on the cross, taking our sickness and our sorrows upon himself so that he could heal us from them From our sin. And to me, when I think about that, it definitely emphasizes this title of Jesus' saving work for all of us: A Man of Sorrows. The second title we'll look at is found in Isaiah 53 as well. But we're going to get to Isaiah 53 through a New Testament passage. It's a passage we've read once before at least. in our study. But we're going to read it again. It's dealing with Philip and the eunuch and the encounter they had. And so it's in Acts chapter 8. And I'm going to start in verse 29. And we'll see the title as we read through. Reading. And he said, How can I, unless someone guides me? And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him. And the place in the scripture which she read was this, and it's found in Isaiah 53 Verses seven and eight. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb, there's our title we're going to look at, as a lamb before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. In his humiliation his justice was taken away. And who would declare his generation? For his life is taken from the earth. So the eunuch answered Philip and said, I ask you, of whom does the prophet say this, of himself or of some other man? Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning at this scripture, so beginning in Isaiah fifty-three He preached Jesus to him. And so we are are are given this connection in Acts 8 that Jesus is this Lamb. And we know that at his trial, if you can call that a trial. He was silent when they accused him of false things. And we see this in Mark in chapter fourteen. Verse 60 says, But the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What is it these men testify against you? But he kept silent And answered nothing. So Jesus refused to speak in that. He was silent as a lamb. But he did speak when they asked him straight up, Who are you? Are you the Christ? And you see that In verse 61. Again the high priest asked him, saying to him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. So Jesus was this the silent lamb, as Scripture said, and he's also, though, the Lamb of God, who came takes away the sin of the world. And we see that with John the Baptist when John first saw Jesus walking by in John chapter one. You guys Remember that you could turn there if you like. In John chapter 1, John the Baptist sees Jesus walking by and he says two times, two days in a row even, he says the same statement, Behold the Lamb of God. Now I have to pause here just because when I was studying through the Greek on this, um the word behold, it made me smile. And so I figured, you know, it'll be a good Thing to present this. The word behold. According to Strong's behold is a word that is used as an interjection to denote surprise. So it's like Like, lo, look, see. So you're surprised at something. And so the first day, John is surprised by seeing the Lamb of God. Which verse 29 of John chapter 1 tells us takes away the sin of the world. And then John ends up baptizing Jesus, and he testifies of him at this baptism in verse 34, saying, I have seen and Testified that this is the Son of God. And so it's understandable that you would be surprised and you want to tell other people about this. That you have seen the Lamb of God, the Son of God. So, but the very next day we see in verse 36, John is again surprised by seeing this Lamb of God walking by, and he again points him out to everyone. And what makes me smile about that is I'm just picturing John the Baptist. And to me, John the Baptist seemed like this really rough guy, really serious and not too nice of a person. I mean he had wore camel hair coat and he ate bugs and drank wine or didn't drink wine or ate bread. And so to me he's like This very stern person. And here he is, seeing the Lamb of God walk by and he's like, Look at that. He's right over there. And so then he points him out to everybody. And I think that's something that we would do too when we saw it. If we saw the Lamb of God and recognized this is the Son of God, the Lamb of God, walking by me. And he would want to point him out. And I think we'll do that when we get to heaven possibly. In the book of Revelation, there's this beautiful picture of the people who are going to be at the tribulation or go through the tribulation. And we see this in Revelation chapter 7. And these guys are all sang around and are praising God. In Revelation 7, verses 9 and 10, John says that, after these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude Multitude, which no one could number, of all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes with palm branches in their hands and crying out with a loud voice saying, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb A beautiful picture. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Amen to that. And so we see this title, Lamb. And how does this title, though, emphasize the salvation that these guys who are standing around the throne are proclaiming out loud? Well, to answer that, we need to look back at the Passover in the Old Testament. And we read of the ordinance of the Passover being established in Exodus chapter twelve, and in verse three, we see, speak to all the congregation of Israel. And he said, Lord, talk to you. Talking saying, On the tenth of this month every man shall take for himself a lamb, according to the house of his father, a lamb for a household. And if the household is too small for the lamb, let him and his neighbour next to his house take Take it according to the number of the persons. According to each man's need, you shall make your count for the lamb. the goats. Now you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. Then the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at twilight, and they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts, and on the lintel of the houses where they eat the earth. Verse eleven Thus you shall eat it with the belt on your waist, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. So you shall eat it in hand. Haste. It is the Lord's Passover. And verse t twelve tells us why they have to do this so quickly, and it's because you guys know the Passover story. The Lord's going to come and kill all the firstborn of the children of Israel, ex less he sees this Blood, as described in verse thirteen. And so the blood of the lamb is a sign, and you'll note that in verse 5 it says that it is a blood from a lamb that is without blemish. Or without defect. And this is true also of the Lamb of God. Jesus in 1 Peter 1. 19 is said to be without blemish. In fact, the precious blood of Christ is a lamb without blemish and without spot is what Peter quotes in his or says in his letter in verses one nineteen. And then in Revelation 8 and verse 9, if you look over there, we see the Lamb again. Revelation five verses eight and nine. Says, Now when he had taken the scroll, this is the land that's worthy to do so. So the s the four and l the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls of incense, which are the And they sang a new song, saying, You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain. You have redeemed us to God by your blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. The title of Lamb, we see, is the salvation of mankind by the redeeming power of the blood that was shed by the Lamb of God. And Jesus is that Lamb. And he is worthy. As verse 12 says in Revelation, worthy is the Lamb. And look at all these things he's worthy for. He was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. A lot of things that he is worthy of. Jesus is worthy. And so the next title we're going to look at actually has the word salvation in it. And so we can immediately see the emphasis that the title places on salvation. And that title is a horn of salvation. And it's seen in Luke chapter 1. In Luke chapter 1, we have the prophecy of Zacharias. And the prophecy is whenever John the Baptist is born, and he's able to open his mouth and speak. And this is what we see in Luke 1, verse 67, starting there. Now his father Zachariah now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied saying Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and he has raised up a horn of salvation. There's our title, Horn of Salvation for us in the house. John MacArthur makes this observation in this section here, saying that these words which which is our title for the Horn of Salvation, were clearly not meant to exalt John the Baptist. Since both Zacharias and Elizabeth were Levites, the one raised up in the house of David could not be John. But spoke of someone greater than he. And of course we know who that one greater than he was, and that is Jesus. So what is this title telling us about Jesus? Now if we have to we have to look in the Old Testament and we'll get a better idea of what this horn of salvation is all about. And in Psalm 18 is where we'll find this this answer. If we read the opening of Psalm eighteen and then compare that opening with Second Samuel chapter 22, we'll see that it's the exact same incident in the life of David. where Saul is dead and the Philistine giants have been killed. And you remember David killed one of the giants. Well, in second Samuel twenty one, verse twenty two, we learn of a couple more, four more giants that were killed. And it says in 2 Samuel 21, 22, the four that were born to the giant in Gath, these four were born to the giant in Gath, and fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servant. And then if you look at the text above that you'll find out who killed which giant. And so 2 Samuel chapter 22 starts with These giants being killed, Saul's gone, no longer seeking his life. And so David now is singing a song of praise, of deliverance from his enemies. So with that background, let's read this song in Psalms 18. And we're going to start at the heading and work down at verse 3. Psalm 18. To the chief musician, a psalm of David. to the servants of the Lord, who spoke to the Lord the words of this song on the day that the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. And he said, I will love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress, and my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I will trust, my shield, and the horn of my salvation. The title, My Stronghold. I will call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised. So shall I be saved from my enemies. In a dictionary of the Bible, they have a definition there of this horn of salvation. And it says that a horn is a sign, it's a symbol of power. Which is something that we see in Deuteronomy 33, verse 17, where Moses, in that section, he's blessing the twelve tribes, and he finally gets to Joseph, and in his blessing he tells them His glory is like a firstborn bull, and his horns like the horns of a wild ox. Together with them he shall push the peoples to the end of the earth. And so we see this power or strength as the people are being pushed away to the ends of the earth by these horns. So taking a sign of a horn being power or strength We can see that David in Psalm 18 is talking about the power or strength of salvation that comes from the Lord. This is Yahweh, the self-existing eternal God. And so it's a pretty powerful salvation or deliverance from his enemies and from Saul. With that in mind We can s apply this title back to Jesus in Luke 1 and see that God has raised up a powerful deliverer in Jesus Christ. A deliverer that expects something from us. And this expectation is seen in verses seventy-four and seventy-five. Of Zacharas' prophecy. And you'll notice that once you get to verse 76 of Luke 1, it's now talking about his son. So prior to that, we're talking about Jesus Christ. And in his prophecy, verse 74, says, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without faith. Fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. Warren Wearsby in And his commentary says, to note that the results of this self salvation, which comes from this horn, are sanctity and service. Jesus sets us free, not to do our own will, because that would be bondage, but to do his will and enjoy his freedom Freedom. John Wesley says that as the horn of salvation, Jesus is a glorious and mighty Savior. And it's true, as the horn of salvation Jesus is a powerful deliverer to those that are his. And this brings us to the last tile we'll look at, and that is that of the deliverer. In the book of Romans, chapter 11, we see this title, Deliver. And Paul is talking about the Jews and the Gentiles being grafted into one tree. And in verse 25 to 27, he clarifies something about this drafting in. He says, For I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Deliverer, there's our title, will come out of Zion, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob. Now, this particular passage is dealing with the Jews that are blinded for a time from the truth. And they're eventually going to come back and be grafted back in too. And it's a quotation from Isaiah fifty-nine and verse twenty that says, The Redeemer will come to Zion and to those who turn from transgression in Jacob. Says the Lord. Now it's interesting to note that in Romans we read of a deliverer, someone that's going to rescue or save, and a deliverer is coming from Zion. But in Isaiah, it is a redeemer, someone that's going to redeem by payment or act as the kinsman redeemer, and this redeemer is coming to Zion. So two different directions. In the Old Testament, one is coming to with the purpose of payment. And in the New Testament, one is coming from with the purpose of rescue or salvation. And of course this one is Jesus Christ. Matthew Henry says this about the difference in the wording, which I actually find interesting. Maybe you will He says, when the apostle wrote this, he, the Redeemer, had come. He had been in Zion. And the Apostle is speaking of the fruits of the deliverers appearing, which shall come out of Zion. And the end and purpose of this coming is to turn away ungodliness, to save his people from their sins, to separate between us and our sins, that iniquity might not be our ruin. And that it might not be our ruler, especially to turn away Jacob. Which is that for the sake of which Paul quotes the test Text as proof of the great kindness God intended for the seed of Jacob. And so while this title deliverer in this text is for Jacob, we as Gentiles have been grafted in. And so our deliverer is also seeking the same for us. And Vine's expository dictionary says that uh the present pr uh the present participle used in Romans eleven as the noun the deliverer. is the same construction where Christ is spoken of delivering us from the wrath to come in 1 Thessalonians 1 and verse 10. And if you turn there, you'll see this. 1 Thessalonians 1. 10. I'll start in the middle of verse 8 to help us with some context. It says Your faith toward God has gone out, so that we do not need to say anything, for they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you. Even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. And so the word delivers, according to Vines, might well be our deliverer. From that wrath, believers are to be delivered. And I don't know about you, but I'm pretty sure I can guess that you are also, like me, very thankful that we are going to be delivered from this wrath. After all, Hebrews 10 31 reminds us that it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. To save, to rescue the godly out of temptations, and to reserve the unjust under punishment for the day of judgment. What a faithful God we serve, who delivers us out of temptation as well as from the wrath to come, a wrath that we rightly deserve to have to face. In the titles we've looked at this evening, we've seen that Jesus is a man of sorrows, took our sickness, our sorrow upon himself, by which he was able to identify or to relate with us and ultimately save us from From our sins. Jesus is also the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world by shedding his perfect, sinless blood for us. As a horn of salvation, Jesus has the power to deliver us from our enemy, Satan, and by doing so sets us free from bondage so that we can do what God wills in our lives. And finally, as our deliverer, Jesus saves us out of temptation and from the wrath that comes when he comes to judge the world. All these titles point to the saving work of Jesus, who by his very name came to save us from our sins. Let's give God the glory for Jesus Christ and His Savior. Father, we thank you that you look at your creation in love and are willing to send Jesus Christ to die for us. Without him, we would be lost like the rest of the world. We wouldn't know you. We wouldn't be able to praise you. We'd be doomed for the wrath that's to come when you Come to judge. Thank you for opening our eyes, for removing the veil. We just pray that you will remove the veil on many people, so many will come to you, and we'll all be able to be at your throne. Praising you for your salvation. You are a wonderful God. Help us to remember that. Help us to proclaim it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.