All right, good evening, everyone. Welcome back as we continue our study on the titles of Christ. And as you guys have had a little bit of a break from me for the past several weeks, I thought it would be a good idea to just do a quick recap of what we've looked at so far on the Titles of Christ, just to bring us up to speed, and also Just to remind us of the goodness of the God we serve. No matter what struggles seem to be going on in our lives currently. And so we've looked at titles that relate to Jesus' identity. And these are titles such as the I Am, the First and the Last. The image of God, the Word of God, the bread of life, the resurrection and the life, and several other titles, all relating to his identity. We also looked at titles that are related to Jesus' ministry. These titles include items such as the seed, the faithful witness, the cornerstone, the firstborn, and a few other titles as well. Within these two themes, the identity and the ministry, we saw titles that point to Jesus being God, the second person of the Trinity. As well as titles that pointed to him being the only person possible to be able to save mankind from our sinful state of existence. Jesus is God and the only way of salvation. Salvation and the fact that God offers us this way to salvation, and He did it at His own cost, to me that shows the goodness of the God's that we serve. As I said, a very quick recap. So now that we're all on the same page, we're going to look at titles of Christ that relate to his Authority. So we've looked at titles of Jesus' identity, titles of Jesus' ministry, and tonight titles of Jesus' authority. Now according to the Oxford Dictionary, One of the definitions that is given there for the word authority is the power or right to give orders, make decisions, and enforce obedience. Now I think this fairly agrees with the strong concordance that divines the Greek word for authority as privilege. Right, basically, and then it goes on to clarify this right or this privilege by stating subjectively, this right is force, capacity, competency, or freedom. And objectively, this right is mastery or delegated influence. And so when I try to boil it all down, I think authority in a simple form is the right to do something. something. And I like the definition that I heard over at the Bibliology 2 course that a few of us went to a couple weeks ago, where Pastor Tom Leake defined authority. And what that something is. And this is how he defined it. He said, in the religious context, authority is the right to command belief and practice. And so I'm going to use that definition because I like Now there is a lot that can be said about this topic of Jesus' authority. For example, Matthew chapter 9, we We see Jesus' authority when he forgives sins and he shows his authority by healing a person. And I'm sure you remember the story, but go ahead, let me go ahead and read it to you, and you can turn there if you want. This is Matthew chapter nine, verses two to eight. It says, Then behold, they brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the Paralytic, son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you. And what a wonderful sentiment that would be being told. And at once some of the scribes said within themselves themselves. This man blasphemes. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Arise and And walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, then he said to the paralytic, Arise, take up your bed and go to your house. And he arose and departed to his house. Now when the multitude saw it, they marveled and glorified God who had given such power to men. Now the power that we saw there The power to forgive sins and the power that the multitude saw and they glorified God for, that's the same word we receive the word authority for. So it's the same exact reason. And so Jesus has the authority to forgive sins. And we know this, and the people saw this too, and they saw where that authority came from, and they prayed God for it. Now, there's many more examples that show Jesus' authority, but I'm not going to go into them because that's not what we're here to learn today. Today we're looking at titles of Christ that reflect And so I want to focus on these different titles that will help us to understand Jesus' authority or his right to command belief and practice in our own own lives. And so we're going to look at three titles that illustrate this particular definition of authority or right to command a belief and practice that Jesus has. And the first of these titles we're going to look at tonight is the title Lord. Now if you recall back when we first started this series on the identity portion, we looked briefly at this title. Lord. And we basically just made the statement that Jesus is Lord, which is a true fact. And we also then looked at the Greek definition of what Lord is. So as a refresher, the Greek definition for Lord means supreme in authority. Tonight though we're going to delve deeper into this word Lord and see how authority plays out as Jesus plays as with Jesus as Lord. And so if we take our definition that we gave of authority, we take the definition of Lord, we can see that Lord is supreme in his right to command belief. And by just looking in the back of the book of Matthew, we're going to read several examples of the supremacy that Jesus had. So we'll stay in Matthew. The first place we'll look is in Matthew chapter 12. In verse 1. We're going to start reading from there. And we're going to see the Lord's supremacy over the Sabbath. It says at that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and his disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. And when the Pharisees saw it they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless. Yet I say to you that in this place there is one greater than the temple. But if you had known what what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guilt. Guiltless, for the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. And so we see here that Jesus Is defending the innocence of his disciples. And he's doing it on the basis of his authority over the Sabbath, a day that is set aside by God. John Wesley puts it this way regarding Jesus' response when the Pharisees say to him in verse 2, look, your disciples, they're doing what's not lawful. John says, Jesus' answer is, They are guiltless, were it only on this account that they act by my authority and attend on me in my ministry, as the priests attend on God in the temple. And I think that's pretty accurate. The Lord is over the Sabbath. And in verses nine to thirteen we read of Jesus showing this truth that we read about in Mark, chapter two, verse twenty seven. It says the Sabbath The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. And we read this in verses nine to thirteen. Now when he had departed from there, he went into their synagogue, and behold there was a man who had a withered hand, and they asked him, saying Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath that they might accuse him? Then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it up So what's interesting here is that it's a command, he says, it is it is lawful. Specifically says he has the authority to say it is lawful. The Lord shows his authority by healing a person on Sabbath, and therefore he sets it as a practice For us to follow, to do good. A practice that he has the right to set because he is Lord, the supreme in authority. We look in Matthew 14, we'll see another example of Jesus' authority. Authority and this is and this is a premacy over what we believe. Matthew fourteen, verse twenty-eight, and I'm sure you all know the story, Jesus Christ. Comes walking out on the sea. And Peter sees him and says in verse 28, Lord, and there's our title: if it is you, command me to come to you on the water. So he said, Come. And when Peter came down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was Afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him, and he said to him, O you of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. And so here it looks like Peter seemed to understand at least a little bit. That the Lord has the authority to command the supernatural, in this case, walking on water. And then so Peter was able to do that. He said, Lord, tell me to come. And the Lord said, Come. And so he went. And as he was going along, he looked around, and that's when his faith began to waver. And that's when he began, he was reprimanded for his disbelief. O you of little faith. And I often thought it's strange that Jesus would say that to Peter. He's the only one that was willing to step out of on faith in the first place. Get out of the boat. I wouldn't have done that. that. And yet Jesus looks at him and says, O you of little faith. And whenever I look at that, and then I compare it to what the title Lord means here, We see that the Lord has the authority to define what is a faith. You see, he has the right to command belief. And that's why he asked him, why did you doubt? It's a question I think that all of us need to ask ourselves. Why do we doubt Especially when it's written in his word and we can see it. So Jesus has the authority to command And belief. In Matthew chapter 8, we see a guy who actually believes, so the positive side of this, he actually believed that Jesus did have the authority And this man was a centurion. And we read of this belief in verses 5 to 13 of Matthew chapter 5. Now when Jesus had entered Capernaum, a saturnian came to him, pleading with him, saying Lord, and there's our title, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, dreadfully tormented. And Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my room. Roof. But only speak a word, and my servant will be healed, for I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard it, he marveled and said to those who followed, Assurely I say to you, I have not found such great faith. Then Jesus said to the centurion, Go your way, and as you have believed, so it will be done for you. And his servant was healed that same day. Mourer. The centurion there believed that all Jesus had to do was speak, and his servant would be healed. He understood authority. And that authority was Jesus's to command. And I find myself often not following that, not failing to believe in this authority that Jesus has to command. But because Jesus is Lord, and he is supreme in his right to command, And belief, we read in verses eleven and twelve that many from the east and the west will be in the kingdom of heaven, but others will not. That right there is the supremacy of Jesus' authority. When he knows who are his and who are not his. And we see this specific supremacy, I think, in commanding belief and practice if we look at Matthew 7. Which is just the page over. And you may recall that for the past two chapters, previous to chapter 7, Jesus had been talking and he'd been doing so on top of a mountain. And in chapter five, Jesus spoke about the Beatitudes. In chapter six, he spoke about prayer and not worrying. And then we get to chapter seven. And in verse fifteen, Jesus Jesus is talking about false prophets to be beware of them. And he tells us in verse 20 how we're going to know these guys are false prophets. And he says, you'll know them by their fruit. And so we're going to pick up at the end of Jesus' dialogue, starting in verse 21 to 29. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, and there's our title. Shall enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name? Cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Therefore, whoever hears these things of mine and does I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. But everyone who hears these things of mine and does not And so it was when Jesus had ended These sayings, the people were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. Here we see Jesus' Supremacy in his authority or right as Lord to declare a person whose works I would think were really good. But he I mean look at verse 22 again. Here we have a guy saying, Have we not prophesied in your name? Cast out demons in your name, done many wonders in your name. All things that if I was looking at someone on the outside, looking at their fruit that Jesus told me that's how I'm gonna know if they're true or not, and they're doing this, that I would be fooled possibly. And yet the Lord in his supremacy knows whose are his and whose are not. And so he can look at them and he can say that they practice lawlessness, and he declares them as not belonging to him. Him. The Lord knows whose are his and whose are not his. And so when you read passages like this, what do you do? The Lord knows, and I mean here You could do really good things it seems. I think it all goes back to uh Second Corinthians thirteen five, where Paul's telling the Corinthians to examine yourselves as to whether you are in The faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless indeed you are disqualified. And I think one of the ways that we can examine ourselves, and I think every Christian should continue to do so, especially in light of this verses and verses that we read. But one of the ways we could do this is in Luke 6. And I think the context in Luke 6 is very similar to this, where we have the wise versus the foolish man. In Luke six, verses forty six to forty seven it says, But why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do the things I say? Whoever comes to me and hears my sayings and does them, I will show you. And then Jesus talks about the doer being the guy that built on a rock and the do nothing as the guy that built on the sand. And when When I read something like this, and I think when we all read something like this, we should ask ourselves, are we doers of the Lord? This is one way to examine ourselves. It's a hard but a very important question to ask. Especially in light of the authority that Jesus has as Lord, the supreme authority who has the right to command belief and practice. As Lord Jesus has the supremacy over what we believe, the supremacy over what we do, and the supremacy over where we spend eternity He is the Lord, and thus he has that authority. The next title we're going to look at, relating to Jesus' authority, is the title of head. Head, the head of the church. And this word is used in a metaphorical context, as defined in Vine's expository dictionary, in that it shows the authority and position of Christ, Jesus, in relation to the church, which is his body. So us. And this is a metaphor, it seems that Paul likes to use quite a bit, and we'll see that as we go through uh our little study that we're going to do here. So turn to Ephesians 1, if you will. And here we see in Ephesians 1, Paul is talking to the saints in Ephesus. And he's telling them how thankful he is for them and what his prayer is for them. And we're going to pick up his words of thanks that are actually in a rather lengthy sentence that starts in verse 15. He says, Therefore I, this is Paul talking, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and of your love for all the saints, do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. And so then he goes to tell them what his prayers are for him in verse seventeen. And this is the prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation. might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And it's when I read that one it reminds me of uh more of a extension extended praise to God that he's doing here. Because he's just talking about how great God is and what he did for Jesus Christ. And I think that's a great way to pray. And it's also a great and wise God who we serve that ends up putting Christ, our Savior, above the church, the way they Colossians 1 18, which is also written by Paul, tells us the reason for this high position of Christ as the head, saying, And he is the head of the body. The church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. As the head of the church, Jesus is supreme. He is pre-eminence Paul goes on to tell of the wisdom that God has concerning this position that he placed Christ in at the church in verses twenty-two and twenty-three. three. He says, and he put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. And these two verses we read Christ as the head of the church because God put him there. Paul then goes on to explain in Ephesians 4 how the church is growing into this head. Christ. And it's accomplished by people who are telling God or telling people, other people, about God's truth. And we see this in verse 11 of chapter 4. And he himself gave some to be apostles and prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. And this is why he gave these people to us in the church. Verse 12, for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of the faith and to the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the status of the fact that the plotting. And so we see that he's trying to protect us by giving these people too, because there's that people out there that are trying to trick us up. By different doctrines and just by being plain or deceitful. And the answer to that we see in verses 15 and following, and that is truth in love. But, he says, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, and the truth. lies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. When we as a church grow into the head, we are knit together and the body is edified. But what happens if we do not grow into the head? Well, Colossians two tells us what happens. And this is Paul. Colossians two and verse eighteen. He says, Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his Fleshly mind, and not holding fast to the head, from whom all the body, nourished and knit together by joints and ligaments, grows with the increase that is from God. It is the head that grows the church. And when we fail to hold fast to that head, when we start listening to man's ideas, man's thoughts, and not the word of God, do you think we're going to grow? No, of course not. Look at verse 20 to 23. This is what will happen. Therefore, if you died with Christ from the basic principles of the world, Why, as though living in the world, do you subject yourselves to regulations? Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle, which all concern things which perish with these the indulgence of the flesh. If we do not hold fast to the head, Jesus, then we may look good on the outside. Yeah, people Will come by and say, Hey, that those people look really good. But there's no real growth. And it's going to fall away. As the head of the church, Jesus is in a position Of authority, and as that authority, he has the right to command the practice of his church. John Wesley says that Jesus is a head both of guidance and government. And likewise of life and influence to the whole and every member of it. All these stand in the nearest union with him and have a continuity Continual and effectual communication of activity, growth, and strength from Him as a natural body from its head. Talk about authority that Jesus has over the church. The last title we're going to look at tonight relates Jesus' authority as the title prince, or as the Greek defines it, a chief lord. And if you just think about the title itself, we know that a leader or prince has authority to command and is expected to have Obedience. Interestingly, though, when we look at Acts and where Prince shows up, we'll see that it has a different idea behind it. And so let's look in Acts. There's two instances of this. And both of them are where people are being reprimanded for killing Jesus, putting Jesus the death on the cross. So the first one we'll look at is in Acts chapter 3. When people are trying to kill the prince of life. So look at me, uh look with me, Acts 3. We'll start at verse 12. And you guys all I think remember this story. Basically a lay man is being healed and everyone's amazed that they healed a lay man, even though Jesus had been doing it for And so in verse twelve, Peter responds and says, So when Peter saw it, he responded to the people, men of Israel, why do you marvel at this? Or why look The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied and said, The presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go. But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, and killed the Prince of Life. There's our title, Whom God Raised from the Dead, of which we are witnesses. So we see the people wanting to kill the chief leader of life, the prince of life. Another way to say that would be the authority of life. And so they handed Jesus over to be crucified. But God raised him from the dead and the apostles were witnesses of that. One commentator I looked at said the the people here, they did a wicked thing in taking away his life, who would have been their life, and saving And they did a foolish thing in supposing they could conquer and extinguish in death the Prince of Life. I think Peter points out this wicked and foolish thing that they did, and he says in verse seventeen, that even though it was done in ignorance, he still expects them to repent. And we see that Verse 19. Repent, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. The Prince of Life has the authority to give life and provide repentance. And we see this repentance play out in the second instance of the Prince that we find in the book of Acts. And this is found in chapter five of Acts, where Peter and the other apostles are told not to preach Christ. And you guys know the response, but in verse twenty-nine we read But Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on a tree. Him God has exalted Exalted to his right hand to be prince and savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are his witnesses to these Things, and so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. As Prince and Savior, Jesus is able to give repentance to Israel And forgiveness of sins. John Wesley, I went to him a lot this lesson, huh? He says that God exalted Jesus from the grave to heaven To give repentance, whereby Jesus is received as a prince, and forgiveness of sins, whereby he is received as a Savior. Another commentator, I think, made a Very good observation by saying we cannot have Christ to be our Savior unless we are willing to take him for our ruler or As the prince, Jesus Has the right or the authority to give life and repentance, and he does so for those who believe on his name. He's a great God. So in these three titles, we see how Jesus has the authority to command our belief and our practice And it's his right. It was given to him by God. And so we saw in the title, Lord, that Jesus has all supremacy to command what we believe, all supremacy to command what we do, and all supremacy over what we believe. Where we spend eternity. In the title, The Head, we saw that Jesus was placed in a position of authority over his church. Showing his preeminence and giving him the right to command our practices as we grow the church with the increase that is from God. And lastly, in the title of Prince, we saw Jesus' authority once again given to him by God to command our practice through the way we live our lives, of which Jesus is the Prince Of life, and the authority to command our belief by making repentance possible because he was raised from the dead and is at the right hand. Of God. Jesus is the Lord. He is our head. He is our prince. Let us serve Him with gladness whenever we think Think of this. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we do thank you for the truth that you show in your word. And just by looking at different titles and this context behind that scripture, we can see How much you care for your people and the way that you care for us. And so we thank you that you are our Lord, and we just pray that That we will acknowledge that and submit to you and be obedient to you. We know that you are the head, that you are in charge of the church. And so we pray that you that we will each come to this building and try to knit together with those that are here with us. That's what you given there for us to do We just pray that we will do that and that you will give the increase. We thank you that you are our prince, that you give life, and that you give repentance, and that we can come to you. Thank you, Father, for the love that you have shown us by giving us Christ in the first place. Keep us safe as we travel on this week and help us to remember that you are in control. In Jesus' name we pray