Well, good evening. So for the past two weeks, we've been looking at the titles of Christ and how they relate to Jesus' identity. And we could probably continue this theme for several more weeks, but um there's plenty of titles out there, by the way, that we can look through. But we're not going to do that because this is supposed to be a short series, or perhaps a semi-short series. So instead, I plan to wrap up this particular theme on the titles of identity, so that way we can look at other titles that refer to other ministries and other items of Christ. That being said, there are more titles of Christ that relate to his identity, but we're not going to look at them in this series of this time. I will try to provide a good representation of the titles that we have left that I've studied. So that we can have a clear picture of the identity of Jesus Christ when we move on. But before we get into these new titles, let's look quickly at the titles we've looked at so far in this series. In part one, we looked at several I am statements. And the most important IM statement we looked at was the statement I am, right? by which Jesus plainly said that he is Yahweh, self-existent, the eternal God of the Old Testament. And then from that truth, we were able to understand how the other I am statements that Jesus made in the Book of John. are even possible, how they can be true as well. And these truths include statements such as, I am the light of the world, by which we were able to see that Jesus shows sinners the way in a place that's full of sin and darkness. The statement, I am the bread of life, by which Jesus taught us that man cannot live by bread alone. Bread's not going to give us eternal life. You eat it, you're going to die. But he gives eternal life. The statement, I am the door, by which Jesus explained that there is only one way to eternal life, and that is through Jesus Christ. And then he explained further on in the book of John, in this particular section, how this was possible by saying that I am the good shepherd. And we know a good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep, which is what Jesus did when he came and died on the cross for the sins of the whole world. We also look at the statement, I am the true vine, by which Jesus showed us that in order for us to do anything good, first of all we have to belong to Him. We have to know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. And then we have to abide. We have to stay in Jesus, having a life grounded in Christ. Because if we're not in Christ, if we don't know Christ, then all our works are filthy rags. They're worthless. Jesus is God. And that's what we saw most importantly with part one. And we saw this identity a little bit more explained in the part two of the series, in which most of the titles came from the book of Revelation. One title in particular from this area provided a direct correlation to Jesus as Yahweh. Do you remember that that title was? Yes, I am the first and the last. And in there, we saw that Yahweh said the same thing about himself in the Old Testament, that he was the first and the last. And so like the I am statement that we saw Jesus say in John, where Jesus stated the fact that he is God, we again see by the statement, I am the first and the last, that Jesus is saying again that He is God, the God of the Old Testament, Yahweh. And from there we looked at other titles that continue to support this truth. We looked at he is Lord, and we said that Lord is supreme in authority. He is the word. And he said that's the personal manifestation of the full deity. So not just a part of the deity, the whole deity. of the Godhead, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, who existed, created, and he became incarnate. We also saw that Jesus is the living one So he is, he was, he is to come. And as the living one, he has life in himself and is therefore the resurrection and the life by which people are going to be raised to life at the end of time. To be judged by the supreme authority, who is the Lord Jesus Christ. We also read about Jesus being the Alpha and Omega Which we learned by from that, you know, the Alpha being the first Greek letter of the alphabet and the Omega being the last, that Jesus has all wisdom and all knowledge. He's basically the complete Greek alphabet And that he was the beginning and the end, by which we understand that Jesus, God, has always been and he always will be. Jesus is God. And we keep seeing this theme come up, don't we? Tonight we're going to reflect on other titles that I believe support this truth and further fill in the picture of the identity of Jesus. So if you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 1, in verses 1 to 3, we're going to read about Christ's work throughout time And are given another hint of his identity by a title, the Express Image of God. So let's read it. Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 and 3. 1 to 3. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to his fathers, to the fathers by the prophets has in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed heir of all things, through whom he also made the worlds. And here's our creation again who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power. when he had by himself purged our sins and sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. So we see here these three verses the complete unity of God and Christ. In verses one and two, we're reminded that in the Old Testament, The people learned about God from the prophets, who then told the people what God expected of them, what they were to do. In New Testament, we see Jesus, who is also God, speak to all people through his word, which we had today as the Bible, and back in the New Testament time, it was Christ Himself. Walking among the men, the incarnate God, human flesh, telling them what God expected from them, how to worship and praise God. And we also saw in verses 2 there about him being there during creation that I point out. He says, making the worlds. Again, affirming the truth that Jesus, this title about him being the word and the beginning and the end, are true. In verse 3, we see this finished work of Jesus on the cross, where our sins are purged. They're completely taken away. And you saw who did this? It says God Himself took this away. And we know that Jesus, when he did this, he sat down at the right hand of the Father of the Majesty on high. And so we see both the close unity of God and Christ. In the work of salvation, God the Father and God the Son. And it's highlighted, I think, by this title, the Express Image. The word for image that we see in this verse for express image in our English Bible is the Greek word that means And this is a pretty long definition, so I'll try to break it down a little bit. It means a graver, the tool or the person that is by implication engraving in its character. which is where we get our English word character from, of course, is this word. The figure stamped that is an exact copy or figuratively an exact representation. So let's try to break it down because there was a lot to try to swallow here. So when a coin is made, and we'll try to use earthen terms here You have a stamp and the stamp has a picture of something on it. And then you have a coin that's blank, right? And then they go and they stamp with that tool with that coin. And when you pull the stamp away, the coin has the picture that the stamp has. And so if someone wanted to put a head on a coin and a tool had a picture of a person's head, when they stamped into the coin, you would have a head on both. It would be matching the same thing. Maybe in reverse order, but it's still there. So Vines, when we're taking that image, the book uh the Vines Expository Dictionary, States that this title in the book of Hebrews, where we see that him being the expressed image, is a metaphorical picture where the Son of God is the very image, the impress of his substance. and not merely his image or character. Instead, he is the image or impress of his substance or essence. And so there's this picture of Jesus being the impress of God, where both God and Jesus are exactly the same. Jesus is the express image of God, showing that he is God. In Colossians 1, 15 to 17, we simply see a similar uh phrase and yet it's slightly different. So turn over there if you will. Mark it. There it is. We read verse 15 of chapter one. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things. and in him all things consist. So in these verses we see the Godhead, the role of the Godhead in creation, how everything was created by Him. Through him, for him, and consist in him. And because of his work in creation, verse 15 tells us that Jesus is the image of the invisible God Now the word image here does not mean the express image, where it's the exact copy type thing. Instead, it means a likeness. That is literally a statue, a profile, or figuratively a representation, or resemblance. This Greek word is the same word that we see in reference to those who know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, and how that we reflect Jesus in our lives. Verses such as Romans 8. 29 For whom he, God, foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image, and there's the word, the likeness, representation, or resemblance. Of his son, Jesus, that he, Jesus, might be the firstborn among many brethren. Verse uh 2 Corinthians 3. 18 is another verse where we're told, but we all, and it's talking about Christians here, with unveiled faith. Meaning that we're going to see clearly. And the way that we see clearly, of course, verse 14 of 2 Corinthians 3 tells us because the veil has been taken away in Christ. So if you know Christ, then you can see clearly. And what are you looking at? The verse goes on saying, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, and being transformed into the same image, the same representation, resemblance, or likeness. From glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord. And one more, Colossians 3, 8 to 10. Again, talking to Christians, we are told, But now you yourself are to put off all these. And here's a whole list of things that a Christian is supposed to put off. They're not supposed to do this stuff. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another Since you have put off the old man with his deeds and have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image, the resemblance, representation. the likeness of him who created him. And so I don't know if many of you guys know um several Christians maybe who Don't live this way. You look at their life and you're like, how can you say you're Christian? You're not living this way. You have filthy language coming out of your mouth. You're always angry. You always have this kind of stuff going on And I say if you see Christians like that, you need to ask them, or they should ask their self even, Am I truly Christ? Because if I am, then I'm not living this way. I I hold his image. How am I bearing his image if I do not have this? If we're not living this way, then we should repent, turn to Christ, and get right. So that way we can bear his image to a world That is desperately needing something. They're needing Christ. And we can do that in our lives if we live like Christ and have that in us So if we know Jesus, we should be looking more and more like Jesus each day of our lives Now when we compare the title of Jesus as the express image of God, which shows that Jesus and God to be exactly the same, with Colossians 1. 15, where he is the likeness, the representation, or the resemblance of the invisible God, We get this picture of this Jesus and God being the same, expressed image, but since God is a spirit, John 4. 24 tells us God is a spirit. We must worship him in spirit and truth. And since he's a spirit and Jesus came to earth as incarnate, Meaning he came in the flesh. So while in the flesh, Jesus is the representation, resemblance, or likeness of the unseen God, but as a second person of Trinity, he is the exact copy of God. So you see how that works out. And I think understanding this helps us to fully understand a little bit more the title that Jesus gives himself in the book of John as the way, the truth, and the life. You'll see this if you look at John 13. So in John chapter 13. We're going to start in chapter 13 where it's at the last supper. The Lord's at the last supper with all his disciples. And in verse 21, we see that while Jesus is at the supper, he's troubled. And look why he's troubled. Verse 21 of John chapter 13. He was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me. Then the disciples looked at one another, perplexed, about whom he spoke. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, Simon Peter, therefore motioned to ask who it was of whom he spoke. Then, leaning back on Jesus' breast, he said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it. And having dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Istrid, the son of Simon. And of course we know that Judas was the one that betrayed Christ And so Judas ends up leaving, and then Jesus tells the disciples a sad thing. He tells them that he is also going to be leaving them shortly. And so we pick this up in verse 33. Jesus is talking again to his disciples, and he tells them, little children, I shall be with you a little while longer. You will seek me. And as I have said to the Jews, where I am going, you cannot come. So now I say to you, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. And of course Peter skips that whole love part and jumps right to the question of Simon Peter saying to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you shall follow me afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for your sake. I will die for you, Christ. Jesus answered him, Will you lay down your life for my sake? Most assuredly I say to you, the rooster shall not crow till you have denied me three times. And so they get this hard news that Jesus is leaving them. And then Peter, if you're Peter, you give him worse news because now you're being told you're going to deny Christ three times. And he's going to see that prophecy about him denying Christ three times come true very shortly. But Jesus goes on to comfort them in chapter fourteen and verse one, saying, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And where I go you know, and the way you know. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going, and how can we know the way? Jesus said to him, and here's his title. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me In these verses, we see Jesus telling his disciples, do not worry. Yes, he's leaving them, but he's going to be back for them. And not only that They know where Jesus is going because they know Jesus. He is the way, the truth, and the life. In verse 7, he continues by saying, If you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on, for and from now on, you know him and have seen him. And so here in verse 7 we see, or we read, that by seeing Jesus, the disciples have seen the Father. And of course they don't quite get it. And Philip says to him in verse 8, Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. So how can you say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does the works Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me for the sake of the works themselves. Jesus and the Father are the same. In the flesh, Jesus is the likeness, the resemblance of the Father, the representation. And as the second person of Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. He is the exact image of God. Do you believe? This is what Jesus is asking the disciples in a roundabout way, in a manner of speaking, I guess. But he then helps them to believe this. And in verse 19 we see him say, A little while longer, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me, because I live, you will live also. At that day you will know that I am in the Father, and you in me, and I in you. I think in these verses right here we see the support of the faith that we talked about uh n the first week together, about the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. At the end when Jesus comes back We're going to see Jesus, that he is God. And the evidence of the substance of all that Jesus Christ has said at that point in time in this book, we're going to see. And the disciples get to see that earlier 'cause they see him rise from the dead. and get to heaven. Such an encouragement to these men, I think, and to us as well. And so Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life by which we can come to the Father and see the Father because they are one. Jesus is God. And Jesus is also King. In Matthew 2, if you flip over there, Chapter uh chapter two verses one and two. Here we see a title that is given to Jesus by the wise men. And we sing about this morning actually or this evening. The wise man came looking for Jesus when he was incarnate, when he first became a child. And the Bible says in Matthew 2 Verse 1. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born King of the Jews? And here's a title we're looking at. Jesus is King of the Jews. For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. The wise men are seeking the king of the Jews, and their attitude is right. They came to worship him. Now to me this is interesting that the wise men are seeking a king to worship instead of I mean they don't know this guy, right? So what what makes them want to come and pay reverence to these guys. Because the word worship here is the same word that John in the book of Revelation, when we looked at that, tried to offer the angel. When the angel was showing him all these great things, and John bowed his knee down to worship the angel And one of the angels' responses we find in Revelation 19, 10, said, See that you do not do that. I am your fellow servant, and of your brethren who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. And so in Matthew, these wise men, they're worshiping God, whether or not they know that it's God or not at this point. But today, because of God's word that's given to us, We know that Jesus, King of the Jews, is God. And so we should worship him ourselves. And so how do we know that the King of the Jews is really God? Well, when the Jew when these wise men came seeking for Jesus, they end up having to go to King Herod, who goes and looks at prophecy. And this is what happens in this part in verse 3. When Herod the king heard this, He was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For thus it is written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. This comes, this uh prophecy is coming from the book of Micah. What's interesting though is that these scribes and Pharisees, they left off one key part, I think, of this prophecy. So if you look at Micah 5. 2, you'll see this last little phrase they end up leaving off. It starts out saying, But you, Bethlehem Um Iphraath, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me the one to be ruler in Israel. And here's the phrase they left off whose going forth are from of old, from everlasting. We're talking about deity here. And they just didn't connect the dots, it doesn't seem. In uh MacArthur's studied book, he says that this phrase of old and from everlasting speaks of God's eternal uh incarnation or eternal God's incarnation in the person of Jesus Christ, which we read in Matthew But he says also points to his millennial reign as King of Kings. And we'll see that in a little bit. But on the cross, When Jesus was hung there, and I know that in children's church you guys heard this story, there was an inscription put above Jesus. His on the cross. And Luke 23, 38 tells us what the sign read. It says, and an inscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. And this is what it said. This is the king of the Jews. So all people that could read at that time, in any of those three languages written there, As they walked by and saw Jesus hanging there, they knew that the Jews had killed their king. A king that was prophesied by the prophets. Micah being one of those prophets. But Jesus did rise again from the dead, thankfully, and he is coming back. And so he's given a name that is greater. Then the name of the King of the Jews. No longer will it be King of the Jews, but he's going to be king of kings. And we see this in Revelation in chapter 17, verse 14. We see all the nations are coming to war, and they're warring with the Lamb. Now the Lamb is Jesus Christ, who has shed his blood for the sins of the whole world. And so that's the image of Christ. It says, These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them. And this is how the Lamb's going to overcome them. For he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. And those who are with him are called chosen. And faithful. Everyone's gonna lose because a king of kings is there. All the enemies In chapter 19, we see this title also associated with the Word of God, which we looked at last week in part two of this title, the titles of Christ. And we see in verses 15 and 16 that Jesus is, he says, now out of his mouth goes a sharp sword. that with it he should strike the nations. And we saw him strike the nations over here in seventeen. So he's strike the nations. And he himself will rule them with a rod of iron. He himself treads the winepress of fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he has on his robe and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus will come to rule. And he has this title of great power, King of Kings. And so Jesus is King of the Jews, and then when they refused him, he took the title King of Kings. A title in which all nations, Jews included, are going to come and worship because he is God. Now as time is running out, I wanted to just look at one final title. And this title is found in the book of Acts, chapter 3. So we flip there. We see this title three times in Acts, and it refers to the holiness or the righteousness of Jesus. The title is The Just One. And Vines expounds on this by saying that this title designates the perfect agreement between Jesus' nature and Jesus' acts, what he did. In which Jesus is the standard for all men. So in Acts chapter 3, in verse 11, we see the healing of a lame man. He says, now as the layman who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch, which is called Solomon, greatly amazed. And so you had Jesus here performing all these miracles for three years. And yet they're amazed at Peter and John being able to heal this one guy. And so they come to him. And so when Peter sees it, this is the response in verse 12. He responds to the people, Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this? Or why look so intently at us as though by our own power or godliness we had made this man walk? The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go. But you denied the holy one and the just. So here's our just one, the title. And then ask for a murderer to be granted to you, and kill the Prince of Life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses. And his name, through faith in his name, has made this man strong, whom you see and know. Yes, the faith which comes through him has given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all. The layman is healed, and the the uh the fact that they are just amazed is just sort of crazy to me. But He's healed all the way because it's Jesus' name. And so when you think about the power in his name, and we sang that song before, there's power in the name. There's healing power here for this lame man. And the point out to him saying, it's Jesus' name that did this. And not only that, you guys killed the just one, the one that has the standard for people to follow. You killed him. In uh Acts 7, we see Stephen make this similar observation that they killed him. And this is uh in verses fifty-two to f yeah, in verses fifty-two and fifty-three. Stephen's talking to the people, and he says Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who foretold the coming of the just one, of whom you now have become the betrayers and murderers who have received the law by the direction of angels and have not kept it. Stephen is basically telling them, You knew the law. You didn't keep it. And instead you kill the one that has the standard for people to follow. You kill them. In Acts chapter 22 is the third time we see this just one mention. And it's Saul talking about his c or Paul talking about his conversion when he was Saul and persecuting the church and how When Anaias came over to put his hands on Saul to receive his sights, this is what Ananias said to him. He says to him in verse 14, The God of our fathers has chosen you that you should know his will and see the just one and hear the voice of his mouth for you will be his witnesses to all men of what you have seen and heard And now why are you waiting? Arise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord. Paul was to see what the just one did. Jesus' acts. Vines mentioned it. The acts are the standards that men are to follow. And when you look at Paul's writings later on to the different churches, we see that constantly where Paul strives to keep these standards and he strives to have the people know these standards and to follow them himself as well. As a just one, Jesus is holy and righteous. And because he is, we see in 1 John 2, 1 through 2. My little children, these things I write to you, so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate, someone that goes between, with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And the righteous is the same word for the just. That we looked at. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the whole world. The just one, God in human flesh, Jesus, is holy and right. And for this reason, he can appease God's righteous anger against our sins. And he did this through death on the cross. Tonight we looked at just a few more titles of the identity of Jesus. There are many more out there. We saw though that Jesus is the exact image of God, meaning that Jesus is the very impression of God in all his substance or essence, as well as his character. In other words, Jesus is God. I think we get, right? He is also the way, the truth, and the life by which we're able to know and see God the Father, because Jesus and the Father are one. There's only one God. The Old Testament makes that clear. Remember that if anyone tries to tell you differently. Jesus is also King of the Jews. And though they refused him, He became king of kings, and so all will bow down before him, and they will have to come before him and be judged. And Jesus is the just one, through which sinful people, you and I, can be forgiven and made right and holy because of Jesus' death on the cross. We serve a very mighty God who provides ample truth in this book of his about his identity, that he is God. And this is just a handful of those titles that we looked at. There's many more. Jesus is God, and he's able and he's willing to save us from our sins if we but place our trust in him. So let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you that you loved us enough to come and die on a cross. It amazes us that you have taken on the flesh. And suffer everything you did for me and for others in the world. Thank you for that. Thank you for your love. Help us to seek you with all of our being, to abide in you. To remember that you are God. And because of that, there's hope because that means that death is no more. You have overcome that Because you can and you do. Thank you for loving us. Help us to remember your truths as we go through the weeks. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.