All right, well, good evening, everyone. Again, another wonderful Sunday. In the past, our series on the titles of Christ have been focused on titles relating to Jesus' identity We've looked at thirteen or so separate titles over the course of three weeks, all to help us understand that Jesus claimed himself to be something, along with the acts that proved what he claimed to be. And of course that claim was Jesus claimed to be God. And we solve this by his titles such as I Am and The First and the Last, where Jesus specifically stated that he is Yahweh, the self-existent, eternal God that we find in the Old Testament. We read how Jesus, as a second person of the Trinity, is the express image, or as the Greek says, the impress of God's substance or essence, which gives us this picture where both Jesus and God are exactly the same. And we also read that as the incarnate, Jesus is the image, in this case the likeness, the representation or resemblance of the invisible God. And which is how he was able to claim to his disciples that by seeing him they had seen the Father. And so, when we look at all these proofs that we went through and looked at, we see how Jesus was able to make the assertion that he is God. And how being God, all the other titles that we studied throughout this first uh series on related to the identity We see that they all are true. He is the light. He is the way, the truth, and the life, the door, the good shepherd, the Alpha and Omega, and He's so much more. We don't have time to go back through the whole list that we looked at, but he is more. And God, Jesus, makes the way of salvation possible for all mankind. And he does this because he had a ministry before the world was even created, before the foundations of the world. And we see this in 1 Peter, where Peter is talking to Christians, and Peter says in 1 Peter 1, verses 18 to 20, Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers but with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without blemish and without spot. He indeed was foreordained before the foundation of the world But was manifest in these last times for you who through him believe in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God So here we have Jesus, the creator of the world, before he even created anything, he had a ministry or a work planned out for salvation to all who would believe in God through him. Remember, he is the door. to that title earlier. We see then that Jesus has a ministry which is related to salvation of mankind, but what does this ministry look like? And I'm not talking about the part of salvation or the working of salvation. We'll look at titles related to that a little later on in the series. But tonight I want to focus on titles that relate to his ministry specifically. The work that Jesus has done in the past and the work he's going to continue to do for us who are sinners saved by grace. And the first title that sheds some light on what Jesus' ministry looked like is going to be found in the book of Galatians. And we're actually going to be looking at a lot of context in this And I apologize ahead of time if it's too much reading for you, but it is God's word, so I think it's good for us. And I think it also will give us this idea of What this title is we're looking for. And the title you can keep in the back of your mind is the title of the seed. And you'll see this play out in Galatians And so we're going to start out in chapter two. And Paul is talking to the churches in Galatia, so fellow Christians like us, and we read of his experience as he's talking through. He's talking about the encounters that he's had since he came to know Christ as a way. Lord and Savior. And when we get down to verse 7, we see that in this verse, he starts to pick up that he has a special ministry or work himself that he has to do. And so we'll pick up in halfway through verse 7 with this ministry and the experience that Paul went through. Says, when they saw that the gospel for the uncircumcised had been committed to me, as the gospel for the circumcised was to Peter, For he who worked effectively in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcised also worked effectively in me toward the Gentiles. And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that had been given to me, They gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised. They desired only that we should remember the poor, the very thing which I also was eager to do. And so we see that Paul's ministry was to go to the Gentiles, to those that were not the Jewish, the uncircumcised. Whereas Peter, his his mission, his goal, his plan of action was to go to the circumcised, the Jews. And Barnabas also was thrown in with Paul and his mission. Now, we come to this point in verse 11 where there's a conflict that's going to happen. And this conflict basically centers around what is the true gospel. And so let's read what happens. In verse eleven. Now when Peter had come to Antioch, I withstood him to his face, because he was to be blamed. For before certain men came from James, he would eat with the Gentiles. But when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision. And the rest of the Jews also played the hypocrite with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with a hypocrisy. And so here we see even Barbas, the very guy that was supposed to go and be a missionary to the Gentiles, was being pulled away by this hypocrisy of not wanting to eat with them when the Jews were around. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, and here's the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before them all, if you, being a Jew, live in the manner of Gentiles, Gentiles and not as the Jews, why do you compel Gentiles to live as Jews? We who are Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Christ Jesus, that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law, no flesh shall be justified. And so the truth of the gospel is that justification comes by faith in Jesus Christ and not the law. Paul goes on to say then in verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And I think this is a point out to the title we looked at where Jesus is the living one. He's the one that has all the life in him all the way throughout whole creation. And here he gives life to Peter. He lives in or Paul. He lives in Paul And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. So now we see Paul is going to try to use his experience that he had with Peter up here and the whole truth of the gospel, and he's going to try to prove it using two different points. One is going to be scripture, and the other is going to be human thought. So before we get into looking at the scripture that he's going to be using, he asked a couple questions. And we see the first question, several of them. We'll read just only two of them. The first one we'll read is in verse 3, where he says, Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now being made perfect by the flesh? Of course the answer is no. Verse 5. Therefore, he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? And so both these questions are now going to be answered in verses six to nine. Just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness, therefore know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. Abraham. And the scriptures, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. Now we get into the two proofs that Paul goes to use to show that justification is by faith and not works. And the first one is scripture. Verses ten to fourteen we read, but as many as are not of works of the law, uh for as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. And that's found in Deuteronomy 27-26 But that no one is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident, for the just shall live by faith. Habakkuk 2. 4 Yet the law is not of faith, but the man who does them shall live by them. Leviticus eighteen five. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is every one who hangs on a tree. Deuteronomy twenty-one, verse twenty-three, that the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. And so Scripture shows that the law cannot justify. Only faith in Jesus Christ can justify. Paul then goes on, as I said, to look at the human thinking, to prove that justification is by faith and not the law. And he says in verse 15, Brethren, I speak in the manner of men, though it is only a man's covenant, yet if it is confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it. And so he's using a covenant as an example. And in this case, it's going to be a covenant that was made in the Old Testament. And it's here that we're going to see the title of Christ, the seed that this covenant is made to. Verse 16. Now to Abraham and his seed where the promise is made. He does not say unto seeds, as of many, but as of one, and to your seed, who is Christ. So here we see Christ is the seed, and there's a promise regarding Christ. And in this context, I think it applies back to the gospel that was preached to Abraham. before that we read in verse 8 that says that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preach the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed. And so a covenant was made which showed the Gentiles that a seed would bless them all, which Christ did, I think, by dying on the cross, showing that justification would be possible for all the nations, all peoples. In verse 17, we see now the law show up. And what effect does the law have on this covenant? And this I say, that the law, which was 430 years later, cannot annul the covenant that was confirmed before God in Christ, that it should make the promise of no effect. And so the covenant made with the seed, Christ, it cannot be taken away. It cannot be replaced by the law Now, Paul goes on to talk about in the rest of the chapter what the law is good for. And we're not going to read that, you can read it for yourself. But he comes to this conclusion in verses 26 to 29. For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Because of faith, the seed, which we saw as a title referring to Christ, all people can be justified in the sight of God. And this is what the seed does for those who believe in him. We also read of another promised seed back in Genesis chapter 3. And I'm sure you guys all are aware of this story. Adam and Eve, they disobey God, and they are punished for the disobedience. Along with the punishment, the serpent that deceived Eve is also cursed. And in Genesis 3, verse 14 to 15, we read what this curse is. And I think as we read through it, you'll see that this title helps enforce the justification by faith and how it's possible. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed more than all cattle and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. And there's our title. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. John MacArthur, when I was reading his commentary, he points out an interesting thing in these verses, at least I found it sort of interesting. He says that in verse 14, we read of the curse to the physical serpent, so the creature that was possessed, that went in and actually allowed himself to be used by Satan And in verse 15, we read of the curse of the spiritual serpent, where Satan could only bruise Christ's heel, cause him to suffer, while Christ will bruise Satan's head, destroy him with a fatal blow. And then he goes on to give a proof through one of Paul's messages to the Romans in Romans 16. 20, where Paul says, And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. By which it seems to appear that Paul is talking about this curse here in Genesis chapter 3, for which Jesus Christ, the seed, is going to destroy Satan before he creates the new heaven and the new earth. And then at that point he's going to be reigning as the King of Kings, which we looked at that title last time. And so we see that as the seed, Christ's ministry is one that fulfills promises. You have the promise of justifying all who believe in him through faith, and I think that's a blessing for all the nations As well as the promise of the ultimate defeat of Satan. In Revelation 20, we see Satan called that old serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan, referring back to Genesis 3 of if we have to be able to do that. Serpent. Revelation 20 also goes on to tell us what this defeat will look like in verse 10 of Revelation 20. It says the devil who deceived him was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are. And they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. That is a massive defeat of Satan. And I know we are all aware of that, and it's a good thing that that Jesus is going to do that. Is able to do that. And he was foretold of before in the scriptures. So also in the book of Revelation, we're going to come to our next title And it's a statement of identity, but it also seems to relate more so to his ministry. And so it's been looked into this um theme of ministry vice identity more so. And in Revelation 22, verse 16, we see this, where Jesus is talking. He says, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright and morning star And so the title we're going to look at and explore is this root and offspring of David here. And we're going to start in the reverse order and look at offspring. What does the offspring of David mean? In the Greek, offspring means kin. And so we're told that Jesus is kin to David. And I'm sure we already knew that, right? Because Matthew chapter one, if we look there, you see there's a whole genealogy of Jesus Christ And who he came from. And in verse seventeen of Matthew one, it summarizes this fact for us by saying, So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, from David unto the captivity in Babylon are fourteen generations. And from captivity in Babylon unto the Christ are fourteen generations. And so Jesus is the kin of David. Staying in the book of Matthew, we'll also read of people who realize this truth that Jesus came is of akin to David, and they use the words son of David. Now the word son in the Greek conveys kinship. And so we read of a blind man, a couple of them following Jesus in Matthew 9, 27 to 30. In Matthew 9, verse 27, when Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, Son of David, have mercy on us. And when he had come into the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I'm able to do this? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be to you. And their eyes were opened. So they believed that Jesus was the Son of David, and that he could heal him. And he did. Matthew chapter twelve and verse twenty-two. Then one was brought to him who was demon-possessed. Blind and mute, and he healed him, so that the blind and mute man both spoke and saw. And all the multitudes were amazed and said, Could this be the son of David? And so now the multitude, seeing these miracles going on, are starting to think, is Jesus the son of David? Is he really? I mean, look, he's got the proof behind it. Is he really? Matthew 15. Verse 22 And behold a woman of Canaan came from that region and cried out to him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David, my daughter is severely demon-possessed. But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and urged him, saying, Send her away, for she cries out after us. But he said, answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. But he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. And she said, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their master's table Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith. Let it to be to you as you desire. And her daughter was healed from that very hour. So even those outside of Israel, outside of Jesus' immediate realm of authority that he was working on, he was just going to the circumcised. And not to the rest. Even they believed that he was the Son of David and could heal their people. By Matthew 21, chapter 21, it seems like the people are starting to get this idea. And we remember that the story of this, the triumphant entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. Everyone cut down the palm trees, and they're standing out there and they're crying out in verse 9 saying, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And even the little children are saying the same thing. And we see this in uh Math in verse 14 of chapter 21. Then the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple and saying, Hosannah to the son of David, they were indignant. And said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes, have you never read, out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, you have perfected praise But did the people really get it? I don't think they necessarily did because shortly after they crucified their king They didn't understand what it meant that Jesus was the son of David. It meant that he was the promised King of the Jews. And we looked at, when we looked at his title, King of the Jews, what they did to their king. They killed him. But Jesus rose again from the grave, and now he's taken a greater title, that of King of Kings. We looked at that when we looked at the title, King of the Jesus. And so we can see that Jesus is the offspring of David. And many people believed it, and they knew it to be so because they saw the miracles behind it that backed up this fact. But Jesus also tried to make a point that as the son of David, he is more than just the kin of David. He is the very root of David. And I think this plays out in Matthew chapter 22, in verse 41. We read the book question. While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, The son of David. He said to them, How then does David in the spirit call him Lord? saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day on did anyone dare question him any more. It seems like in this question, Jesus is trying to get the Pharisees to go deeper in their thought about what the scriptures say about who the Christ is. It's something that we've already studied. And uh in his identity, that he is God. And the Pharisees were willing to dig a little deeper, I think they would have come to realize That Jesus is the root of David. And they would have gotten there by realizing that he is the root of Jesse. Because in Isaiah he says he's the root of Jesse. And we'll look at that in a little bit. And even if they could not get to that conclusion, we can today because we have the complete word of God. And so we can go and study for ourselves and see how this is possible. And in Isaiah 11, we'll see this title, Root of Jesse, and how they can connect the dots to see that Jesus is the root of David. But first, let's define root. I've said the word several times, so I guess it's a good idea to go ahead and tell you what it means. Vine's expository dictionary helps us with defining this word. And it means in the metaphorical sense, and that's what we're talking about now because Jesus is not a plant, he's a person, and so it's not j a real thing, it's a metaphorical. And so we're seeing here, in a metaphorical sense, it can mean two things, either cause, origin, or source, or that which springs from a root. So something said of an offspring can be rooted out of that. And so when we read Isaiah 11, we're going to see both definitions play out. So if you turn to Isaiah chapter 11, you may know This prophecy. In verse 1, we read, There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. And roots in this case is the offspring definition. And this is what the offspring will be, that we have a description of what he who he is. Verse 2. The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. His delight is in the fear of the Lord, and he shall not judge by the sight of his eyes, nor decide by the hearing of his ears, but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his loins, and faithfulness the belt of his waist. And so we're talking about, of course, the Messiah here, Christ, as we see in the New Testament. In verses 6 to 10, we read of Christ's millennial reign, what it's going to look like. The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, the leper shall lie down with the young goat, the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and a little child shall lead them The cow and the bear shall graze, their young ones shall lie down together, and the lion shall each draw like the ox. The nursing child shall play by the cobra's hole, and the winged child shall put his hand in the viper's den. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain. For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, who shall stand as a banner to the people, for the Gentiles shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious And so we see a wonderful picture of what it's going to look like when Christ reigns. There's going to be peace everywhere. And the Gentiles are actually going to seek out this root of Jesse. And the root here is the origin, cause or source, which shows of course his deity, that he created all this, and they sprung out from his will. Doctor Alec Moyer, he used to teach at Trinity College, um the Bible uh he did the book of Isaiah. He said this in one of his books. The reference to Jesse makes verse ten link with verse one. Messiah is both the descendant of Jesse in verse one and the root from which Jesse arises. And we see that in verse 10. Only the New Testament can explain how this can be. And in the New Testament, we can see that Jesus is tied to this root of Jesse in the book of Romans. In Romans chapter fifteen, in verse eight, we read of Paul talking, and he says Now I say that Jesus Christ has become a servant to the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made to the fathers. And the that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written. And then he lists several different verses, but the verse we're going to pick up on is verse 12. Isaiah says, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he who shall rise to reign over the Gentiles. In him the Gentiles shall hope. In the same way that Christ is Lord of David and still the son of David, he's also the kin of Jesse and also the Lord of Jesse. Because Christ is God. And we spent three weeks going through identity to prove that very thing through Scripture. So what does the ministry of the root look like? We already saw that it's the ministry of being the cause, the origin, or source. After all, he's our creator. He created everything. But the ministry that this title conveys is something more. And I think we see this in Revelation 5. Revelation 5 and verse 1, we see John, and he's having a vision, and this is what he sees. And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside and on the back, sealed with seven seals Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to loose its seals? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look at it So I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll or to look at it. But one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the line of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals And so the root of David is the one that's worthy to open these sills. And why is he worthy? How is he worthy? Well, they sing a song to him, verse 9. And he sang a new s a song, a new song, saying, You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. There's the blessing of the nations, and have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. And of course we know Jesus was worthy of opening those seals, and when he opens those seals, judgment is going to ensue. And so the mystery of Jesus as the root is that of creation. He's the source of everything. But it's also that of judgment, where he's going to judge everything. And that's a powerful mystery that Jesus has there. And we didn't get that far tonight on the titles. In fact, we only really went through two of these titles. But I think as we looked through them, we saw that these were both things that only God can do. No one else would be able to do these and have this kind of ministry And so it's good to know that we have the scriptures that enforce this fact that Jesus is God, and we were able to look at that over the last three weeks. So, as the seed, Jesus fulfills the promise to justify all who believe in him. In this way, the nations are blessed. As the seed, Jesus also promised to completely destroy Satan. And he's already delivered the initial blow by rising from the dead in the first place. And we read in Revelation, he's going to deliver the final one when he casts them into hell. As the offspring of David, we see that Jesus is the prophesied King of the Jews, whom the Jews rejected, but in the end time they're going to acknowledge him anyway as King of Kings and not just the King of Jews. As the root, Jesus is both the creator of men. He's the source of them all. In this case, Jesse and David, but we know him to be the creator of everyone. And as the root, Jesus will judge the earth to destroy it, and those who do not believe in him as their Savior The ministry of Jesus is very important, I think. And it's great to look at. And as we continue to look at these titles, I think we're going to see a theme, at least I've seen a theme, starting to rise. And it sort of goes around 2 Peter 3. 9 that says, he desires no one should perish, but that all should come to repentance. I think that's what his ministry sort of tends to be toward. And to me, that just makes me say, Amen, to such a long-suffering God who is willing to wait for me to accept him as Lord and Savior. And he's still willing to wait for the next person out there to accept him as his own. Savior before he comes and judges. What a wonderful God we serve. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you so much for The word that you have given us, the truth that you provided us over the generations, and you've given learned men to help us study it, and uh you've given your Holy Spirit most of all to guide us. We just thank you that you care enough about us to reveal yourself to us so we can more fully praise you for who you are and the work that you do. Thank you for coming to earth as a little baby and then raising up, going and suffering everything, and dying on a cross for my sins and for the sins of the whole world. We don't deserve it. We thank you, though, that you are so loving enough to do that. Help us as we go through this week and the following weeks to desire to be obedient to you. And to be thankful for what you have done through your death on the cross. It's in your name we ask all this. Amen.