Oh good evening. Another wonderful Sunday together, right? And as many of you guys are aware, on Sunday nights we've been looking at different titles of Christ. Last week we began looking at titles that relate to Jesus' ministry. We didn't make it too far down the list of titles that I have. In fact, we only went through two of them. There's many more. But what we did see of these two titles, they were the seed and the root and offspring of David, and what we saw in these two titles is that they convey ministries that only God can do. And thankfully, Jesus is God. We spent three weeks looking at titles that relate to Jesus' identity that proved this fact that he is God. is God. He's able to perform the ministry of seed because he is God, and the ministry of the root and offspring of David because he is God. And if you recall, as the seed, Jesus has a ministry of fulfilling promises. Two promises specifically. We saw them with the promise of blessing all nations. And he did this by making justification by faith in himself possible. By dying on the cross, completely finishing the work on the cross. And then we also saw that he has promised to completely destroy Satan A work that he began at the cross and he's going to finish at the end of time before he creates the new heaven and the new earth, as we saw in the book of Revelation. Jesus can keep these promises, and he does keep them, because he is God, and God does not lie. In fact, the very definition of God is truth, and we see that all throughout his book. As the root and offspring of David, we read of Jesus being three things. We saw him being the source, origin, or cause of all things After all the title we looked at with him on the Word of God also conveys this idea that he's always been, always will be, he's created everything. So we saw that. We saw him being the king of the Jews, a title that the Jews rejected, but they're going to acknowledge at the end of days, and that of being the final judge. And if you remember in Revelation, it is the root of David who is worthy to open the scroll. And when he opens a scroll, judgment happens. And so we concluded that only God, Jesus, is able and worthy to perform and fulfill the ministries of the seed and that of the root and offspring of David. Tonight we're going to continue our study on this titles that relate to Jesus' ministry by starting to look at a title that points to Jesus' incarnation. And of course that means we're going to be going to the book of Matthew. And we've already seen this before, but there's the history of Jesus' birth. And in this history, we see a prophecy fulfilled. A prophecy I was given in the book of Isaiah. So if you look in the first chapter of Matthew, and we'll start in verse 18 and read to the end of the chapter. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows, after his mother Mary, was betrothed to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. In the birth of Jesus Christ, we see a title, Emmanuel. And then we see also what the ministry of this title is. And we read that in verse 23, where the title, Emmanuel, and it's defined by the translation, God with us. In the Old Testament, you guys, I'm sure, are aware that Adam and Eve were constantly in the presence of God. They were walking with God into the garden, and then sin occurred, and now there was a separation, and Adam and Eve were no longer able to walk with God. Of course, we know from reading the Old Testament that God did not leave mankind completely. He was with them throughout the courses of different people, specifically prophets, kings, and even the nation of Israel. Uh think about the tabernacle where Jesus said, This is the place where I am going to dwell among my people. And so God was with them, but it was dependent on their obedience, and the temple was destroyed, we saw, because of the lack of their disobedience. Or not the lack of disobedience, the lack of their obedience. So God was with them, but it also was not in human flesh, as we see as the incarnate Christ, but he was with individuals, spoke to them by the Holy Spirit. And you guys know the Holy Spirit is God. He's the third person of the Trinity. And we're not studying him in this series, but it's a good truth to know. And so one of these individuals that God spoke to through the Holy Spirit was Isaiah. And it was at a troubling time for the nation of Judah. And so God sends Isaiah to Ahaz, king of Judah. And if we turn to Isaiah, we'll see this troubling news in chapter 7 and verse 2. And it was told to the house of David, saying, Syria's forces are deployed in Ephraim, so his heart, as they has heart, And the heart of his people were moved as the trees of the woods are moved with the wind. And so they're shaken. That's what happens when trees get blown around. They get shaken. These guys are shaken because enemies are there to attack them. And so Isaiah goes to him and proclaims what God says, and we see what God tells them to say in verse 7. Thus says the Lord God, It shall not stand, nor shall it come to pass. For the head of Syria is Damascus. And the head of Damascus is resin. Within sixty-five years Ephraim will be broken, so that it will not be a people. The head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Ramallah's son. If you will not believe, surely you will not be established. Army. But he needed to believe, and if he didn't believe, then he would not be established. Alec Moyer, he's a guy I introduced to you guys last week, who did a study on the book of Isaiah used to teach at Trinity Bible College. He says this about God's promise in verse 7. He says, apart from the way of faith, there is no security. Ephraim, which chose the way of collective security, salvation by works, by allying with Aram, and consequently was on its way to elimination. He takes that and he contrasts it with With the house of David. He says, the house of David is called to simple reliance on the promise of verse 7 to be saved by faith or not saved at all. And so in verse 10 we see that God offers Ahaz a sign to help him in trusting this promise that he gave in verse 7 that it's not going to happen. They're not going to be overrun. He says, Moreover, the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, saying, Ask a sign for yourself from the Lord your God. Ask it either in the depth or in the height above. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. And so the Lord says, Fine, I will give you a sign myself. And this is the sign he gives in verse fourteen. Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And so we have this sign of Emmanuel being born of a virgin, a sign that Ahaz is not going to see. Of course, because he's going to be dead by this point. To finish the history lesson, though, on Ahaz, we see that he did not trust God to save him. We read this in 2 Kings in chapter 16, verses 5 and 7. You read, then Razan, king of Syria, and Pikah the son of Remelah, king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to make war, and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him. There's God's promise. They're not going to be able to overcome you. But in verse 7, we see, so Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pilzer, king of Assyria saying, I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me from the hand of the king of Syria and from the hand of the king of Israel who rise up against me. And so King Ahaz, instead of trusting God, trusted in Assyria to rescue them. And if you look back in Isaiah, and this time in chapter eight, you'll see what this salvation from Assyria looks like. Verse seven we see of chapter eight. Now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the river, strong and mighty, the king of Assyria and all his glory. He will go up over all his channels. And go over all his banks. He will pass through Judah. He will overflow and pass over. He will reach up to the neck, and the stretching out of his wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Emmanuel. And so Assyria is going to come and they're going to take over the land that belongs to Emmanuel, God with us Again, we see Alec Moyter's statement where he says, The Assyrian war machine rolled over Judah, and never again until Luke 132 did a sovereign king sit on David's throne. So there were other kings, but they all paid tribute. And it's not until Luke we see this there's a new king, a sovereign king, that it's gonna come And Luke 132 says, talking of Jesus, he will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. There's our sovereign king now. All because Ahaz did not believe and he lost it all. Ahaz did not trust God, but God still gave a sign, gave us a sign And we read it in the book of Matthew, where Jesus is called Emmanuel, God with us. Here we have Jesus, the incarnate God with men. Not in a temple like he was in the Old Testament, but in human flesh. Which is what incarnate means. So in this mission or ministry of being Emmanuel, we see Jesus lived a perfect life. And he lived that perfect life so he could be that perfect sacrifice. Hebrews 10, verses 1 to 10 tells us this very thing, and it is sort of lengthy. But it adds a lot of a meaning, I think, when we look at it. And you'll see as we go through this body, the flesh that is brought out many times. In Hebrews 10, 1, we see, for the law, having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things. can never, with these same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make those who approach perfect, for then they would not have ceased to be offered. For the worshippers, once purified, would have had no more consciousness to Sin. But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year, for it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sin. The law can't do it. Therefore, when he, this is Jesus, came into the world, he said, Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but a body you have a Prepared for me. In burnt offerings and in sacrifices for sin you had no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the volume of the book it is written of me, to do your will, O God. And then we Second, by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all So we see Jesus came in the flesh to offer his flesh as a sacrifice that would appease the wrath of a just and holy God towards my sin, towards your sin. sin towards the sin of the world. This is a vital ministry and one that only God can do. John Wesley He takes this title of Emmanuel a step further than just meaning the incarnate God. And he says, talking about what it means to be called Emmanuel, he goes, says, to be called only means according to the Hebrew manner of speaking, that the person spoken of shall really and effectually be what he is called, and actually fulfill that title. Thus, unto us a child is born, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor of the mighty God, the Prince of Peace. That is, he shall be all these, not so much nominally as really and in effect. And thus he was called Emmanuel, which was no common name of Christ, but points out his nature and office, as he is God incarnate, and dwells by his Spirit in the hearts of his people. And so in this quote, we see that the Holy Spirit is involved, and we talked about the Holy Spirit is actually God. Jesus, when he left the world, he said, I'm not going to leave you without a comforter. And so he gave the Holy Spirit to us. And now the Holy Spirit dwells within us. We are now the temple of God. First Corinthians 3:16 tells us: Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? God is with us. So keeping this in mind that we are the temple of God, we are given another title of where Christ is shown to be the cornerstone or the chief cornerstone. In Psalm 118, verses 22 and 23, we read of the psalmist, and he's praising God. And amidst this praise to God, he uses this phrase. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes This, of course, is talking about Jesus dying on the cross for us and raising again. That's the marvelous part, not the dying, but the raising again, which is a glimpse of the ministry that the title cornerstone gives us. The same conclusion, I think, is given by Jesus in a parable that he gave to the Jews in Matthew 21. You guys are probably familiar with this. It's about a vineyard. He says Matthew 21, verse 33. Here another parable. There was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a winepress in it, and built a tower. And he leased it to vine dressers and went into a far country. Now, when vintage time drew near, he sent his servants to the vine dressers that they might receive its fruit. And the vine dressers took his servants, beat one, killed one, and stoned another. And again he sent other servants, more than the first, and they did likewise to them. Then last of all he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the vine dressers saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance. So they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine dressers? They said to him, He will destroy those wicked men miserably, and lease his vineyard to other vine-dressers who will render him the fruits in their seasons. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the Scriptures, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Here we see the quotation again from Psalms, and John MacArthur provides a comment He says, to the superficial eye, this quotation from Psalms 118, 22, and 23 is irrelevant to the parable that precedes it But it is taken from a messianic psalm. Jesus cites it to suggest that the son who is killed and thrown out of the vineyard is also the chief cornerstone in God's redemptive plan. And so when we look at verses 43 and 44, it seems to agree with this idea of God's redemptive plan at work. And we read, Therefore I say to you, The kingdom of God will be taken from you and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it. And whoever falls on this stone will be broken, but on whomever it falls, it will grind him to powder. Here we see the kingdom of God being taken from one group and given to a nation that's going to bear the fruit that is worthy. Just as the vineyard of Is going to do in this parable, take it from them and give it to someone that's going to give him the fruit that belongs to him. And so the conclusion of the parable, when we tie it to this title cornerstone It seems to show us that Jesus is going to be building up something and that is going to be marvelous in our eyes. Only to those who believe in him. But it's also going to be destructive to those who do not believe in him. Since we're talking about buildings, And I'm sure you guys already know this about cornerstones and what they're used for. But they're basically that first stone that's placed in a building. And from that first stone, all the other stones are sh lined up with it so that way you have a sh Great building and a solid building. Both Paul and Peter seem to draw conclusions on this building and Christ being that building part. Dealing with uh not necessarily a physical building, but that of a spiritual building where Christ is the cornerstone, the first stone laid to ensure that the building is good And we see in Ephesians chapter 2, 19 to 22, Paul's thoughts on what this spiritual building is, and he calls it a holy temple. Ephesians two verse nineteen says, Now therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with Saints and members of the household of God, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone and whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. So he says we are going to be building up into this temple of God. Having started out with the right foundation, that of Christ. He was first laid, he's the cornerstone, and then further built on by the apostles and the prophets. In first Peter, we see Peter's thoughts on what the spiritual building is. looks like. In the first Peter chapter two, verses four and ten. Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. You also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Therefore it is also contained in the Scripture. Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he who believes on him will by no means be put to shame. Therefore, to you who believe, he is precious But to those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble, being disobedient to the word, to which they also were appointed. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. That you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, who once were not a people, but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. And so Peter's saying we are being built into a holy priesthood, a holy nation, a spiritual house, where the precious cornerstone has chosen us to be this royal priesthood. this holy nation. And so the ministry of a cornerstone is one that builds up a holy nation. And I think that means the church in this case, of which God is the head and each of us members are vital part of it. The building exists because the foundation was laid by Christ, he's the cornerstone. And it grows because it is led by Christ. He is the head of the church. Aren't you glad to be part of that building? I know I am. It's a lot of work though sometimes, right? So since we've looked at this idea of building materials, we're going to continue on this theme of materials. And we're going to look at another title that Jesus uses, as used of Jesus, and is the title of that of a rock. And we see in First Corinthians ten this rock the first time Verses uh chapter 10 of 1 Corinthians 1 to 5. Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the clouds. All passed through the sea, all were baptized into Moses, in the cloud, and in the sea, all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank of the spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with most of them God was not well pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. In these verses we have an illustration of Jesus, but it takes us back basically to the Old Testament, where the Israelites are wandering in the wilderness. They were thirsty. And we know that as they're thirsty, they grumbled, and God gave them water from a rock. Paul seems then to connect that Jesus was there with the Israelites, During that time, that he was the support that they needed when they were weak and when they were thirsty wandering through this land. It brings to mind the song that I used to sing as a kid. about Jesus saying, Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary, weary land, a shelter in a time of storm. And we have examples of this support and this shelter in the Old Testament when we look through it, where God is called a rock. And here are just a few of those examples. And we'll start with one in Psalm 78. That links us back to First Corinthians chapter ten. In Psalm seventy-eight, verse thirteen, we see that God says, He divided the sea and caused them to pass through. So we're talking about the Israelites. in the wilderness. And he made the water stand up like a heap. In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire. He split the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink in abundance like the depths. He also brought streams out of the rock and caused waters to run down like rivers. So God is providing for the Israelites in the wilderness. But verse 17, but they sinned even more against him by rebelling against the most high in the wilderness. And because they disobeyed, God slew them, as we saw in First Corinthians, he left them out there. And killed them off. Verse 34-35 says, What happens though when he started to slay them? When he slew them, then they sought him, and they returned and sought earnestly for God. Then they remembered that God was their rock and the most high God their Redeemer. So they remembered that God was their rock and also their Redeemer throughout In Isaiah forty-four, verse eight, we read Do not fear, nor be afraid. Have I not told you from that time and declare it? You are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? Indeed, there is no other rock. I know not one And so we see there is only one rock who provides a place of safety. Deuteronomy 32 and verse 4. Here we are listening to Moses, and he's singing a song. It's towards the end of his life. He'll be singing a song of all that God's done with him throughout the whole wilderness. And in his song he says, He is the rock. His work is perfect, for all his ways are justice, a God of truth and without injustice. Righteous and upright is he So Moses has this beautiful picture of God being a rock who is just. I mean he killed a lot of people in the desert, but that's good they were doing disobedience. And so I just find that a beautiful picture of the relationship that Moses and God had throughout that whole uh journey. And one more, though there are lots of these that we could look up that point to God as the rock, but we're going to end it with a praise of David. to his rock. And this is in Psalm 18 and verse 46, where David says, The Lord lives, blessed be my rock, let the God of my salvation be exalted. And that's also another song. used to sing as a kid. So Paul here is in Corinthians is letting us know that Jesus is the rock. And there is only one rock, as Isaiah said, which means that we There's only one God. One rock, one God. And so Jesus is God. Further proof that He is. Through the title of the Rock, we see that Jesus has a ministry of supporting and sheltering those who belong to Him. And I want to cover one more title tonight, and it's the title Heir of All Things. And we see this in Hebrews chapter 1. In Hebrews 1, verses 1 and 2, we read: God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. has in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he is appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds. And so we see this title that Jesus is heir of all things. And as heir, he has a better inheritance than even the angels, verse 4 tells us. Having become so much better than the angels, as he has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name day and day. And this is why he has A more excellent name. For which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And so Jesus, as son of God, is heir of all things. And we saw that the son in the parable, he was it had the inheritance of that whole vineyard. So we all know that when a son when a dad passes away a son is supposed to get the inheritance, of course God isn't going to pass away. But using that thinking that Jesus is going to receive the inheritance, as God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, he's going to receive everything from the Father, as Scripture tells us. And this, I think, is foretold in Psalm chapter 2 and verse 7 to 12, where we see that all this inheritance goes to Jesus. God the Son. Psalm 2. 7 says, I will declare the decree. The Lord has said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, you shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel Now, therefore, be wise, O kings, be instructed, you judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. So we see an inheritance that Jesus has of the whole world, all the nations. And it's going to be fulfilled, we read in the book of Revelation a few weeks ago, as he reigns in the millennial kingdom. So as heir, Jesus is given all things. All nations, but he's also given people who believe in him as their Lord and Savior. Do you remember the prayer that Jesus gave right before he was betrayed? In the book of John, chapter seventeen, verse twenty-four, we read one of the last things that Jesus says in his prayer He says, Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you have given me. He wants them to be with him. And Paul tells us, through the working of the Holy Spirit, that this will be the case. And we see this in Romans chapter 8. Verses fifteen to seventeen. And not only will we be with him, we're also going to be heirs with him. We see that Romans, for you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified. Together. The ministry of Jesus as heir of all things is one of complete ownership He's going to own all the nations and all the people that are his. And those that are his he will in no means lose. In John 6 39 We read this, and Jesus is talking to the Father, and he says, This is the will of the Father who sent me, that of all he has given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at that last day. Jesus is heir of all things. So to close out tonight, we've looked at just a few more titles that relate to Jesus' ministry. As Emmanuel, we see that Jesus, God, is with us. He was with us in human flesh, so that he could go and die for us on a cross. Be the perfect sacrifice for our sins, and he is with us today through the Holy Spirit living in us, dwelling in this temple of his our body. As the cornerstone, we see the ministry of Jesus building up his church. And it's going to be built into this thing that's marvelous to the eyes. And in which he is the head that's going to make As the rock, we see the ministry of support and shelter throughout both the good and the bad times. We saw that with the Israelites constantly going through the wilderness, up and downs, and God was still with them. And as heir of all things, we see the ministry of ownership, where all things are given to him, and he's going to rule as he sees fit. And we, as believing Christians are part of his. So that means that we are under his uh leadership. And he's going to raise us up in that last day because we belong to him. So, as we study these titles tonight, I think we see again this prevailing theme that all these ministries cannot be done by man. They can only be done by God. And as God, he does not want anyone to perish. We looked at that last week, how long suffering he is for us. He wants all to come to repentance. And those that do come to him, he will not lose, because he keeps those who belong to him. And that I think is a great encouragement for us tonight. Let's go ahead Father, we thank you so much for sending Jesus as human flesh to die for us Thank you that He was willing to come Himself and die for us. We don't understand completely. We thank you for that. Thank you that we can trust you, and you promise that when we believe in you with all our heart, soul, mind, and spirit, turn to you completely, repent of our sins, confess you as Lord and Savior. that we are yours and that you will raise us up at the end time. Help us to remember that. Help us too, as we go throughout this day and this week, to think on the different titles of your ministry and the work that you did. throughout history and or continue to do in our lives and the lives of those around us. Help us to remember that we are your church and to work together to continue to build this church up into something that is marvelous for everyone to see. We thank you for the love and compassion you've shared each day. We ask all this stuff in your name. Amen.