All right. Well, good evening. Last week, for many of you that were here, you know, we began a short series on the titles of Christ. We look quickly at some of the titles that Jesus used to identify himself to us. These titles, they included things, the most important one of which Jesus Christ himself gave, and that was that of the I am. But these two little words, I am, we read how Jesus was able to take the scribes, the Pharisees, and the rest of the Jews that were present back in their memory to the time of Moses and the burning bush. It was at the bush where Yahweh God, the self-existent, eternal, all-powerful God, tells Moses that his name is the I Am. The Jews, of course, immediately recognize that this is the historical context that Jesus is talking about, and so they understand the implication of what Jesus is saying that Jesus himself is God, the all-powerful, self-existent, eternal God in the Old Testament. And they wanted to kill him for just those two little words. It is these two words, the I am, that makes everything possible with the name of Jesus Christ. And so we looked at how God last week with the few IM statements, how he could go and be these different IMs. How he can be the light of the world, showing the way of life in a world consumed with sin and darkness. How Jesus is the bread of life, through which eternal life is possible. How Jesus is the door by which we have to enter through if we want to even have eternal life in the first place. How Jesus is the bread of life, through which eternal life is possible. How Jesus is the good shepherd. who died for us so that we are able to be holy before a holy God, and then how Jesus is a true vine by which we abide in him, and we are therefore able to please the Father through our good works, because without Christ, we know, all of us do, that our good works are nothing but filthy rags. And so we looked at all these different things, these titles that we studied, just to get a little glimpse of Jesus Christ's identity. And tonight we're going to continue this theme of identity by looking at some more titles of Christ that relate to his identity. So if you turn with me to the book of Revelation, Chapter one. And I'm going to start with I think a title that is basically a bookend to history. A history that includes before creation and all the way to the new heaven and the new earth that is promised to us by Jesus Christ. In verse 1 of chapter 1 in the book of Revelation, we read, The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants, things which must shortly take place. And he sent and signified it by his angel to his servant, John. And so the Apostle John is being shown here things that are going to take place, things that Jesus wants us to know about. And John has the privilege of sharing what he sees, what he's experienced to everyone that ends up reading this particular book of the Bible And one of the first things that John mentions is what Jesus has already done for us. And we read this at the end of verse 5. To him who loved us. And washed us from our sins in his own blood, and has made us kings and priests to his God and Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. John reminds us of Jesus' sacrificial death on the cross. And then he reminds us again that Jesus is coming back. We see that in verse 7. Behold, he is coming with the clouds. And every eye will see him, even they who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Even so, amen. And so we see that there's this mourning going on. And this is the same thing we see also in Matthew 24. You could turn there if you want or just listen. In Matthew 24, verses 29 and 30, Jesus says this basic same thing. He says, Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. The stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven. And then all the tribes of earth will mourn. Here's our mourning going on. And they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Jesus is coming back, and the people are scared. They don't want it to happen. They are afraid of it. They mourn for it. But John tells us in Revelation 1. 7, even so, Amen. The Greek behind this phrase is a strong affirmation that this is going to happen. After all, Jesus is God. We looked at it all last week, and even this week we'll look more. And God said it was going to happen, and He is always true At this point, John now goes after he's done reminding us of what happened on the cross and what Jesus already talked about in Matthew, and he begins with verse 8 with a wonderful statement of identity for Jesus. He says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, says the Lord, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. Now the first thing to note is who is making the statement that he is the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. And of course we know it's Jesus, but it is Jesus the Lord. The Greek for Lord here means supreme in authority. That is, as a noun, it's controller. By implication, master, as a respectful title. And so the supreme in authority is the one that is saying these words, that he is the Alpha, which we know is the first letter in the Greek alphabet, and he is the Omega, which is the last letter in the Greek alphabet. Now, I like what John MacArthur says regarding Jesus, basically claiming a title of alphabet, unless you could have it here. MacArthur says that the alphabet, arranged in almost countless combinations, Can hold and convey all knowledge. Christ is the supreme sovereign alphabet. There is nothing outside his knowledge, so there can be no unknown factors I love that saying. Paul tells us much the same thing in Colossians 2. 3 by saying that in whom, he's talking about Jesus and the Father, is hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And so we have this idea of the Alpha and Omega. We also saw in verse 8 this bookend statement that I was talking about, where Jesus is the beginning and the end. And we have already affirmed last week that Jesus is God. And in Genesis 1. 1, the beginning is described with these words. In the beginning, God created. John 1 echoes this truth of Jesus being the beginning by using another title of Christ, which I'm sure all of us are familiar with. And that is the Word of God. So if you look in John chapter 1, You'll see this. The word is logos in the Greek, and it is the divine expression of Christ Vine's expository dictionary points out a few things. Namely, the one I want to point out is the relation that the word Jesus holds with the Godhead. We see this in John 1, 1, and 2. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. This right here is the relation of the word with the Godhead. And the word with used here in this verse conveys not just being in the company of God, so it wasn't like Jesus. is there and God's there and this there together. But it is that of the most intimate communion, which is something that I think the theological word Trinity tries to convey. The divine expression, the relationship between God the Father and God the Son. And then we read also in John verse John 1 3 that all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. And so we see his creative power reaffirming the Genesis account in Genesis 1-1 that happened in the beginning. He was there creating. And then in verse 14, we see his incarnation. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld the glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And so we see just in this the Godhead, we see his creative power, and we see his incarnation. And so Vine's expository dictionary gives us this conclusion to the title Word of God. By stating that the title is the personal manifestation, not of a part of the divine nature, but of the whole deity. So the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, working from the very beginning and continuing on all the way to the end. And we can see this in Revelation 19. So if you turn there, you see that we had in the beginning the word, and now At the end times, this is before the new heaven and the new earth, we see the word again, and it is an image, a very powerful image of what the word of God looks like. 19 verse 11. It says, Now I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he who sat on him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes were like a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. He had a name written that no one knew except himself. He was clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. The Bible goes on with some more descriptive account of this word of God in verse 15. Now out of his mouth goes a sharp sword. That with it he should strike the nations, and he himself will rule them with a rod of iron. He himself will tread the winepress of his fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he has on his robe and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And to me that is a powerful image. of who God is. And John also saw this same image, if we look back in John chapter one, of well, a lot of the same imagery anyway, of this word of God of who he was talking to. And you see that Not John, Revelation chapter one. We turn back to Revelation chapter one And so in verse eleven he hears this voice, and the voice says, I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, and what you see, write in a book, and send it to the seven churches which are in Asia. And then he lists the seven churches that this is supposed to go to. And so Paul hears this and or John hears this and he turns around to look to see who is talking to him. And this is what he sees in verse twelve. I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the son of man, clothed with a garment down to the feet and girded about the chest with a golden band. His head and his hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters He had in his right hand seven stars, out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance was like that of the sun shining in its strength. And you see the parallel a lot with Revelation 19 that we saw, the sword and this whole idea of this glory of God being there. And in verse 17 we see John's response. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And I think that that'd probably be a lot of our responses too if we saw that. We would just fall flat on our face. And in verse 19 or verses 17 and 18, we see the compassion that Jesus had. I mean here John just saw the all-powerful God. He saw a sharp sword, which in Revelation 19 we saw is the thing that's going to strike the nations. And so this all this power behind this guy, the glory of God Himself. And yet because John is Christ, Christ's response is one of gentleness and peace. We see this. I am saying, he laid his right hand on me, saying to me, Do not be afraid. What a peaceful statement there. Here you have this huge image. And he says, do not be afraid. I am the first and the last. I am he who lives and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of Hades and of death. Now here in this verse, and also back in John 11, where we see another title that's similar to the beginning and the end title. It is the first and the last. And you can see it there in verse 18 and also in verse eleven. The first and the last. And while this title does convey the internality of God, just like the beginning and the end and in some part way the Alpha and Omega, This title also draws the connection that Jesus is Yahweh, the self-existent, eternal God. And we see this connection when we look back in the book of Isaiah. So if you want to turn there, you can. Isaiah 40. And we'll look at three different passages in Isaiah 40 to connect them all to Yahweh, this first and the last. In verse 31 of chapter 40, we get a little bit of context of what's going on. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk. And not faint. And so we have Yahweh, the Lord, renewing someone's strength if they wait on him. And then chapter 41 picks up with this idea of the renewing strength. Saying, Keep silence before me, O coastlands, and let the people renew their strength. Let them come near, then let them speak. Let them come near together for judgment. And then verses 2 to 4, we have questions posed about who rules the world. And then, of course, the answer is down at the end of verse 4. So who rules the world? He says verse 2, who raised up one from the east? Who in righteousness called him to his feet? Who gave the nations before him and made him rule over kings? Who gave them as the dust to his sword, as driven stubble to his bow? Who pursued them and passed safely by the way that he had not gone with his feet? Who has performed and done it, calling the generations from the beginning? So here's this idea of the beginning again. Well, the answer is I, the Lord, Yahweh. And the first, and with the last I am He. So we see Yahweh is the first and the last. He's established everything as He sees fit from the very beginning of time. This, of course, shows, I believe, God's supreme authority, which we saw already as Jesus as Lord in the New Testament being the supreme in authority. His sovereignty. In Isaiah 44, 6. We'll go over a couple pages. We read Thus says the Lord Yahweh, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first and I am the last. Beside me there is no God. And so again we see this idea that there is only one God, Yahweh, the Lord. He is the first and the last. And one more passage, Isaiah 48. And verse 12 and 13: Listen to me, O Jacob and Israel, my called. I am he, I am the first. I am also the last. Indeed, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has stretched out the heavens. When I call to them, they stand up together. And so we see the supreme authority of God from the very beginning. He laid the foundations, he stretched out the heavens, and his authority is when he talks to them, they stand up. They pick. Attention. That right there is a supreme authority. And so when Jesus says in Revelation that He is the first and the last, he's again stating that He is the self-existent, the eternal God. Just as He did when he said He was the I am. This is a further identity of Jesus being God. So back in the book of Revelation, we see another name, or another title, I should say. It's a rather long title. And so we're going to probably shorten it so that way we don't have to say this long title over and over again. But it is Verse 18. I am he who lives and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. So we could shorten that to say he's the living one. Because we see that he lives and he lives forevermore. So he is the living one And it seems to tie in, I think, with the statement that we find at the end of verse 8, where it says, the Lord, who is and who was and who is to come. And so we have this sort of parallel between the who is and the I am who lives, was dead, and behold, I'm alive forevermore. Jesus when Jesus describes the Lord as supreme in authority, he uses this statement, and this is the internality of Christ in this statement that he uses in verse 8 and the title that he uses in verse 18. Who is, meaning he lives and has always lived, who was, attesting to the fact that he was dead, but not anymore. He rose from the grave, allowing us to have salvation in the first place, right? And he is to come. Who is to come? He is alive forevermore. And as verse 18 tells us he has the keys of Hades and death. Jesus is the living one who has life in himself, and is therefore able and willing to give life to those who believe in him. We see this fact when we look back in John chapter 5. This fact of life in Christ. So if you turn to the book of John, I know there's a lot of turning going on, but that's good, right? John chapter 5. And in verse 18, we see, we read that, therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill him, because he not only broke the Sabbath, but also said that God was his father, making himself equal with God. And so Jesus has just made himself equal with God. And now Jesus answers them. Of course people don't like it. They don't like anything Jesus says. And then verse 19, Jesus answered and said to them, Most assuredly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself but what he sees the Father do. For whatever he does, the Son also does in like manner. So Jesus is telling the Jews that he does what the Father does. And to me that that makes sense because God is one. And so what he sees God do, he does, because he is God, right? Seems to make sense to me anyway And one of the things the Father does is related to life. And we see this in verse twenty-one and twenty-four and following. For as the Father raises the dead and gives life to them, even so the Son gives life to whom he will. Verse 24, Most assuredly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life, and shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death into life Most assuredly I say to you, the hour is coming, and now is when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself. So here's the life in Christ and granted the Son and has given him authority to execute judgment also because he is the Son of Man Do not marvel at this, for the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear his voice and come forth, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of condemnation. And so the living one has life in himself. And he will make all live, some to life with Christ, that's those who believe. Unfortunately, most to life without Christ, because many more will not believe. Now this shortened title of the living one can also be seen in a similar title that Jesus used of himself in John chapter 11. So if we look over at John chapter 11, we'll see another title similar to this one of the living one. It's the story of Lazarus. And I know you guys have all at least remembered the story of Lazarus. Here we see that Lazarus was sick. In verse 3, the sisters, Mary and Martha, they sent to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom you love is sick. So Jesus loves this guy. And in verse 4 we see when Jesus heard that he was sick, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified through it. And so Jesus knew what was going to happen with Lazarus, and it was all in order to give glory to God. And then verses 5 to 7. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, so when he heard that he was sick, he stayed two more days in the place where he was. Then after this he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again. Now I always found this funny in in my own short mind. How is this showing love? Lazarus is sick, so let's wait another two days before we go. To me, and maybe it is just me, it seems that love would immediately say, I'm going to go to my friend. He's sick. I'm going to go there. But Jesus did not do that. He intentionally waited two days. So how is love shown in him waiting? And I think that this is explained in verses 14 and 15. Where Jesus says to them plainly, Lazarus is dead, and I'm glad for your sakes that I was not there, that you may believe. Nevertheless, let us go to him. So it seems just from that context right there that Jesus is showing his love by showing his disciples something greater for them to believe in. Even though it's a sad occasion, there's still opportunity for belief to happen that He is God. And we see something similar to this, I think, in the cross and how He loved us enough to die on the cross. It was John Gossner, who I think was a preacher in Germany back in the 1800s. He made this statement, love and a cross. Man cannot make the two rhyme, but it is thus that God always rhymes. Love and a cross And so we see Jesus showing them love, even though there is going to be sorrow, because he's losing a friend, even though he knows he's going to bring them back. Also he can show the Jews one more reason to believe that he has everlasting life, that they can trust him as God. And to me that is a great love that the Father is showing us, the Son is showing us. in this case. And so verses seventeen to sixteen, uh seventeen to twenty-six we read, Jesus came and he found that he had already been in the tomb four days. So Larsus has been in the grave four days. Now Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles away. And many of the Jews had joined the women around Martha and Mary to comfort them concerning their brother. Now Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him, for Mary was sitting in the house. Now Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection of the last day. And here we see the title of Christ. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Here, Jesus is the resurrection and the life, a feat made possible because he is God, the living one. Who has life in himself and he's able and willing to give it to others. But Jesus did not just stop with words. Instead, he went to the tomb of Lazarus and had actions involved with it. And we see this in verse 40. He's at the tomb. Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you would believe, you would see the glory of God? Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lay. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. And I know that you always hear me, but because of the people who are standing by, I said this, that they may believe that you sent me. Is that idea of belief? The whole reason he's doing this is so they can believe in Christ. Now, when he had said these things, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. And he who had died came out bound hand and foot with grave clothes, and his face was wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Loose him, and let him go. So Jesus in this act proved to all those around him that he is the resurrection and the life by bringing Lazarus back from the dead completely. was you know whole, completely whole. There was no damage to him. And this was after four days in the grave. And yet verse forty five tells us Many of the Jews who had come to Mary and had seen these things Jesus did believed in him. I mean, how could you not believe that? But, verse 46, some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them the things Jesus did. So you have some that did not believe. Not all of them did. And so in Revelation, at the end of time, we read that Jesus is going to come back, and people are going to mourn because they do not believe. We already looked at that. Tonight we started with the title of Jesus the Lord, the Supreme in Authority, which took us to the beginning of creation and time itself. It was here that we saw Jesus. The Word of God, who is the personal manifestation of the full deity, not part of the whole thing. As the Word, He existed, created. And became incarnate. We also saw that as the living one, Jesus, who is, who was, and is to come, has life in himself and is the resurrection and the life. And for this reason, he will make all life live again. Some to the resurrection of life, and others to the resurrection of condemnation But nevertheless, all will be brought before the supreme in authority, the Lord Jesus Christ. As John closes out the book of Revelation, we're also going to close out tonight's lesson. We read of the beginning, what happened there. We read of the cross. We saw the resurrection and the coming again of Jesus. But at the end of time, we read about the new heaven and the new earth in Revelation 21. John says, Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also there was no more seas. Then I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God Himself will be with them and be their God, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said to me, it is done. Here's his title. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. In chapter 22, we're told multiple times that Jesus is coming again. And he's not coming slowly, he's coming quickly. Verse 7 of chapter 22 says, Behold, I'm coming quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. Verse twelve, and behold, I'm coming quickly, and my reward is with me to give to everyone according to his work. Verse 20, surely I'm coming quickly. So you think he wants to dig across that he's coming quickly? I that sort of think so. And then in verse thirteen we can see how we know that Jesus is coming quickly because he is out of time. He is, you see, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. As the Alpha and Omega, we saw Jesus has all wisdom and all knowledge. After all, he is supreme in authority. As the first and last, Jesus is telling us that he is the self-existent, eternal I am that we find in the Old Testament. And as the beginning and the end, we understand that Jesus has always been and always will be. He is eternal. What wonderful title Scripture has about the identity of Jesus Christ. Let's never forget who He is. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you again for being able to look at your word, the freedom here that we have in the United States, to just be able to do that and to study and look at who you are, and the fact that you share so much about yourself and all these different titles. that we wouldn't get unless we looked at those titles. Not just thank you for um the wisdom you have Help us to take what we learn as we read your word and apply it to our lives and just give you praise and glory all the days of our lives. Because it's without you we we are nothing. So we thank you for who you are, and we ask and you will bless us the rest of us tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen.