All right, good evening. So, as you're aware, Steve Conrad asked me to do a short series on the titles of Christ. And I thought that this would be an interesting study to attempt to do. Not only would be interesting to me, but it also would complement the study we've been doing on Wednesday nights. on the names of God. And I think many of you have come out on Wednesday nights. If you haven't been out in a while, I encourage you to come out. The series, of course, on the names of God has been interspersed. uh maybe weeks, I think about seven weeks or so, with other speakers from our congregation, members of our church who go up and they give what God has been sharing with them. And it's very encouraging for me, and I think that you would find it encouraging yourself. if you come out on Wednesday nights if you haven't been in a while. So, the series I have been doing on Wednesday nights is on the names of God, as found in the Old Testament. These names shed light on the attributes, the characteristics of who God is. And his creation has seen it throughout their life, and so they name God for it. For example, The people in the Old Testament, they looked at creation around them. They saw the trees, they saw their fellow friends beside them, they saw the animals, lightning, thunder, they heard all this with all their senses, and they look to heaven and they say, Elohim. God all powerful. After all, only the all-powerful can make something out of nothing. And they see all the blessings that are around them. Even whenever things don't seem to go their way, they're still blessings. Just think about Job, all that went wrong in his life, and still he was blessed abundantly by God And these are blessings that those in the Old Testament don't deserve. Neither do we. We don't deserve them today. And they're simple things too. So you have, you know, safety whenever you're on the streets. That's a blessing in itself, especially with Marlin drivers, me being one of 'em. You have blessings with the rain. We've had lots of it lately, of course, some causes damage, but there is the rain that the farmers need to grow the produce so that we can have food. We have friends and family who come alongside and help us whenever we're at our lowest. That's a blessing from God. We also have perhaps an unexpected check that comes our way whenever we have an unexpected bill that seems to pop up. There's this blessing of hey, there's something here and talk about food. America is blessed with food. We have all these blessings. And we see it. The people in the Old Testament saw it. There And so they would see all these blessings around themselves. They would look to heaven and say, El Shaddai, God Almighty. And he's almighty in his blessings for his creation that don't deserve it. And still he blesses. And so as we wrap up our Wednesday night study, You're going to notice this, and if you haven't noticed it already, well you're going to find out because I'm going to tell you now. But we're going to learn that all these characteristics, all these attributes that we've been looking at that relate to God point to one person. Jesus Christ. And since this is the case, it seemed only fitting that on tonight, Sunday nights, we start looking at Christ, who he is. And so the hope is to do a mini series on Sunday nights. the titles of Christ, which will shed light about who Christ is and what Jesus is doing in the world, creation, and also in our own lives if we allow him. to do that. Now unlike Wednesday nights where we've been going over one name each night, we're not going to do that with the titles of Christ There's just way too many of them. And if we did that, then it would no longer be a short series, it would just be a plain old series, which is not what I was questioning. So we're not going to do that. Instead, I'm going to go through and we're going to look at a focus of titles that relate to a certain characteristics. of Christ. And the first set of titles that we're going to look on that focus in this focus area is going to be on the identity of Christ. Now I don't think this will be a surprise to any of you here tonight, but Jesus Christ is God. No shockers, right? Everyone agrees with that, which is good. But how is that possible? Doesn't the Old Testament tell us in Deuteronomy 6. 4, Hear, O Israel, the Lord, Yahweh, self-existent, eternal, the I am, our God, Elohim, the all-powerful, the one we just saw in creation. The Lord is one. Another way to say it would be: the Lord is our God, the Lord alone. That is the only one. How then can Jesus Christ be God if there is only one all-powerful, self-existent, eternal I am? The short answer, of course, is it takes faith. So the good thing about this though is even though it takes faith, the faith I think needed is very minimal. The book of Hebrews, many of you guys are aware of Hebrews chapter eleven, where it gives a definition, help meet of what faith is, and it says that it is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. The substance needed, the evidence that's provided for us on the subject of Jesus Christ as God is found in the Bible. Either the Bible is true or the Bible is not. You can't have it both ways. And so the minimal faith needed is found by the proofs that the Bible itself makes. That Jesus is God. And he provides those through his word to man. And we have it with us so we can study. If you trust the Bible as truth, then it's easy to accept the evidences that Jesus is God, because the Bible tells us that Jesus Himself made the claim that He is God. You turn to the book of John, chapter 8, we see this. And there's a quite a large dialogue that's occurring in this chapter, which starts when the scribes and Pharisees end up bringing a woman who's caught in adultery to Jesus. And verse six tells us why they brought this woman to Jesus. Says they they said t this they said, testing him, that they might have something of which to accuse him. And so they're trying to trap Jesus up. And so Jesus responds, we know very well, in verse 7, he says, Who is without he who is without sin among you, let him throw a stone at her first. And all those that were accusing this woman of adultery and saying she needs to be stoned to death, they left, because no man is without her. Sin. Everyone has sinned. Ironically, the one that is sitting there that they're trying to trap up has never sinned. And he's the one they're trying to get to to do this, to to condemn her basically. But Jesus tells the woman in verse 11, he says, Neither do I condemn you. He's not going to condemn her. Go. and sin no more. And so in that statement alone we see just a slight glimpse of Jesus as God and the fact that he does not condemn a woman, which he rightly can do. Instead, he tells her to sin no more And then in verse twelve we read, Jesus makes a statement, one of many, of who he is. Jesus spoke again to them, saying, I am the light of the world. He who follows me shall not walk in darkness. But have the light of life. He is the light in a dark world, a world trapped in sin and death. John chapter 1, verses 4 and 5 tells us in him, that's in Jesus, was life. And the life was the light of man, and the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. See the scribes, these Pharisees, they could not understand Jesus because they were darkness. As further explained in John chapter 8, verses 21 to 27, it says, Then Jesus said to them, I'm going away, and you will seek me. And will die in your sin. Where I go, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Because he says, Where I go, you cannot come? And he said to them, You are from beneath, I am from above, you are of this world, I am not of this world. Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins For if you do not believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. Then they said to him, Who are you? And Jesus said to them, Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning. I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but he who sent me is true, and I speak to the world those things which I heard from him. They did not understand that he spoke to them of the Father. So they could not understand, we find out, it's because they were slaves. to sin. But some did believe, you see that in verse 30, as he spoke these words, many did believe him. And so Jesus spoke to these guys, and he said unto the Jews who believed him, If you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Now this statement goes to the pride of the Jews here I think. Because they get their feathers all ruffled and saying, Look, we're not slaves. What are you talking about? And you see this in verse 33 and following. Then answered they answered him, We are Abraham's descendants and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say you will be free made free? Jesus answered them, Most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. And a slave does not abide in the house forever, but a son abides forever. Therefore, if the Son makes you free, you shall be free indeed. I know that you are Abraham's descendants, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you. I speak what I have seen with my father, and you do what you have seen with your father. And so here we see a two different fathers mentioned And the Jews don't understand it because Abraham's, you know, he's he we never fell under him. Now they say again, right here in verse 39, they said and answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus says to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham did not do this. You do the deeds of your father. They're like, okay, well my father is this guy. Then they said to him, We are not born of fornication. We have one father, God. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I proceeded forth and came from God, nor have I come to myself, but he sent me. Why do you not understand my speech? Because you are not able to listen to my word. You are of your father, the devil. Now he tells them who their father is. And the desire of your father you want to do. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar and the father of it. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which of you convicts me of sin? They couldn't do that, right? I mean that's why they brought this woman to have something to accuse them of. No, they couldn't do that And if I tell you the truth, why do you not believe me? He who is of God hears God's words. Therefore, you do not hear, because you are not of God. So Jesus goes on talking to them about the power of his word, which by the way is what we find in the books that we read, the Bible, the power of God's word. And he says in uh verse 52. If anyone keeps my word, he shall never taste death. To which now the Jews are going, Okay, well who is this guy? Who is he claiming himself to be? So they want to know about who Jesus is. And they say in verse 53, Are you greater than our father Abraham who is dead, and the prophets are dead? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I honor myself, my honor is nothing. It is my Father who honors me, of whom you say that he is your God. Yet you have not known him, but I know him So he's basically calling him a liar. If I say I do not know him, I shall be a liar like you. But I do know him and keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Then the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am Then they took up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by At the end of this dialogue, the Jews finally get who Jesus is claiming to be. They understood the history of Moses. Back when the Israelites were slaves in Egypt, and how God spoke to Moses from the burning bush, and he said that he was the I am. And here Jesus is saying that he is the I am And you remember the story of the burning bush yourself, I'm sure. Let's go ahead and turn there and look briefly at in Exodus chapter 3 Verses two to six. So this is Moses at the burning bush And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of a bush. So he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, but the bush was not consumed. Then Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight. Why the bush does not burn? So when the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here I am. Then he said, Do not draw near this place. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. And of course, later he accepts the mission to go and free the slaves, and so he asks God, Well what do I say who do I say sent me? In verse fourteen, God says to Moses I am whom I am. And he said, thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I am has sent me to you. And so the Jews understood that Jesus was claiming to be the self-existent, the eternal I am, and they wanted to kill him for it. What they failed to notice was who was in the midst of that bush. Did you catch it? Verse 2. The angel of the Lord was in the midst of that bush. In verse 4, God called to them from the midst of the bush. At this point, I have to do a slight rabbit trail on uh who I think the angel of the Lord is, based on passages such as this one right here. See, Moses, when he saw that he was in the presence of the angel of the Lord, took off his shoes, bowed down, because he knew whose presence he was in. In Genesis chapter 22, it's the angel of the Lord that stops Abraham from sacrificing his son Isaac. We see this in chapter 22, verse 11. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. So he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not lay your hand on the lad, or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me, the angel of the Lord. And he goes on to say in verse 15, then the angel of the Lord called again to Abraham a second time out of heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, says the Lord. And he talks about the blessings that he's going to give Abraham. In Judges chapter 6, we're not going to turn there, but you remember the story of Gideon and how God came to Gideon and said, I'm going to have you go and you're going to save the people. You're going to be the judge there. And Gideon, when he sees the angel of the Lord, he makes a altar to the angel of the Lord. And the angel of the Lord accepts that offer, of that offering, which no normal angel would do. Any other angel would turn down a person and say, Don't bow to me. I'm not God. But here the angel Lord accepts this offering. So, based on these passages, and there's others too, we don't just have time to go into them, I think the angel of the Lord is the second person of the Trinity. The Trinity being God the Father as the first person, God the Son as the second person, and God the Holy Spirit as the third person. Theologians use the word Trinity to help explain it, and of course you guys all know that. So in Exodus then, we see the second person of the Godhead speaking to Moses as the I am, and then in John chapter 8. We see Jesus Christ, the incarnate second person of the Godhead, speaking to the Jews as the I Am. Moses believed. The Jews refused to believe And so one of the most important titles of Christ is that of the I am, which provides us the identity that Jesus Christ Christ is God, the self-existent, eternal, all-powerful I am. There are some other lesser IMs where Jesus says, I am this, I am that. We looked at one of them earlier. Do you remember which one it was in John 8? Yes, I am the light of the world, by which Jesus shows a darkened world the way to life. So the rest of tonight, I want to look at some of these other I am statements that Jesus identifies himself with. And I'm going to attempt to tackle, I think, one of the harder I am first. It's found in John chapter 6. So if you turn back to John chapter 6, we see here the feeding of the 5,000 people. Jesus just got done being the five thousand and then the people want to force him to be king. He goes up into a mountain and then that night he decides to leave the mountain, walk on the water to the disciples who are out there in the boat. He gets in the boat and ends up on the other side of the shore. The crowd finds out that he's on the other side, so they follow over to the other side And this is where we pick up in verse twenty-six. And Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him And so the crowd who sought Jesus out for the food, they seem to catch on to this idea that they need to labor for some everlasting Food, food that's going to last forever. It doesn't perish. And so then they asked the question in verse 28. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? And Jesus Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he sent. So the answer is, believe. Believe in me. And now they're going to ask for a sign, and we'll see that following here. What's interesting is the feeding of the 5,000. You don't think that was a sign enough? I mean, just fed five thousand people. But they're comparing him to Moses that we'll see. And Moses, of course, fed the Israelites, all the tribes. And he did that for what forty years. Right? So they want to see a sign, a great sign. And we see this. They say, Therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then that we may see it and believe you? What work will you do? Our fathers ate the man in the desert, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven. But my father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. So Jesus tells them this manna that they got from heaven, it wasn't true bread. It really wasn't from heaven. It's more of a shadow of things. But the true bread is he himself that came down from heaven. And they still don't seem to understand it because they say in verse 34, Lord, give us this bread always. And Jesus said to them, and here's our I am statement, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out, for I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of the Father who sent me. That of all he has given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. And this is the will of him who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him may have everlasting life And I will raise him up at that last day. So there's some more back and forth going on here where even though they didn't understand, Jesus plainly told them, I'm the bread of life. I'm the one that came down from heaven. And they don't like that either, but Jesus goes ahead and uh re-emphasizes this fact in verse forty-seven, saying, Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me has everlasting life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the man in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which comes down from heaven, that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world. Jesus, of course, being the bread of life, the flesh here, he's talking about the cross and his sacrifice he's going to do for man. But the manna, on the other hand, you saw that they ate it and they are dead now after eating this, because it's not everlasting. In fact, in Deuteronomy 8. 3, we see the reason that God even gave them this manna. And support them through that. He says, So he humbled you, allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone. But man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. So the lesson that he's trying to teach them is Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from God's mouth. And here, in John 6, we see how that's possible. Jesus Christ is actually speaking the very mouth of God. And how is eternal life given? Through the death of Christ on the cross. Jesus goes on with a little bit more difficult statement about the eating of his flesh and the drinking of his blood, as you read in verse 55 to 56. He says, For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. And I'm guessing the people really didn't understand that. They thought He's he talking as actual flesh, which is sort of crazy. Uh John MacArthur says though that this is more of an analogy that has spiritual rather than literal significance, which I think But most of these guys, I think, did not understand. understand what Jesus was talking about. And so many of his disciples left him at verse 66. Many disciples went back and walked with him no more. And then Jesus asks his disciples, Do you also want to go away? And I find here a very encouraging lesson for all of us in Peter's response. He says, Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we also have come to believe and to know that you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Now I don't think Peter really understood what Jesus was talking about in this whole passage with the Eating of blood. I mean, they didn't understand the simple thing that I'm going to die and be raised again on the third day. They they couldn't understand that. But Peter knew who Jesus was. And he knew that life came from Jesus and so he stayed. And often when I go through the Bible reading things, when I see society history and all these things that go on, I don't understand what I don't get it. Does it make sense to me? But I know where the answer is. I know the Bible is God's word. And so I can go to it and I know that eternal life can be found in This book, same as Peter knew, eternal life we found in Jesus Christ. So Jesus is the bread of life through which eternal life is given. If we look in John 10, we see two other I in statements. And these ones are associated with sheep. In verses 1 through 5, the stage is set that gives us these two different uh IMs. Verse 10, he says, Most assured I say to you, or verse 1, or chapter 10, most as surely I say to you, He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, But climbs up some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. So the first one we're going to see is the I am of a door. But he who enters at the door is the shepherd of the sheep. And that's our second one we look at. Shepherd. To him the door keeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. And when he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Yet they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, as they do not know the voice of strangers. Jesus used this illustration, but they did not understand the things which he spoke to them. Happens a lot to them. And so, verse 7 to 10, we see the I am statement. Jesus said to them again, Most assuredly, I say to you, I am the door. of the sheep. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them, because the sheep only listen to who they know, their their actual master. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. I will go in and come out and find pasture The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life, that they have may have it more abundantly. And so Jesus is the door by which we must go through to have eternal life. He's the entry point. Then Jesus goes on to do the second ayah in verses eleven to sixteen. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. But a hireling, he who is not the shepherd, one who does not own the sheep, Sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and wolf catches the sheep and scatters them. The hireling flees because he is a hireling and does not care about the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known by my own. As the Father knows me, even so I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the shepherd. Sheep, and other sheep I have which are not of the soul, them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. And so we see Jesus is the good shepherd who died for his sheep, of which we who believe in him are part of that. We are the other sheep, not of the Jewish fold, but nevertheless we're his because of Jesus' sacrificial death on the cross. Now, for the sake of time, we're just going to look at one more I am statement. There are other ones, but we don't have time to look at them. In John chapter 15, here we see again Jesus talking to his disciples. And in verse 1, we see the I am statement of I am the true vine. And my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit he prunes, that it might bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I am clean As a branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit. For without me, you can do nothing. And so he sees Jesus as the vine, the true vine. He's the source of all of our good works. Because I'm sure all of you are aware that we cannot do anything good of our own. We can't do anything without him, all the other And so Jesus identifies himself as a vine that enables the branches, us, those that are his, to bear good fruit. Of which verse 8 tells us the Father is glorified. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. But tonight we've looked quickly at some titles that Jesus used to identify himself to us. He's the light of the world, showing the way to life in a world consumed with sin and darkness. He's the bread of life through which we enter to have eternal life And that's how it's even possible. He's the door by which we have to enter through to have life. He's the good shepherd who died for us He's the vine, the true vine, by which we can please the Father through good works. And of course he is so much more that we just don't have time to look at tonight. We will look at some more of these total tit we're going to look at some more of these titles next week or the next time we meet. uh next week. But the most important I am statement that we looked at tonight, which makes all these other titles even possible Is that Jesus is the I am, the self existent, eternal, all powerful God. And as such, He can and He does provide a way for us to be right and holy before a holy and right. God. Amen to such a savior as that. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for who you are. We thank you that Jesus was willing to come to earth as the incarnate child and and uh grow and live in this world with us and have the temptation but not sin any of it and give us the way to life. For appeasing your anger at our sin. Thank you for the fact that you left your word for us so that we can take it and study it for ourselves and see who you are and the greatness of you. Help us to always remember you, especially as we go and get back into our busy lives, to just take time to remember the sacrifices that you made for us, your creation, the love that you have for us. Your creation. We thank you for who you are in Jesus' name. Amen