Well, good evening. It is good to see you all guys again. And you know that tonight we are wrapping up our study on the titles of Christ. So over the past eight lessons, we have looked through the Bible at titles provided to us about who Christ is. And we've seen that these titles, they show us just little glimpses of the full picture. And so we try to take those glimpses to come up with who Jesus is. What is this person Jesus look like? So who is Jesus? Well, we saw through these different titles Jesus' identity. He is God. We also saw Jesus' ministry. It's that of repentance of mankind that leads us to salvation. We saw Jesus' authority, that he has the right to command belief and practice, and we also saw that Jesus has a saving work, and it's the saving of mankind from our sins. And all these things that we've studied so far, they are things that we can and we should praise God and be thankful for each day. And hopefully as we're going through this study, you've been able to do that and just remembered how great God is for sending Jesus to you. The Creator humbled himself. He became incarnate. He taught repentance with authority that only God has. He died and rose again to take away our sins. That is a Savior that is definitely worthy to praise. But there's one more thing that the titles of Christ point out in the Bible, and that's the one we're going to look at tonight, is this theme of a mediator. And the Greek calls a mediator a go-between. So if you turn with me to the book of Job, we'll start our series on Jesus' mediatory status. In the book of Job, chapter 9, and of course you know in the book of Job, we read of a guy who literally lost everything. His sons, his daughters, his flock, even his health, taken from him by the sovereignty of God. And in chapter 9, we see Job trying to work through this whole thing that's happened to him, knowing that he's innocent But also having to deal with all this things from the hand of God. And so he's probably trying to figure out, well, if God really is there, if he loves me, then I know I'm innocent. What is going on? And so we see this battle going into Job's life here in chapter 9. And we pick up after Job responds to one of his friends' thoughts on this matter. And we'll see in verse 2. Job says, Truly I know it is so. But how can a man be righteous before God? If one wished to contend with him, he could not answer him one time out of a thousand. God is wise in heart and mighty in strength. Who has hardened himself against him and prospered? And Job continues in verse 14. How then can I answer him and choose my words to reason with him? For though I were righteous, I could not answer him. I would beg mercy of my judge. And at this point it seems like Job is resigned. himself to this lot in life. That though he's innocent, God has condemned him, and there's nothing that he can do about it. And we see this in verse 29. If I am condemned, then why do I labor in vain? If I wash myself with snow water and cleanse my hands with soap, yet you will plunge me into the pit, and my own clothes will abhor me. For he is not a man as I am, that I may answer him, and that we should go to court together, nor is there any mediator between us who may lay hands on us both. Let him take his rod away from me, and do not let dread of him terrify me. Then I would speak and not fear him. But it is not so with me. And so we see here Job in misery and in helplessness, he seems to point out this truth that there is no mediator between himself and God. John MacArthur puts it this way. A court official who sees both sides clearly, as well as a source of disagreement, so as to bring resolution, was not found. Where was an advocate, an arbitrator, an umpire, a referee? Was there no one to remove God's rod and call for justice? Now I think this was a very valid observation that Job made. There is no mediator. Or at least Joe did not know of one. According to Reese's chronological Bible, Job was the first of the patriarchs. And so he was therefore before the law that was given to Moses, who was a mediator of the law between God and the Israelites. We read about Moses being this mediator of the law of God in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 19 Galatians 3. 19 says, What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions till the seed, and of course we know the seed is Christ. We study that title till the seed should come to whom the promise was made, and it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator. And so in this verse we see two reasons for the law. The first reason, it was added to the promises given to Abraham. And we see that in verse 18 this these promises that Abraham has. So this was added to the promise given to Abraham because of transgressions. Or another way this term can be defined is that sins might take on the character of transgressions, and thereby the consciousness of sin be intensified, and the desire for redemption be aroused. And so you could say that the law shows us that we're sinners and therefore drives us to want to seek out the person that can help us, the Savior. And the second thing we see in this verse is that the law shows us a mediator. In this case, it's Moses. John Wesley says that the law was not given to Israel, like the promises of Abraham, which was immediately from God Himself. but was conveyed by the ministry of angels to Moses and delivered into his hand as a mediator between God and them. And this is his reasoning that Moses is this mediator. Wesley says it was to remind them of the great mediator. And of course we know that great mediator is Jesus Christ. So let's look at this title of mediator as it is applied to Christ. And we'll look in 1 Timothy to see this. And Paul is talking here in 1 Timothy chapter 2. About Jesus being the one mediator, the one go-between. In chapter 2, verses 1 to 2, we read Paul telling Timothy Therefore, I exhort first of all that all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings. and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all goodness and reverence. So in addition to this peaceable life that we should live, we also see another reason why we should give thanks and why we should pray and do all those other items. And this is found in verses 3 to 5. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and man. The man, Christ Jesus. And the reason Jesus is our mediator, we see in verse 6, who gave himself a ransom to all to be testified in due time. Jesus gave himself and by doing that became the go-between for us. Now it's important to note, I think, here something regarding a mediator or a go-between. In order to be a mediator, one needs to be able to communicate both sides. And so, since Jesus is fully God and fully man, he is in this perfect position to be that mediator. He understands man, he understands God, and so it can come between us. Vine's expository dictionary explains this in more technical terms for those of you that like technical jargon. He says Uh this definition says dictionary says the salvation of men necessitated that the mediator should himself possess the nature and attributes of him towards whom he acts, and should likewise participate in the nature of those for whom he acts, sin apart. Only by being possessed both of deity and humanity could he comprehend the claims of the one and the needs of the other. Further, the claims and the needs could be met only by one who, himself being proved sinless, would offer himself an expatory or an atoning for guilt and sin sacrifice on behalf of men. Of course, we know that is what Jesus did when he came and died on the cross for us. So in 1 Timothy, we see this one mediator, Jesus Christ. And he's mediating for the purpose of bringing man to God. He desires all men to be saved, verse four tells us. Vines says that this type of mediation, it's done with a view of producing peace. But there's also another side to Jesus' mediation, and that is seen in the book of Hebrews. So if you turn to Hebrews chapter 8, We come across this idea of a heavenly sanctuary where Jesus is. And as verse two says, A minister of the sanctuary. So that's what Jesus is, a minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle which the Lord erected. and not man. This heavenly sanctuary is contrasted with Moses' tabernacle in verse 5. It says as Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to make the tabernacle, for he said, See that you make all things according to the pattern shown you on the mountain. And so, just as the heavenly tabernacle is better than the pattern tabernacle that Moses was building, so the minister of the heavenly tabernacle is better than the earthly ministers or high priests. Now we're going to get to high priests a little bit later, but for now I just want to focus on how Jesus is a better minister. than the earthly ministers or the earthly high priest. And we see it's because he is a mediator as well as a minister or a high priest. And we see this in verse 6. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry, inasmuch as he is also mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises. So we see Jesus is a go-between for a better covenant that has a lot better promises. We see that it's a better covenant because the old covenant had faults. We see these faults in verse eight. Because finding fault with them, he says, Behold the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them out by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord. And so the fault with this covenant was man. Man was a problem. They could not keep the covenant. And these promises are also better. And we see these the better promises in verses 10. To twelve. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. And look what's going to happen, what the difference is between the old covenant and the new one here. I will put my laws in their mind and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. None of them shall teach his neighbor, and none his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness and their sins and their lawless deeds. I will remember no more. Do you see what was lacking in those verses? It was man. Man was not part of that. It's all God. It's his promises. It's his covenant. Man is not part of that equation. And so it's going to be a better promise promise. All right, so we also find in chapter nine There's this new covenant where Jesus is the mediator, and we find out in chapter 9 of verse 15, it's because Jesus shed his perfect blood. Verse 15 of chapter 9 says, For this reason he is the mediator of the new covenant, by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant. that those who are called may receive the promise of the internal inheritance. So here in Hebrews, we see that as a mediator, Jesus is what verse 22 of chapter 7 says. a surety of a better covenant. Vine's expository dictionary gives us the other side of this mediation, where the first side that we saw in 1 Timothy was bringing peace with God, man and peace with God. This side of the mediator is one who acts as a guarantee so as to secure something which otherwise would not be obtained. Thus in Hebrews, Christ is the surety of the better covenant, the new covenant, guaranteeing its terms for his people. After all, we saw this covenant is something that only God can do because it requires sinless blood sacrifice to keep this covenant. And that's what Jesus did when he died on the cross, and he had this perfect, without blame sacrifice, and we saw that with his title, Lamb of God. And so we see as mediator, Jesus has a twofold mission. He is bringing people to God the Father with a view of producing peace between us and him And he is guaranteeing this new, better covenant with his people, all through dying on the cross for us. Now when we led into this mediator, we saw the other title that we're going to look at, the high priest. So let's go ahead and take a look at this title, High Priest now, in a little more detail. And to do this, we're basically just going to move through the book of Hebrews and pick up anywhere particularly where we see the high priest show up. So let's start in chapter 2, verse 17. And I think here is where we see the purpose that Jesus had for becoming our high priest. Chapter 2, verse 17 of Hebrew says, Therefore in all things he had to be made like his brethren that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the world For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted, he is able to aid those who are tempted. So Jesus had to be a high priest in order to appease the wrath of a just and holy, perfect God. In Hebrews 3. 1, we read Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Christ Jesus, who is faithful to him who appointed him, as Moses also is faithful in all his house. Here we see that this position was appointed to Jesus. And it's made clear in Hebrews 5, verses 1 through 5. For every high priest taken from among men is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can have compassion on those who are ignorant and going astray, since he himself is also subject to weaknesses. Because of this he is required, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer sacrifices for sins. And no man takes this honor to himself, but he who is called by God, just as Aaron was. So also Christ did not glorify himself to become high priest. But it was he who said to him, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. God the Father is who glorified the Son into this position by appointing him high priest over us. And this appointment that came from God the Father to his Son is a forever position. Whereas men died out, and so then they had to be replaced over again and again. with this appointment from God. God is eternal, and so he doesn't have to do it over and over. And we see this in Hebrews chapter 7, verses 23 to 38 Also, there were many priests, because they were prevented by death from continuing, but he, because he continues forever, has an unchangeable priesthood Therefore, he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. For such a high priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens, who does not need daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices. First for his own sins and then for the other peoples. For this he did once for all when he offered up himself. For the law appoints as some high priests men who have weakness. But the word, and here's the contradiction between man and God, the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints the Son who has been perfected forever. We have a high priest that always lives to make intercession for us. This is an amazing thought. And then the book, 52 Major Bible Themes. The author points out that this ministry of intercession began before Jesus left the earth. John 17, 1-26. It's for the saved rather than for the unsaved. John 17, verse 9. and will be continued in heaven as long as his own are in the world. His work of intercession has to do with the weaknesses, the helplessness, and the immaturity of the saints who are on the earth. He who knows the limitations of his own and the power and strategy of the foe with whom they have to contend is to them as the shepherd and bishop of their souls. Now I don't know about you. I am glad that I have an intercessor there who knows all my weaknesses, all my helplessness. When I'm immature, he knows that and he is still willing To be intercede on my behalf. That is an amazing God. In Hebrews 9, we learn about how Jesus' priesthood is better than that of earthly priesthoods. In chapter 9, it starts out talking about the different parts of the tabernacle. And we're not going to go over that because the thing we want to look at is the second part of the tabernacle, the Holy of Holies. where the high priest had to go. And we see what happens there in this second part of the tabernacle in verse 7 of chapter 9. But into the second part, the high priest went alone once a year. Not with blood, which he offered for himself and for the people's sins committed in ignorance. And so we have blood being shed to cover sins over and over again every year. But then Christ comes along as high priest, and we see what happens in verse eleven. But Christ came as high priest of the good things to come, with a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is, not of his creation. Not with the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood he entered the most holy place, once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. And so eternal redemption is what he gained there. And it was because of his blood that was perfect. And we see how perfect his blood is in verses 13 and 14. For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh, How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? Christ's blood cleanses our conscience so we can serve him. Franz Delch, don't know if I pronounced that right, I'm sure I didn't. He was a Greek theologian back in the 1800s. And he says this concerning the blood. He said, the man ceremonially cleansed and externally atoned for under the Old Testament had at once a right to join in the outward worship of God and the outward common life of the congregation of Israel, although no internal change may have passed over him But he who has been reconciled and cleansed by the inward operation of the blood of Christ stands henceforth in living communion with God his Savior. and is empowered to serve the living God with living works and inward service. And since we have such a great high priest who's eternal who appeases God's wrath, intercedes for us on our behalf, and empowers us to serve him with living works, not these dead works. What should we do? Well, Hebrews 4 tells us. Hebrews 4 verse 14 and 16. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. We have a high priest, Jesus Christ, and he wants us to come to him for help. He wants to give us mercy and grace. Jesus is our high priest. He is our mediator. May we come and serve Him. And this ends our series on the titles of Christ. And hopefully our study has encouraged you all to want to go and learn and praise God more. He is a God worthy to be say uh to serve. And God gave us his very words. You see it in the Bible. We can study it for ourselves And so what I want to do is since we've looked at all these different titles, and it's been this will be our ninth week, I want us to just go through the titles that we've already seen. um basically refresh our memory about the God that we serve. That's why I gave you a handout. It also has all the verses that we went through so you can go and try to piece it all together again like like I did. But I want us to think as we go through and close this series out on the titles of Christ and what they mean for us today. What how can we praise God better? And so the first one that we learned about was Jesus' identity. And you can see there's 18 of these titles, so I'm going to go pretty quickly, and we're not going to spend too much time on each one of them. But I do want to touch on it and briefly explain what it deals with. So in Jesus' identity, we learn that Christ is the I am in the first and the last. These two titles State that Jesus is Yahweh God, the self-existent, eternal, all-powerful God that we find in the Old Testament. He is the light of the world, showing the way to life in a world that is consumed with sin and darkness. He's the bread of life through which eternal life is even possible. He's the door through which we have to enter if we want to have life He is the good shepherd. He gave his own life so that we can be holy before a holy God. He's the true vine, by which we can please the Father by good works, if we abide in him. He's the Lord, supreme in authority. And we'll see this again when we get down to authority, where we focus more on that. He's the word. And this one's an interesting one. worthy of doing a more detailed study on your own at some point. The word the personal manifestation of a full deity who existed, created, and became incarnate. The Word. He's also the living one who has life in Himself. And as He has life in Himself, He is able to be the resurrection and the life. by which people are going to be raised to life and brought before the supreme in authority to be judged for what they've done on earth. He's the Alpha and Omega. This is the complete dictionary of the Greek alphabet showing he has all wisdom and he has all knowledge. He's the beginning and the end. He has always been and he will always be. He's the exact image of God, another great one to study in more detail, meaning that Jesus is the very impression of God in all his essence as well as his character. He's the way, the truth, and the life by which we are able to come to and see the Father, because Jesus and the Father are one. He's the King of kings, and he's also the King of the Jews, by which we will all bow down before him. And he is the just one. through which sinful people, you and me, can be forgiven and made right and holy because of his work on the cross. Eighteen titles, all showing identifying Jesus, who he is, and what it means for him to be God. The second person trinity, the creator of everything. We also, through our study of the titles, learned about Jesus' ministry. Christ is the seed, by which the ministry of Jesus is one of keeping promises. And we saw two of those promises. One being blessing the nations by providing justification through faith, and the other one is completely defeating Satan at the end of time. He's the root and offspring of David, in which we see the ministry of origin or source, as well as a kinship and a judgment. So there's three things there if you want to go back and study that title. He's Emmanuel, by which the ministry of Jesus is being God with us. And not only in the flesh, as the perfect sacrifice for sin, but also living in us, his temple, the Holy Spirit that dwells within us. He is the cornerstone by which Christ is building up his church, which I'm glad to be a part of, and it's going to be something marvelous to behold. He is the rock by which Jesus supports and shelters those that belong to him. He's the heir of all things, by which Jesus shows that he has complete ownership over everything. He's the witness by which Jesus is able and willing to assert that he is God. He's seen it. He knows it. He can assert it to be true. He is God. He became incarnate, did the will of the Father, suffered and died on the cross, was buried and rose again, and he will come back for us. And he is the firstborn, a position of absolute priority, sovereignty, and preeminence, which I guess is sovereignty. Eight titles, all showing the ministry of Jesus, who when we dug into them we saw Jesus is long-suffering, not wanting any to perish, but that all should come to repentance. We also studied titles that describe Jesus' authority. And the first one we looked at was Lord, by which we saw Jesus has all supremacy to command what we believe, what we do. And where we will spend eternity. He is the head by which we learn of Jesus' position of preeminence in the church. It gives him the right to command how we practice. worshiping him in church because he's the one that gives the increase. And he is also the prince, by which Jesus is given the right to life and the right to provide repentance. In these three titles, we see that Jesus has the right to command belief and practice because it was given to him by the Father. In the titles that emphasize Jesus' saving work, we learn that Christ is the man of sorrows, by which we see Jesus relating with us and ultimately saving us from our sickness, our sin. He's also the Lamb of God, by which Jesus took away the sins of the world, because his blood was perfect. He was able to do that He's also the horn of salvation, by which we see that he has the power to free us from Satan's bondage so that we can be free to serve him. And Jesus is our deliverer, by which we are saved not only from temptation, but from the wrath that is to come. And I think that is a great thing to remember. We're not gonna behold his wrath at the end of time. We are delivered from that. So in those four titles we see that Jesus lives up to his name. And if you remember Jesus' name is Jehovah's salvation is what it means, but he's there to save us from our sins We see how he does that in these titles. And lastly, we study today Jesus' mediatory status. Christ is the mediator, by which we have a go-between Who gives us peace with God, and who guarantees a new covenant for his people. And Jesus is the high priest, by which we have access to the throne of God to obtain mercy. and grace and to show forth living works that the world can't do because they're dead So Jesus is God. He has a ministry that only God can do. It's repentance. He has authority that only God can give, directing how we live and practice our beliefs. He lived a perfect life, as only God could do, in order to die for his creation. And he rose from the dead, as only God can do. And he's also making a way for us to commune with the Father as only God can. Think about that. What a wonderful Savior is Jesus my Lord. Amen. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you that you've given us so much in your word that we can go and we can study out and see different aspects of who you are. And be able to piece them all together to see the wonderful Savior that was sent to die for us Help us to remember this as we go through the weeks and as the and years even as life seems to surround us and strangle us a little bit. Help us to remember that you are sovereign. And that we can trust you. And you're coming back for us, and this world is not all there is. We thank you for that. We thank you for your word, the truth that's in it. We thank you for Jesus. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.