Now that the presidential race is over, we await the inauguration on January 20th, 2025, Lord willing. That got me thinking, when did this all begin? So I looked up the first inauguration of our country. Sorry if I sound like Al Moeller. This has worldview implications, right? Um the the Congress planned March 4, 1789, to be the first day of the new government, but a harsh winter with delayed travels. It wasn't until April 6th that enough congressmen arrived in New York City, the capital at the time, to count the votes and announce George Washington's election as the nation's leader. But then the news had to travel to Washington's home in Virginia. He went up to New York by coach, horseback, and boat. Meanwhile, they were wondering what to call the chief executive. Adams, his vice president, wanted to call him his most benign highness. As we all know, the title chosen was the president of the United States. So after all this, the inauguration day itself was April 30th. There were ceremonial artillery and church bells. Large crowds gathered, the congressional houses assembled, and Washington was sworn in. His right hand on the Bible, he recited the words inscribed in the Constitution, I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of the President of the United States and will to the best of my ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution. Of the United States. He added, so help me, God, and started an unbroken custom. Then President Washington delivered a special speech, the inaugural address. There's something solemn, even religious, in all these formal features of the inauguration. Even as Americans left behind, British monarchy, there's a desire for a good ruler. We want someone benevolent, yet also powerful enough to protect us and punish evil. And Bora says Christians belonging to another world, another kingdom, this isn't merely wishful thinking. It's reality. We get glimpses of it in the Bible. So last week we started a new sermon series. I call it Let's see here. Keep calm and read Psalms. Okay. Again, thanks to my wife for making that. Um we looked at the first half of Psalm 2, one of the Messianic Psalms This is one of those passages that look directly to Jesus, what um I call strictly messianic. There's no near fulfillment, that is near the time of its writing in the life of David or other kings of the past. So while we know David wrote Psalm 2 according to Acts 4. 25, he's not the one who fulfills that lofty office. So here David sees something and someone beyond his time and place. And not only seeing, but also hearing. There's something similar, something here similar to what we find in Psalm 110. In Psalm 110, David overhears Yahweh speaking to David's Lord, set up my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. That's first one of Psalm 110. Verse 4 says there you are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. That's verse 4. As in Psalm 110, in Psalm 2, David hears or overhears. What Yahweh said to someone greater than David. That's why it's helpful to pay attention to the quotation marks in this song. The words without the quotation marks are David's, he's the narrator. Verses 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 to 12 are his own words. The first quotation in verse 3 is the collective voice of the nations, the people, the kings of the earth, and the rulers who oppose God. The second quotation in verse 6. Oh sorry. Second quotation in verse 6 comes from Yahweh Adonai who sits in the heavens. Now, what about the third quotation in verse 7 to 9? Notice that verse 7 starts a new quote. It's not from the speaker of verse 6. It's not David. It's none other than the king. Okay? He's responding to verse six, and he's someone greater than David. There's also a quote within a quote. Okay, relaying to us what Yahweh said to his anointed. Again, not David, someone greater than David. So as we read today's passage, we'll join David in this prophetic experience. Okay. The anointed son of Jesse learns about the anointed son of God. The king over Israel beholds the one who inherits the ends of the earth. The warrior of Judah witnesses the divine warrior who punishes nations. So let's read Psalm 2, 7 through 12. Psalm 2, 7 through 12. I will declare the decree. The Lord has said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession. You shall break them with the rod of iron. You shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore be wise, O kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. When his wrath is kindled but a little, blessed are all those who put their trust in him. Psalm 2, 7 through 12 consists of two movements in three verses each. Verses 7 to 9. David hears a decree. There are declarations and predictions. He prophetically looks forward to Christ's future rule. In 10 through 12, David speaks a warning. There are regulations and a benediction. It's a word to the wise in light of Christ's future rule. You could say that the sermon is about Christ's sonship and our worship. You could also say that there must be both recognition and resignation. One, recognition, giving glory to Christ Jesus, and two, resignation, giving up our foolish stubborn revolt. So here's how we recognize Christ's sonship and in worshipful response, resign from our stubbornness and surrender. Because of Christ's status first, he inherits all and judges all. That's seven to nine. And secondly, because of Christ's wrath, worship him and trust him. That's 10 through 12. First, because of Christ's status, he inherits all and judges all Verses 7 to 9 bring together elements from the earlier verses. We saw last time it's pointless to rebel because God has already set up his own anointed king. Adonai's appointment in verse 6 corresponds to Yahweh's decree in verse 7. They're one and the same. So that means the anointed one, the king of Zion, and the Son of God all refer to the one and the same person. But digging deeper, in what sense is Christ begotten by Yahweh? I think it helps to explore here four kinds of begetting found throughout the scriptures. Consider these subpoints under the first point. There's physical begetting, spiritual begetting, eternal begetting, and official begetting. The first up point is the physical beginning of procreation. This is what's most familiar to us, is how humans reproduce countless times in history. If you ever want a biblical equivalent of counting sheep, go through Genesis and 1 Chronicles and count the number of times you see the verb begot. You'll get the point quickly. Then there's also spiritual begetting of new creation. Paul shared the gospel, and through the gospel he begot spiritual children. He had many in Corinth. He even had one while imprisoned later, Onesimus, but of course Paul cannot take the credit. He's just the messenger. It's God who ultimately saves, as 1 Peter 1. 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy. has begotten us again to a living hope. Thirdly, there's the eternal begetting of God, the Son. Hang on to your hats. We're testing the limits of our finite knowledge now. We attempt to grasp our triune God by way of analogy, but it's not all speculation. Various passages give us some access to this mystery. How many times have you recited John 3. 16 in your life and passed over only begotten son without much thought? There are other verses where we see that title. We see elsewhere, God's only begotten Son is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. All things were created by him, through him, and for him. He's the brightness of the Father's glory and the express image of his person. The ancient church considered these verses and summarized them in creeds, like the Nicene Creed. He is the only begotten Son of God, it says there, born of the Father before all ages, God from God, light from light, true God from true God, begotten, not maith. Consubstantial with the Father, through him all things were made. Closely related to eternal begettings, the fourth kind of begetting, official begetting, and we're back to some Psalm 27. We're also back to a specific time in history. Official beginning has to do with rights and authority, so it's closer to adoption than procreation. It's also more like an inauguration or coronation. Apply this to Jesus, and we get the following. There's never a time when the sun was not the sun. Eternally begotten, but there is a time when he's declared to be God's Son, officially begotten. And that specific time of official begetting is designated as today, as we see in today's passage. That day prophetically, from David's point of view, was the day of resurrection, the third day, the Sunday. Paul confirms this in Acts 13 as he preaches at a synagogue in Pissidia and Antioch after speaking of the cross, the burial, and the empty grave. He says in verse 32 to 33, we declare to you glad tidings. The promise which was made to the fathers, God has fulfilled this for us, their children, in that he has raised up Jesus. As it is also written in the second Psalm, you are my son. Today I have begotten you. Later in Romans 1:4, Paul says that Jesus Christ our Lord was declared to be the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead So to sum up this beginning talk, Christians experience physical birth, and thus generation, and spiritual rebirth, regeneration. Christ, on the other hand, is eternally begotten, Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. Yet also he's physically begotten by virgin birth. We'll be celebrating that right soon. He has no need of spiritual begetting, as he's sinless. And finally, he's officially begotten by his resurrection. I know that's a lot, so I'll leave this up for a bit. But once you grasp these foundational truths, the rest flows easily. Being a son gets us talking about what? Inheritance. Being an heir. Because of Christ's status as the Son of God, he inherits all. After completing his mission, Jesus rose up above the angels as he has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. As Hebrews tells us, with that thing comes a fortune. That's why God's son hears the command in verse 8 in Psalm 2. Ask of me and I will give you the nations for your inheritance. and the ends of the earth for your possession. Keep in mind there's a not already not yet aspect to all this. Yes, it's true that crisis decreases declared already in Matthew twenty eight nineteen, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. But now we do not yet see all things put under him. More on that when we cover Psalm 8, next to weeks. For now, know that because of Christ's status, he inherits all. Now on to verse 9, observe there how because of Christ's status, he not only inherits all, he judges all. Recall the scripture reading from earlier, how John 5. 22 says the Father has committed all judgment to the Son. And let's not forget how this psalm began, with the nations raging, people plotting, kings of the earth, and rulers leading them. Since they will not surrender to God, they will fight and lose. They will not bend, so they will break. Those who rule with an iron fist will be subdued with an iron rod. Since they won't serve as Messiah's vassals, they'll be dashed as Potter's vessels. If only they'd accept this truth, that because of Christ's status, he inherits all and judges all, then they'd avoid such a disastrous fate. We'll see how they can surrender in verses 10 to 12, but let's pause here for a moment of application of 7 to 9. What practical lesson is there for us saints who eagerly anticipate Christ's future rule? For that we turn to Revelation 2. There Jesus directly addresses a first century church in the city of Dayatira, modern-day Turkey. He commends their works, love, service, faith, and patience. But he also reprimands them, their tolerance of false doctrine, sexual immorality, and idolatry. And then in verses 24 to 27, Christ inspires them with these words. Now to you I say, and to the rest in Diatera, as many as do not have this doctrine, who have not known the depths of Satan as they say, I will put on you no other burden, but hold fast what you have till I come. And he who overcomes and keeps my works until the end, to him I will give power over the nations. He shall rule them with the rod of iron. They shall be dashed to pieces like the potter's vessels. as I also have received from my Father. Look at how Christ motivates this church to hold fast and hold on. Okay. Just before the citation of Psalm 29, he promises the persevering saint, to him I will give power over the nations. It's like little old me, right? Can you imagine that? In the kingdom of God, you don't get things made in China, US, or Germany. You get China, US, or Germany. The one who has overcome the world not only grants victory through faith, when our faith becomes sight, the only begotten of God shares the world with those who are born of God. We who are meek like Jesus will inherit the earth through Jesus. And the Spirit bears witness even today that we're God's children, heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. Hope that motivates you as the Spirit speaks to churches, even the churches today. As for those who still rebel against God, David issues a final warning in 10 through 12, verses 10 through 12 in Psalm 2. It's best to surrender now, ask conditions of peace before it's too late. Here's a way to resign, lay down your arms, and step down from your stubborn position. Because of Christ's wrath, worship him and trust him. In verse 10, we see David warning his peers, kings of other nations, judges of the earth. Be wise, he says, that's synonymous with be instructed. See, wisdom and instruction are not matters of formal education or conferral of degrees. It's about humbling ourselves before God and obeying his word. So in verses 11 and 12, David teaches transgressors God's ways. He hopes that sinners shall be converted to him. He teaches the lesson in two parts, I think. Verse 11 teaches them how to relate to God the Father. Verse 12 teaches them how to relate to God the Son. First, look at verse 11. The first half reads, serve the Lord with fear. That seems simple enough. But then what about rejoice with trembling? What does that mean? Sure we understand rejoice with shouting. We get joy with dancing, singing, and playing instruments. But this seems like an odd pairing, rejoicing and trembling. I'll come back to this because I think I have an illustration that's better shared after I comment on verse 12. Verse 11 is about God the Father, verse 12 is about God the Son. This command to kiss May sound even stranger than rejoice with trembling, but you might recall I said a few weeks ago that most kisses in the Bible are not sensual but familial, platonic, and chaste. It can also communicate reverence. In terms of a bad example, consider how many in Elijah's days bow the knee to Baal and kiss them with their lips, assuming It's like a statue of Baal, that was piety shown to a false God. But to kiss the son shows piety to the true God. As for the title Sun, it's linguistically interesting. The sun in verse 12 is not the same word for sun in verse 7. What's the um Hebrew ben is what we find in verse 7. Aramaic bar is what we find in verse 12. That doesn't seem like a big deal, so But uh well Aramaic in ancient Middle East, much like English in Europe today, was the most widely known and used language among different nations. What we may call like lingua franca, right? As David closes this song, he wants their ears to perk up. That's how you get a foreigner's attention. Speak a language they understand That's how you get everyone's attention. Say a name date fear. And see how verse 12 does not allow for a middle, undecided position You're either putting your lips on Christ of glory or you're putting your lips on the cup of fury. You're paying homage to the Son or facing his anger. It's cherished or perish. It's worship in his presence or torment in his presence. Proverbs 20 verse 2 says, The wrath of an earthly king is like the roaring of a lion. Whoever provokes him to anger sins against his own life, then how much more fearful is the wrath of the King of kings, the Lord of Lords, the lion of the tribe of Judah, who with the mere breath of his lips will slay the wicked. But it's not all fire and brimstone. David's last sentence gives us a way to avoid God's legal sentence. Blessed are all those who put their trust in Him. Because of Christ's wrath, we not only worship him, we also trust in him. This final word of Psalm 2 gets us back to the first word of Psalm 1. The word blessed in chapter 2, verse 12 is the same as the blessed in chapter 1, verse 1. We must stop trusting in the way of the ungodly and even our own way. We must start trusting in the living God, the Savior of all men, who speaks truth to his word. This is why many see the first two Psalms as a unit, while Psalm 1 sounds like wisdom literature, and Psalm 2 sounds like Prophetic literature, they don't contradict each other. In fact, wise living in the present has an eye on the future. As we meditate daily on the Word of God, we anticipate greatly the day of God. And so to summarize, it's all about Christ's sonship and our worship Because of Christ's status, he inherits all and judges all. Because of Christ's wrath, worship him and trust him. Will you do that today and be and forever? Will you put your trust in him? Will you kiss the son lest he be angry? Will you serve the Lord with fear? Rejoice with trembling So I mentioned earlier an illustration how we reconcile faith with fear. And while preparing for a future Sunday school class, I came across an excerpt from John Piper's book, Pleasures of God. Piper notes how strange it seems that we fear God and hope in God at the same time. Normally we fear one being, so we flee and put our hope in another being. But imagine a mountain climber frantically seeking shelter as a deadly storm approaches. Thanks, thanks ChatGPT for the picture that it generates. Anyway, his pulse races, the adrenaline is flowing, he's terrified. Then he finds a hole in the cliff. He's going to be safe It's the same storm with the same terror, but now he's found hope and refuge. Here's Piper's explanation. We should let the experience of hope penetrate and transform the experience of fear. In other words, the kind of fear that we should have toward God is whatever is left of fear when we have a sure hope in the midst of it. The fear of God is what's left of the storm when you have a safe place to watch right in the middle of it. And in that place of refuge, we say, this is amazing. This is terrible. This is incredible power. All the thrill of being here in the center of the awful power of God, yet protected by God Himself. And so we get an idea of how we feel both hope and fear at the same time. Hope turns fear into a trembling and peaceful wonder. And fear takes everything trivial out of hope and makes it earnest and profound. The terrors of God make the pleasures of his people intense. This is why we sing songs that remind us to serve with fear and rejoice with trembling. We sing songs like that says things like, Why I draw this fleeting breath, when mine eyes shall close in death, when I store to worlds unknown, see thee on thy judgment throne. Rock of ages clept for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Hear God's voice of comfort during trials in another song. The soul that on Jesus has leaned for repose. I will not, I will not desert to its pose, that soul though all hell should endeavor to shake. I'll never, no never, no never forsake One more, and we sang this one earlier. Dear Savior, when before thy bar all tribes and tongues assembled are, among thy chosen will I be, at thy right hand, complete in thee. I pray that you're among the congregation of the righteous that day, among the chosen at Christ's right hand. To join them, do the following. Begin by confessing that apart from grace, we're not so different from the raging nations and the plotting people. Realize we're foolish and unwise. We do not keep instruction. We refuse correction. We serve idols of our vain imagination. We serve ourselves instead of the living and true God. But there's hope in the Son of God. The last word of Psalm 2 shall echo in our ears. Blessed are all those who put their trust in Him This is the good news, right? The Son of God became the Son of Man, so that he might be the Lord's anointed, the King of Zion. He was born of the seed of David according to the flesh. He's the male child who is to rule all nations with the rod of iron. He lived a perfect life and deserves our service and reverence. Yet he was rejected and despised. Instead of a kiss of loyalty, he was betrayed with a kiss. Authorities refuse to acknowledge Christ. The rulers of this age did not know God's wisdom, so they crucified the Lord of glory. But as we saw last week, they could only do whatever God's hand and purpose determined before to be done. And our purpose was to save us from God's wrath. Jesus died on the cross to pay the penalty of our sins. Before taking up that rod of iron, he took hold of the staff as the good shepherd. He gave his life for the sheep. He was buried and rose again the third day. He was obedient to the point of death. And even the death of the cross God also highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Those in heaven. and of those on earth and of those under the earth. And that every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So before it's too late, yield to Christ. It's not too late to surrender. If the kings of Israel were rumored to be f merciful, the king of kings is even more so. Repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus, trust in him, and be blessed for eternity in heaven. Heaven is a gift, undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So I think that even as many of us made this decision already to submit to Christ, you know it's a daily struggle. We still struggle. So let's make our final song, our prayer. O great God of highest heaven, occupy my lowly heart. Own it all and reign supreme. Conquer every rebel power. Let no vice or sin remain that resists your holy war. You have loved and purchased me. Make me yours forevermore. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that we have this glorious vision and this is not just wishful thinking. This is reality that's going to that you're going to realize through your Son Jesus Christ. Our faith are in your real promises. And we pray that as we may be disappointed by authorities in our lives, authorities in our family, authorities in our government, authorities in our schools, in our work. Lord, we are thankful that this is not the end of our story, that as believers, as saints, Lord, that we serve a king that's deserving of our full Diligence, our loyalty, our reverence. And Lord, that we see the justice that will be established when He when your Son returns. So we look forward to that day. Help us to encourage each other until that day. Lord may our lives just be one of submission to you each and every day. Christ's name we pray. Amen.