Dr. James Dobson, the founder of the Christian organization, Focus on the Family, once spoke with a sixth-grade teacher in an upper-middle-class California city Who assigned a creative writing task to her class? Her students had to complete the sentence that began with the words, I wish. She thought she would see wishes for bicycles, dogs, vacations, etc. Instead, twenty of thirty students made comments about their disintegration. disintegrating families. Here are some disheartening results. I wish my parents wouldn't fight and I wish my father would come back. I wish my mother didn't have a boyfriend. I wish I could get straight A's so my father would love me. I wish I had one mom and one dad so the kids wouldn't make fun of me. When I was little, I wished my parents were together and my father would show up at milestone events of my life. But these wishes were just that, empty wishes. Due to such gaping voice in my life, I struggled mightily in obeying the fifth commandment. I've had to overcome interpersonal problems with male authority, bitterness against my mother, and deep regrets after my father died. If you had struggles with your parents, or you struggle as parents yourselves, I hope that the Lord speaks to you today through his word. So let's read. Read Exodus 20, verse 12. As we continue in the Ten Commandments, you'll find the passage in your bulletin insert, and you'll also find the sermon. Exodus chapter twenty, verse twelve. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. There are three observations I wish to discuss from this verse. First, honoring parents is essential for a good life. Second, we have failed to honor our parents, except one, which leads to the third point. One person, Jesus always honored his parents best by honoring his heavenly father first. First, honoring parents is essential for a good life. We see this blessing embedded in the commandment itself in the verse after the Kama. That your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. In a parallel passage in Deuteronomy 5. 16, it adds, that it may be well with you in the land which the Lord your God is giving you. So then honoring our parents lead to two positive outcomes: Quantity of life, your days may be long, and quality of life, that it may be well with you. This is such a fundamental life lesson that Paul identifies it in Ephesians 6. 2 as the first commandment with promise. Why is it first? That's because parent-child relationship is the first relationship, chronologically speaking, out of the womb. The first authority that you submit to. This is generally true if parents and children live according to God's will. Israelite fathers have to be leaders at home Teaching their children to love God, whether it was around the dining table, lounging on the couch, or on the way to work together, as you see in Deuteronomy. Proverbs is clear that parents are to be the first teachers of knowledge, wisdom, and instruction. Their lessons should be prized and cherished as precious jewels. Chapter one says Parents are to pass along Bible knowledge and exemplify obedience, so that their children would enjoy long life and peace. 3 and 6. When the children grow in obedience and righteous living, the parents are glad, not so much because they are honored, but because God is honored. Chapter 22 Now, before we go home, call our children and cite the fifth commandment against them for missing your birthdays. Let's consider how we may not have done our part. Have we left the job of moral education to homeschool curriculums, youth programs, and Christian schools. Now those are not bad things in themselves. Behind them are often gifted teachers dedicated to your children Children's spiritual growth. But nothing will replace your influential role as parents. Your godliness and display and humility in life. Your confidence in God amidst a fallen world, your hypocrisy at home, or your vocabulary while stuck in traffic, you're paying attention You're teaching them every single moment. Now, human parents cannot be perfect, but they can in a small way reflect the goodness of God the Father. To do that, they must prioritize God and his kingdom and choose to seek spiritual riches first, not material riches. So two Psalms, 127 and 128, one of them which we read this morning. Paint a picture of such a happy home. But remember, both are prefaced by cause for dependence and fear of the Lord. Now, even when we fall short of such an ideal family, God uses parents for his good purposes. That's why Jesus could appeal to the common experience of the Father as the provider for their children. If fallen fathers know how to give good gifts to his little ones, how much more our Heavenly Father, Jesus says, in Matthew 7 and Luke 11. The writer of Hebrews can also appeal to common experience of earthly fathers who correct and discipline for what seems good to them. How much more God the Father who chastens us to become holy like Him? Hebrews 12. Now with all that in mind, let's focus as we We should on the part of the son and daughter, because that's the main idea here. The duty of children is to render to our parents honor. John Calvin is helping Again, in finding three applications of honor reverence, obedience, gratitude. Reverence, obedience. And gratitude. In every stage of life, from childhood to adulthood, even after our parents have passed away, we can still find a way to honor them through one of these three ways: reverence, obedience, and gratitude. We are never done honoring our parents. The fifth commandment applies in every age, from the days of Adam and Eve to the present, from the old to the new covenant, from the life of Israel to the life of the children. Church. Isaac was a willing sacrifice for his father, Abraham. Out of the picture we have of Isaac is a little boy, you know, being offered up by Abraham, but Isaac was an adult at this time. He could have easily fought off Abraham. That's in Genesis 22. Ruth honored her mother-in-law by clinging to her, following her, and worshiping the God of Israel. We see that all throughout the book of Ruth. For all his faults, David was a good son, obeying and protecting his parents. We see that in 1 Samuel 17 and 22. In the church era, Christian parents must rear their children in training and ammonition of the Lord without provoking them to wrath. In return, the son or the daughter must obey their parents in all things to please the Lord. For this is right. We see that in Ephesians 6 and Colossians 3. The promise of life with blessed quality and quantity still applies generally today, since obedience Foster self-discipline. And self-discipline is essential for survival in the world. Even if you grew up with parents who were unsaved, are still unsaved or just less mature than you spiritually, they probably benefited you in some way, and we can still honor them. I'll point to the example of Jesus later, but we must first understand that we failed to honor our parents. And that's the second point. Just as there are diverse applications of the fifth commandment, there are many ways to break it. We dishonor our parents with words, with our mouths. Even though our society does not see the sin as weighty, the penalty for cursing parents was in Israel death. We see that in Exodus twenty one, Leviticus twenty. twenty. We also continue to warn against verbal transgressions against parents. We can also dishonor our parents Parents by our lives. Instead of being productive, fruitful members of society, a son or a daughter may bring shame to the family through open rebellion. Instead of becoming a man, a boy may become a man child, stuck in addictions to food and drugs. Again, the law of Moses prescribes the death penalty for such sin. Deuteronomy 21. one. Various authors repeat the warnings and reiterate the consequences in graphic terms, whether it's in the Old Testament like Proverbs or New Testament like Romans and Second Timothy. Another way to dishonor parents is to cause them physical harm, directly or indirectly. I mean to kill our parents is an unthinkable act, but nonetheless a reality in this dark fallen world. I remember the chilling news of the Melendez brothers in 1994. No. Instead of honor, reverence, obedience, or gratitude, they murdered their father and mother in their own home in cold blood. Then they went on a spending spree with their inheritance. Now, we know that their parents were far from perfect, but there is no justification for such act. The law in the Bible speaks against such murderers of fathers and mothers. Most of us won't go that far, but a subtle, a more subtle way to harm our parents is through the sin of omission. The failure to provide for them as they grow more dependent on us. Our Lord Jesus exposed and condemned such hypocrisy in the religious leaders of his day. They have opted to uphold their traditions more than God's word. And here's how they did it. By earmarking wealth or provisions as quote from God, gift to God, they would circumvent their obligation to support their parents monetarily. They will keep these gifts hidden at home like piggy banks until their parents were gone. We see this uh discussion in Matthew fifteen and Mark seventeen. And such use of tradition didn't help people obey the fifth commandment, but to break it We continue in the New Testament and see that filial piety is intimately connected to church piety. Paul gives Timothy specific instructions on widows in 1 Timothy 5. The pastor must prioritize those widows in the congregation who have no one to support them. But for widows with living children and grandchildren, Paul says in verse 4 there Let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents, for this is good and acceptable before God. That is, these children and grandchildren must provide for their widowed parents and grandparents. What happens when a person refuses? Paul warns in verse 8 that he or she has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. So whether it's through transgressions of speech or act, direct or indirect violations Sins of commission or omission. They are there are plenty of ways to dishonor our parents. And the Bible is filled with examples. Cain by hating his brother Genesis 4. Ham by disclosing his father's shame. Genesis 9. Nadab and Abihu by treating God lightly in their priestly services. Leviticus 10. Similarly, Hophne and Phineas by their moral failures at the tabernacle, 1 Samuel 2. How they have grieved their fathers and ruined themselves. If we're honest with ourselves, we have not been perfect in our relationship with our parents. Consider the harsh and foolish words we have said, shouted to their face, or uttered behind their backs. Think of the waste we may have made of gifts and opportunities they worked so hard to provide. Ponder whether you have hesitated or refused to render to them honor. Reverence, obedience, and gratitude to due to them, even as they give, give, and give some more. God knew your parents are not perfect, but he gave the fifth commandment anyway. Do we doubt God's wisdom in that? Perhaps you can think of excuses to avoid this commandment. I know I can. My father was an alcoholic. He left me and my mother. I could just focus on that for the rest of my life. But or I could revere him for his hard work to immigrate and provide me opportunity to receive education in the states. It's hard to respect my mother who did not go to college, didn't learn English, and doesn't drive. But I can be grateful to her for pouring out herself as a single mother. Working a full-time job in DC. I know I haven't honored my parents perfectly. There is no one who has obeyed the fifth commandment consistently throughout his or her life, except one man, Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And that leads to the third principle. Jesus always honored his parents best by honoring his heavenly father first. We'll see how that relates to the previous two principles. And how that led to our salvation. Jesus has never failed to give reverence, obedience, and gratitude to his earthly parents and God the Father Hebrews 4. 15 says that he was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Jesus faced temptations to usurp the authority of his parents. He knows how hard it is to submit when you are, without doubt, more capable and more knowledgeable than the parents. But he submitted regardless The sinless God man chose to honor the sinful Mary and Joseph. Consider how amazing that is. Joseph and Mary should be giving reverence, obedience, and gratitude to Jesus, the Son of God, through whom are all things and through whom we live. First Corinthians eight. Paul wrote in Colossians one sixteen to seventeen, By him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers All things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And that includes Joseph and Mary. The two Christmas songs, one in the twentieth century and another in the nineteenth century, capture in rhyme and meter the wonder of Jesus' perfect obedience. First, from the perspective of Mary, we have the classic, Mary Did You Know, written by the Southern Gospel singer Mark Lorrie. The final verse goes, don't worry, I won't sing it, but Mary, did you know that your baby boy is Lord of all creation? Mary, did you know that your baby boy would one day rule the nations? Did you know that your baby boy is heaven's perfect lamb? The sleeping child you're holding is the great I Am. The great I am, the one who was before Abraham, the word of God who became flesh, willingly obey two poor humans, a pair of nobodies from an irrelevant small town of Nazareth. A verse out of uh Cecil Alexander's eighteen forty eight hymn, Once in Royal David City, which we sang, but the verse I'm about to quote is a bit different. Um I don't think it's included in this hymn note, but it also represents Jesus' perfect adherence to the fifth commandment. It says there One of these verses, and through all his wondrous childhood he would honor and obey, love and watch the lowly maiden in whose gentle arms he Christian children all must be mild, obedient, good as he's got to be a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Jesus always honored his parents best by honoring his heavenly father first. That's a principle for us to take home. And there's an episode in Luke two, forty-one to fifty one, that exemplifies the goodness of Jesus as the Son of Jesus. Joseph and Mary, and at the same time, the son of God the Father. Every year his family would go up to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. Sober. After one celebration, the young Jesus stayed behind while his family and relatives returned home. Mary and Joseph assumed he was in the caravan until they were about 24 miles away. Being good parents, they hurried back to Jerusalem to look for him. And for three days, Joseph and Mary looked everywhere. Where did they go? Checking in places where they expected Jesus to be with other twelve-year-old boys. Causing mischief, no doubt. After all, twelve is an age when social exclusion from peers is one of the biggest fears. But Jesus was no typical boy. We find them in the temple, sitting with Bible experts, actively learning and impressing them with his knowledge. Arriving, Mary asks, Son, why have you done this to us? Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously. Jesus responds, says, Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be above my father? Mary and Joseph should have known that Jesus would be at the temple. How so? In Judaism of that day, a boy would begin learning his father's trade or business. at the age of twelve. Except that Jesus has two fathers, one heavenly and one earthly, and the business of his heavenly father is far more important of the two. That business was to be the savior of mankind who lives according to the scriptures. But Jesus manages to please both Joseph and God the Father. He does that by waiting until adulthood to begin his ministry. He returned to Nazareth to begin a blue-collar carpentry career under a poor layman. He could have his education under the feigned teachers of Jerusalem. Let me pause and let's think about this for a second. Have you ever said to yourself If only I had rich parents who could send me to a better school. If only I had more prominent parents who gave me a better shot at life. Jesus did not entertain such thoughts. He did not fail to be content. He was subject to Mary and Joseph in an update. Obscure town. But as verse 52 says in Luke 2, Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and with men. So for the majority of his life on earth, Jesus honored his earthly parents through quiet submission. For about two decades, we hear nothing about Jesus Then around 30 years of age, he leaves Nazareth to be baptized by John and begins his public ministry. Joseph is no longer discussed in the Gospels because he has passed away. Mary is a widow, but she has other children who take care of her. But we see Jesus, her firstborn, leaving behind her husband's trade and their hometown to become an itinerant preacher. You would think that Jesus' mother, siblings, and relatives and neighbors would be the first in line to support him, but they were not. At one point in his ministry, those who knew Jesus best concluded that he was lo he has lost his mind. Mark 3. They probably thought, why leave we li why leave behind a stable career, comforts of home? And familiar environment to wander with a bunch of low-status men. At other times, Jesus' mother and brothers wanted him to be more public and gain more fame for their family. John two and seven. Though rejected by the people of Nazareth, his own mother, half siblings, Jesus was undeterred He created a new family unit composed of those who do the will of his heavenly father. See that in Mark 3, Matthew 12, and Luke 8. Another pause here. I know some of you here at Faith Bible Church have followed Jesus at the cost of losing contact with your own earthly family members. Loyalty to Jesus must be so absolute that even loyalty to parents look like hate in comparison. That's what it says in Matthew 10 and Luke 12 and 14. But even as Jesus demands absolute loyalty, complete adherence to Him, to take up the cross and follow Him, I want you to know first that He truly understands. Understands your sorrows. He was rejected by his family, not just fellow Jews or Nazarenes, but mother, brother, sister. Childhood friends. He knows the deep pain that comes from silent phones and empty mailboxes during holiday season. Yet Jesus loved his mother and sister siblings and his own. He didn't give up on them. He continued his mission to honor God the Father and his earthly parents and his family. Later, Jesus taught his disciples that the gospel demands a heavy price, including rejection from unbelieving parents. And that's the price that believers all over the world pay today as they leave behind Islam or other religions of the family. Once Peter thought out loud about the such price of following Jesus, Jesus. He assured his disciple, Jesus did, assuredly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my sake and the gospels. Who shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions and in the age to come eternal life That's in Mark 10 and parallel passages in Matthew 19 and Luke 18. But back to Mark 10, we need to pay careful attention to verse 30. It says that those who give up family to follow Jesus will have family members. Now in this time. Not in heaven, that is, in the age to come, which is mentioned in the end. I assure you this is not prosperity gospel. You see the key phrase with persecutions. But the loss of earthy unbelieving parents is immediately offset by the new relationship with spiritual parents. siblings and even sharing of materials resources. I like how one pastor has com commented that Mark 10, 29 to 30, is yes, definitely about the cost of discipleship. But even more so, the gift of discipleship. Yes, you give up a lot, the most prized possessions and relationships. Yet we join the church, God's family, where we have fathers, brothers, mothers, and sisters in Christ. As we see Paul talking to Timothy in verse, Timothy five. But this intimate heavenly family is only possible because God's son came from heaven to be about his heavenly father's business. He glorified the Father's name by dying on the cross at the appointed hour to pay the penalty for our sins, rising from the dead and ascending to heaven. That's talked about in John 12 and 17. Jesus honored the plan of his father above, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Jesus always honored his parents best by honoring his heavenly father first. Mary realized this fact later. Mary was wrong for not supporting Jesus during his public ministry. But we see her at the crucifixion of her firstborn. Her heart torn in pieces as she remembered Gabriel's announcement to her about her pregnancy, the dreams of her husband The journey to Bethlehem, the visits of shepherds and magi, encounters with Simeon and Anna, the flight to Egypt, the settlement in Nazareth, the many Passovers at Jerusalem I'm sure the people around the cross they thought that Jesus has disgraced his family. Quite the contrary. Jesus was dying for his earthly parents honor. He died for the sins of Mary and Joseph. Mary finally believed the gospel of Jesus at the cross. Mary has joined the heaven battle. Family. That's why, with the last few precious breaths, Jesus practiced filial piety, but committing her mother to John, the only one of the twelve apostles present. Woman, behold your son. Behold your mother. Luke nineteen. I mean I'm sorry, John nineteen. Mary's hour of darkness turns into joy as Jesus rose from the grave and appeared to his disciples over the next forty days. In Acts 1. 14, Mary is seen among other disciples who are waiting and praying to God the Father in the name of Jesus Christ, his Son. Jesus always honored his parents best by honoring his heavenly father first. We have fallen short of his lofty standards and exemples. We do not honor our parents, our first authority of life, because we have not honored God, our ultimate authority in life. We have broken the fifth commandment because we have failed in the first. But Jesus, the good son, died for your failure to honor your parents. We do not deserve a long life on earth. In fact, we deserve eternity in hell. But Jesus was crucified so that you may live forever in heaven to the praise of God the Father. Jesus wants us to turn away from sin and turn to him in faith. You can't earn your way to heaven by good works. You can only receive heaven as a gift, like the way the prodigal son came empty to his father. Unlike the older brother in that parable, Jesus is not ashamed to call us brother. Lord, as we remember our parents or our failure as parents, Lord, we confess our sins before you. Lord, as long as we live, help us to obey the obey this commandment But Lord, help us to realize, may we realize we cannot obey it because of our sin nature, because of our rebellion. Because we don't honor the God the Father, it's natural that we won't honor our earthly fathers and our earthly mothers. But we are thankful, Lord, that your son has showed us exactly how. And in doing so, not only did he set an example for us But he honored you, and then he died for the sins of his parents. And Lord, we pray that we would uh just follow his example. Lord, may we um just give a call to our parents? Lord, may we honor them in reverence, obedience, gratitude, whichever stage of life you have us in. Lord, give us just wisdom and application. Not because we can earn our way to heaven, but because we want to please you, our Father who is in heaven. And Lord, for us who are parents, Lord, we pray that we would reflect the goodness of you. Lord, how you provide for us. How you discipline us for um your to uh to be partakers of your holiness. Lord, may we exemplify, may we understand deeply the love you have for your children. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.