Well, uh the last time I was with you, I introduced the the amazing Old Testament book of Isaiah, and it's a major theme. The Lord's holiness, uniqueness, and sovereignty, man's pride and rebellion against God, the Lord's judgment on man's sin, the Lord's redemption of his people through the Messiah and the Lord's ultimate restoration of the universe. And we saw many of those themes in chapter one. Though the chapter Focused on man's sin and the Lord's judgment upon that sin. It also offered glimmers of hope, with the Lord inviting the people to repent in verse 18, a verse we know well, and with a surprising promise of the restoration of Jerusalem. in verses 26 and 27. Now I know that those of you who are here remember the message verbatim. I'm, of course, uh joking there. Uh but let me read verses 26 and 27 again for you this morning It says, I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. Zion shall be redeemed with justice and her penitence with righteousness. And that wonderful note of hope that began there in chapter one is continued in a fantastic way in the first part of the section we're going to look at this morning in Isaiah 2. Now there isn't a an outline in your bulletin for various technical reasons, but if you want to email me at toddle at gmail. com D D B-E-A-L-L at gmail. com. I would be happy to send that to you in case you miss a point or two along the way here. And verses 1 to 4 of chapter 2 contain one of the most beautiful passages that speak of the restoration of Jerusalem and worldwide peace. One of the most beautiful passages, I think, in the entire Bible. And yet the remainder of chapter 2 goes back to that theme that we saw also in chapter 1. Of man's pride and the Lord's inevitable judgment upon that pride. Now I think that I also mentioned last time I'm quite sure I did, that some people, even uh otherwise good conservative commentators, speak of Isaiah chapters one to thirty-nine about being about God's judgment. And 40 to 66 about the Lord's salvation and restoration. Remember, I uh talked about the books of the Bible and how some people say, aha, just like, you know. 1 to 39. After all, there are 39 books in the Old Testament, and that's just talking about God's judgment, and 40 to 66, just like in 27 books, just like To 27 books in the New Testament, and that's speaking of the Lord's restoration and hope and salvation. And you remember what I said, those of you who are with me? What did I say about that? Hogwash, yes, nonsense. Thank you very much for that. I was hoping somebody at least would say something. That always is helpful. Uh no, it's uh absolutely crazy. Um does the New Testament have only promise in it? Have you looked at the book of Revelation lately? That's the last book of the Bible, by the way, and there's a lot of judgment in there. And is there a lot of hope in the Old Testament? You bet there is. So that's just as false as the idea that one to thirty-nine has only judgment. And 40 to 66 has uh only uh redemption. Um in fact some critical commentators take this uh even further, alleging there are two or three or a whole group of I Isaiahs or authors or whatever you call uh them. So while uh so-called first Isaiah was mired in God's judgment. So-called second Isaiah spoke of redemption and restoration. Now they're so eager to prove this point that critical scholars actually allege that any hopeful sections In the first chapters of Isaiah were written by this later prophet, 150 years later, so-called second Isaiah. Now I'm not going to do this often, but I I just have to do it, especially with this message. this morning and listen to the words of one such scholar, Samuel Sandmau. He says, and I quote, curiously, I love I love that word curiously. There's nothing curious about it. But he says, curiously, the happiest, most lyrical, most optimistic passages in the scripture have found their way into the book of Isaiah. The beating of swords into plowshares, chapter 2, verse 4, which we're going to see in a moment, and the lying down of the wolf and the lamb, chapter 11, verse 6, are both from this book In the view of many traditional interpreters, that would be, I hope, you and me and uh most uh godly interpreters, Isaiah emerges as a man of happy expectations from the future. These joyful passages, however, are not from Isaiah, the eighth century prophet. Well that's good to know. What uh evidence does he give? You know the answer? None. Absolutely none. He just states it. And then he says, very next sentence. The recognition that these parts are late insertions, late insertions, reveals Isaiah as even more of a prophet of doom than Amos or Hosea. Especially in Isaiah, the early Hebrew religion expresses a basic hopelessness. Well, of course, because you took all the other passages out. You know, if you write a letter home, let's say you well, okay Maybe an email these days. But okay, used to write a letter home, say from college, and say, you know, mom and dad, this is great, this is great, you know, this is going great, but man, this prop uh one of these props is terrible and you know Talking about Isaiah or something all the time. Uh uh you know, see you're gonna have your good parts, right? And then you're gonna have your bad parts. Well what if you take all the all the good parts out? What do you get? Complaint, complaint, complaint. That's easy to do. How silly is this whole argument? Yet, as I also pointed out the last time I was with you, the great Isaiah scroll found uh uh in the cave at Qumran, dated around 125 BC, contains all 60 six chapters of the book, with just as we have them today, with absolutely no hint of editing or multiple authors or any such thing And what I want you to see, what we've already seen in chapter one, and this morning we'll see even more starkly in chapter two, is that in Isaiah, as in most of the prophets, the themes of judgment for s sin and hope and redemption are intermingled side by side, often in the same passage. The Lord is so gracious that even where he must speak of present judgment for sin, he also speaks just as freely as of a future hope, one which is centered upon the coming Messiah, the promised Messiah, of whom, of course, Isaiah freely Speaks. It is not two prophets, one a gloom and doom prophet, and the other a happy, unrealistic optimist Speaking two diverse messages. It is one prophet speaking God's message, which is judgment and hope intermingled. Got that? Okay Okay, good. And you and I desperately need to hear both messages. Now, as we dig into Isaiah 2, I do need to say a quick word about the structure. Chapters 2 through 4 form a unit. And then of course 2, 6 through 4. 1 speak of the Lord's judgment upon Judah and Jerusalem's sin But the beginning and the end of these chapters contain two beautiful poems, two, one to four, which were We're going to look at this morning. And then 4, 2 to 6. Both of these small sections speak of what Jerusalem will yet become in the future. And so it is wonderful. The Lord is never non-plussed by man's disobedience. Zion comes under inescapable wrath, but Zion will be redeemed. The Lord will yet be Realize the ideal which his people had corrupted. And so here Isaiah begins and he ends with two small but very powerful sections. That speaks of the future hope centered on Jerusalem. While in between there's a far longer section dealing with Jerusalem's sin Now we might ask, well, why does the Lord direct Isaiah to write the prophecy in this way? And the smart answer is, well. Well, because he's the Lord. We don't know. But of course I'm gonna try, just like other people do, to to give uh an explanation. Because, you know, usually in a good book Or in a movie, one does not begin by showing the happy ending, do they? One begins by showing maybe the potential for a happy ending, but then one usually focuses on the problems and the difficulties. I think that Isaiah here reverses the normal order because he's trying to get us to focus on what matters the most. Uh and so uh as one commentator puts it, prophetic eyes look beyond the world uh as it is now to a new world in the future. We can live now in the power of that future. So Isaiah invites us to join him in his unblinking realism about all false hopes. He's saying Relocate your happiness into the future in a world that doesn't exist yet, except in God's promises. And if you do that, you're not going to be devastated when the idols of human pride and the rest of sin are trash as they will be. As C. S. Lewis once put it. And I quote from Mere Christianity, if you read history, you will find that the Christians who did the most for this present world were just those who thought most of the next world. It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this. Aim at heaven, and you'll get earth thrown in. Aim at earth. And you will get neither. I like that quote. So I would submit to uh that you and I need to do exactly what Isaiah does here. in chapter two and verses one to four. And that is to take a good look at our future hope. And this is where we're headed despite the current situation, despite whatever is going on politically, and despite our current problems. If we trust in the Lord, then that's exactly what our future is. So my uh first uh point here is that there is a future hope centered on Jerusalem. A future hope centered on Jerusalem, chapter 2, verses 1 to 4. There are only two main points. That's the first one. And after the introductory heading of verse 1, each of the three verses that follow speaks of the three aspects. Of that future hope. And by the way, this prophecy is nearly identical to Micah chapter 4 and verses 1 to 2 to three, written around the same time. My guess is that Micah is using and expanding on Isaiah's prophecy, but nobody Well, the first thing that Isaiah says about this future hope is in verse 2. There will be an end-time exaltation of Jerusalem. An end time exaltation of Jerusalem. The phrase that's translated in the New King James in the latter days, or in some uh Bibles, in the end of the days, refers to the end time. The standard Hebrew lexicon, Brown Driver, and Briggs, says, and I quote, it's a prophetic phrase denoting the final period of the history so far as the speaker's perspective reaches. It often equals the ideal or messianic future. And that's exactly what it means here. From our New Testament perspective, we realize that this period refers to the second advent of Christ and his glorious thousand-year reign on the earth, which we call the millennium. What is interesting in this verse is to notice where this reign is focused. At the time the Temple Mount in Jerusalem At that time in the future, the Temple Mount in Jerusalem will be the head of the mountains, it says in verse 2, the most prominent place in the world. Notice too that all of the other nations are going to flow towards it. Isaiah uses the metaphor of the nations as a river flowing uphill to a mountain. Rivers don't flow uphill generally, but he is surely speaking of a miraculous event, and that event is centered on Jerusalem. Now, I have to say that sadly, many people think that this whole verse is speaking symbolically, not literally, of what happened as a result of Christ's first advent with the gospel Spreading to the rest of the world as described in the book of Acts and which continues to the present day. But verses 3 and 4 make that position untenable, as we will see soon. The center of God's future program in the millennium won't be Washington, D. C. , or New York City, or Los Angeles, or Moscow, or Beijing. The center of God's future program will be in Jerusalem. Isn't it interesting after all these years, by the way, that there's so much focus still? In that area of the world? Ever ask yourself why? Well, it's because God's word is true. And there are some yet future events that will happen right there Now notice the second thing that Isaiah says about this future hope in the next verse. Verse 3 speaks of the people's desire for and obedience to the Lord's teaching. The people's desire for and obedience to the Lord's teaching. This is just one of the reasons Fulfillment of this passage can't be that. Because look at the excitement. Of the people to come to the Millennial Temple in Jerusalem. Verse 3 literally says, many peoples, plural, referring to the nations. will come and say, come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, so that, it's a purpose construction in Hebrew. so that he may teach us concerning his ways, and so that we may walk in his paths. Now again, my New King James says many people, that's close, but the Hebrew actually says many peoples, meaning many different nations. In fact, the Israelites, this is fascinating to me when I thought about it, the Israelites, God's chosen people, are not even specifically highlighted in verses 2 to 4 of this passage. Jerusalem is, and Israel's God is, but not the people themselves. And this may come as a surprise to to some of you, but the Old Testament scriptures contain a number of references to the fact that Gentiles also Will come to know the Lord. Just in the book of Isaiah alone, Isaiah 56, verses 6 and 7, make this truth plain. As does the task of the messianic servant. That we see in Isaiah forty-nine, six and forty-two, six. It says, The servant will be a light to the Gentiles, and his salvation will be to the ends of the earth. No, salvation will not be for the Jews alone, but for people all over the earth who stream, who will stream to Zion, that is, Jerusalem. Why will they go there? Well, the rest of verse 3 tells us why. They will eagerly go there to learn of the Lord's ways and then to walk in obedience to them. And that's again one reason why I am sure that despite people's thinking, the fulfillment of this passage isn't in the present day Is that happening in the present day? I don't think so. And in fact, in our country, it seems that fewer and fewer people are interested in what the Lord says If there were, there wouldn't be such widespread acceptance of practices that God's Word calls an abomination. uh homosexuality and you can name all the rest. And uh just to give you an idea of this As you know, I happen to be a maybe too much of an Orioles fan, Baltimore Orioles fan. To bring it in once in a while. Well, we have a dismal record. We're not the worst team in Major League Baseball, but we're right on the precipice of the worst team. in Major League Baseball? Well, guess what's happening this Wednesday, June 27th at Orioles Park? And I quote from their website The Orioles invite fans to celebrate LGBT Pride Month on June 27th with an LGBT Pride Night ticket package Which will include a ticket to the game and an O's pride cap. Oh, that's exactly what I need. And if you don't know what that is, well that's good. I'm glad you don't. Um so I I mean I wrote an email to the folks there and said, this is wrong. Well everything else you're doing, you're inviting kids to come free and sit in the you know, upper stands and and all that. That's great. That's family friendly. This is contrary uh to the beliefs of many of your fans and it it's an abomination. I I didn't say that word, but I wanted to. But that's what the scripture says. uh by having uh you know uh o's pride cap. Oh, that's exactly what I want. No, I don't think so. Now, let me go a little further here, and I would say that I think most pastors of churches in America, even good, solid, sound churches in America, would be delighted if their congregation was so interested in coming to church every week and maybe two or three times a week to what? To hear God's word. And not only did they want to hear it, but then they were anxious to do what? To obey it. Not just be hearers of the word, right? But doers also. That would be fantastic. Is that really happening? Even in our good churches today, well, in some places, yes it is. In some nations, yes it is, but overall No, not at all. But it will happen in the millennium. Now the third thing, by the way, I was thinking about uh how you get to choose hymns for this topic. Because what you notice is that many of our hymns, though usually very biblically based, on this one, there's sometimes uh what we call a post millennial idea that what's going to happen is the gospel is going to spread to the nations and what? And everybody's going to be converted in the end. If you look at some of our hymns, even the ones we like and some we sing, that's sort of the theme, then everything is getting better and better until what? Until Christ returns. Well, that was a wonderful idea before the First World War, and then before the second World War. I think now most people realize that ain't gonna happen. Right? I don't think Yeah, it's not gonna happen. The scripture says the evil days will what? Become worse and worse. That's what's actually going to happen Alright, now the third thing that Isaiah says about this future hope is in verse 4. Verse 4 speaks of the Lord's judgment of the nations and the resultant universal peace. And that's really two different aspects, but the one naturally results from the other. First, we have the Lord's judgment of the nations, and then we have universal peace. And let me read this glorious verse again. And he will judge between the nations and settle disputes for many peoples. They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. Now, as I originally looked at this verse, uh I thought of the Lord's judgment up of the nation As an entirely negative thing. Judgment upon sinful behavior, and so forth. And that may be part of what is in view. But if this passage is truly in the millennium, it occurs after the Lord's defeat of the Antichrist and his defeat of the nations that are lined up against him. As was read in our scripture in Psalm two, right? All of the nations are against the Lord and against his anointed. That is the Messiah. That's what we read in our scripture reading. So I think that the main part in the first part of this verse is that there will no longer be any nationalism With one nation going up against another. Instead, all nations will voluntarily submit themselves to the one universal judge who will settle all disputes. Now, when you and I, and I'm the same way, so don't worry about this, but when you and I think of one universal government, what what idea comes through our mind? I'll tell you what comes through mind, terror. I don't want one dictator, right, like Hitler or the Antichrist. Right? Who is in fact going to deceive all the peoples and peoples are going to uh to uh go under his control. So that's a terrible thing. Well that will happen. And that's a bad thing. And yes, I distrust all governments because all governments are led by sinful human beings. And so the monarchy is a scary thing But when Christ is ruling, the monarchy is a theocracy and it's a wonderful thing. There couldn't be anything better than that. So if you sort of uh uh tremble at the idea of submitting uh to only one government, you see. Well, that's because we haven't really seen anything like it that we will see in the millennium. Isaiah 9, 6 and 7 and Isaiah 1, uh excuse me, Isaiah 11, 1 to 9 explain that this judge will indeed be the Messiah. Isaiah 11. 9 puts it, They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. The result of the Messiah's reign will be fantastic, unprecedented, universal peace. The implements of war and killing will no longer be needed, so they'll be uh turned instead into farm uh equipment used for the sustenance. of life instead of the taking of life. There is perhaps no more beautiful description of peace than that that is given here in verse 4. In fact, it's so beautiful that in 1948, these very words from Isaiah 2. 4 were inscribed in granite. in a wall in the United Nations Plaza directly across from the United Nations headquarters and built at exactly the same time. But man by himself cannot possibly fulfill these words as the abject failure of the United Nations over the past seventy years surely exemplifies. I don't think I need to to go into details, but they have hardly prevented any kind of casualty or war. War and turmoil across the globe showed no signs of slowing down, but only increasing. And of course, until persons and nations have come to God to learn of his ways and walk in them, peace is just An illusion. There may be temporary peace peace from time to time, but that is all. It is an illusion until the Prince of Peace The Lord Jesus Christ returns to earth and sets up his millennial reign centered in Jerusalem. Well now we what we reach what I term a bridge verse. And I actually uh in your outline sheets which you don't have but you can get from me uh I I uh entitled this Bridge. A plea for obedience now, verse 5. A plea for obedience now. I call it a bridge verse because it looks back to the the previous section describing what will be a certain future hope for Jerusalem, but it's anchored in the presence, as are the sins that are described in the following verses. So, verse 5 is an impassioned plea for obedience now. O house of Israel, come and let us walk in the light of the Lord. It points both v uh forward and backward. Israel stands poised either on the side of the nations who are seeking the house of the God of Jacob or on the side of the rejected disobedient people. The house of Jacob, of verse 6. And the prophet Isaiah identifies himself with his people, and he urges them to let us walk in the light of the Lord. And uh what is interesting here is that uh we see the precise grammatical structure of verse 3 in the mouth of many nations. Come and let us go up, repeated in verse 5. Come and let us walk. There is no need simply for this to happen Isaiah is saying, in the distant future, with a multitude of nations. Isaiah is telling his people that it can happen now with Israel if they will simply listen to the Lord now. And I would say, of course, that the same thing is true for us today. The same choice is required of all people. Ever since the time of Isaiah. People in every generation need to choose whether they're going to come to God to learn of his ways, to enjoy his kingdom, or to proudly focus. on their own accomplishments, to uh and close their ears and eyes to what God says and suffer a humiliation very similar to what Isaiah prophesies here in the rest of this chapter. So this isn't just some pie in the sky idyllic picture by you know some uh prophet or whatever. This is exactly what the Lord says will happen in the future. Do we really believe that? Sometimes I think well we read these verses But, you know, that's just a nice sentiment, like you'd put on a Hallmark uh greeting card or something. No, it's going to happen It's absolutely certain. So you and I can align. I would say we must align with the Lord and his purposes and his ways right now. There's no reason to wait any longer. Now, and as I look at the time, I'm kind of laughing at myself because originally I thought about preaching only on chapter 2, verses 1 It was quite tempting because you can see verse five ends with a final this final exhortation to heed the Lord. But it didn't seem quite right to me to speak of four or five verses of the chapter when there's 17 more that had an entirely different tone. Don't worry, we're not we're gonna go a little faster on those seventeen more. But it it's a message I think we need to hear as well. So while verses one to four of chapter two speak of a future hope, verses six to twenty-two of this chapter speak of a present hopelessness because of prideful trust in everything but the Lord. A present hopelessness because of prideful trust in everything but the Lord. First of all, we see in verses 6 to 9 the utter sinfulness of the people. The utter sinfulness of the people. They are filled with pagan ways, pagan values, and pagan worship rather than being filled with the Lord They are filled with pagan ways, pagan values, and pagan worship rather than being filled with the Lord. God says in the beginning of verse 6 that he's forsaken his own people, the house of Jacob. Why has he done this? Because unlike the The plea in verse five, Israel in Isaiah's day was not following the way of the Lord and walking in his light. Instead, they filled themselves with lots of other things. The Hebrew root word translated full or filled occurs four times in verses six to eight. It's hard to miss. And I think about my life, I think about your life, and what are we filled up with? We can be filled up with a whole lot of things, but have no room then. To be filled up with the most important thing, that is the Lord. And that's what we've got here. Instead of being filled with the knowledge of the Lord, they choose all kinds of substitutes. First, the end of verse 6 says that far from them being a light to the nations which would happen in the millennium when other nations would look to Jerusalem, they were allowing other nations to influence them. And they were seeking spiritual counsel, not from the Lord, but from soothsayers. Wh Now that was forbidden, of course, Leviticus 19, 26 and Deuteronomy 18, verses 9 to 14. The end of verse 6 literally says they clap their hands or they clasp their hands with foreigners, maybe in business, but possibly also in marriage. In short, they were filled with pagan ways. They weren't leading the way. They weren't being trailblazers. They were letting society or other nations influence them. But that's not all. In verses 7 and 8, the land is filled with three more things. Silver and gold. Money. Horses and chariots, that is, military power and might. And finally, and climactically, worst of all, in verse 8, idols. Interestingly, Deuteronomy 17, verses 16 and 17 says the king should not multiply horses to himself, nor foreign wives. nor silver and gold. But here the people were doing all these things, pagan ways, pagan values, wealth and power, and pagan worship, worshipping the works of their hands. rather than worshiping the one true God, the Creator Himself. Interestingly, the word for idols that's used in verse 8 is a Lilim, which means worthless. And it's almost certainly a play on words with the name for God, Elohim. So you can choose Elohim, which is God Almighty, or you can choose Eilelim, which is worthless stuff. Well, what a horrible substitute for the true God. So let me ask you a question at this point. What do you value the most? Do you value God or do you value money or power or illicit sex or sports or some other God that you've created for yourself? Where do you spend the most time? Do you spend more time pursuing the things of the Lord, or do you spend time pursuing money or other ultimately worthless things? I read in Time magazine this past week that the World Health Organization has just added a new disease classification to its list. entitled Gaming Disorder. I'm not making this up, which is characterized, I'm quoting, by a pattern of prioritizing online games or video games to the point of significant impairment. in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. End quote. I am not kidding. So we got another uh addiction. Uh I remember back this is years ago. when uh you know the v video games were just uh starting to come out and we uh we limited our our well it was our son that had the issues and about an hour, that was it. An hour a day, poof, that's it. Then you actually have to be a real human being again. Uh um but people aren't doing that apparently. So we're having a new one, uh a a gaming uh uh disorder. I love it, disorder Yeah, addiction is what I would call it. Well, one can't help but notice the contrast between verses one to four and these verses. In verse two, the millennial world is drawn to Zion, but in verse six, God's people are conforming to the world. In verse three, the millennial world is drawn to spiritual benefit and seeking the Lord. But in verse seven, God's people seek not. Material wealth. In verse 3, the consequences of the millennial world coming to Zion is world peace. But in the end of verse 7, God's people are interested in arming themselves for battle. In verse three, the world seems seeks to know the true God, but in verse eight, God's people are inventing their own gods, and as a consequence In verse 4, the millennial world experiences God's peace, but in verse 6, God's people are abandoned by the Lord. What an indictment of the people called by God's name. Hopefully you and I aren't also among that group of people called by God's name, but not acting like it in all of our priorities. Well, the sin of the people described in verses six to nine would not go unpunished, for the next section, verses ten to eighteen, clearly depicts the coming judgment of the Lord upon human. Pride, the coming judgment of the Lord upon human pride. There's an ironic command in verse 10 for the people of the day to go into hiding from the Lord. because of his intimate judgment. But that, of course, is impossible. I love Psalm 3139, which says there's nowhere. that you can hide from the Lord. If you're trying to hide from the Lord, it is absolutely useless. And that's the same idea right here. It's impossible to escape the terror of the Lord. Verses eleven and seventeen are mirror images of one another, and they provide a refrain for the whole section The loftiness of man will be humbled, and the Lord alone will be exalted in that day. The references to in that day in verses 11 and 17 later. In verse 20, and the day of the Lord of hosts in verse 12 speak seemed to speak of a future time of reckoning for these people. A foreshadowing would be the Babylonian captivity, but its true force may not be evident, I believe, until the end time, when Christ Himself shall return. to judge the earth. Notice in verses twelve to eighteen that God's wrath will come upon all that exalts itself against God. The expression upon all occurs ten times in verses twelve to sixteen. God is supreme over all that is exalted. Whether God's own creation, notice, even God's creation There's a difference between his creation and God himself. And so it talks about his creation, the great trees of verse 13, the high mountains of verse 14. Or anything man made, a high tower or a fortified wall in verse fifteen, or a great ship in verse sixteen. Verses 17 and 18 conclude once again that man's pride will be brought low, idols will be utterly abolished, and the Lord alone will be exalted in that day. Get the picture? I don't think it could be put any clearer than this. Anytime you and I are prideful, we are putting ourselves up as smarter than the God of the universe who created us. And that is a very foolish thing to do. It's a sober warning indeed that we should put our efforts into the things that matter. We should continually humble ourselves before the Lord. You know what I notice when I see either uh blogs or other r responses to uh what somebody has written or uh current events or whatever. I always I I so many of the posts are what I would call just prideful. They put themselves over whatever it is. I don't care what your politics are, who you support, who you don't, but the way people are talking about people People are just like, well, I'm up here and what? The rest of you are down there. And uh it's uh amazingly uh prideful Well, in case we need any more vivid reminder, verses 19 to 22 close out this chapter by describing the futile attempts of sinful man to escape the wrath of Almighty God. God, the futile attempts of sinful man to escape the wrath of Almighty God. These verses of described the terrifying situation awaiting those who in lofty pride had refused to fear the Lord and worshipped idols instead. They'll go into caves. The Judean wilderness is full of caves. in order to avoid the terror of the Lord. And uh that's not gonna work. Of course the idols aren't gonna do them. I love this picture. The the idols will do them no good at this point, uh only hindering their their escape. So, like excess baggage, the people cast them away to the moles and to the bats. That's about how much these gods are worth. Absolutely nothing. Again, verse twenty-one expresses the same thought as verse nineteen, repeated for emphasis and drama. The entire section is strikingly similar to Revelation chapter six, verses fifteen to seventeen. I'm not going to read that this morning for sake of time, but you should look at it, and it sure looks like that same period of time as described in Revelation 6, verses 15 through 17, when people are saying, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the land. Well finally, verse 22 closes this chapter with an exhortation to cease trusting in man. That's the ultimate idolatry, isn't it? People make themselves gods by giving themselves center stage. They glorify their own importance and they tend to measure everything by how it's related to or how it affects them. Not how it affects God. They are important, their pleasures and their desires are paramount, and everything is judged by that self-created standard. But man, after all, is mortal. And God, after all, breathed into man his life in the first place. And so when it says, Sever yourself from such a man whose breath is in his nostrils, that's a reminder how foolish it is for the created being to exalt himself over the created. Well, as we conclude this message, I think that the choice is clear. We can choose hope, or we can choose hopelessness. That's not the way People would normally phrase it, of course, but that's the way it really is. We can choose to rest in the Lord alone, to follow in his ways and to heed his word. And of course, when we we do uh look at his word and heed his word it leads us to the savior the lord jesus christ and that's the only way then we we can escape uh escape the wrath of God and the judgment of God is through what Christ did for us when he died on the cross and rose again, that we would have eternal life and forgiveness of sin. if we simply put our trust in him. And that choice leads to a peace that passes understanding, a peace and security that is evident, yes, first of all, in the Millennial Kingdom, but that will ultimately last Throughout eternity. Or, there is another choice, we can reject the Lord, elevate ourselves, and All of our accomplishments and value wealth, power, our work, our sports and games, entertainment, sex, or whatever uh other idols that we put in the place of God. We may have enjoyment for a while, but it will never last. And that is the sobering message of the last part of this chapter. But the lesson of the whole chapter is that we need to value the pursuit of the Lord and the obedience to his word far more than anything else. Since all of these earthly pursuits and treasures will ultimately amount to nothing when we face Him in the day of judgment, when we come to before him. Yes, that's a sobering thought, but that's exactly what is going to happen. The scriptures are very clear here. This isn't some nice pie in the sky hope. This is a certainty and we uh I believe are going to be a part of it, uh probably looking down on the folks in the Millennial Kingdom if I end up Yes, this was written so many years ago, twenty seven hundred plus years ago, but the choice is just as relevant. to us today. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. I thank you, Lord, that we can depend on Upon your word that it's written by Isaiah, who is your prophet and your spokesman, not just writing what he felt like, but writing the very words of God. I thank you, Lord, for this beautiful picture, this wonderful picture of what will happen. Not what might be nice to happen, but what will for sure happen. And I thank you, Lord, for that time when people will be coming and wanting to know more about the Lord, know more of His word, so that they can obey His Word. Father, help that to be true of us. For those who have trusted in Christ as their Savior, we already have forgiveness of sins. Eternal life. we're spending with you. Help us, Lord, uh, to recognize the foolishness of that. And help us again to commit ourselves to trusting in you. Reading and understanding more about you, to get to know you better, Lord, that we may be prepared and ready for what you have in us. What a glorious future awaits us because we've trusted in you. Lord, I pray that if uh there's any anyone here this morning that's never trusted in Christ, that they would recognize that there is a judgment coming and there's nowhere to hide. And uh though the things that uh We may enjoy for a season here on earth may be nice. Ultimately, in the face of your judgment, they are worthless. Help us, Father, to understand that. And I pray that That if there's anyone here this morning, that they would recognize there's not one of us here that is uh able by their own merits to come to you. But all of us have to come to Christ as a needy, humble. Humble person recognizing our own sins and confessing them, Lord, and then trusting in Christ as our Savior. And I pray that if there's anyone here this morning that's never done that, that they They won't put it off, but they'll do it today. Father, help us to make our lives count for you every day that you give us on this earth. We pray in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.