Why don't you get your Bibles out tonight and just turn to 1 Corinthians 13? Keep a finger there. And in a moment, we will begin there. Our culture right now, and it seems like ever since the f 60s or 50s, when I was born in 71, so I only Say this in what I've read. There was a revolution. And we all know what it was called. It took place in the 50s, but mostly in the 60s, and all the way through the 70s to the present day. And in this revolution, there was morality that was broken down, and there was angst that was let loose, and there were college campuses that just decided that anything goes. And the young people in our nation, by and large, were loosened from if what the historians say are correct. And what I'm telling you is not just Christian historians or sociologists, this is recognized by secular sociologists. That morality and the old ways were kind of forgotten or left behind. One of the key characteristics I think that all of us probably noticed, those of you who are older than me, and then me in the 70s, 80s even. Was how much in the midst of that revolution there was this talk of love? It was all about love, peace, friendship And you hear that and you look at how the world defines love Thinking about what you know about the sexual revolution and about societal change in the 50s, 60s, 70s, and 80s, how would you say the world defines love? Now we have children with us, so we want to be careful what how we say. this, but how do you think the world defines love? So kind of the idea that the other person's the object for your own self-gratification, if it feels good, do it. Kind of an eye and an attitude. Self-love loving others masquerading is self-love masquerading is loving others. Yeah? Good? No commitment, so do what feels good. Why be committed? Okay, that anybody else? Idea of what love might be Okay, that's probably enough. We all know what I'm talking about. When you turn in your the pages of the New Testament, you find out very quickly that love is not about yourself. Jesus said it's more blessed to what? To give than to receive. And he demonstrated this, he modeled it, and he continues. He says in Romans 5 that this is the present tense, continuing demonstration of his love. That He would die for us when we were yet sinners, when we were ungodly, when we were without strength. In due time, that is at that time, Christ died for us. Us. And that is Jesus and His love that He shows us. As Christians, we believe in this vaulted kind of superlative idea of love. It's this giant concept. And you've often heard of agape love preached. You know, there's there's this kind of love and that kind of love. And then there's agape love. And we as Christians are supposed to love with that kind of love. And I've heard it all my life. And you've many of you grew up in church, or you were in church before you were born, and you've heard it. And sometimes we run the danger of making it such an exalted concept. That it kind of loses its ability to relate in the here and now. I mean, what does it mean in a practical level for me to love you as a Christian loves another Christian? And that's where hospitality comes in. And we know from 1 Corinthians 13, your hand is right there, and you have seen this many, many, many, many, many, many many times. So don't allow the repetition of the passage to cause you to lose your sensitivity to it. 1 Corinthians 13, verses 1 to 3. And I just preached on this as well. Though I speak with the tongues of men and the angels, and have not love charity. I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal, and though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains And have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me. Nothing. There is the possibility that we could delude ourselves into thinking that our giftedness and our Christian virtue of faith are Powerful faith is what God is after. Of course, those things are valuable. God uses spiritual gifts, and God looks for people of faith, with strong faith But even those things without love are worthless to God and to us. There is a sense in which love, and this is what many theologians believe, is the major characteristic that God is after in the New Testament, that it encompasses All other characteristics. And of course, we know that that's probably true because when the lawyer said to Jesus, What's the greatest commandment? What did Jesus say? Love God with everything. Love your neighbor as yourself. Love is the concept, the umbrella under which all the other Christian virtues reside, find their meaning and their expression. And it is interesting that in the New Testament there is a strong connection between love And hospitality. Now who can remember from last week how we define hospitality? Very simply. A hospitable person does what? Hudson? What I can't hear you. Okay, has somebody over and feeds them and what's the other second one? Keeps them in your home. That's pretty basic. You feed the person, you house the person. That's hospitality. Of course you're not doing it with a grimace on your face. Like this, waiting for them to finish their cornflakes that you gave them for dinner, their glass of water, and their stale piece of angel food cake that you gave them for dessert. You want to be generous in your hospitality and loving and kind. But the New Testament defines it very simply when you look at all the different contexts. You feeding and housing people Let's continue to build the concept of the importance of Christian love for just a few moments. Then I'm going to show you the connection between love and hospitality. Let's just keep magnifying love in our minds by, if you look at the paper here, going through the priority of Christian love and letting the Bible speak to us. tonight. So someone want to turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and loudly read verses 9 to 10. Now if we don't get volunteers, I'll just quickly Move through all this, but anyone feel like standing up and reading for us tonight? 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, 9 to 10. Or anyone who grandmother should write to you when Jews themselves have been taught by God love one another. For that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers, Rami. Do this morning. All right, those two verses are in the context of the first paragraph of 1 Thessalonians 4 was dealing with sexual purity, not defrauding others, being abstaining from fornication, verse 3. Then he moves on. He moves on to brotherly love, really, verse 9, is probably the beginning of another paragraph. And rather than launching into another explanation, which he did with sexual immorality. Instead, he says, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. Now that's quite a statement. How do you think God teaches us to love one another? Anyone know how he does that? How could he teach the Thessalonians to love one another? What's one very obvious way? Well, there was Jesus and what he said, and the Thessalonians were taught, if they were disciple correctly, all the things that Jesus Jesus commanded, so certainly they were told that that's what Jesus taught them. So through the Word of God, what would be the second way that God teaches us to love one another? Okay, so that would kind of fall in the category of the Word of God. So there were the sayings of Jesus as they were written down, recorded in the Gospels. There were the epistles as they were the instructions of the Apostles. I'm kind of thinking those as the same thing. I'm looking for something else that's a little different category. Paula? Okay. All right, that'd probably be a different category. The example of God, the writing of God, the example of God. Anybody else know another way? Hudson. Experience? Okay. How d how what do you mean? Okay, by actually doing it and then we we have to learn how to do it. Okay, that's sort of what I'm looking at. Did you know folks that you and I as Christians are Predisposed to love one another. There is a unity of the spirit that we're supposed to maintain. That unity is a predisposed unity. It exists only by virtue of the Spirit of God. It can be built on, it can be increased, strengthened, but it's there automatically because it's Because the same Spirit of God that's in me is in you. And that's why you can go all the way across the world and you can meet someone for the first time and you can start talking to them, and all of a sudden it just enters your mind. This person's a Christian. I'm going to ask him. And then you say, Are you a Christian? And they say, Yeah, how did you know? And you don't immediately go, Ew, I don't want anything to do with this person. You immediately want to get closer to that person because there's that immediate union of the Spirit and there's that common bond that you share. So we know that God teaches us to love one another because of what he's written to us in the Bible, because of the example that God has given us, Romans 5, he commends his love toward us. We experience it and the Spirit of God day to day because we're predisposed to love one another. So we shouldn't grieve the Spirit of God. So the Thessalonians certainly had access to all these things. And so he tells them, I don't even need to tell you this. And look at verse 10. But he also says there's another reason why he doesn't need to go and launch into some explanation. He says in verse 10, indeed, ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all Macedonia. Not only did God teach them, and in a sense he's taught us all, but these people were doing it. All the brethren in Macedonia, they had this incredible life Love for. Wow. What if an apostle wrote to Faith Bible Church and see and said, you know, I really don't need to say a whole lot about love because I know that you love all the brethren in all of Elkridge. In Howard County. You're doing such a good job of loving all the brethren. I'm not even going to write anything to you. What a commendation. And really what a rebuke because churches today don't even know other churches. You know, there's such a a conflict sometimes between pastors and where people go and we kind of guard our little flock and There's we tend to be very short-sighted, and that's why I personally am trying to get to know pastors in the area so that I know what's out there and so that we Become friends, and so that we can all work and in a sense shepherd all these different flocks that are around us. But in spite of those two things, verse 10. He still, look at the end of verse 10. He still says, I beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more So he's just commended them in the strongest way possible. And yet he still presses on them. Look, don't stop. Keep increasing in that love. And that's why you and I, whatever stage of spiritual growth we're on, whether we're new babes in Christ, whether we've known Christ for years, whether at the very end, 85, 86 years old in a hospital somewhere. The command of love is still there, and we should always be growing in our love for the brethren. Always, always, always, always, all the way through. It's so important to the Christian Christian way of doing things. Alright, now turn to Romans 12, verse 10. Turn back. Any questions or comments about that tonight? Alright, Romans 12, verse 10. I'll just read this so we can keep moving. Alright, does anybody know the context of Romans 12? I know I know Tim knows. Does anybody else know the context of Romans 12? Hudson, you know? Spiritual gifts, very good. So that was what Romans twelve, hmm, kind of in one all the way down to verse eight. Verse nine is where he kind of picks up, he leaves the realm of spiritual gifts and And he centers more on Christian virtues in general. He starts talking about relationships and how Christian relationships are supposed to work. Verse 9 Let love be without dissimulation, abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good, be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love, in honor preferring one another. So right there in the middle of a passage that has to do with Christian relationships, he is pushing on them this affection, kind affection. and this brotherly love. And if you remember from last Sunday night, the Christian family itself, and that's what this paragraph is up here in the top of the sheet, and I've given all the pat well most of the passages that the author from the book has mentioned. That's why hospitality is rooted in the concept of the Christian family. And here again we have brotherly love, kind affection. Preferring one another. I'll turn to 1 Peter chapter 1. Anybody feel like reading that one? 1 Peter 1, verse 22. Anybody? Bill? Thanks. Seeing ye have purified your souls and obeying the truth through the spirit, unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. All right, thank you. Now The context of the whole letter, what is one of the probably the major theme of 1 Peter? Anyone know? It's dealing with Christians who are suffering. So think of yourself being persecuted for your faith in your station of life. All this pressure is on you. And he's trying to encourage us because of our position. Verse 20, look at it. Verily, we're foreordained before the foundation of the world that was manifest in these last times for you. Who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, that your faith and hope might be in God. He's talking about their position as strangers scattered throughout the world. As suffering Christians, well, guess what? You have this eternal position. You were foreordained before the foundation of the world. At least Christ here is the one who was foreordained for our salvation. We are in him. We're solid, you're secure. Now, seeing that that is so, and he describes it in verse 22 in terms of being purified in our souls. And we are obeying the truth through the Spirit with the unfeigned means a sincere love, a genuine love. He tells them to do it even more. Aren't these apostles ever satisfied? Here he is again. See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. And you have the pure heart, you're saved. Love out of that kind of a heart, earnestly, with effort. You were born again, verse 23 See that this is the way that you act. Turn over a few more pages to chapter 4 and look at verse 8. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Now this verse is sometimes misunderstood that someone in a local church can commit a terrible sin. And we just love them and we ignore it. That's not what this is talking about. There is the the New Testament is very clear about church discipline. It's very clear about when spouses hurt one another and there's conflict and things. need to be resolved, it should be resolved. There should be conflict resolution. This is probably a reference to all the little foibles and frailties of life. When people get on your nerves and their personality grates against your personality, I found in my own life that my personality type has a matching personality type that really irritates me. Irritates it. Have you found out that be true in your life? God has given you a personality, but there might be someone over here on the spectrum. And every time you run into someone like that, they always get on your nerves. I don't know if I should tell you what it is that really gets on my nerves. Paula's shaking her head, no, okay, I won't do it. But there is that. You might be the same way. You might, you know, I why does this always happen to me? Why does this always happen to Why does that person always get on my nerves? They haven't even said anything bad. Well, love covers all of that. You just let it go. person might annoy you for this or that, or that person might actually hurt your feelings. And you have to decide, is it really worth me confronting them? About this, or should I just let it go? So love covers that kind of thing. And he says, look, look at it again and let the word of God really sink into your heart. Above all things. There's this preeminence of the Christian virtue of love. Have fervent charity among yourselves. And it takes fervent charity sometimes for you and I to get along so that we can be patient and kind with one another. Alright, so so far we've looked at the church in Corinth, the church in Thessalonica, and the church at Rome. And then Peter, as he writes to Christians, scattered all over. Some of the strongest statements about love in your Bible are not actually found in 1 Corinthians 13. Did you know that? Some of the most convicting statements about love in the Bible are found in 1 John. John. One of those statements I quoted to you this morning in my sermon, but I didn't tell you where it was found. So let's turn then to 1 John 3 and let's look at some of these very convicting statements about love. Now in 1 John, one of the major purposes of the letter is to what? Anybody know? Sometimes we have new believers read verses in 1 John because we want them to get what? Assurance of their salvation because 1 John provides for us different evidences that we can see in our lives to assure ourselves that we really are Christians. One of the evidences that's repeated at least three times in 1 John is love for the brethren. If someone makes a profession of faith and there is not that predisposition to love, And there is not the effort to love Christians. There might not be the presence of the Spirit, and they might not be truly regenerated. That's why I often Harp on the fact that when someone really gets saved, you shouldn't have to twist their arm to come to church because they'll have a desire for the Word of God, but also to be around others who believe 1 John chapter 3, verse 16 says, In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brethren. So here we see two proofs of salvation. One is a desire to do righteousness. And the other one is a desire to love the brethren. Flip over, I'm sorry, go back to verse 4. Let's see. Yep, back to verse 14. What did I read the wrong verse to you? 1 John 3, verse 10 is what I just read to you, isn't it? Look, let's go. I want you to read 1 John 3, verse 16. Alright, verse 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. Alright, so here is the love of God in us. We do as he did. He laid down his life, we lay down our lives. Back to verse 14. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. Verse 10, he's saying the same thing. Okay, that's why I thought I had my verse. Because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Now, folks, let this sink in. John is saying that if you do not have a built-in love for the brethren, now it could be weak, you could be a carnal Christian and ignore it and grieve the Spirit of God and run away from God. If you do that, he'll say that. Send a whale after you, or I should say a fish. He might swallow you in misery, he might chasten you. But this is the mark of a true Christian. You and I should love one another. We should have that. Look over at chapter 4, verse 21. And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his brother also. Alright, so that's just a few passages here. We've got Paul, we've got Peter, and we've got the Apostle John. Three apostles, and they're all telling us, have fervent charity, love one another. This is a commandment from God. How do we do that? Or let's look at the connection between that love. And feeding people and keeping them in our homes. Hebrews 13. Look at Hebrews 13, verses 1 and 2. We looked at this last week, but we're looking at it again in a different context. Hebrews 13, verse 1: Let brotherly love continue. Well, what does that look like? Mysterious writer to the Hebrews, who we always argue if it was the Apostle Paul or someone else. Well, so says that person, be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Now this can be taken that there are those brothers that you do not know who come to your assembly and you entertain them. Of course, I mentioned last week, this does not mean that you play video games with them and buy them Coca-Cola and go play ice hockey with them or something. This is taking care of them and practicing hospitality. But notice the connection. Let brotherly love continue. Do this. Hospitality. Turn back to 1 Peter chapter 4. I know we're all over the Bible tonight, but you're Bible students, so you could do this. And remember, we're trying to keep all these passages in context So you know that I'm not just ripping it out of context. 1 Peter 4, verse 8. Above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. Oh, he's following that up with this idea of hospitality. How can we love one another? How can we have fervent charity? With hospitality, but doing it with the right attitude. Look down, uh well we've already let's uh look at Romans twelve thirteen. Ah, we're going back to the passages we've already looked at. Yep, very you're very precise. Romans 12, 13. Anybody want to read that for us? Romans 12, 13 Distributing to the necessity of saints given to hospitality. There we have it in the same context where we find this idea of kind affection. And brotherly love, preferring one another. Verse 10, we have a list of commands, and among them is helping the saints when they're in need, given to hospitality. The idea there is just a A strong desire to do it, a surrender to it, you're willing to have hospitality. And then finally go to 3 John. Verses five to eight, and then we'll wrap this all up. Three John Five to Eight All right, we read this last week, but we're looking for the connection this week between love and charity. Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren and to strangers. Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church, whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well. Now remember the context. There is this guy, and his name is what? And he he wants the preeminence or what's his name? Verse 9? Diatrophies, he's stopping what from taking place Remember from last week? Hospitality to these evangelists, traveling evangelists, maybe we could call them, and he doesn't want them to come. And the apostle says, Look, you let these people here, but notice again verse 6. He says, which have borne witness of thy love before the church, whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well. kind of appealing to the man's love and saying, look, I know you're a loving person. Show these people hospitality. Don't listen to diatrophies. When I come, the dude's in trouble. I'm going to have to deal with him. But until then, you do right. You accept these people into your home and feed them and take care of them, or find someone in the church who can. Alright, now. There you have a bunch of passages that have to deal with love, and then more that have to do with to show the connection between love and hospitality. Quickly, let me share with you something about our church. probably already know. On an average Sunday morning, we run right around 100 right now. We have essentially a few programs that are we're running in our church. We're working on our Sunday school program. We've got an Iwana program. We want to somehow get our ESL program up and running. What other programs do we have in the church? We have the choir, which is a very uh it's a very Consistent and takes a lot of work to run this program. Our music, nursery, greeters. We want to work on greeters. We're going to get a new greeter station out there. I've mentioned that. But by and large, because of the numbers that we have on a Sunday morning, and because a lot of you are doing wearing four or five hats, literally. We're not going to be able to start a lot more programs in our church for some time to come until the life of a church kind of it ebbs and flows, but you need to start to get toward 150 to 160 people to have more programs. And you know what? That's okay with me. You don't really find programs in the New Testament. Of course, things are new and it's just starting, so they didn't, and now they had a lot of people, but there was a lot of things that went on in the different areas. It's okay if we don't have a lot of programs because the New Testament very clearly tells us that hospitality Your home. Having someone into your home to eat some tomato soup. And those little uh Keebler crackers, what are they shaped like Like fish, what are those call? Goldfish. That that could be great. That could be better than a program. Because having people to your home that that melts their heart. That shows that you really care. I mean you have them over to your home and you feed them and and you try to take care of them. That's better than a program. It really is, folks. A program is sort of this thing that you enter and you register. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not preaching against programs. But you have all this organization and all this, and you come, and it only goes to a certain level. Like the Iwana program. They come, their kids get taught, and they leave, and that's it. Hospitality, they come and suddenly they get into your home and they find out, wow, this is a real person. This guy's not just some plastic fundamentalist or whatever they call us nowadays. This guy has a family and a dog and you know a lawn to cut and and wow he's he's telling me about his life and and I can tell him about my life because we're both human And it just has an incredible way of breaking the ice. Wouldn't you agree with me that you felt good when someone invited you to their home and you spent Time with them, and maybe you played a board game or you had some fun. That's a wonderful ministry. And you know what? Faith Bible Church can go forward with that. We don't have to form some giant Complicated program. If we just love, if we just love people, it will make such a big difference. Let me read you one quote from this book and I'll let you go. As I mentioned last week, hospitality was so well known in early Christians that it became a byword. There was an early uh historian, or actually just uh I think a public official, and he made a comment about how Christians treat one another. Okay, Christianity's teaching on love is unparalleled in the history of religion. One of the key factors that helps explain the rapid expansion of early Christianity is the love displayed among the first Christians. Want Faith Bible Church to rapidly expand. This love did not go unnoticed at the time. The third century African writer and apologist Tertullian tells us that the pagans of his day had to acknowledge the extraordinary love of the Christians. The pagans were forced to say Quote, see how they love one another and how ready they are to die for one another. In an ancient Latin Christian dialogue entitled Octavius, the pagan Cecilius criticizes the Christians because, quote, hardly have they met when they love each other. Indiscriminately they call each other brother and sister. The love that they had for one another was all they could be criticized for. Those people love each other too much. They care. It's disgusting. They just are so generous with one another. Wouldn't that be great if that's what Faith Bible Church was known for? Those people are so hospitable and they're always trying to have me over to their house and feed me. And they're always they're so friendly Now we want to be sincere. We don't want to be plastic. Hi, how are you? Will you come to my house for dinner? I mean, we want to be real, okay? And we can't always have people over at our homes for dinner, okay? I understand. We're limited. But wouldn't it be great if we were known for that? So that I think is a worthy prayer request that we can close our service in. And just to keep you in the loop for other things we're going to talk about. Is there ever a time when we shouldn't show hospitality? We'll be covering that soon