In ancient Greek literature, there is an important motif or theme of nostos, which means arrival or homecoming. It appears most dramatically in Homer's Odyssey. Odysseus's goal of reaching home to his family is threatened over and over again for many years. Meanwhile, his wife Penelope, son Telemachus, and the servants are forced into a tough choice. Will they stay loyal to their husband, father, and master? Or will they turn aside to the suitors who seek to replace them? When I first read this epic, there was something compelling and admirable about those loyal to Odysseus. Something that rang true even in this fiction. That's because we're waiting for our master to arrive and take his rightful place as king. But we're not just part of a cool story. This is reality. Jesus is really returning. And until he does, we as his servants have some housekeeping to do. Last week from Luke 12, 22 to 34, we discussed the carefree life. It means not worrying about food or clothes. It means trusting in God. We must look beyond what the world seeks after and seek God's kingdom. Give away our goods and store up for heaven the world to come. In today's passage, we have more exhortations from Jesus. Verses 35 to 48 teaches us the proper posture to maintain as we wait for our master. Here we'll find principles for living now in light of Jesus' return. How to awake out of sleep. To set our minds on things above. To avoid entangling ourselves with affairs of this life. To hold fast what we have. Let's turn to Luke twelve, thirty-five to forty-eight. Let your waist be girded, and your lamps burning, and you yourselves be like men who wait for their master when he will return from the wedding That when he comes and knocks, they may open to him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly, I say to you, that he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, and will come and serve them And if he should come in the second watch or come in the third watch and find them so, blessed are those servants. But know this, that if the master of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into. Therefore, you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Then Peter said to him, Lord, do you speak this parable only to us or to all people? And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his master will make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of food in due season? Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you that he will make him ruler over all that he has. But if that servant says in his heart, My master is delaying his coming, and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and be drunk. The master of that servant will come on a day when he is not looking for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in two and appoint him his portion with the unbelievers And that servant who knew his master's will and did not prepare himself or do according to his will shall be beaten with many stripes. But he who did not know yet committed things deserving of strife shall be beaten with few. For everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required. And to whom much has been committed, of him they will ask the more. Two overarching truths govern the passage, according to one commentator, Joel Green, the certainty of his coming and the uncertainty. of his timing. We know he's coming back. We just don't know when Christ's return is heaven's business, while obedience is our business. From our end, as God's servants, we can strive to follow three house rules. 1. Be constantly watchful, verses 35 to 41. 2. Be godly in your duties, verses 42 to 41 forty four and three beware of selfish living verses forty five to forty eight First, be constantly watchful. Way before Era went into labor with Nathaniel, we were advised to make what's called a hospital bag. We packed a small luggage with clothes, snacks, chargers, and other stuff we'd need for an extended stay at the hospital. Of course, we didn't know when the baby would come exactly. Similarly, verse 35 shows us someone who is ready at any given moment. Girding of yourself means you got your belt on and you're able to work immediately God required that kind of urgency at the first Passover meal. God told the Israelites to be ready to go, go, go. With the belt on your waist, your sandal on your feet, and your staff in your hand. So you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. That's Exodus 12. 11. Be constantly watchful. As for the lamps, Jesus speaks to us from the days before light bulbs and before kerosene oil was used. Wicks have to be trimmed with care and oil, olive oil kept in good supply. In Jesus' parable of the wise and foolish virgins, the ones unprepared ran out of oil. So they had to go out for a midnight run for more as their lamps were failing. They missed on the coming of the bridegroom and they were shut out of the wedding. Without the aid of the light, they could not be constantly watchful Now the woman in that parable desire to attend the wedding, but the men in verse 36 here are waiting for their master to return from a wedding. They were to be alert for that knock on the door, ready at any time to attend to him. What's amazing is the reward promised in verse 37. See Marvin Pate explains, quote, those servants who are alert to their master's return will be blessed. So blessed are they, in fact, that the Lord will reverse the roles and serve them by burning up his loins and seating them at the table and serving them. Servants will be served, the attendants attended to, waiters waited on Later, on the night Jesus was betrayed, he did just that. He reversed the rules and served his disciples. John 13, 4 to 5 says, we see there, we read how our Lord rose from suffer and laid aside his garments, took a towel and girded himself. After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. That's our Savior, the humble King. Though we don't deserve anything but wrath, He shows us grace. Though we're like dogs who eat crumbs that fall from the table. Though we're like that poor Lazarus out of reach of that rich food Jesus treats us like the way David treated Mephibosheth. He shall eat at my table like one of the king's sons. What an amazing grace. That's the blessing awaiting the servants, those who wait for our master. So be constantly watchful. Verse 38 tells us that we must be ready at all times, even in those times we're tempted to relax. The Romans would post sentries during the watches of the night from sunset to sunrise, about 6 p. m. to 6 a. m. They divided the night into four equal periods of three hours, six to nine, nine to twelve, twelve to three, three to six. The Hellenistic and Jewish custom, on the other hand, cut up the night into three equal periods of four hours, six to ten, ten to two, two to six. An example of this three-period scheme is in Judges 7. 19. I think Jesus too is speaking of three watches of the night. So then we must be vigilant all through the darkness, dusk to dawn, when eyes get heavy, lamps grow dim, bodies are weary. Then we'll be the blessed servants of the Lord. Be constantly watchful In verses 39 and 40, the metaphor shifts from the servants of the house to the master of the house, from the imminent welcome of the master to the imminent danger of the thief. But the main point is the same. Be constantly watchful. Again, there's the certainty of his coming and the uncertainty of his timing. So like these housekeepers, therefore you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Before Jesus continues, we have an interruption from Peter. He wanted to know whether this parable relates to the disciples only or to everyone, including unbelievers. We have no record of Jesus' direct answer here, but we know that Jesus regularly speaks truths that elicit response from everybody. Whether that response is belief or unbelief, enlightenment or blindness, gain or loss, We learn from Matthew 13 that Jesus spoke in parables both to reveal and to conceal heavenly secrets. Only God's chosen will grasp God's truths. Only those whose spiritual eyes and ears the Spirit has opened will see and hear to understand. Yet the Lord has always been generous and liberal in dispensing his mercies and truth. And the certainty of his coming and the uncertainty of his timing Demand response from both Christians and non-Christians. Let's begin with the non-Christians first. Since Jesus is coming back for certain, but we don't know when, it's imperative that you repent and believe in the gospel. All have sinned, and we all deserve God's wrath. But Jesus died on the cross for your sins, rose from the dead, and ascended to heaven Until he returns, we have an opportunity to find mercy It's too dangerous, actually insane, to come back to this decision later or go another second without Jesus. It is appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment. I warn you, there is but a step between you and death Because the day of judgment is coming, now is the time to repent. Hear these urgent exhortations. Behold, the day of the Lord comes cruel with both wrath and fierce anger to lay the land desolate, and he will destroy its sinners from it. That's Isaiah 13, 9. Truly these pines of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world. in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. That's Acts 17, 30 to 31. God says also in 2 Corinthians, in an acceptable time I have heard you, and in the day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Now you don't need to do anything to deserve salvation. Find acceptance by putting your hope of heaven in Jesus alone. He paid for it all on the cross. Receive the gift of eternal life by grace through faith alone, not by works. Do so today. Now is the accepted time to be accepted. And if you're already a Christian, be grateful. Humble yourselves and be faithful until death. Not only be a good servant, but be a good steward. Now, what's the difference between servants in verses 35 to 38 and the steward in verses 39 to 40? I don't think the shift in focus from the servants of the house to the master of the house is arbitrary. I think it's quite an effective teaching strategy. Jesus transitions from general servanthood to a more specific concept of stewardship By doing so, our Lord gives us a greater awareness of our duties here and now. That leads to the second house rule: be godly in your duties. When we speak of godly stewardship, we should be thinking of two qualities based on this passage. faithful and wise. We may possess different gifts, hold different offices, have available different ministry opportunities, but we must be faithful and wise in all that we do. Now, what does it mean to be faithful in your duties? To be faithful, first of all, means being confident in God and his faithfulness. In saving and preserving us. To be faithful means being Christ-like. It means being faithful over what's been given, even if it's small or insignificant. To be faithful means being like Tychicus, who cared for the saints and comforted them. To be faithful means being like Epacras, who ministered on behalf of the saints. Fervently pray for their maturity and suffering together with those in trouble. To be faithful means being exemplary leaders. To be faithful means helping the brethren and strangers and serving God through suffering. Be godly and faithful in your duties. And what does it mean to be wise in your duties? To be wise means to be wise in Christ and His Word, not in your own opinion. To be wise means to hear the words of Jesus and put them to practice and be like that man who built his house on the rock, not on the sand. To be wise means being vulnerable as sheep and harmless as doves, yet like snakes, skillfully navigating through life's dangers. As stated earlier, to be wise means to be prepared for Jesus' coming, like the five virgins who had enough oil for the night. As we will see later in Luke, to be wise means sharing material resources with those who will share eternity with you. Be godly and wise in your duties. Faithfulness and wisdom can be difficult to maintain. Recently I learned that Max Lucato, the famous evangelical author. Wrote a letter to apologize to the LGBTQ community. He was sorry that a 2004 sermon he preached was, quote, disrespectful, hurtful. He also claimed, quote, faithful people may disagree about what the Bible says about homosexuality, but we agree that God's holy word must never be used as a weapon to wound others. End quote. Now I haven't read or heard that 2004 sermon, so I won't make any judgments yet. I'm not here to overreact and proclaim that Max Ocato is no longer a Christian. I won't define his entire ministry career based on one weak moment. But can faithful people really disagree about what the Bible says about homosexuality, as Lucato claims? Was it really wise for a pastor of his status to write a letter like this? Against the pressures of the world, we all fall short of being faithful and wise consistently. We need God's grace. We're thankful that his divine power has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. We have the Holy Spirit for personal faithfulness. And when we fail from time to time, we have God who shows us mercy. Even when our faithfulness is like the morning cloud, and like the early dew it goes away. His faithfulness, his faithfulness he shall establish in the very heavens. Even though sometimes we foolishly try to be made perfect by the flesh, he grants us wisdom from above. We're given grace and mercy to be godly, faithful, and wise in our duties And fulfilling those duties in God's power in the present will have God's reward in the future. So be godly in your duties. Sadly, there are those who know that Jesus is coming to judge, those who heard these exhortations to be faithful and wise, and yet they refuse to follow God's will. The words of Christ go in one ear and off the other. The delusions they say in their heart suppresses suppress the truth. That leads to the third house rule, beware of selfish living. Beginning in verse 45, we have a different scenario with the same servant who was introduced in verses 42 to 44. In the previous scenario, he chooses the path of faithfulness. In verses 45 to 48, in another scenario, he chooses the path of wickedness. There are two ways to live in light of the certainty of Jesus' coming and the uncertainty of his timing. So that means we're looking at an unbeliever in verses forty-five to forty-eight. I think that two supporting arguments for this interpretation are one, the mention of unbelievers directly in verse forty-six. And two, in a parallel passage in Matthew 24, 45 to 51, 24, 45 to 51, the evil servant is punished with the hypocrites, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is clearly a chilling description of hell, the eternal outer darkness. Now remember that those who are saved will never have to worry about facing God's wrath. There's now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. So then, how is this passage relevant to Christians? The answer is this: God has given us his word so that we would know about the degrees of punishment in hell. And by extension, the degrees of rewards in heaven. First, we should know that the Bible clearly teaches degrees of punishment in hell. There's an essay on this very topic on the Gospel Coalition website by Albert N. Martin and Fred Zaspel. It's a good read. There has to be degrees of punishment for sinners because God's righteous judgment is exact and based on every word, deed, thought, and motive. And this degree of punishment is based on three major factors. One, how much a person abandoned him or herself to sin. Two, how much a person led others to sin. And three, how much a person had abused his or her privilege in light of knowledge. That third factor of privilege and light is key. The servant in verse 47, who knew his master's will and did not prepare himself or do according to his will. Would receive greater punishment because he had abused his privilege and light of knowledge. An example of this case today might be those who grew up In a Christian family, attend church, hear God's call many times, yet still refuse to believe. They'll receive greater degree of punishment in hell than those who have fewer privileges. By extension, we may discuss the degree of rewards in heaven. While we're looking at two types of hellbound sinners here, that second sentence in verse 48 has application for saints as well. Let me read it again. For everyone to whom much is given from him, much will be required, and to whom much has been committed of him, they will ask the more. Just as there are degrees of punishment in hell, there are degrees of rewards in heaven. For example, Jesus tells us the parable of the talents. in which the man entrusts one servant with five talents, another with two, and yet another with one Each received their lot according to his own ability. Now the one with five talents who earned five more, and the second one with two talents who earn two more are both in heaven. But obviously rewarded differently. Apostle Paul also believed that there are saints who suffer greater loss of heavenly rewards than others. While all of us have Christ as our foundation, not all of us wisely build upon that foundation. How do we know whether our ministries had lasting quality? 1 Corinthians 3:13 to 15 tells us that the day will declare it. Because it will be revealed by fire. And the fire will test each one's work of what sort it is. If anyone's work which he has built on it endures, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire. So even if we don't have to worry about hellfire, we do have to be concerned about the refiner's fire. And all this to say, beware of selfish living. Selfishness leads the sinner to the judges condemning hell And the saint to the Father's correcting discipline. To maximize our talents and minimize our losses, live for the Master's glory, not vainglory. At times we may be tempted to live for the moment instead of living for Jesus, thinking, my master is delaying his coming. We may have wars and fights among us, biting and devouring each other. We sometimes forget how much we've been given and how much we've been committed. So we lose sight of how much will be required of us and how much we are asked to do. We're thankful for mercy. We're thankful that we won't receive stripes and beating in eternal judgment. Because Jesus took them in our place for us at the cross. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him. And by his stripes we are healed. So out of this gratitude, let us live for the Lord. As his coming is certain, but his timing is uncertain. Let's serve our master by faith until he comes. We will stand as children of the promise. We will fix our eyes on him, our soul's reward. Till the race is finished and the work is done. We'll walk by faith and not by sight. Let's pray Lord, we're thankful that you are in control of all the affairs of the universe and you know That exact year, month, day, and time, hour, minute, the time you have ordained for the return of your son. Lord, until then, help us at this time to be ready and watchful, to be faithful and wise. Lord, to avoid selfish and carnal living. We pray that at every moment that we would seek you in your word to be filled with your goodness as we think about you. As we pray to you, as you open our mouths to preach the gospel to others, as we share our hearts and your word, with our students, with our fellow brothers and sisters. Pray that you would find us ready. And we're thankful for this wake-up call. Lord, through your word. Pray that we will live such lives this week. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.