Good morning. Good to see you folks again. Will you take your Bibles, please, and turn with me to the book of Acts, chapter 27. Acts chapter 27. As was mentioned in prayer earlier this morning, uh I'm sure we're all thankful to be in Maryland and not in South Florida, or really any part of Florida. And uh the truth of the matter is uh Uh the Lord gave me this message before all this mess happened. So I didn't really design it for today, but that's kind of how it worked out. And I'm grateful that it did. We have a lot to be thankful for, don't we? We uh We could be living in in uh Houston. We could be living in Mexico. We could be living in South Florida or places like that. But uh we've been blessed to be living here at this time in our life. But it doesn't mean that we don't have storms as well And the message this morning has to do with how to survive your storm. Storms come at different times in our lives. They come for different reasons. And uh they don't always last the same length of time. Some of them come and go quickly. Others, it seems like, never end. Sometimes storms just uh kind of appear out of nowhere, and other times we see them on the horizon. But regardless of the fact, the man Job, who was greatly loved and tried and blessed of God, said man is born of woman is a few days and full of trouble as the sparks fly upward. We were talking in Sunday school class this morning with Brother Tim and He talked about temptations and trials. And we're going to have them. We're just going to have them. The question is, how do we handle them? How do we handle them? So that's what the message is about today. So if you'll bear with me, I want to read the first 14 verses. of chapter number 27 of the book of Acts. If I had time, I'd like to read all 44 verses because the message is really going to encompass all of it. No, I won't go verse by verse. and uh pick it apart in great detail. But I want to give you some principles today that I think might help you understand your storm and help you to find a way through it by the grace of God. Acts chapter 27, verse 1. And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other person prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus band. And entering into a ship of a Dramateum, we launched, meaning to sail by the coast of Asia, one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us. And the next day we touched at Sidon, and Julius courteously entreated Paul and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh himself. And when he had launched from thence we sailed under Cyprus because the winds were contrary. When we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia. And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy, and he put us therein. And when we had sailed slowly many days and scarce were come over against Nidas, The wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete over against Salmonai, and hardly passing it came unto a place which is called the Fair Havens, nigh whereunto was the city of Lasi. Now, when much time was spent and when sailing was now dangerous, because the fast was now already passed, Paul admonished them. And said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading of the ships, but also of our lives. Nevertheless, the Sanaturian believed the master and the owner of the ship more than those things which were spoken by Paul. And because the haven was not commodious to winter in the more part advised to depart thence also if by any means they might attend to Fenis. And to winter there to winter, which is the and haven of Crete and lieth toward the southwest and northwest. And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, loosened thence, they sailed close by Crete. But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind called Euroklodon. Shall we bow together in prayer as we begin? Our Heavenly Father, I do ask you to please help me. I pray that you'd fill me with your spirit today, that I would be emptied of self, that I would be your servant and your vessel for these next few minutes, especially. And Lord, that you'd help us to be an encouragement to these dear folks. We're all going through different kinds of trials and problems. We think of the folks down in South Florida and other places that are going through horrible times right now because of a a hurricane that is of great magnitude. And so help us to learn some principles as Paul goes through this tempest called Eurokladon. Lord, help us to be able to gain some truth from that that will help us the next time we face a storm. That we might be able to come through and see your hand of blessing and your hand of provision and your hand of protection. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul was under arrest. What's a nice guy like Paul doing under arrest, right? Well, he was under arrest for preaching the gospel. And uh we don't need to get into that today is so much, but the fact of the matter is, Jesus said all that live godly, Paul did rather, said all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. So we ought not be surprised when it comes, if we stand for Christ, if we're a witness, if we let our lights shine, we're going to take some heat for it. So Paul was under arrest He was on his way to Rome. That was his heart's desire. He didn't want to go that way, but he went anyway. He wanted to go to Rome. Why? Because he wanted to preach the gospel in Rome. And it was there that he preached the gospel and ultimately was martyred there. But we find on the way he is put into a ship. And so I want to share with you some things about the storm and the ship and the Lord Jesus Christ, God Himself, as He Allowed Paul to get through the storm not only safely, but with great encouragement. First of all, I want us to see the severity of the storm. How bad was the storm? Well, we don't see if it was a category five or a category three. They didn't have that in those days, did they? But they're on a ship with about 200 and some men. Full of cargo. It was a wooden ship. It didn't have a steam engine, it didn't have diesel engines, it didn't have nuclear power, it was a sailing ship. It was a wooden ship. If you put that ship down at Inner Harbor next to the dock where they parked the constellation, it would look pretty big. In a harbor where the water's calm and you can see across from one side to the other, it looked like that ship, man, that that ship could handle anything. Until you got it out in the ocean. When you got it out in the ocean, it looks like a tiny little cork. And then you throw in a hurricane force wind. And you find out that you don't feel secure in that ship whatsoever. The severity of the storm, verse number 15, and when the ship was caught and could not bear up into the wind, we let her drive. They no longer had control. They had no control of the ship. We let her drive. I don't know if you've ever been in a storm like that. I'm not talking about a physical storm either. I'm talking about a financial storm. I'm talking about maybe a family storm, things that get out of control, things that you don't know how they're going to end. Could be a physical storm, it could be a financial storm, it could be a family storm. And you're in the middle of it. Maybe you're blindsided and you didn't see it coming. When they left the Isle of Crete, the Bible says that The winds blew softly, and so they they thought they had accomplished their purpose. Now we've got good weather. Now we can make our journey. And how many times do we set off to do something? Maybe we're not heading anywhere in a physical journey, but as we live life, as we live life from day to day, and that's how we live it, we say, well, things are okay. My family's in pretty good health. I've got some sort of financial stability. Seems like things are okay. Don't see any storms on the horizon. All of a sudden, wham, something hits us. It could not bear up into the wind. It couldn't handle the it couldn't handle the force of the wind. It was a sailing ship, but now it didn't want wind. The people on the ship, they didn't want more wind. They wanted less wind. Because the wind was the thing that could destroy them. It says in running under a certain island, which is called Clauda, we had much work to come by the boat. Now there's a difference between the ship and the boat, right? The boat was just a small little vessel. If they get to port, sometimes the captain and some of the officers, they may take the boat and go into port and maybe do business and come back out. It was just a small little boat. They had a couple of them on that ship. But it says that uh they they couldn't control that either. They could they were trying to tie it down, but they couldn't keep that secured. They said the Titanic would never sink. They said it was the ship that would never sink, yet on her maiden voyage. She hit just the tip of an iceberg, just the tip of an iceberg, and it sank like a rock. That's why the Bible says, be careful not to say, tomorrow I'm going to do this and tomorrow I'm going to do this. If the Lord will, friend, if the Lord will. The ship by the dock looked large in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. It looked very, very small We don't pay too much attention if we have a small problem. We say, well, I can handle that. You know, it's amazing things. I think sometimes God allows us to go through great storms in our lives just to just to get us to talk to him. Just to pray. I don't know about you. I I have a regular prayer life. I'm not the most spiritual man. I'm no George Mueller. Don't pretend to be. But I know this. I know when something comes in my life and I and I and I have not I do not have the resource. I don't have the wisdom. I don't have the finances. I don't have the help. Things many times come in my life that I am not up to. I'm not up to it. And it drives me to my knees And I pray more effectually and more fervently, and I check my heart to make sure my heart is right with the Lord, that it's not a result of sin. Because I know that I there's there's many things I've learned in life that I can't handle on my own. I need the Lord, and so do you. Well, down in verse number twenty-seven the Bible says, But when the fourteenth night was come, fourteen days. This thing was going on. Now we expect Irma to come and go and turn into nothing more than a light rain within the next three or four days. But see the difference between being in South Florida while we're waiting for Irma to come and go They weren't on land. They were in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea in a wooden ship, and when that storm, which they called not Irma, but Euracladon, when that storm came, it caught the ship. And the ship went with the storm. The ship went with the storm. So there wasn't any amount of hunkering down and getting into a nice uh concrete and steel shelter. It was the idea that we're in a wooden ship, we're out in the middle of the Mediterranean Ocean, and you know what? We have no idea where this thing's taking us And they were at the mercy of God. I don't know if you realize it, friend, but you and I are at the mercy of God all the time Our lives are in his hands. The Bible says it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. You know, there's a day for your death, and I don't care how how great of medical facilities you end up dying in or whether you die at home or however you are how you or I die. The truth of the matter is there's no amount of Emergency medical equipment. There's no amount of ICU. There's no amount of great surgeons that can keep us here one second longer than God has already planned for us to be here. We're limited. We're limited. And every day we got one less day than we had. They had no idea how long they were going to be, but they were there 14 days. It says Verse 27, when the fourteenth night was come, we were driven up and down in Adria. About midnight the ship uh shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country. So they found they were getting near land. After 14 days. Sometimes your storms come and go, but sometimes they last a long, long time. Paul said, having done all the stand in this stand in the evil day. Ephesians 6. What is the evil day? It doesn't necessarily mean one day. It means a period of time when you are under oppression. Oppression. Possibly even satanic oppression. Where for some reason everywhere you go you carry this dark cloud over you. Remember Pig Pen in in uh the Peanuts comics? Poor old Pig Pen. Everywhere he went, he had this nasty cloud over him. And he could go outside, he could go inside, he couldn't get away from that cloud. He was Pig Pen. And sometimes we might feel like that. We just might feel, you know what? It just seems like no matter where I go, I can't shake this thing. I can't shake it. I can't get rid of it. I can't fix it. We all want to be able to fix things right away. It doesn't always happen that way. Down in verse number 29, the Bible says, Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon the rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern and wished for the day. Have you ever wished for the day? Have you ever had a bad night? Some of us have. Maybe a sleepless night Can be from health, for sure. We're not supposed to worry, you know, but but we have anxiety. Some people have it real bad. They call it a panic attack. Some people get sick from it. Why? Because there's something there that we have no control over. It's bigger than what we are. And something comes along with that, and it's called fear. Fear. And so here they are, they're out in the Mediterranean Sea in the middle of the Ur the storm Iroklodon, and they've been there for fourteen days. So it it kinda makes you wonder, well they're wanting to abandon ship is what they're wanting to do. They wish for the day down in verse 30, and as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, they're going to abandon ship. Hey, let's get out of here. Where are they going anyway? They're going to flee out of the ship when they had let down the boat into the sea under colors as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship. So they they were going to take the boat. Some of the sailors were going to say, okay, we're going to take this thing, and since we're near land, we're going to take this boat and we're going to save ourselves. Well, number one, it was selfish, but it was logical. But then Paul told them that they better stay in the ship. He said in verse 31, Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except they abide in the ship, you cannot be saved. Isn't it funny that the whole world out here thinks there's a million roads to heaven? All those re all roads lead to heaven? Yet Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the light, no man cometh to the Father but by me. Do you realize that God has a good and acceptable and a perfect will for you? Do you know what it is? Are you following it? Sometimes things just get out of hand. Sometimes there's not always an acceptable way out. Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Kings chapter 19 with me for just a minute? 1 Kings chapter 19. In 1 Kings 19, we know the story. Elijah has just had a great victory on Mount Carmel. Killed the prophets of Baal with a sword. And uh, but there's repercussions There are consequences for his victory. It says in chapter 19 of 1 Kings, verse 1, and Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a message unto Elijah saying, So let the gods do to me and more also if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. Go kill you, Elijah. And Elijah knew that she wasn't playing either. You remembered what she did to Naboth, if you know that story. And when he saw that he arose and went for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there, but he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, he's hiding. And came and sat down under a juniper tree. And he rescued r requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my fathers. God wants you, just kill me. Because I don't want to get tortured by Jezebel. Sometimes our storms get so big that we want to bail out altogether. Altogether. While I'm talking, would you turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 1? You know, I'm down to mission all the time, my wife and I, and You know why a lot of people are down there? Not all of them. You can't, by the way, you can't put the homeless in a box They're not all the same. You can't say, well, they're all a bunch of drunks. They're not all a bunch of drunks. Some of them have never had a drink in their life, and you might not believe that. Some of them are not dope addicts. Some of them have not been in prison. All of them are in a storm. But some of them are there because of drugs and alcohol. Because life got so bad and so painful that they couldn't handle it on their own. But see, they didn't turn to God and seek his help. They turned to something. That was a substance that they thought was going to help them, but it really made life worse for them and made their storm more intense rather than lighten the load. The Apostle Paul. I don't have time to read the verses I'd like to read, but he's talking about how they were stressed, pressed out of measure, and he says in verse number eight of chapter one of Second Corinthians, For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant Of our trouble. Our storm. We were in a storm. A storm is trouble, folks. Of our trouble which came unto us in Asia that we were pressed out of measure. Stressed out, we would say today. We were stressed out. We couldn't handle it. Man, we were we were climbing the walls Stress that pressed out of measure, above strength. We didn't have the strength, we didn't have the resources, we didn't have the wherewithal to fix it ourselves, insomuch that we despaired even of life. Paul, the great missionary, the great church planner. He said, man, I'm done with living. Was he suicidal? No, I don't believe he was suicidal at all, but he was discouraged. And we get that way too sometimes. Matter of fact, a lot. Job. Job sat in that ash heap. Scraping his boils with broken pottery, surrounded by his three friends and an unsympathetic wife. Who pointed at him and pointed at him from every direction. And not just one time, but they had they had great great messages and and and great speeches they gave him. And his wife just said, Oh Job, why don't you just curse God and die? Get it over with. Man, what a help me, huh? Hey, you know, if if if you're having a problem right now. And you're saying, I don't know how I'm gonna get through this. I I want you to know something, dear friend. You're not the only one that's had a problem that's bigger than you are. Okay? We've all been there and done that if we've lived a little while. And somebody said, not me, but somebody said, you know, you're either coming out of one or you're in one, or watch out, because there's one right on the horizon. You may not see it yet, but there's one on the way. And again, God you God allows that stuff in our life. To strengthen our faith. I don't like tests and I don't somebody how many somebody's this morning already. How's the mission? Well, what should I say? Okay, everything's fine. Is that what you want to hear? I'll tell you that if that's what you want to hear. But if you want to take a couple minutes, I'll tell you, because it's always challenges But you know, this is our anniversary month at the mission. 30 years this month. And man, I I I couldn't begin to reiterate to you. Some of the challenges and the trials that God has allowed us to go through. And I'm telling you, look at looking back, looking forward to those trials. Man, I I couldn't see any hope. I couldn't see any way out. You say, what did you do? I just kind of hung on and prayed and asked God to help me because I God, you know I can't do this. I need your help. You know, that's nothing to be ashamed of. God doesn't expect us to live this life in our own strat, folks. That's why he sent the Holy Spirit. He's to be our comforter. And he's to be our paraclete, our helper, is what the New Testament says. And so here we find there are 14 days. The thing is bigger than they are And they're wanting to bail out. They're getting ready to get the boat. So number one, we see the severity of the storm. Number two, the strength of the ship. Well, we found in verse 15 it could not it could not bear up under the wind. But then in verse number 17, look with me there if you will, please. Which when they had taken up, talking about the boat, which when they had taken up, they used helps undergirding the ship. The ship had to be undergirded. It had to be strengthened structurally. It says, undergirding the ship and fearing lest they should fall into the quicksand, strake sail, and so were driven. So they took the sail down. But they were undergirding the ship, probably with some kind of cables or ropes or something. You know, we need to be undergirded as well. James chapter 5 says, confess your faults one to another and pray one for another. You know, we have prayer requests that we had prayer time in Sunday school this morning. We had prayer time here today. It's important. It says, pray for one another. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous, a godly man availeth much. It counts for a lot. You pray one for another. Verse number 18, it couldn't carry the load, and being exceeding tossed with tempest, the next day they lightened the ship. And the third day we cast out, listen to this, with our own hands, the tackling of the ship. Why does it put in that little phrase, with our own hands? Because you, as a sailor, you had to be nuts to throw out the tackling of the ship, especially, especially in a wooden ship. Why? Because those were the spare parts They they just they just couldn't pull into a uh into a port any place because there was no port out in the middle of Iraqladon, fourteen days and nights in the middle of a hurricane, in the middle of the sea. There was no place to pull in to fix the ship. And I'm sure the ship, listen folks, I'm sure the ship sounded like it was coming apart at the seams. My wife and I were in Hurricane Fred down in Pensacola when we were in school down there. And we're in a little cinder block house. I mean a small cinder block house. It may have been two-bedroom. She and I and our German shepherd. The hurricane Fred was supposed to hit Pensacola at 120 miles an hour head on, but at the last minute it veered to the left. And went to Mobile, Alabama, hit them at 120, but it hit Pensacola at ninety five miles an hour. Now I'm gonna tell you, when I read the when I read the news now and I read about a hundred and sixty mile an hour wind, and I read about a hundred and eighty mile, man, I'm You don't have to tell me to evacuate. I'm gone. I am gone. We're there at 95 mile an hour wind with a portable radio, a dog and my wife, and we're hunkered underneath our kitchen table. Praying that if the roof fell down the table would hold it up. And I told her, I said, I don't know how Mobile, Alabama, can take can take twenty-five mile an hour more wind gusts. than what we've got right. I thought that thing was coming in on us and it took seven I think it was seven days to get the power back, something like that. They they threw the tackling out. There was the ship needed to be lightened, so what did they do? They threw out everything. They threw out the cargo. It couldn't carry the load. Verse 40. Look down at verse 40. And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves unto the sea. Loose the rudder. That's like taking the steering wheel off your car. Okay? Oh, this is great. Having fun today? Yeah, here. They loose the rudder bands. That's how they control the ship. It says they loosed the rudder band, hoisted up the mainsail to the wind, and made towards shore. They're in a bad shape. They couldn't carry the load. They lost control. And then in verse 41, they broke into pieces. And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground, and the forepart stuck fast, remained unmovable, the hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves. Finally broke the pieces. The strength of the ship, you know what? The thing they were counting on to get them through the storm wasn't enough. Hey, guess what? Sometime your bank account won't be enough for you. Sometimes you might lose your investments. And all of a sudden you wake up one morning And all the money that you had invested, all of a sudden you find that's gone. And I'm not talking about reading some fiction novel, folks. It's happened to people all throughout our history. Sometimes you think, you know what, I'm going to make my plans because, you know, when I hit 60, I'm going to do this and I'm going to be ready for retirement. And and and when I hit 70, this is what I'm going to do. And all of a sudden, the next time you go for your annual physical, you get your blood work back from the physician, and he tells you, you know what, you got maybe three months. I can't tell you how many people we know who are under the age of 50 who have either just died or who are dying, young people Young people, heartbreaking stories, brain cancer, aneurysms of the brain, all kinds of things, all kinds of things. Young people who who normally would have a life. And dear friend, if your hope is in medical science or in your investments, you know, you're going to be greatly delusioned when the day of your storm really hits. Because we are all going to go through some storms. The strength of the ship. The severity. Uh the the severity of the storm and then the stress of the sailors. Verse 19. Says in the third day we cast out our with our own hands the tapping of the ship, and when Neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us. Listen, all hope that we should be saved was then taken away. How you like that? These these these are not land lovers. It says the sailors It says when when many days and nights they never saw the sun They never thought saw the stars. No small, you know, the Bible's full of understatements. I I love the way how God puts stuff in in English or or in in the language. No small tempest. When Paul went certain places, it said, no small stir. He caused trouble by preaching the gospel. But this was a horrendous storm. And they said, all hope. Have you been there? Hey, I I'm not trying to bring back bad memories. Or maybe you're in a situation right now and you say, Brother Chuck, as far as I know, there's no hope. Let me tell you, friend. There is hope. It may be a physical problem you're going through. It may be a family problem. It may be a financial problem. Listen. God is greater than all of our problems. You know that? I hope you know that. I hope you'd be encouraged this morning to know that no matter how bad it looks, no matter how bad it looks, God is still on the throne. God is still on the throne. They were fearful. They were desperate. They were desperate. They threw out the tackling of the ship. They were hopeless. All hope was gone. Verse 29, and then fearing lest we should have fallen upon the rocks, they were fearful. Man, the stress of the sailors. Yeah, it was it was pretty bad. It was pretty bad. And then the thing I want you to hang on to this morning, more than anything, is the sufficiency of the sailor, of the Savior. The sufficiency of the Savior. Look at verse 22. Paul said, and now I exhort you to be of good cheer. What? No hope? Living in fear? We're getting ready to get thrown under the rocks? He says, Be of good cheer, for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship. For there stood by me this night the angel of God. whom whose I am and whom I serve. I won't get into all the Theological ramifications of that, other than the fact that oftentimes the Lord Jesus Christ is referred to in the Old Testament. As the angel of the Lord or the angel of God, and also in the New Testament. I believe it was he that was in the fiery furnace with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo. He was the fourth man in the fire. I believe it was he that Joshua said, are you for us or against us? And I don't believe that he realized at first that he was standing in the face of Jesus Christ, a Christophany. Because he said here, I serve this angel. We're not to serve angels. We're not to worship angels. We're to worship God. Paul knew that. He's the one that shared that biblical truth with us. So who was there with him in that storm? Who came to him at night and encouraged his heart? It was the Lord Himself. He said, There'll be no loss of life. He says in verse 33, for there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am, I belong to that angel. I belong to him. You belong to him. Is he your master? Is he your master? Good way to figure that out is whether or not you're his servant. He's not your master if you're not his servant. And whom I serve, you see. He's my master. I'm his servant Saying, fear not, Paul. What did the Lord tell him? He said, Don't be afraid. The Bible says that the Lord has not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. You know, when you have paralyzing fear that comes in, and that's what comes in with a storm, paralyzing fear. You get into one of them, and you'll find out whether or not you're living by faith or living by fear. He said verse twenty four, fear not, Paul. Thou must you know you know do you know that God knows your name? You know that, don't you? I'm sure you do. He knows your name. He can come to you. He can come to you. At your greatest hour of need. Listen, fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo, God hath given thee. All them that sail with thee. Here's Paul's answer to the Lord's words of encouragement. He says to those around him, in the middle of the storm, He said, Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer. Why should they be having good cheer and happy and peace and contentment? Because somebody called Paul stood up in the middle of that storm and said, I believe God. You know, folks, we that are Christians, we have storms all around us. And the Bible talks about here how we are on stage. Theatron, the word is. We are on stage. Before the world and men and heaven. Do you know that our lives, we are acting out our lives just as a just as an actor or an actress on a stage in Broadway? Do you know that our lives are being seen? The Bible says in Hebrews that angels look down at our lives and our love for Christ and our works and our life of faith, and they are amazed. Because we've never seen him face to face. Now look at the angels who are amazed at our life of faith. So is the world And I can tell you this, there was very few people back 46 years ago when I got saved. That I could see living the life of Christ, but thank God in heaven there were a few. There were a few. That I could look at and say, there's something that I believe is genuine. Christianity. Fourteen days. Be of good cheer. I believe God. It shall be it even as it was told unto me. Howbeit what we must be shipwrecked, we must be cast upon some island. Number one, under the sufficiency of the Savior is this, the promise of peace. The promise of peace. Let me give you a couple things real quick and I'll be done. Number one, Brother Tim and this church in Sunday school, every time I've been here, you've been on a series. On sin. Let me give you one verse on it, okay? And you've already covered it, I know. But let me give you this. There hath no first Corinthians 10 30. There hath no temptation taken you But such is is common to man. But God is what? Faithful, who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. Sin is a storm. If it wasn't hard to say no to it. Why does God say that ye may be able to bear it? What is it in that verse? It in that verse is sin. James 1:12, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, when he is tested and tempted and allowed to be tempted, he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. People say, man, I wish I could sing like some of these great singers and play instruments and and preach and do some of these great they'd be a missionary in some places and do something to show God that I really love him and I appreciate what he did. You love him? Obey him. Obey him. He knows what it is. For you to go through temptation. That's why he says, endure temptation. Endure it, because it's hard to say no to something. Hey, be honest, folks. It's hard to say no to something you want to do. That's wrong. That's why it's tempting. Because you want to do it. And if you don't have it in your mind to do it, there's the world that will tempt you to do it, and there's also the devil, of course. Give you peace for sin and for strength. Philippians 4:13, I can do all things through Christ's wish. strength and it's me. We can say these little verses and and have them memorized as a cliche. Or when we face our storms we can Grab a hold of them and hang on like Paul hung on to the broken pieces of that ship. For supply, four Philippians 4. 19. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Here's the last one. Sanity. See, I'm not losing my mind. That may be debatable. Some of us might question that. But uh the truth of the matter is the devil will The devil will tempt you, will cause discouragement, the effects of many years sometimes, and maybe it doesn't take so many years. Of constant bombardment, of trials, and difficulties and sins and failures. We've all failed. There's none righteous, no, not one. We've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. Isaiah said, all our righteousness is but filthy rags. Sanity. Philippians 4:4. Rejoice in the Lord, and again I say, rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace, this is Philippians 4, 7, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding. Shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus The peace of God, why does it say, which passeth all understanding? Because the world out there sees us go through horrendous storms. And they have the opportunity, they ask the questions, how did you do that? How did you do that? What about your storm? That ship got all broken up when it hit the rocks. Have you ever been broken? Maybe your finances are beyond reach. You say, no, I still have a I have a few more dollars left that I can I can uh charge on my credit card. Bless your heart. Maybe your family life at home is not right. Maybe maybe you've got a Chuck Bittner in your family. Who you've been praying for for years. That rebellious scoundrel would get saved. God can save a Chuck Bender, do you know that? He can save your family too. He can bring back a prodigal. If you're believing, Paul said, I believe that you believe the word of God. Are you praying like you believe it? Maybe you have a broken heart. Maybe you've been betrayed, been hurt. And you don't you you're you're a living dead person and you you feel like your heart is bleeding and it won't stop. God can take you through that. Maybe there's sin in your life, and up to now you've been unwilling. To confess it and forsake it. Oh, it comes and goes. You say, well, it comes and goes. You haven't forsaken it. You haven't forsaken it. Have you have you declared war on it? Have you declared war Have you vowed to God and asked him to help you to fight this thing that's been the sin which so be easily beset you? I don't know. I don't know what your storm is all about. I don't know if you're in one now, been through one, or getting ready to go in one. But friend, I want you to know something. God can help you. Can we pray? Every head bowed.