Okay, so I have a question. It doesn't have anything to do with the sermon. How many of you knew this song, Every Promise, before today? So you've sung it before, have you? Okay, because that's why is it that I come here and I think I know a lot of hymns and songs And yet uh uh Steve or whoever is picking the music, I think it's Steve, always comes up with a new one. This was tough though, Steve, because it was rather fast and when you sight read But by the fourth but by the fourth verse I was in. So anyway, uh excellent. I mean I'm I'm always Uh you know, I I hope you're blessed by the message. Well I'm blessed by the music. And if I can ask if someone can get me a cup of water, that would be fantastic because then uh I won't uh choke in the middle of the message or something. something like that. Thank you. By the way, one of you came up to me and said, well, you talked about your wife. But I really didn't think you were married. Well, my wife, Sharon, is here today, and we've been married for 39 years, and she can tell you anything. you want to know about me that I don't want you to know, she can tell you and she'd probably be happy to tell you anyway. It's a delight that she's able to make it with us uh here uh this morning and worship with us. Well just a month ago, uh actually almost two months ago now, we celebrated the 241st anniversary of our nation's independence. And that's uh, of course, a very, very a key date as we look around the world and we think of uh so many countries where we don't uh where there is not religious freedom But as important as that anniversary is, there's actually one which I would consider to be an even more important anniversary than celebrating the birth of our nation. And that's coming up later this year. And that is the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. Thank you so much. the Protestant Reformation on October 31, 2017. It will be 500 years to that date. Now, I must confess that I am not as much a lover of history as I should be. You might expect me to be. After all, I've taught in seminary and all of the rest. Uh and and some of you are naturally drawn to history. Uh I remember in our seminary, uh Dr. Mook, he loved history. He loved every seemed like every date and every person. And that's wonderful, but that's just not my natural bent. All those names and dates and events so many years ago aren't really that appealing to me, I confess, and I suspect that some of you out there are about like me in that regard So why in the world then am I going to subject you to a bit of history here this morning? Well, the reason is quite simple. In most churches, including my own, and I'm sure your church, people often speak of the need for spiritual revival. I need a little throat revival there. A spiritual revival, a spiritual revival in our country, spiritual revival in our churches and in our families and in our own lives. What exactly brings that about? Well, one way to answer that question is to look at spiritual revivals that have happened in the past. And other than the initial revival that happened under the ministry of Jesus and the apostles in the first century A. D. Which we read about in the pages of the New Testament, there is one revival that stands out over the past 2,000 years, and it is the Protestant Reformation. So this morning. I want to begin by looking at what sparked the Reformation. So my first point is that revival happened in the Reformation. Because of access to and emphasis upon the Bible. Revival happened in the Reformation because of access to and emphasis upon the Bible. The Reformation is generally credited as beginning on that date, October 31, 1517, when Martin Luther, a previously little-known German monk, posted his 95 theses on the door of the Castle Church in Wittenberg. The issue arose because of Johann Tetzel's selling of indulgences nearby. These indulgences allegedly allowed Christians to buy time off of purgatory for themselves or for their loved ones. And actually, Tetzel was a master marketer. His slogan was, as soon as the coin in the copper rings, the soul from purgatory springs. And you say, well, no, wait a minute, that's German, and I just translate it into English with a nice rhyme. Well, I've got the German here for you. I will not pronounce it all because I'm not really very good. in German, but I can tell you the words that rhyme are Klinkt and Sprinkt. So I hope that convinces you, and if not, you can see me afterwards and you can read the whole thing for yourself. So marketing is nothing new in the 21st century. Of course, what it really did was raise money for the church. And Luther argued rightly that the grace of God could never be bought or sold, but it was only available through faith. Luther himself had come to faith once he had studied and understood the book of Romans, that justification, that is, being right with God was by grace through faith. And there was no human works which could accomplish that. So God's forgiveness Was given freely, not something bought or sold, and it was available to any person, rich or poor. Now Luther's theology developed over the next few years as he continued to study the Bible, and he was ordered to recant his writings at the Diet or Assembly of Worms. in 1521, or else be killed as a heretic. Here he stood before the most powerful ruler of the day, the Emperor Charles V. and all the other important political and religious figures being told to recant or to be killed. And Luther boldly said, Unless I'm convicted by Scripture and plain reason, I do not accept the authority of popes and councils because they have contradicted each other. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. I cannot and will not recant anything, for to go against conscience is neither right nor safe. Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise. God help me. Amen. So when Luther was subsequently condemned as a heretic, He was then kidnapped by a benefactor and given protective custody at the Vartburg Castle. Well, what did Luther do during this period of enforced isolation? Well, they translated the Bible into the German language. Previously, the Bible was available only in the Latin Vulgate, not in German. But I was fine with the church, since only the Pope and his emissaries were supposedly able to interpret the scriptures anyway. So whether a common person could read the Bible was of little consequence to them. Meanwhile, over a hundred years previous to that, in 1382, John Wycliffe was responsible for translating the Bible into English. And like Luther, he was severely condemned by the authorities with his works being branded as heretical. In 1415, John Huss of Bohemian, a Czech preacher, was also deemed a heretic for condemning the practices of the church, including the sale of indulgences. He stated that the scripture was the only guide for faith and practice, not the church Huss's own transformation occurred because of the writings of Wycliffe that spurred him to read and to trust the scriptures. He said that he desired to hold, to believe, and assert whatever is contained in them as long as I have breath in me. And for that he was burned at the stakeholders. Now I want to stop here for a moment and emphasize one key statement. Christianity has always been and always will be counter-cultural In a pagan world. It has always been and it always will be counter-cultural in a pagan world. For sure that was true with Jesus, who was countercultural in what he taught and in who he associated with, because he based his teachings on the Word of God, not the traditions of men. And that was the same for the apostles, who said in Acts 5. 29, we must obey God rather than men. The same was true with Paul, who was imprisoned for preaching the gospel. In Wycliffe's and Huss's and Luther's day, their teachings and their writings were condemned. Because they were standing by the scriptures rather than the unbiblical practices of a corrupt church. And the same is true today. as increasingly we find that genuine Christianity, that is, Bible-based Christianity, is no longer part of our culture. So as our culture continues to advocate things that the Bible clearly condemns, such as marriage between a man and a man, or a genderless society, or the universe being the product of pure choice rather than God's creative design, or who knows what else in the future If we uphold the scriptures, you and I will be countercultural as well. and will likely be ridiculed for our supposedly antiquated beliefs by those who are considered in the know. So my question is, are you and I going to give in to the prevailing culture on these issues, or are we going to stick with the Bible, which is the infallible Word of God? It should not surprise us that Bible-based Christians are under attack in today's society, and you and I should be prepared to deal with that. Okay, back to my first point, which you may have forgotten by now, so I'll repeat it. Revival happened in the Reformation because of access to and emphasis upon the Bible. What Luther did and Wycliffe and Huss before him was to emphasize the teachings of the Bible rather than the teachings Of the church or popes or anyone else. And that's how Luther was first saved, as I already mentioned, when he read he read and studied the book of Romans. But what did Luther do next Well, he began translating the Bible into the common language of the people, German, so that they might have the same access to the scriptures as he did Now that might not have amounted to all that much without the providential invention of the printing press by Gutenberg 80 years earlier in 1440. And one of the first things that Gutenberg printed was a copy of the Latin Bible in 1454. But now all the writings of Luther in small pamphlet form, written in the common language, German, not the scholarly Latin. and copies of the Bible were widely accessible to the public inexpensively in their own language. And you see, that's one of the key things because the Bible was translated into the language of the people. And that's how Luther's ideas and more importantly, how the study of the Bible itself became commonplace rather than obscure. Everything that the Reformers had said about the priesthood of all believers was rooted in the assumption that the people could have access to the Bible in their own language. And so Luther and the Reformers worked to translate the scriptures so that no priest, pope, or council needed to stand between the common man and the word of God. Now I need to wrap this first portion of the message up, so I simply want to emphasize the primacy of the Bible in the Reformers' teachings. Of course, a popular way to refer to the views of the reformers is by the five solas, sola scriptura, scripture alone. The Bible alone is our highest authority. So la fide, faith alone. We are saved through faith alone in Jesus Christ. Sola gratia, grace alone. We are saved by the grace of God alone. Solus Christus. Christ alone. Jesus Christ alone is our Lord, Savior, and King. And so lead Gloria to the glory of God alone. We live for the glory of God alone. But that first sola, sola scriptura, the scripture alone is our authority, is what gave rise to all the others, because justification by grace through faith in Christ alone is precisely what the Bible teaches. So in the Reformation churches, even the furniture placement was different. Instead of the altar occupying the central position, the pulpit did. As one historian put it, Uh for Rome the service revolved around the altar, but for the reformers the pulpit was given the position of priority. For Rome, the Latin Mass was the central event, but for the Reformers it was the word of the living God preached and proclaimed in the vernacular for the salvation and edification of the saints. And this was reflected in the reformers' preaching, as they usually preached verse by verse through the books of the Bible. And they expounded the meaning of the biblical text, explaining the intent of the author, and applied then the text to their listeners. The point of the passage became the point of the sermon. The Reformers preach through the books of the Bible often chapter by chapter and verse by verse. Calvin, just taking one example, expounded his way uh through the uh entire through entire books of the Bible. He preached, and I cannot believe this, for the amount of time it takes me to to prepare one message, how did he do this? Well, there was no internet. I guess there was nothing else going on. I have no idea. I don't care. But he preached nine or ten times a week. I just can't imagine that, including Monday through Friday at 6 a. m. in the morning. I for sure cannot imagine that. I'm not an early riser, uh unless I have to be. Well typically Sundays were uh occupied with the New Testament, though he did uh preach a series on the Psalms on Sunday afternoons and weekdays were devoted to the Old Testament. A hundred and fifty-nine sermons on Job. 200 on Deuteronomy, 48 on Ephesians, 65 on the Synoptic Gospels, 194 sermons on 1 and 2 Samuel. The Reformation was first and foremost about the Word of God, which the people of God needed more than anything else. Now in light of all this, uh most people hearing preaching at least seven times a week, pardon me if I don't get a little bit perturbed. at some even in my own church who think that the sermon times uh uh at the some local churches one time a week should be shortened Really? Well, what are we saying about the primacy of Scripture when we advocate that? As J. C. Ryle wrote 140 years ago. But I think it's applicable today. He says it was the reading and circulation of the Scripture which mainly established the cause of Protestantism. in England, Germany, and Switzerland. Without it, the people would probably have returned to their former bondage when the first reformers died. But by the reading of the Bible the public mind became gradually leavened with the principles of true religion. The people knew too much. They had seen the light, they had heard the joyful sound, they had tasted the truth, the sun. had risen on their minds, the scales had fallen from their eyes, the Bible had done its appointed work within them, and that work was not to be overthrown. So if you and I want revival, we need to emphasize the primacy of reading and preaching Scripture just as the Reformers did 500 years ago. The effects are truly revolutionary and counter-cultural. So that's my first point about revival. A historical one. Revival happened in the Reformation because of access to and emphasis upon the Bible. Second, and following directly from that point, our revival today begins with being saturated with God's Word Our revival today begins with being saturated with God's Word. It's exactly the same process Yes, lots of things have changed in 500 years. My wife and I have just uh recently watched some of the old Rockford files I don't know if any of you ever watched uh James Garner as Rockford. I think it's an hysterical show. But what's really funny is how so many things have changed in the years that that show uh first aired. I mean it it N you can't just pull out your cell phone, you gotta find some payphone somewhere and all sorts of things. Just in in thirty years well I know a lot of things have changed in 500 years. But if you and I want revival today, it hasn't changed. We need to be saturated in the Word of God. Not sprinkled, but saturated. Now, since I've already argued that it's the Bible that's primary, and yet I've spent all of our time thus far on a brief but important history lesson, I'd better establish this point from Scriptures. And so I've chosen Psalm 119 as the text. Now, Psalm 119, as you know, has 170 six verses. So I don't know if you had plans this afternoon, but no, I'm just kidding. Uh no, uh sadly I won't be preaching verse by verse uh through it or I will get booted out of here before I get through the first couple sections. Instead, I will simply highlight various verses. Why did I pick Psalm 119? Well, because it's all about the Word of God. It has 22 sections. of eight verses each, and it's an alphabetic acrostic. And that means that each section begins with a different letter of the Hebrew alphabet in order. The first section always begins with Aleph, the first letter. The next verses with Daith and so forth, all the way through the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet So in essence, it's saying that this is the A to Z or a complete and thorough explanation of the priority and importance of the Word of God. Now, if you want the condensed version of the Psalm, Psalm 19, verses 7 to 11, which I preached on Here, the last time I was with you in the middle of July, that really sums it up nicely. But think about this for a moment. Psalm 119 is the longest chapter in the entire Bible by far. And what's it about? The importance of the Word of God. So, what does it say about the Scriptures? First of all, God's word is authoritative. God's word is authoritative. There are eight words that are commonly used as synonyms for God's word here in Psalm 119. In my message last month on Psalm 19, I went into some details of each word used there, but here I will simply summarize. It is God's word, that is his truth, because it's his self-revelation. It is his saying, emphasizing that it's God's speech, not man's. It is God's law to be obeyed as such. They are his testimonies, a faithful witness of God's word. They are his precepts, a set of divine principles to follow. They are his statutes engraved in stone. speaking of the binding force and permanence of his word. They are his commandments, emphasizing they are divine decrees, not suggestions. and they are his judgments, speaking of divinely rendered verdicts. As the judge of all the earth, his verdict is fine. All of these words emphasize the authority of God's Word. And since virtually every verse has this theme, I won't belabor the point. The point is, though, that you and I don't get to pick and choose which scriptures we like and which scriptures we don't. All of it is God's authoritative word. Second, God's word is reliable. It's not enough to be authoritative. A dictator can be authoritative, but he isn't always right. God's word is reliable. Psalm 119. 89 says, Forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven. It is unchanging. Some of my favorite computer programs get updated. New and improved, they say. But they aren't new and improved, and sometimes they take some features away that I always liked. So I'm not always happy. Some of you are old enough, and you will probably laugh at this example. It's just a favorite one of mine. Remember the new Coke? Fiasco, back in 1985, just a little bit dated, Koch decided they would change the formula of its flagship product, and they took the old product off the market and they replaced it with a sweeter version. The backfire was intense and quick, and within three months, actually 77 days, they reintroduced the old Coke brand, which they labeled classic Coke, for a while Sadly, by the way, politicians often do the same thing, changing their position on issues when they become unpopular. Well, God isn't like that. He doesn't change his standards from one generation to the next. He doesn't do a marketing test or take a poll to judge public opinion. His word is reliable and it doesn't change. Psalm 119, verses 151 and 152 says, all your commandments are truth. Long ago I have known from your decrees that you have established them forever. And verse 160 says, The entirety of your word is truth, and all your righteous judgments endure forever. Well, third, God's word is relevant. It's just as relevant to today's culture as when it was written. Cultures may change, but the basic human condition has not changed. And so God's Word speaks with practical relevance to every culture in every period of history in every place across the globe. Let me list just a few of the ways, of the many ways that the Bible is relevant to us today. First, it is relevant because it provides direction. It provides direction. Verse 105 of Psalm 119 says, Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. We don't have to walk in darkness because God's word illuminates the path of light. When we have to make a decision, it provides the way to go. Verse 130 says the same thing. The unfolding of your words gives life. It gives understanding to the simple. It also helps us to avoid error. Verse 104 says, Through your precepts I get understanding. Therefore I hate every false way. Because it gives us wisdom and discernment, God's word guards us against going down the wrong path. Second, it is relevant because it produces purity It produces purity. How do we avoid sin and impure thoughts? By saturating ourselves in God's Word. John Bunyan, the author of Pilgrim's Progress, wrote in the cover of his Bible, and I like this, either this book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. That's why you and I need to keep reading the Bible even when we least feel like it, because that is often the time of our greatest need. Psalm 119, verses 9 and 11, say, How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. Your word I have hidden in my heart that I might not sin against you. Verse 37 says, Turn away my eyes from looking at worthless things and revive me in your way. I know there have been all kinds of temptations in every age. But it seems to me that the availability of pornography and other worthless things through the airways and the internet makes this a huge issue. What is the antidote? Saturating ourselves with the Word of God. As Philippians 4. 8 says, finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there's any excellence, if there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. Third, the Bible is relevant because it provides reassurance and peace during trials. It provides reassurance and peace during trials. Now maybe there might be somebody here that's never gone through any trial, so this doesn't apply to you. But somehow I doubt that. Now, sometimes the word needs to correct us when our trials of our own making. Verse 67 says, Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. Verse 71 says, It's good for me that I was afflicted that I might learn your statutes. But most of the time in this Psalm, the psalmist speaks of going through trials unjustly. For instance, verse 23 says, Even though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will meditate on your statues. And verse 143 says, Trouble and anguish have overtaken me, yet your commandments are my delight. And verses 161 to 162 says, Princes, persecute me without a cause, but my heart stands in awe of your word. I rejoice at your word as one who finds great treasure And then verse 165 says, Great peace have those who love your law nothing. can make them stumble. The point is that when we have trials, when others may be saying things against us or other issues of life afflict us, it's easy to see those as the only important things and focus our minds on that. But when we look at God's word, it provides us with perspective and it provides us with peace and reassurance. Just yesterday I attended a memorial service for Pick Lau, the wife of a seminary student I taught a number of years ago. And uh she was just a wonderful giving, supportive person, only fifty-eight years old. She had cancer a year ago. Things looked good for about a year. We actually had uh Kevin and Pick uh in our home just two months ago. And she told us the news that the cancer had come back. And now she's with the Lord. The thing that just strikes me and struck me again yesterday as I listened to testimony after testimony, she stayed steadfast. In God's word and in his promises, and knew what she desired, but also knew that ultimately it's in God's hands And the very interesting thing, she retired uh from her job maybe a year or so ago, and she dedicated herself, she was originally going to get right into ministry, she decided no, she'd spend that year, maybe two years, in focusing on the Word of God. You know, focusing on the Word of God. And that was her rock all the way through, even when she went to be with the Lord just a few weeks ago. God's word provides us with peace and reassurance that the promises of God are far more important than the threats of men or the various trials that you and I may be undergoing. And finally, God's word is relevant because it brings revival and delight. God's word is relevant because it brings revival and delight. You may not really be all that interested in this, but the reason I was drawn to Psalm 119 in the first place wasn't just because it was the longest chapter in the Bible and that it was all about the preciousness of God's word. It also is filled with verses about revival more than any other passage. In fact, the phrase revive me is a particular form of the Hebrew verb to give life. and used with the first person pronoun suffix, me, it occurs nine times in this chapter and nowhere else in the Old Testament. So, do you want revival? Well, you need to turn to Psalm 119. Verse 23 says, My soul clings to the dust. Revive me according to your word. Verse 37, we already looked at. Turned away my eyes from looking at worthless things. Revive me in your way. Verse 40, behold, I long for your precepts. Revive me in your righteousness. Verse 88, revive me according to your loving kindness, so that I may keep the testimony of your mouth. 107. I'm afflicted very much. Revive me, O Lord, according to your word. 149. Hear my voice according to your loving kindness, O Lord. Revive me according to your justice. 154, plead my cause and redeem me, revive me according to your word. 156, great are your tender mercies, O Lord, revive me according to your judgments. And finally, 159, consider how I love your precepts. Revive me, O Lord, according to your loving kindness. Continuously in these passages. Revival is paired with God's word. It is God's word that refreshes us, revives us, gives us life, and yes, even delights us. Nine times as well, the psalmist says that God's word brings delight. You're saying he's not going to mention all nine, is he? No He's not. Just a few. Verse 35. Make me walk in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it. Verse 92, unless your law had been my salvation, uh uh had been my delight, I would then have perished in my affliction. He And verse one seventy-four, I long for your salvation, O Lord, and your law is my delight. As many of you know, the psalmist in Psalm 1-2 says the same thing, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night So why should you and I study and be saturated in God's Word today, just as in the time of the Reformation, because God's Word is authoritative. It is reliable and for sure it is relevant. It provides us direction, it produces purity, it provides reassurance and peace during trials, and it brings revival and delight. Now maybe you have been saying to yourself during this message, well that's all fine and good, but brother, don't you know this is a Bible-believing church? So this sermon doesn't apply to me. Really? Well, how are you evaluating your Bible knowledge? Are you comparing yourself to somebody else, maybe who you know who doesn't even go to church? Would you like me to hand out a little quiz to test your Bible knowledge of all 66 books? You know, I did this in my Sunday school class before we started a series on the minor prophets a year ago. And uh I gave them a simple quiz. And my class, I don't want this getting back to them in a bad way, my class is a fabulous group of intelligent, knowledgeable believers. But let's just say they did rather poorly on my little quiz. So I'm sorry, I just don't buy that we're all we've all arrived. I have not arrived at all. Every single time I study a book of the Bible, I learn new things that I never saw before. Well, let's say you do agree with me that the most important ingredient in our revival is to be saturated with God's Word. Well, how do we go about that? Let me give you a couple of tips. First, get started today. Don't put it off if you believe that the Lord or the Holy Spirit is prompting you through this message. Set a plan in motion if you don't already have one. Second, make the plan according to your own situation. If you've never read the Bible through, you may want to start there I did that when I was 13 years old. I was in a hospital bed for a month because I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and almost died. And I decided that I needed to get serious with God in whatever time I had left in my life, which at that point I didn't think was very much. Pretty funny. I'm now 52 years later and I'm still here. But I read the Bible through front to back in a year. Now I'm not sure that was the best way to do it, frankly. Some days I read through pretty quickly, just kind of to check off, you know, that I had done it. But it's a start. It was for me, and it will be for you if you haven't done that already. I suggest, by the way, using one of the online aids to reading the Bible in a year. I recommend those that have you reading a little from the Old Testament, some from the New Testament each day The Navigators has a great looking plan available online that has you reading a little from the four sections, the Gospels, the other New Testament books, the poetical books. and then the other Old Testament books each day. And you may want to take two years rather than just one. If you've already read the Bible through at least once, then you may want to do a more focused uh reading, study, and meditation. on a book or a section that you are least familiar with. But make a plan and stick to it. Don't beat yourself up over it. Make it a realistic plan. Uh but the idea is to start simply, but build up your reading time as you continue. I often like to ask the question, do you spend as much time reading the Bible as you do, well, I don't know, watching sports, watching the internet, watching movies? Whatever. And the answer is usually well no, reading the scripture kind of falls a bit short. Third, Read humbly, prayerfully, expectantly, and with a view to applying the scripture to your own life Just reading without meditating on it and applying it to our lives gives us a lot of knowledge, but not much spiritual renewal. As James 1. 22 says, but be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. Fourth, if you're not already involved in a Bible study group or Sunday school class, you're at church or elsewhere, I'd strongly recommend getting involved It can be a great encouragement to study the Bible with others, and it also provides some measure of accountability. And finally, don't make excuses as to why this won't work for you because you just don't have the time. I'm convinced that you and I make time for the things we really want to do. And if you need more convincing that reading the Bible is something that you really want to do, I suggest an essay entitled Bible Reading by J. C. Ryle that was written 140 years ago. It's available easily on the internet. You can just Google Bible Reading and JC Ryle, R-Y-L-E, and it'll get you right to it. And if that essay doesn't stir you up Well then, humanly speaking, you're not going to get stirred up. Stirred me up a lot. If we want revival in our country, in our church, in our families, and in us. It definitely begins with us. We need to be seeking the Lord, of course, in prayer. There's so many other things that we haven't talked about this morning. Prayer is absolutely vital. We need to repent of the sins that are in our life, but above all, we need to saturate ourselves with the Word of God and apply its transforming power and counter-cultural principles. to our lives each day. Let's pray. Father, I thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for the Bible, for your the written word of God, which explains to us. The way of salvation, the path that we should go. It provides direction and clear light, Lord. Above all, we thank you for your love. Because apart from your love, none of us would be able to stand in your presence. We thank you, Lord, for the fact that you loved us so much that you sent your only Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. To live a perfect life, to die on the cross in our place for our sins, and be raised again, that if we simply put our trust in Him, we have forgiveness of sins and everlasting life. Lord, I would pray if there's anyone here this morning that's never actually trusted in Christ that they would do so today, because surely by our own works we cannot possibly approach your holiness and your righteousness. But Father, for those of us who have trusted in Christ, who do know you and love you, I pray, Father, that you would help us to be serious About studying the Word of God. Lord, there may be some that have studied it some a lot in the past, not so much now, or whatever, Lord, but help us wherever we are, Lord. to again recommit ourselves to the priority in our lives of the Word of God and its transforming power Lord, we know we surely need a lot of help in our nation and around the world and in our own families, Lord. Help it to begin with us as As we heed your word, we pray this in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.