Ever since the Supreme Court made their decision about marriage, I have been reading, and you have been reading and commenting on what that means for Christians in this country. And it is, of course, part of the perspective that we have is a political one, frankly. And as Christians, we've been given a stewardship of the American political process in the same way that you have a stewardship of your Honda. And a stewardship of your grass and of your job, you have a stewardship as a Christian of the whole American political process. And this is often forefront in our minds. And so, because it is required of a steward that a man be found faithful, We need to educate ourselves politically. Whatever party we are of, we need to find out what is happening. And that is why last Sunday night we literally read the decisions that the Supreme Court made and why they made them. Because it's required of a steward that a man be found faithful. Last Sunday morning, I wanted to give to you some data on what we should do when people say evil things about us. And out there in the Resource Center, which is the track rack, I'm kind of renaming it the Resource Center. I'm going to be putting more stuff out there for you. It's that sort of ugliish black. Bureau, you know it's out there, whatever. There is the a summary, like a spreadsheet sort of of those Bible passages that you can look at to be reminded of how we should respond. But as I was thinking about this this week and getting feedback from various people, I really think this morning we need a reminder of who we are and what our mission in life is as Christians. This certainly is something on the spirit of God's mind because he points it out to us in the Bible what we should do. If you look down at your Bibles at Ephesians 5, you'll see there a passage that has to do with the walk that we're supposed to have. Ephesians five verse two says walk in love. Walk in love. As Christ also has loved us and has given us, given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. But, and then at lit he gives a list, you know, fornication and all these things, it doesn't become uscome saints, it's not appropriate to holy ones, so Don't do these things. Verse 4, filthiness or foolish jesting. Because you know, verse 5. You know that the people that do such things won't inherit the kingdom of God. So verse 6, don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them, for ye were, you were sometimes darkness, but now you're different. Ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth. proving what is acceptable unto the Lord, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. We find in this passage, and if you'll flip over to Colossians, In Ephesians, if I could just highlight this for you, you have this expression, the children of disobedience. That is people that have not accepted Christ as their only way of salvation. And then you have in Colossians, I'll point this out to you quickly. You have this whole idea here, Colossians four, verse five. You have in Colossians 4. 5 another expression, another key term that is a reference to people who are not saved. And here it is walk in wisdom toward them that are without. It's a weird, it comes across weirdly, weirdly, is that a word? It comes across in a way we're not familiar with in the King James, but it has to do with outsiders. Walk in wisdom toward them who are outside, redeeming the time. Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned, as it were, with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer every man. The New Testament in Ephesians and here in Colossians is calling out a certain group of people. The children of disobedience, those who are outside the church, those who have not yet come to Christ. Folks, we are living, can we put it this way? I think we can. We are living as Christians amongst those who are outside of Christ who are in fact under the wrath of God, the very children of disobedience. You and I work with them We play with them. We might go to a football game with them. We relate to them. How in the world are we supposed to have relationships with them? How do we relate to people that are outside? When I was growing up, I was warned strongly, don't hang out with Those who drink and gamble and chew and those who do, you know, those kind of statements. And and I really learned, I was discipled in the in the churches where I grew up, that when people out there are doing bad things Make sure you don't join in. Now that would be consistent with what we just read in Ephesians, right? Don't have fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. And that has often, in my experience, been a theme that's run its way through all the churches I've been involved with through the years. That's true. But that's not complete. Our job as Christians who are Americans is not just to denounce sin. Are we denouncers? Are we critics of everything? I mean, do we just spend our time commenting on what's happening out there? You see, folks, I'll be a little transparent. Sometimes I grow afraid of what's happening in our culture. Do you? And frankly, if we're to be completely honest this morning, and we're always honest, but let's say the transparent. We'll try to be always honest, right? Are we worried about our bottom line? Are we worried about how the Supreme Court decision will affect our bank accounts? Are we more worried about our bank accounts than we are about the souls of men and women who are the children of disobedience and who will one day burn in an everlasting hell because they reject Christ? Bank account? Everlasting soul. What are we upset about as Christians who are Americans? Just think that through. And when I think that through, I have to say kind of what the old preacher said, ouch. It's a little convicting to me. So this morning I want to preach to you for what the remainder of our time on what to do Living in a land of outsiders. Living amongst the children of disobedience. How should we do this? What are some biblical principles that we should remember? And hopefully this will move us away from I'm terrified to Well, you know what? Nothing's really changed. We are salt and light in the world serving an amazing God, and he will see us through. So let's start right now with looking back at Ephesians, and I want to remind you of how Paul handles this, and I want to talk about the New Testament. So bear with me. And I'll see if I can throw in some stories to make this more interesting so that I can keep your attention. Alright, fact number one that is that I just fascinates me. In the New Testament, is there any passage that teaches you how to evangelize the lost? Is there anything in the New Testament that explicitly gives instruction? on do this, sort of like a way of the master plan or a uh an EE program. Is that in your Bible? How many of you think yes Okay? I would think it would be. How much in your New Testament is said about the how-tos of evangelism? Okay, how many of you say not a whole lot? I'm raising my left hand, that's not good. Right hand. I don't know why that's not good, but okay, so I I think I'm sensing a little bit of iffiness here, and and I think you're right to say that. Because there are hints and expressions and things that the Spirit of God writes to us, early Christians, about those who are outside. Okay? But there's not a whole lot there on ten steps to evangelize your Gentile neighbor As a matter of fact, if we were to put uh um this is sort of a preliminary fact to keep in mind, there is surprisingly little. In the New Testament, when it comes to methods of evangelism, there is shockingly little Here's the pattern that you see, and it's right here in Ephesians. Let me let me lead you through this pattern. First, there's doctrine Right? We know this. Ephesians 1, 2, and 3. Then there's the worthy walk, Ephesians 4, 1, walk worthy. I beseech you that you walk worthy. And then there is this talk of the church and your relationships in the church. That's Ephesians 4. And then in Ephesians 5, there is this talk, further talk about who we are in Christ. And then you just see these statements thrown in, like the ones I just read to you. Okay, this is who you are. And this is what's happening out there. So walk this way. And here's what I want to do. I want to go through and just lead you through The way that this seems to be a New Testament pattern. It's here in Ephesians, then it's also in Colossians, to try to find our place in this world. This last week, I was looking at articles on people who had lost their religious liberty and frankly been persecuted in our country because of their stand on the marriage issue. I don't know how many of you followed when the president of Mozilla Firefox, which is a web browser, pretty much lost his job because he had donated to the Proposition 8, I think it was called. campaign in California. But he was he had his position, I believe, for 11 weeks. I might be wrong on that. It was only a few weeks. And then he resigned because of all the pressure that was put on him because it became public that he opposed same-gender marriage. I then went and read an article that was an editorial piece from Forbes magazine, and I expected some kind of clarity, and what I got was a A tirade where the individual said, it's a good thing he didn't have that position. This is serious. This guy was dead wrong, and he deserved to be ousted from that position. Folks, you read that, you see that. Where is your place in the midst of this? Who are you? And that's exactly where Paul starts in Ephesians 1. Now, folks, I know we've looked at this before, but try to just think this through and let it be a blessing to you at the end. First, Ephesians 1, Paul, there are various ways to say this, but I'm going to try to sum it up this way. He identifies you. He identifies who you are. In New Testament theology, this is not addition where you look at all your desires. all the things you want and hope for and you make a list. I want this number one, I want that number two, and kind of at the bottom you get an equal sign and you get a total. That's not how the New Testament identifies you. Look at Ephesians 1, verse 3. There's this praise song: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. In this particular passage, the emphasis is on what God has done for us In New Testament terms, Christians can identify themselves by first looking at what God has done for them. What has He done? He's blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. And what has he done? He has verse 4. He's chosen us in him. And then he gives this list, and you remember that this This is a psalm, a sort of a song that has three stanzas dealing with God the Father, what he has done, and then what he has done through Christ, and then what he has done through his spirit. You are people. I'm looking at eternal beings who have already received every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Your back hurts now, but it's not always going to hurt. You get sore feet now, but you won't always have sore feet. You'll go out and mow the grass, but that is not always the way it is. You have been given the blessings, but you're not enjoying all of them yet, but you are a people who have been blessed with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Chosen before the foundation of the world, Christ Himself dying on your behalf, sealed with the Spirit of God. That's who you are. You ever think that way when you go down to Green Valley Marketplace and you're walking around and you're looking at the different people? Do you ever, do you ever, maybe you're like me, you rush in, you get a gallon of milk, and you rush out. But do you ever look around at the people everywhere? How many of those people at Aronald Mills Mall are blessed with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ? How many? When you're at the hospital visiting someone that's sick, how many people are like that? Now look, our country and where it's headed right now, not good. But there is a sense in which you can be completely unaffected by that. Every blessing, it's already yours, and it will never be taken away. Why not walk in a way that's consistent with that? Think this way. So Paul starts here. This is who you are as a Christian. The language you speak is irrelevant. The country you're from is irrelevant. If you are born again, this is you. Eternal blessings. Not only this, but we know he goes on in verse in chapter one to pray that we understand this. And really, folks, isn't this true? It's hard to understand. What he just wrote in chapter one. Do you understand this? Do you understand verse five? I mean, do you understand it? And it's become a part of your experience. He's predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. Do you understand, verse 9, having made known unto us all the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times Wow. So you need prayer, and I need prayer to understand that. And that's what he we he prays for all of us. And the church in Ephesus in ver in chapter one, when you go down and you see In verse 16, he ceases not to give thanks and to make mention of you in my prayers. All right, so so that's a lot, but he doesn't stop. He doesn't stop identifying you Because in chapter 2, verse 1, he talks about what you were before you were saved. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. And you, and hath a quickened, and that really is an italics, it's not in the original, but It's later on in the passage that you have been brought to life, given life, who were dead in trespasses and sins. And in chapter 2, starting at verse 1 and down to verse, you see the expression in verse 5, even when ye were dead in sins, hath quickened us together. And the King James translators wanted to bring that thought up to verse 1 to somehow make it sort of fit better. But that is the idea given life The first paragraph in chapter 2 is that you are alive in Christ. You are alive in Him. Eternal blessings in the heavenly places in Christ. God the Father has given that to us, and He has given us, secondly, life. Now, what does that mean? What does it mean in this context? Well, you look down at what you were, and you look at what you are, and you see a contrast. Look at verse 2. You used to walk according to this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in, and there's our expression, the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation or our conduct in times past in the desires of our flesh. the lust, the desires, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. We were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But this God, but God who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, has given us life together with Christ, for by grace are ye saved. Before Christ BC, look at your Bible again at verse 2. You were walking according to what someone according to what the world and the devil wanted. There were pathways in your life. They were pathways made by the world and the devil, and you walked those pathways. Not only pathways, but conduct and sinful desires. Dead in that context. I don't have my my wireless, so I can't come down there to keep you awake. So try to stay with me here. What does this look like? Well, it looks like what we see in Baltimore when they have Gay Pride Month And they block off the city streets. And the men and women wear these really immodest costumes. And they walk, they parade themselves up and down the street But it's more than that. That might be sort of a flamboyant expression of it. It's found in a woman who dumps her husband for another guy And there's no grounds for divorce, just irreconcilable differences, and she doesn't really care. She has a desire for that guy. Or it's even more like this, you know, uh it's found in men who neglect their wives because they wash their two cars every Saturday and they haven't gone out on a on a date in months. They just don't care. They have this These desires, and they go after them, the desires of the flesh. They want to fulfill the desires of the flesh. There are the pathways that they walk and the desires that they have, and this is called death. Folks, that's what you and I were before we were saved. And that's what I was trying to point out last week. You and I are nothing without this book. Without the gospel, we're in those parades. And all our righteousnesses before God are filthy rags. We were following the spirit that worketh in the children of disobedience. But now he's given us life He's raised us up together. Look at your Bible in Ephesians 2. 6, to sit together in heavenly places with Christ Jesus that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Every spiritual blessing from death to life. Now here is here's a key application now. It's key right here in the passage for us. Do you think, verse 4, that God is willing? The God who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us, do you think he is willing? To save more people out of death and to grant them life today? Or have we gotten to a time in America when God no longer saves people who are dead and grants them life? I'm kind of scared that we live that way. We look at the hard cases We see those parades and we think there's no hope. Has God gotten out of the business of saving souls? Or have you forgotten what a jerk you were before you were saved? Have you forgotten how God has cleansed you from your sins? 2 Peter chapter, or see, 1 Peter 1 or 2 Peter 1, have you become short-sighted, nearsighted, where you can't understand what He saved you from? Here's something that should startle us and shock us. God looks down at the most wicked acts that humanity can ever do. And his posture toward this sin-filled, disgusting earth is rich mercy and love. If we could sort of draw a posture to God, illustrate maybe if he Jesus, his body, has to have a body, it is not like this. It's like this. Be reconciled to me. Be reconciled to me. That posture has not changed. May I remind you that in the first century when Nero sat on his throne, And Christians were burned in the streets. And every homosexual act and heterosexual sexual act that is outside of scriptural norms and boundaries was practiced. Folks, the pornography of those days was not on the internet. It was in the murals and the uh the artwork on the sides of the buildings. And I know we look at the naked statues. What I'm saying is we're aware of the statues, statuary that was done by the Romans as they copied the Greeks. Look, how many of them have clothes on? Nothing has changed. Solomon said there's nothing new under the sun. And those Christians existed during the first and second centuries under intense persecution. But the God of mercy still had his arms stretched out. Look at that passage again, verse 4. Rich in mercy. This is an emphasis. It's not just mercy, but there's this wealth of it. There's this superabundance of it. And God is like that. And there's this great love wherewith he loved us when we were dead. Yes, sin parades itself in the streets. It hides itself in the houses. It scurries through the darkness to the local pub and bar to do things that should never be done. But that does not change the availability of the mercy of God. Are we preoccupied with the persecution and we have to deal with that? But should we not also pray for the souls of those who are caught up in this? Identify yourself. Who are you, Christian? Who are you? Certainly, Paul is weaving into this. identification, some applications. So what is this? If you look at chapter 2 again, it is in a word, verse 8, Grace. It is grace. Now does that mean there's no condemnation? And does that mean that people who no, they're children of disobedience They're under the wrath of God, just like you and I were before we were saved. But now there is this free gift. And it is available to all. Verse 9: not of works, lest any man should boast. It's by grace we're saved, verse 8, through faith, not of yourselves. It's the free gift, it's the gift of God. That gift was available during the days of Nero, and it is available now. So, eternal blessings. Life. But then there is this, and this might not strike you as meaningful, but it certainly is if you look at your Bible at verse 11. Wherefore remember that being in time past, Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision. But that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands. And what he's going to talk about now is the unity of the church. Before you were far away from God, far, far away. Look at verse 12. That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. having no hope and without God in the world, but now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off Are made nigh by the blood of Christ. And the rest of chapter two is this the content about the church, Jew, and Gentile both together in this body before God. United, those who were far are now brought near. The best case example of this would be people in the book of Acts Gentiles who didn't even know the Jewish scriptures, who through the preaching of the gospel are now near, now know. Folks, how far away are Seriously, how far away are the Supreme Court justices from understanding God and the gospel On a scale from one to ten, one being really close to the gospel and ten, or I say one being very far away from the gospel, and ten being close, would you give them maybe a three? You could pick each justice and say, this one I think knows the gospel because he has a Catholic background. Maybe somehow he knows, and this one doesn't, and this one. How would you estimate that I mean, I don't know what I would say. I don't know them, but they are people. They're not just a court on some ivory tower, they're individuals. Folks, have we eat have you prayed for their salvation? You and I, you and I And I were so far away from God and God's Word. You know the testimonies I hear from you? You say things like, Before I was saved, I didn't read a Bible. I didn't want to read a Bible. When someone quoted a Bible verse, I I was like Who cares? Or if somebody prayed. I like the things that I liked. I was way out there. And isn't that true, folks? The way things are right now. People are so far away from the Judeo-Christian values that this country used to have. They're miles, they're thousands of miles away. But there is this thing. Look at your Bible again. There is in verse 13 the blood of Christ. There is the possibility that those who are far off, verse 13, can be made nigh or near. The people that you would never ever hope to be saved. The blood is still the blood. Jesus still died for sinners and he still saves. They can still be saved. And so that's what he says in the rest of chapter two. He talks about the church, and you see down there that uh Oh, let's look at verse 18. For through him we both have access, both being Jew and Gentile alike, by one Spirit unto the Father. And we're no longer strangers or foreigners, but we're fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. And then he talks about The foundation of this being the apostles and the prophets and so on, and Jesus being the chief cornerstone. Where do we go from here? Well, he talks about his special ministry that he was given Paul wants the Ephesians to know that he knows a lot about this. This is kind of his thing. God commissioned him to have this special ministry to the Gentiles to preach to them. And he describes this in verse 8 of chapter 3. He says, Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery from which from the beginning of the world hath been hidden God, who created all things by Jesus Christ. He talks about a mystery which is something that wasn't previously known. But now is known that the Gentiles can be the people of God. And so he bows the knee in verse 14. Chapter 3, verse 14. For this cause I bow my knees. Unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened And then he talks about Christ and what that strength involves. And then he ends here in verse 18 that we might be able to comprehend along with everyone, every saint. What is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge, that we might be filled with all the fullness of God Look, folks, when an apostle writes that in his letter, the point is, if you really understood the spiritual blessings, if you really understood that you are alive and you were dead, but now you're alive, and if you really appreciate it. That you've been brought into this body of Christ, there is going to be the fullness of God in you. Understanding, appreciation, the result of filling of the love of God, adoration, and praise and worship. Where in that is the possibility of fear of reacting with our keyboards on a blog about the Supreme Court's decision? If you're really secure in who you are in Christ, does that not give us the platform to reach out in love? Perfect fear, a perfect love casts out fear. And understanding who we are in Christ gives us the stability. To lay our hands on the leper's head and to do what no one else can do. And now Quickly, I'm sorry, I'm just reviewing this for you, but really it's the main chunk of the sermon here. We end up With the worthy walk of chapter four. And I'm not going to go through all of that, but all of this affects the way that we live, and the way that we live, he really wants us. If you look at chapter four, verse seventeen, he brings this down and he says, Look, I don't want you to walk as the other Gentiles in the vanity of their mind, and he reminds us again of what it's like to be before Christ. Verse 18, there's this darkened understanding. There's this separation between us and the life of God. There are these insensitive hearts. Verse 19. We're past feeling. But now. And then he tells us to put off some things and put on other things. And we end up in verse 32 with an admonition of kindness to one another. And then there is this admonition if you go to chapter 5. That we walk in wisdom as children of light, proving what is acceptable unto God. And look down at I'm sorry at chapter five, verse fourteen. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as unwise. And in Colossians, the parallel passage says, to walk with wisdom to those who are outside. And that that that let's try to hang in there. I know I don't have my, I don't care. Alright, here's where all this is leading. This is all leading to this one point. If you've been blessed with all the spiritual blessings If you were alive along the dead, if you were part of this body of Christ, you now go out into the world, how does that type of a person walked in the midst of the world. How does that kind of an individual live out amongst establishments? What choices will you make with your words and your deeds? How will you live the life that God has given you? See all the responses and the words that you work that you need out there. They're so dependent upon who you are in Christ. In other words, your actions are tied to your character. It's not like we have to think of a new method because we don't get a new method in the New Testament. Boldness, confidence. It's that we need, when we're out there, we're not in a room of other Christians. We need to be reminded of who we are so that we can simply have in a manner that is consistent with who we are. Walk worthy of the location where we're called falling So it's like this. If I take my dog to your house, which I won't do, he has social problems right now. But if I bring my dog to your house and he walks in and he says, yeah Something that's not consistent. Even the dog, he shouldn't be barking as he's meowing in the house. Or if I Bring a Ravens fan over to watch a game where the Ravens are playing Redskins and he's put into Redskins! Yeah. Wait a minute, I thought you were a Ravens fan It's really hard, isn't it, to be who you really are? Really? It's a challenge. I remember when I was working at UPS, we had a fellow there who said he was gay and he was very confident he would try to evangelize me. And being a student at that time at a Bible college, we knew what he had quite a few discussions about. Didn't know what to say. I didn't know how to say But I did know that I was a Christian and that he was an author to know what he was doing to me. You don't have to be a political scientist. You don't have to be a genius. Just be who you are Uh right. Well, it's still use that. It's like mom said for the offer. It's a few roads and fishes. In the hands of Christ dead 5,000 plus. That's good, let's pray right now. Lord is we as we come before