So how are you feeling? Good thumbs up, bad thumbs down, meh, thumbs middle. Right. So this left this week I read about what's called the winter blues. It seems like to be a real thing As I read it from a National Institutes of Health newsletter, winter blues is usually triggered by something specific. It could be the stressful holidays, or it could be reminders of absent loved ones. But apparently winter blues is nothing to fret about. More severe is what's known as the seasonal affective disorder. Sad, S A D, right? Um the shortening of daylight hours disrupts uh your body's internal clock Doesn't help that it's really cold as expected. SAD's more common in the northern parts of the US. Like most forms of depression, there's gloominess, hopelessness, irritability. Some treatment options include light therapy. I didn't know this was a thing, but um antidepressants, maybe certain types of social activities. Now, if seasonal affective disorder sad is the worst thing we ever faced, I'd be happy, but of course it's not. There are plenty of other bad things that can happen to us and that do happen to us. And even as Christians, life's not all roses, right? On top of the normal ups and downs. We face unique perils as followers of Jesus. But even as we face the worst trials, we have the access to the best resources We saints have the gospel, the precious good news of Jesus. Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians 4, 7 to 9, we have this treasure in treasure in earthen vessels that the excellence of the power may be of God and not of us. What does this mean? We are hard pressed on every side Yet not crushed. We are perplexed, but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed. More broadly speaking, we are have the scriptures. Psalm 119, 45, 49 to 50 tells us we are to hope in it. It is our comfort in affliction. It gives life. And speaking of songs, I'm grateful for the way it helps us in this season, even with our disorders and depressions. To be clear, I'm not against professional and medicinal health. I just believe so strongly in God's word and his power to get to the root of our problems And what we have in the middle of our Bibles can get to the bottom of our issues. It both reveals our ailment and points to the solution. In the preface of his uh commentary on Psalms, John Kelvin said this. I have been accustomed to call this book, I think not inappropriately, an anatomy of the soul. For there is not an emotion of which anyone can Or rather, the Holy Spirit has drawn to life to the life all the griefs, sorrows, fears, doubts, hopes, cares, perplexity, and the In short, all the distracting emotions with which the minds of men are wont to be agitated. So, yes, the Psalms are effective diagnostic tools. Whether we got the blues or just feel sad, right? We can turn to them for spiritual help. They're better than WebMD, which my wife has banned in our home. Remember that as we continue our sermon series, keep calm and read Psalms. So to address our spiritual ailments, we open up the scriptures, turn to the Psalms, but you ask. Which of the Psalms? Well, in this season, nearing Christmas, we look for those that point us to Christ. They're called Messianic Psalms. Within this larger category, we we're sampling a psalm from Uh each pod feels three subcategories. There are one strictly messianic psalms, two extended messianic psalms. Psalms and three alternate messianic Psalms. First, strictly messianic Psalms look directly to Jesus. They do not have any near fulfillment, that is, near the time of his writing in the life of David. other kings of the past. Psalm one ten is a famous one. And so is Psalm two, which we covered in the middle of November Secondly, in extended messianic Psalms, the primary subjects, not Jesus, according to a plain reading of the passage, but then the later New Testament writers reveal how the extended meaning is messianic. One well-known example of Psalm 8, which we covered late November and last week. Thirdly, in ultimate messianic Psalms, there's a partial fulfillment in David's life But its ultimate fulfillment can only be in Jesus. Examples include Psalm 16. 22 and 40. We'll look at Psalm 40 from today until the middle of January, looking at a few verses per week. We start today with the heading and verses 1 to 3. So let's read. Psalm forty, one two three To the chief musician, a Psalm of David, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he rock and establish my steps. He has put a new song in my mouth. Praise to our God. Many will see it and fear and will trust in the Lord. As a prologue, here are two observations on the background of Psalm 40. One's a textual observation based on the last five verses, the other is a musical observation based on the Superscription above verse 1. First careful readers, we'll notice that Psalm 40 verse 13 to 17 are essentially the same as Psalm 70 This has led to speculations. Some think that Psalm 40 is made up of two distinct parts joined together. Other think that Psalm 40 incorporates material from Psalm 70, and Psalm 70 is the earlier Psalm. Still others move in the other direction. They say Psalm 70 came later, taking from the last bit of Psalm 40 God only knows how David put this together. All else is speculation and frankly not that important. So that's that Psalm 40's textual background There's far more certainty about Psalm 40's musical background. For that, we go up to the top of the top to look at the superscription, the two phrases above verse 1. Talked about the chief musician a few weeks ago. It's a title mentioned 55 times in Psalms, once in Habakku. A modern parallel might be a choir director or worship leader. We know a few who held this office in other passages, but no one's named here. We do know for certain that Psalm forty is a Psalm of David. As for the questions of when and where is heart to pinpoint? David's been down and out multiple times in his life. He had countless troubles and numerous enemies, even before he became king. So that's about all we can gather for background. More relevance was at the foreground. From David's words in verses 1 to 3, we can learn much about three topics: petition, deliverance, testimony. We learn how to have God's ear. Get back on our feet and bear witness with our mouths. This is how we get out of our funk, seasons of despair. Not about grit or the indomitable human spirit. It's about waiting on the Lord. Experience His rescue and praising him before all. So here's what to do when you're in dire straits. Verse 1, wait patiently and prayerfully for the Lord. Verse 2, know where you fell and who makes you stand. Verse 3, praise God anew and inspire others to faith. First, when you get knocked down to get up again, wait patiently and prayerfully for the Lord. Let me reread verse 1. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined to me and heard my cry. A few things jump out of the page in the original language. Verse one begins with a repetition. The verb wait is used twice in a row. First in its infinitive form and the second in perfect. If you want to be literal, David saying in waiting I waited In Hebrew, this is a perfectly normal way to put emphasis on a particular action. First famous example is Genesis 2, 16-17. But as you see in our translations in English, normally we don't repeat words or emphasis We use adverbs. We don't say waiting, I waited. We say I waited patiently. Now let me put this verse up here. So again this emphasis grabs our attention immediately in Psalm 40 verse 1 Okay, but if you had read a few earlier Psalms, you would have seen this coming. Specifically, it helps to start from Psalm thirty-seven and work your way up to forty. Maybe you can do that for homework. Derek Kittner writes, the theme of waiting expounded in Psalm 37 has had its painful application in Psalms 38 to 39. But now it's triumphant outcome. Gerald Wilson, the commentator I mentioned last week, agrees the theme of waiting for Yahweh in the midst of trouble that began in Psalm 37 and Continued through Psalm 38 and 39 is sounded again in 40, verse 1. It seems significant that the enduring expectancy commanded in 3734, affirmed by the psalmist commitment in 3815. And reflected in the narrative of Psalm 39 shall reach such a definite conclusion in the emphatic construction of 40, verse 1. So besides the obvious emphasis on waiting, what distinguishes verse forty, verse one Chapter 40 verse 1 is the words that follow, and he inclined to me. You may not hear that word incline often today. It's more common to speak of inclination, which means tendency. I guess if you go to the gym, there's the inclined bench people use. So what does David mean here when he says the Lord inclined to me? Try to picture this. Say you visit a Shutdin. of who's bedridden, say an elderly church member, or your parent or grandparent in old age, he or she's too far too weak to sit up at the table and speak clearly and audibly to you. So what do you do? You bend down and put your ear as close as possible to his or her mouth. That's the image evoked here. As God responds graciously to David's petition, he's far too feeble and he needs him to bend down to him. So that's the picture David draws for us. Now let me try to describe how in modern terms how that feels. Imagine a phone call. These days you're told a list of options to automate voice messages. You're asked to press this button for you know for that option or that number for that option. You choose. I like to speak with the representative You hear one of those songs while on hold, Opus number one, Tim Carleton, Dreaming of You by the Choral, I Wanna Dance With Somebody Who Loves Me by Whitney Houston Maybe you hum along a little bit, but then you take a deep breath and say your prayer. Lord, please give me patience. You know, really test your character Then when you finally hear a live human voice, how does that feel? Maybe you had your phone on speaker and you were multitasking, cooking, cleaning, texting. I get scared of texting. What if I accidentally hang up? Etc. But if you were trying to connect with somebody, anybody, about very important, urgent matters, then you'd be ecstatic. Relieved, thrilled. That's the payoff in Psalm forty verse one. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined to me. Now the last part of verse one says, and heard my cry. This teaches us not only to wait patiently for the Lord, but we must also wait prayerfully. What's implied here and demonstrated elsewhere is that while being patient, David was crying out to God. He was expressing his lament, voicing his concerns. What this shows is that we don't resort to stoicism or the British stiff upper lip when we're down. The scriptural imperative is not suck it up, tough it out, deal with it. It's certainly not escapism, get drunk with friends on weekends as an extrovert, or get lost in virtual fictional reality as an introvert. It's not even ultimately helpful community or one-on-one counseling, even if they're God's good gifts and means of grace, is waiting for God while being patient and prayerful. Paul writes in Romans twelve, twelve where While we're patient in tribulation, we must continue steadfastly in prayer. What Paul commands, David illustrates. So let us all wait patiently and prayerfully for the Lord. Another thing to do when you're in tough times is this. Know where you fell and who makes you stand. So here's verse two again. He also brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and it's Established my steps. This is a wonderful assurance. God not only hears us, He also responds in action. As I said earlier, it's an exercise in futility to guess as accurately where David and when David experienced this specific deliverance. A horrible pit and Maury clay could apply to To any number of stressful situations in the psalmist's life. But it's still helpful to focus on the images of verse 2. You've seen something like Pits and Quicksand and movies like Indiana Jones, maybe. But a better illustration found in Jeremiah's life, later in the Bible storyline, in Jeremiah 38, the prophets preaching doom and gloom, telling his people that Babylon will soon sack Jerusalem. The princess naturally don't like that message. They cast him in a dungeon where there's mire. He begins sinking. If it wasn't for Ethiopian Eunuch named Abedmelech, Jeremiah would have died. Now you may never be stuck in muck like that, but Psalm 40, verse 2 is relatable because it vividly portrays the effects of sin. We get stuck, we feel stuck, we can't get out on our own. Only God can change our situation. Only He can take us out of the horrible pit and miry clay, set our feet upon a rock, and establish. Our steps. That's why I say that in the midst of struggles, know where you fell and who makes you stand. Now when I say no, I mean we should think beyond surface-level conclusions. Think carefully. You know, why are you in a horrible pit or Miery clay? What's the point of this trouble? It's not so that you can resolve to make sure you never face pain again the rest of your life. That's not the purpose. How about we turn to God and consider his purposes? Ecclesiastes 7:14 says, In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider. Surely God has appointed the one as well as the other, so that man can find out nothing that will come after him. So trust that God is sovereign. Consider whether you're in your hole because of your sin or something else. Perhaps the Lord will lead you to a place of deep conviction. I remember a few years back, uh Kerry led us in a study of Revelation 2 to 3. In chapter 2, verse 4 to 5, as our Lord commended the Ephesian church for their diligence and doctrinal purity, he added this: Nevertheless, I have this against you that you have left your first love. Remember therefore that From where you have fallen. Repent and do the first works, or else I will come to you quickly and remove your lampstand from its place unless you repent. That phrase sticks out to me. Remember therefore from where you have fallen. It's something that I meditated as a leader of this church. I think others have done the same. Sometimes we put ourselves in our pit. It happened with the Ephesians. Other times others put us in our pit. It happened with Joseph and Jeremiah. But either way, it's whatever way you felt, look to God to get back up We stand where we stand because of Him only by trusting Him, resting in Him. It's by believing in the Lord our God that we're established. If we will not believe, surely we shall not be established. Lord God is our strength who makes our feet like deer's feet, and he will make us walk on high places. Know where you fell and who makes you stand. We'll come back to this point as we reflect on the gospel later. But first, let's finish David's thought. When you're in muck and mire, you not only wait patiently and prayerfully for the Lord, you not only know where you fell and who makes you stand, we must go on to praise God on you and inspire others to faith. Let me reread verse 3. He has put a new song in my mouth. Praise to our God. Many will see it and fear. And will trust in the Lord. From the same mouth where there was a cry for help in verse 1, there is now a song of worship in verse 3 David, being a musician, was inspired to write something new, sing something new. It's a praise to our God. That should be the progression in our lives, too. Answer prayer should lead to grateful praise. The experience of God's deliverance is too good, too wonderful to be kept to ourselves. We must share it with others It's already striking that David looks beyond himself. It's even more striking how he looks beyond the congregation. See if we can trace this movement. He referred to himself in the first person singular. I be my in the first half of verse 3. He includes his fellow worshipers when he speaks Speaks of praise to our God in the first person plural possessive. But when David says, many will see it and fear and will trust in the Lord, he envisions a broader, Gentile, international audience. God is too great and too awesome to be seen and feared and believed by him and Israel alone. David's passion for worship of Yahweh has no borders, has no boundaries. He writes in another place, Psalm 22. 27 to 28. All the ends of the world shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you, for the kingdom is the Lord's, and he rules over the nations. Here's another Psalm 86, 9-10. All nations whom you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name. For you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. So take it from David. Share his passion. This desire for worship everywhere from everyone should drive us to. It should permeate all that we do as a church, our finances, our evangelistic outreach, our mission support naturally. John Piper said it well in his book, Let the Nations Be Glad, quote, missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is Missions exist because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions, because God is ultimate, not man. See how thousands of years ago David got this idea down. I sometimes think unbiblical modesty and propriety gets in the way of imitating David here. It's not hard for us to share prayer requests and praise reports with fellow Christians, but I wonder if we should be telling our unsaved neighbor. Friend or family member that we waited for the Lord, he heard our cry, he got us out of a hole, and he raised us up on solid ground. Could it be that the solid ground and the steady rock are meant to be your platform and your stage? Could it be that God has established yourself so that you can step up to the podium and declare his glory? Could it be that dare you praise God on you and inspire others to faith? I assure you, I'm not trying to multitask for the sake of multitasking. It's quite biblical to think evangelistically when we pray. And think evangelistically when we praise to review, we learn from David David, how to handle adversity. Wait patiently and prayerfully for the Lord. Know where you fell and who makes you stand. Praise God on you and inspire others to faith. Now if we're honest with ourselves, we don't always do these things well. I don't feel like waiting, right? And even when I do, I don't do so well. I don't do it patiently or prayerfully. I don't take time to assess where I've fallen or appreciate how the Lord has raised me up. I fail to praise and thank him and let alone make him known to the nations. Beyond what's here, we've broken so many other commands of His. Apart from grace, we're sinners deserving of separation from Our holy God. That's why, thinking of the gospel, we must trace the line that starts from Psalm 40 and ultimately ends with the Messiah. God the Father sent his son to show how it's done. Last week we discussed how Christ Jesus was made a little lower than angels. He's God and human in one person. Though he's the son of man and son of David, he was better than Adam and David. That's because he never fell into sin. He always did those things that pleased the Father. So when it comes to suffering, Christ never suffered because he did any wrong. He was sinless. He was wronged by sinners and suffered from the sins of others. Though he is the Lord of glory, he became a man of sorrows, despised and rejected by men, acquainted with grief Though he is already perfect in stature, he was made perfect as the captain of our salvation. Though he was a son, he learned obedience by the things he suffered. And in all this extreme pain, Jesus never gave in to sin, though he was tempted as we are. Instead, he showed us how to wait patiently and prayerfully. We're told in Hebrews 5:7 that in the days of his flesh Christ offered up prayers and supplications With vehement cries and tears to him, who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his godly fear. The father answered his son, He did not allow his Holy One to cease corruption of death. That's why his death on the cross was not the full story or the end of the story. Jesus gave his life away voluntarily. He was crucified for the penalty of sins we crucified. We committed, he endured the Father's wrath and finished his work of redemption. He was forsaken so that we might be heard He was buried, he descended into the heart of the earth, so that we might rise and sit in heavenly places. For that end Jesus rose from the grave. He who was once the stone the builders rejected became the chief cornerstone, the living rock upon which we stand He ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now the question is whether you know unbelievers Well, ask the Lord Jesus to save you, right? The greatest peril you face today is not the loss of money, health, or friends, is to live and die without Christ. Without him, you're in danger of eternity apart from God in hell. As Jonathan Edwards puts it, you're like a spider dangling over the fire, hanging on by a thread. There's no more chance to repent and believe after you breed your last. It's appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment. You don't want to stand before him without standing on Christ. So, for anyone unsaved, listening here or in a recording, please get right with God. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in Him only. You cannot earn your way into heaven. It's a gift unmerited and undeserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Praise God for that. Now if you're saved, your new purpose on earth is to make God known to all through your testimony. Even in this task, Jesus exemplifies how we can do that. Earlier I mentioned Psalm 22. It's another ultimate messianic psalm like Psalm 40. There we see Jesus echoing the words of David in Psalm 22, verse 22. I will declare your name to my brethren in the midst of the assembly. I will praise you. Now, this is amazing because the one worthy of all worship teaches worshippers how to worship. We learn from Christ Himself how to declare God's great thing. And inspire others to faith. So as we sing our last song, may it be your lasting testimony. Now it's not new lyrically or melodically speaking, but maybe it reflects your own salvation testimony. So we'll have to outsing that siren, I guess. But to our unbelieving friends and family, we bear witness there was a day of salvation when God heard us and helped us. We hope you have a such a day too. So why not cry out to him and hear the voice of Jesus in response? Come on to me and rest. Lay down a weary one. Lay down your head upon my breast. Behold, I freely give the living water. Thirsty one Stoop down and drink and live. I am the dawning light. Look on to me. Your morn shall rise, and all your day be bright. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that David's words here echo as we think about just how you hear our prayers. As we reflect on that time, we called out to you in our desperation, in realizing what kind of dire straits we're in, what kind of pit we're in. Lord, in our life things happen. We get health scares and we get physical trouble, we get financial troubles and all things like that. That happened, but we know that the greatest struggle, greatest problem that we have is with our sin and our eternal destiny. So we thank you that that we have the testimony of salvation And that this psalm reflects that. But Lord, now help us to declare, to make known to others what we have experienced personally, this unchanging truth of the gospel, the promises that have Speak to us, pray that it will speak to our friends and family and neighbors and all those who do not know you. We pray for them that they will join us. That we can be in that assembly together to praise to you our God. And so that we together would make uh make known you to others So that many will fear you, praise you, and trust in you. It's with that hope we go. We ask that you be with us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.