All right. Thank you, Pastor. Uh I know you're having the Lord's Supper this this morning, so about what time do you want me to to cl to close? One o'clock, two o'clock? I mean Twelve oh five? That that will be fine. I'll try to even finish before then. We'll see. We'll see. Ah, how many of you have been going to this church at least 48 years? At least 48 years. Any of you? Okay, I have more seniority than any of you. Because forty-eight years ago this month Pastor Crooks called me. We had just come up to Columbia, Christine and I, in April of 76 to start harvester. And Pastor Crooks, the founder and pastor of Faith Bible Church, called me, invited me to come over, see the church, see the school. Of course, you had the Faith Bible Academy at that time. And so came over and met Pastor Crooks, and that began our relationship with Faith Bible Church. As we walked around, he said, where do you baptize at? Of course, we didn't have a church building. We were meeting at the basement of a Seventh-day Adventist church over on 29th. And I said, we're we baptized at a church over in Dundalk, you know, a little drive over there. And he said, well, why don't you come over here? You can baptize here. I said, fantastic. And so we started baptizing it at Faith Bible for eight years. We had a wedding right here. They allowed us to use your building for a wedding. Over the years, let's see, we've shared ministries at different times. We shared some choir specials. Y'all used to have a bookstore. Do you still have a bookstore? We used to have a bookstore. Ed Grazley was the manager of your bookstore and he would order all of his books from Harvester. So he he would call me just about every Monday to have a list of books he needed to order for, because we had a bookstore in our church. And we had the accounts with all the different publishers. And so he'd give me the list of the things he needed here for for your bookstore. And I could go on and on because I mean it's almost like being home in some ways to be here. And I really appreciate Pastor inviting us over. As a former senior pastor, matter of fact, that uh seven-week-old uh baby that we came up with, he's now the senior pastor of Harvester Baptist Church. So uh he worked for me for twenty-six years. Now I work for him. He's my boss. He can fire me. Payback times deep, you know. Your pastor is a is a wonderful expositor of God's word, I'm sure. So I'm not going to try to compete with him as far as expounding the scriptures, as far as getting to a passage and just detailing it. I'm going to do something different this morning. August 28, 1963, I was 12 years old, and ready to start seventh grade. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave the I Have a Dream speech from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. About 13 years later, on my 25th birthday, I wrote out my my own I Have a Dream. And you know, March 23rd, 1976. Remember that that date. It'll be on the test. Here's what I wrote. This is again March 23, 1976. God is a new direction for our lives now I guess it's not really a new direction, but rather a continuation of the direction I've been attempting to go in for the past 10 to 9 to 10 years. That is to do the will of God. He is directing us now to begin a new work in a needy area. The area he's opened to us is Columbia, Maryland. Along with the area, he's given us a promise to sustain us. 2 Timothy 1. 7. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. I've often had fear in my heart as I consider what we will be up against in Colombia. Yet God's word is not changed nor failed. He promises us the power we need to do his work and will. He will also give us the self-sacrificing love for souls that is necessary to God Faith Baptist Church. to build its people and families, not to use its people and families to build Faith Baptist Church. Along with spiritual power and a love for the people, God provides a third need, wisdom, to do his work, his way. Mother asked me how much of a go I was going to make of it, and when would I consider quitting? I told her I'm going to Columbia to stay. To build the work God wants there. And I didn't even want to think about quitting. God is leading us. He's opening the doors. He's given us the name Faith Baptist Church for a reason. If we have the faith to just believe him, to call on him. Then he promises to answer us, show us great things, show us mighty things, show things beyond our dreams. Jeremiah 33, 3. Amen. Amen. Uh, you probably noticed as I was reading through it that I talked about Faith Baptist Church. Well, that was the name that uh we wanted to call our church. But after we got up here, we realized there was a good church in Howard County called Faith Bible Church. And so we decided we didn't want to make any confusion, so we changed the name to Harvester Baptist Church. The Bible talks about the book of Acts, chapter 2, and of course it's quoting Joel, where the young men have visions and the old men have dreams. I'm not sure why it breaks it out that way. A vision is usually talking about something, an appearance, uh, an angel or God appearing to someone while they're awake. And a dream talks about something when you're asleep. I'm not sure why they said the young men will have visions and the old men will have dreams, but maybe it's because everybody, the younger people have dreams. But God wanted to specifically say, you old gods, you uh senior ladies, um He wants you to have dreams too. It's not a a a dream, and I'm not talking about what you, you know, the weird stuff you you dream at at nighttime. But I'm talking about a a a vision, uh a leadership, something that God points us in, not just his will, but long-term will And for you younger folks, God wants you to have a dream of something that you are pushing towards, something that you are trying to accomplish. But for us old people, We grayheads. He doesn't want us to stop dreaming. He doesn't want us to kind of pull over into the uh sidetrack of retirement and I just don't have any visions anymore. Now how do I identify a dream? Well, first off, it's the Word of God. You go to the Word of God and where he very specifically says certain things, you do this. I I don't know, I don't guess you still have uh evangelism explosion in your church. Uh used to have, you know, the outreach of evangelism explosion. We have outreach programs in our church, we still do But can you imagine witnessing somebody and you present the gospel to them and they tell you, well, I want to pray about it. Well, you could say, look, friend, you may want to think about it. You may want to consider it, but you don't need to pray about it. Because God tells you in his word, you must be born again. So you don't need to pray about getting saved. He tells you, be saved. You don't need to pray about going to church. God, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you ought to be in a good church. Now you ought to pray about which one you ought to go to. But you don't pray about going to church. So the Bible has certain things he automatically details in the Word of God that you just do it. So there's some things that we can ask or change from the Word of God about a dream that's right there spelled out. There's times that uh we're gonna have positive principles. That is where God tells me um some general principles like uh love your wife. Now he says uh love your wife that's a commandment But he doesn't detail how you love your wife. You know, bring her flowers, bring her candy, or whatever you do. He doesn't uh outline those things. But he begins to give us that dream. And then the Holy Spirit. I never did find in the Word of God where God tells me to go to Columbia, Maryland, and start a church. But the Holy Spirit moved in my heart. That is, that He wanted me to start a church. I didn't want to start a church. I didn't want to pastor a church. When we finished up Bob Jones, I wanted to be in full-time service. I wanted to be an associate pastor. Went to Miami, Florida as an associate pastor. That was great. But after a while, the Lord started to deal with my heart about starting a church. And I said, Lord, uh, you got the wrong guy. I'll tell you more about that later. But that was the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. The Holy Spirit will begin to move in your heart about a dream, something He has for you. But we have to have our surrender to the Lord's will. Isaiah chapter 6 verse 8. Isaiah chapter 6 verse 8. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? Then I said, here am I. Send me. Well, it starts with our surrender to the Lord. Now Sometimes believers will say, now Lord, you tell me what your will is for my life, and I'll examine it and tell you what I think about it. I don't think God operates that way. He wants me to surrender to him, like Isaiah, here am I, Lord, send me. And he will. He will guide us. And he will do it despite our misgivings. Just like I said for myself coming up here to start harvester. I had misgivings. I felt like a church planter was somebody that was dynamic, somebody that had never met a stranger, kind of a salesman type. And I was none of those things. And the Lord had to convince me, it doesn't matter. It's not you, it's me. And I think every one of us has to face the same thing. Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 4. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Before you were born, I sanctified you. I ordained you a prophet to the nations. Then said I, Ah Lord God, behold, I cannot speak, for I'm a youth. But the Lord said to me, Do not say I'm a youth. For you shall go to all to whom I send you. And whatever I command you shall speak. Do not be afraid of their faces. For I'm with you to deliver you, says the Lord. Jeremiah had misgivings. Lord, I can't do this. I can't speak. I'm just, they look at me as a kid. Of course, Moses had the same thing. Lord, I can't speak clearly. We're going to have misgivings. Lord, I I I just can't picture myself doing that. That's okay. That's okay. Sometimes God will use other people to call you. Sometimes somebody in the church, they they've watched you. Oftentimes maybe your pastor. maybe a group leader in the church. And they say, you know what, I think you could really, really be effective in this ministry. I wana, Sunday school, whatever. And maybe you've never even thought about doing that kind of a thing. Well, God uses sometimes other people to point me in a direction of that dream God has for me. Samuel Called David. Elijah called Elisha. Jesus called his disciples. So God's going to use sometimes other people to help us understand a dream that God has for me. And God will sometimes use open doors. Revelation 3. 8. You know what, Philadelphia church. I know your work. See, I've set before you an open door, and no one can shut it. For you have a little strength, have kept my word, have not denied my name. He puts open doors in front of us sometimes. He closed doors too. We were over here one Sunday baptizing. Pastor Crooks was here. And another church was baptizing as well. Any of you remember Pastor Earl Johnson? Okay. Pastor Johnson was the pastor of Grace Bible Baptist Church in Catonsville. Phenomenal man. I can tell you all kinds of stories about Earl, but I want. But Pastor Johnson and his people were here baptizing just before we came to baptize. And so Pastor Cooks introduced me to Earl Johnson. And Pastor Johnson said, well, Ed, call me this week. So I called him. He said, I want to introduce you to a guy. Not in his church, but somebody he knew that was a real estate person, and he said he may have some contacts in Howard County, some property you might want to look at. And this was early on in our church. And so I did and contacted that man, and he put me in touch with somebody living out in Clarksville, and I looked at the property or whatever, and it just didn't work out And for three years we were looking at property, and God was closing doors and closing doors and closing doors. But then eventually he opened a door to where we are right now. You see, God can close doors, but he can also open doors to help you to find out what his dream is for you. Now, after you realize what the dream is, How do you manage the dream? Okay, I know what God wants me to do. I know what something that may be a little bit more long-term He wants me to do. How do I manage it? Well, first off, be careful what you do with your dream. Be careful who you share it with. You remember Joseph, Old Testament, had that dream. And that dream about uh the she's bowing down and the sun, moon, and stars bowing down, and he told it to his dad. That maybe wasn't that awful. But he told it to his brothers. And that was a problem. Their idea, he said they hated him for it. Try to help encourage others with their dreams. Remember the butler that told Joseph his dream? And Joseph was an encouragement to him because he interpreted that dream for him. But you also have to understand to deal with delay. Because oftentimes when you have that dream. Now, in Christina and my case, we left Miami in early April. And started the church on Mother's Day. So it was about four to five weeks. About four weeks about that time. So that much time transpired before we started the church. That's pretty fast. But it took us eight years to finally build a building. Now sometimes your dreams may take place pretty quickly. That's exciting. That's wonderful. It doesn't take a whole lot of faith to have a dream take place like that. But sometimes our dreams are going to take a while. Maybe a long while. And so delay is not necessarily denial. Just like prayer, yeah? You've been praying this morning and praise God and you're a praying church. But some of those prayers, well, I think somebody gave an answer to prayer before they prayed for it this morning. And that's biblical. But sometimes you pray and you pray and you pray and it's just not happening. And sometimes you think, Lord, uh, I guess you know that one's not gonna happen Sometimes that might be. But oftentimes he says, just wait. Just keep moving that direction. Delay is not pointless. And when I'm going through the delays, those eight years of waiting to build a building, it was frustrating. But God taught us so much over those years. God was molding us and making us into hopefully his image. And that's true in every one of our lives. Those things where you have that vision, that dream. And you are convinced in your heart, this is what God wants for me, then he's in the process of molding and making you Now, opposition should not be surprising. If you have a dream, if God has given you a dream, he's given you a direction, something that you're burdened about Don't be surprised you're going to have opposition. Let's go back to Joseph. Joseph had opposition. His brother's jealousy. Oh my. It's a whole story about all that. His dad, he was confused. His dad didn't like what Joseph said. Your brothers and your mother and I are going to bow down and then to you But the Bible says he did keep it in the back of his mind. Because he was thinking, you know, something may just come of this. And you've got that lady, you might call her a hussy, uh, that was trying to tempt him Satan was at work trying to take and sidetrack what God was doing. You have that unplanned forgetfulness of the butler, the butler you know, where he translated his dream. He said, you're going to be released. You're going to go back and be the butler again for Pharaoh. And Joseph said, please remember me to the Pharaoh and tell him about what plight I'm in. And the above using Joseph, I'll never forget you, buddy. And the verse says, he forgot. By fact it says two years. No, if you know the verse I'm talking about, it doesn't say two years. It says two full years. It's almost like God is trying to say to understand. Understand, these are two full years. Two full years in jail. Before the Ballock remembered. But again, God was setting things up for Joseph just at the right time. Come on the scene. When there'll be satanic opposition. If your dream is from God If your vision for what God wants you to do, if it's from God, then guess what? You believe in God? Good. Then you better believe in Satan. Because Satan is real too. And he's going to do everything he can to sidetrack you from God's will. He's going to do everything he can to sidetrack you from your dream. He's going to want you to forget the dream. Forget the dream. Maybe God didn't even even tell me that. Maybe there's some opposition. Something is standing in the way. Preachers are real bad about that That a preacher will come to a church, be pastoring a church, and some problems occur. Uh I don't know, Pastor Stone, you've never had any problems in this church, so so good. But but I'm talking about everybody else. But um but preachers are bad about this that when there's some opposition that comes up, there's some problems that come up, they begin to second guess God's will. I I must have made a mistake in coming. Or God has decided for me to go somewhere else. Now it might be. But I think most of the time God wants them exactly where they are. And that's going to be true in your life, whether you're a preacher or not. There's going to be opposition. But it's not the fact that God necessarily is saying, I'm finished with it. While we were at Bob Jones, I was in grad school and Christina was finishing up college there We went to Southside Baptist Church. Are any of you familiar besides Steve familiar with Majesty Music? Okay, a few of you are. The founder of Majesty Music was Frank Garlock. Frank was our Sunday school teacher when we were there at Southside Baptist Church. And one of the things he taught us, about the only thing that I remember he taught us, but he taught us a whole lot. One of the things he taught us is that whenever You're getting ready to make a major move in your life. Write down why you know it's God's will. Write down. If you can't write it down, then probably it's not God's will. And that's pretty good advice. What I just read you before at the very beginning about what God was leading us to do to Columbia, Maryland, that was what I was doing And I haven't taken this out very often to read over the 48 years that we've been at Harvester. But I've read it a few times, primarily for curiosity, but a time or two because I was really wondering, should I make a move? That we were having some issues in the church. And that maybe it was going to be better for the church for us to leave. And I read over that and I said, you know, I knew for sure God was leading us to start that church. And that I really could not write something out and say God wants us now to leave. So I need to stay And I think that's true for every one of us. And if you're getting ready to make a major move in your life, a major dream that you're going toward, write it out. Write it out while you know it's God's direction for you. Satan's going to try to get you to forget God. Maybe God is not faithful. He's going to try to get you to forget your integrity and principles. He did Joseph That woman came along and tempted him and just, you know, throw out your integrity, throw out your principles But God in his faithfulness, every now and then, he's going to give you a reminder that he's at work. With Joseph. Every now and then, like Genesis 39, 2, the Lord was with Joseph. And he was a successful man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. Now, this is while he was still a slave. He was a house slave, but he was still a slave. And he says God was with him. And you see this a couple other times, either directly or intimate. Joseph, I'm still with you. Joseph, I'm still watching over you. And when we are working toward these goals, we're working toward these dreams that we have. You're going to see along the way reminders that God is still with me. God is still working in my life. And for you, men and women that are my age, then a few of you may be older, but probably not. Every now and then we want to live, like Jerry Falwall said, Liberty, like Jerry Falwall said, we live on the fumes. You know, sometimes when you run out of gas, you you're you're kind of operating on the fumes in in the tank. He says, we begin to operate on the fumes. We're not really operating at full power. But no, God wants us to keep moving as seniors. God wants us to keep accomplishing God's work. Now, last thing. We need to figure out the dream. We need to figure out how to manage the dream. But how do we deal with realizing the dream? When you finally got it, well God can do the miraculous to make it happen. God can do the miraculous. He can part the Red Sea. He can part the Jordan River. He can have the walls of Jericho fall down. He can raise the dead. Oh, he can do the miraculous. to make your dream happen. But a lot of times he's just going to use your efforts to make it happen He may just use your talents, your abilities right now. He may also, during the course of that, wait for that dream to be fulfilled. He may develop some new abilities for you. That's why I said the weight is not pointless. God is working on something. He has plans in your life. He'll use our struggles. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 3. Paul writes, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, the God of all comfort. Who comforts us in all our tribulation, all of our troubles, all of our pressures, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble With the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. What'd he say? Basically, God comforts me in my problems, so I can comfort somebody else. And that's part of his plan. That's what he's working on. And don't forget, when you accomplish that dream, when you realize it's finally there, you cross the finish line. Don't forget God when your dream is accomplished. Don't forget who did it. Genesis 50, verse 19. This is a phenomenal passage. Again, you know the story. All of Joseph's family have come down. They're living in Egypt. Years go by. Jacob dies. And the brothers are panicking. Because they figure now dad is dead. Joseph is going to have payback. All those things we did to him. Ah, it's uh judgment day is coming. And the reason why they say they thought that, that's how they would do it But Genesis 50 verse 19, Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, you meant evil against me. He didn't deny. Guys, you did not say something good was going to happen to me. You thought you wanted bad stuff to happen to me. But God meant it for good. In order to bring it about as it is this day to save many people alive. Now therefore, do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Now, Pastor Sun could preach a phenomenal message right here on forgiveness. But he said, Am I in the place of God? Remember how it happened. How did that dream get fulfilled? Remember God's glory. That's the purpose of it. Remember God's power. That's how it happened. Remember God's choices, why it happened. Remember God's grace and mercy. That's the basis of all of it. I think every one of us has studied that classic in literature. Ridden by Mother Goose. Little Jack Horner sat in a corner eating a Christmas pie. He put in his thumb, pulled out a plum, and said, What a good boy am I. When I reach my dream, I can begin to think, you know what? I'm kind of like little Jack Horner. God is so good to me. Because what a good boy am I, or good girl. Nah. It's because of God's grace. And God's mercy. We can remember God's people because that was a help along the way and remember God's love. That eternal relationship that we have Every person in the Faith Bible family is a miracle of God's grace and a vital part of this church's dream. Some of you have received Christ since coming out here. You've cut your spiritual teeth right here. Others have been saved for many years. But have chosen to invest your lives in this church. What a difference you've made in your various ministries and sometimes even starting those outreaches. But it's not just a dream for this church. But it's praying and walking together to see each other's unique dreams fulfilled You've shared the victories and blessings, challenges and sorrows. Together you've seen dreams achieved and dreams delayed. You've seen dreams adjusted and dreams corrected. Each of you have the fantastic privilege of being brothers and sisters in Christ's dream. Of building his church and encouraging each other and realizing Christ's plan for your own individual dreams. I'm your neighbor, I'm your friend. Faith Bible is very special to Christina and myself I want to thank you for being part of this family of dreamers. That you folks do not step on each other's dreams. But help each other step up to all that God has for you. So what are your dreams? How can your pastor and your church help you accomplish them? Ms. Bowery, just for a moment before I turn it over to Pastor. If you've never received Christ as Savior, well, that's the dream you need. You need to have that dream of knowing for sure you're going to heaven. If you are a child of God, you've received Christ as your Savior. God has plans for you. And if you have special needs this morning, if you're not sure you really have a home in heaven. Your pastor, people in this church, they'd be thrilled to talk to you. Let's pray. Father God I thank you for the dreams you've already given us so much and dreams that we have found have been fulfilled But Lord, every one of us have dreams which haven't quite been accomplished yet. Help us to wait on you. Help us not to give up. And then every one of us have dreams we haven't figured out yet. And I pray that you would burden our hearts, give us the conviction to be able to go after those dreams. Watch you do the unbelievable. Thank you so much for this church. Thank you for this pastor. And Lord, I just pray their greatest days of ministry. We'll be lying right in front of them. These things we ask in Christ's name. Amen.