Thanks for your prayers while I was away. Uh had some great time in Ohio and Kentucky. And um Everything went fine except my son hit me with the toy, so hard to hide this one. Well it's better me than um his sister, so and you know got me thinking You know, I as an only child, I don't know the joys and pains of having siblings. You know, cousins, friends, and roommates are good They're good and all, but there's something special about having a brother andor sister, or many of them. I'm thankful that I now have two kids and I'll get to see them love each other as siblings Hopefully. Now at least at times I'll hear from those with siblings how it's not all that great. They actually envy my position, not having to share things and attention from parents. But growing up as an only child is never an option in the family of God. In the church, in the household of faith. So expect sibling rivalries and troubles, but there's also potential, a beautiful potential for unity, diversity. Harmony and peace, and that's always worth pursuing. It's been a few weeks since I've been in, or we've been in First Corinthians together, so perhaps it'd be Do us good to review what's been said from the beginning of the letter. And Paul began as he begins most other letters with salutation and thanksgiving. The first major issue he addressed was the matter of division. The remedy is the gospel. If we put Christ, his person and work front and center, everything else and everyone else take the rightful lower places. And that takes us to the end of chapter 4. Next in chapters 5 to 6, the apostle addressed the problem of sexual immorality. Underneath the sin against the body, Christ's body, and their bodies was pride. Pride led them to separate, and pride led them to tolerate. That's why in this church were incest, worldliness, neglect of church discipline, and even lawsuits among believers. Chapter 7 was a good place for Paul to pause the berating to speak more positively concerning sexuality. He addresses topics of singleness, marriage, and widowhood. He covered a lot of ground in 40 verses, so in April we Spent three weeks on chapter seven. Today we're about to go into chapter eight to cover a new topic. And before I read it, recall that this part of the letter feels like apostles taking questions from the audience. opening up a fan mailbag as it were. And that's not far from the truth. We saw back in chapter 7 verse 1 that there is indeed a letter That the Corinthians wrote Paul. We don't have it with us, but we can figure out at least some of the contents from chapter 7 to 16. You'll see a phrase repeated, now concerning this, now concerning that. So with that in mind, let's read chapter eight now in its entirety Now concerning things offered to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge pops up but love edifies. And if anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing yet, as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him. Therefore, concerning the eating of things offered to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. and that there is no other God but one. But even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is on there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things. And we for him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and through whom we live, However, there is not in everyone that knowledge, for some with consciousness of the idol, until not eat it as a thing offered to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. But food does not commend us to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do not eat are we the worse. But beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. For if any one sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will not the conscience of him who is weak be emboldened to eat those things which things offered to idols. And because of your knowledge shall the weak brother perish for whom Christ died. But when you thus sin against the brethren and wound their weak conscience You sin against Christ. Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble. It's reasonable to group the verses here into three paragraphs. This is not arbitrary. There's some words that help us outline the verses And trace movements in Paul's argument. So it might already be outlined that way in your Bible, but you'll see that there's three paragraphs. Now verse 4 begins with the phrase, therefore concerning Which indicates that Paul's building on what he said in verses 1 to 3. And then in verse 7, you see the word however, a sharp contrast from verses 4 to 6 So with these short words functioning as joints, you end up with three paragraphs, verses one to three, four to six, seven to thirteen. Now these paragraphs contain three propositions building on each other and leading up to the conclusion. I think that conclusion is clearly embedded in the middle of the last paragraph in verse 9. Beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. It's almost like the main point there. For emphasis, Paul restates the idea in a memorable and dramatic way in verse 13. Also within the three paragraphs, we observe three kinds of tensions. In verses 1 to 3, there's a tension between knowledge and love. In verses 4 to 6, there's a tension between many false gods and the one and only true God. Finally, in verses 7 to 13, there's a tension between the weaker brother and the stronger brother All that remains is to put some mead on these phrases, literally as we discussed meat offered to idols. But we'll see how 1 Corinthians 8 not only about some arcane Greek pagan practice from distant past. More broadly speaking, we have wisdom here for working together as a local church. Namely, three ways to relate with the fellow saint who differs from us in spirituality. So three ways to relate with the fellow saint who differs from us in spirituality. And I'll repeat these points as I go on, but say them up front. First Prioritize love over knowledge as a unifying principle. Prioritize love over knowledge as a unifying principle. That's verses one to three. Secondly Reinforce faith in one true God as essential doctrine. Reinforce faith in one true God as essential doctrine. That's verses four to six. Thoroughly limit your freedom if it leads to harmful offense. Limit your freedom if it leads to harmful offense. That's verses 7 to 13. And I'll try to repeat these points later, but we'll start with the first. Prioritize love over knowledge as a unifying principle. Okay, so even though verses 1 to 3 form the smallest paragraph of this chapter, it's the most foundational. It establishes a general rule. That means I can hold off explaining the phrase concerning things offered to idols until we get to the second point. Here, Paul means to start at the most basic level. There's no controversy in saying we all have knowledge. That's universal knowledge. Agreed. What is not universally agreed is this. Knowledge isn't everything. Knowledge has limits. Knowledge in itself is good, but knowledge by itself is bad. Knowledge, let me repeat that, knowledge in itself is good, but knowledge by itself is bad. Why? Because knowledge by itself pops up. Paul never uses this verb puff up in a positive sense. Elsewhere in Colossians 2:18, he says, false teachings lead us to being vainly puffed up in our fleshly mind. Here in 1 Corinthians, we saw it four times back in chapters 4 to 5 to describe pride. Pride hinders community, authority, and purity. By contrast, we'll see later in chapter 13. Love does not pop up. Love is the most excellent way to use and pursue spiritual gifts. That's because love edifies or builds up the body of Christ. But again, knowledge by itself cannot do that. Even true and good knowledge must not become the end-all-be-all. It must be contextualized, and it's biblical to do so. Consider the chain of 2 Peter 1:5-9. Knowledge is what you add to faith and virtue, and then on top of knowledge You have self-control, perseverance, godliness, and yes, brotherly kindness and love. So even if knowledge is helpful, and of course it is, it is a means, not the end. I think we're used to measuring spiritual maturity by knowledge. That guy knows his theology, that gal memorizes ton of scripture, that kid does all his Bible homework. I don't dispute the importance of knowing God's word. But God's word itself stresses the importance of humility and love. Look at verse 2 in today's passage. Relying solely on your knowledge, you overestimate yourself and your own intellect. When we recognize God, we recognize the limits of knowledge. Even what we know now, as much as you may know, we see in a mirror, as Paul will say later, dimly, we only know partially But love goes beyond those limits. As we see in verse 3, we find intimacy with God through love. Rather than pride ourselves in knowing, we're humble because we are known. Love is what brought us to God, and love is what's going to bring us together. So prioritize love over knowledge as a unifying principle. I don't know why what possessed me to do this, but I decided to open up a file, my our church bylaws, and decided to type in love or loving or something like that. I found one instance and that was in the our statement of faith which talks about marriage and Christ's love for us. But that was it. I mean I'm not saying that we don't love each other because I know we do. But I found that interesting that we don't have too much about that and how it could be and it should be a unifying principle. Now I did find this in under the discipline of a member. Members are expected to demonstrate special loyalty and concern for one another. That is one way of saying that we should love each other. Our covenant of membership talks about unite with this congregation. But whether we say it explicitly, right, we know that the Bible emphasizes that, and that's what's gonna keep us together and keep us moving forward as a universe. After Paul emphasizes love generally, he goes on to more specifics. In verse 4, he's finally getting to the topic at hand, the eating of things offered to idols. Now the Jerusalem councils. has already decreed on this back in Acts 15, but it's up to Paul to explain and apply the idea to the Corinthians. That gets us to the second way to relate with a fellow saint who differs from us in spirituality. Reinforce faith in one true God as essential doctrine. Reinforce faith in one true God as essential doctrine Here's another uncontroversial statement. There exists only one God and idols are non-existent. This is basic teaching. It goes back to the roots of Israel. The Lord called Abraham out of his pagan background to worship him alone. There's a reason true Abrahamic religions share this one trait. They're monotheistic. Accordingly, there's this recurring call in biblical history to repent of idol worship. It's a major theme in the history of God's people. So Paul said nothing new in the ears of a Jew. But to the ears of a Gentile 2,000 years ago, it's a rather novel idea. There's a second century Greek geographer named Pausenius who listed some of the gods worshipped in Corinth. The list included Aphrodite, Artemis, Isis. Dionysus, Fortune, Zeus, Bunea, Kronos, Poseidon, the Sun, the Sea, the Calm, even a tree. The Corinthian saint is in a sense like Abraham before his calling, while still in Ur, the land of the Chaldeans. He's not used to this idea of one and only God. Now in verse 5, Paul admits there are lesser beings below this one and only God. These beings, frankly, do not deserve the title of God or Lord. In Galatians 4:8, Paul says that when we were unbelievers, uh uh we didn't know god and um the the unbelievers serve those which by nature are not gods. Later in First Corinthians ten we'll see that He says, demons lurk behind the elaborate system of idols. And then Ephesians 6. 12 speaks of principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this age, spiritual hosts of wickedness in heavenly places. And in our fallen nature, we we'd love to worship such lesser beings. We even take ourselves or fellow humans and exalt them as gods and lords Our Lord Jesus shows us how the Scriptures accommodates to such talk in John 10, 34, citing Psalm 82, verse 6. And here's what happens when we take ourselves so seriously. In Acts 12, 20 to 25, Herod refused to give glory to God when he was declared to be God So our one and only God made him food for worms. That was a sad ending. Last week you heard about a more happy ending with Nebuchadnezzar. But even as our proud humans and demons exist as idols or behind idols, none of them can claim To be what's said in verse 6. It cannot be said of anyone else, of whom are all things, and through whom are all things We do not live for and through anyone except the one and only true God. None can claim they created the heavens What is said in Isaiah forty two verse five, and stretch them out, spread forth the earth, and that which comes from it, gives bread to the people in it, and spirit to those who walk on it You have to stop and appreciate how verse 6 is a great proof text for Trinitarian theology and practical theology. First, you see how in one breath Paul could say there's one God, yet he speaks of the Father and Lord Jesus Christ as distinct, separate persons We gather from elsewhere that the Holy Spirit also belongs to the Godhead. Now it's not as if the apostle doesn't know how to count. It's not that he has forgotten Deuteronomy 6. 4, here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. He's simply revealing his belief in the tri-une God. Such convictions become the basis of creeds like the Nicene Creed and our own doctrinal statement And it reads, we believe in one God eternally existing in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, who created all things. There's also great practical value in knowing our triune God. That is, knowing who God is means knowing what we must do. Go back to all the prepositions in verse 6. Of through four. We are of the Father that is created by him. It was through the Son that the Father created all things. We live through Christ, and through him we live for the Father. Because there is one God, there's one purpose, live for God's glory. Again, no controversy here. With all that said in verses 1 to 6, all would nod in agreement. But that was just the setup. As we follow Paul to the second half of 1 Corinthians 8, he builds on the love of God and glory of God to arrive at this principle: limit your freedom if it leads to harmful offense. If we end the chapter 8 at verse 6, we take home some easy axioms concerning love and knowledge. And that's fine as an individual, but it's a lot more complicated as a congregation. Not everyone's on the same page Not everyone's at the same location in this great spiritual journey. Here's where your resolve to edify others and glorify God is tested. Paul gives us a sample test beginning in verse 7. But even the vivid example here would not make sense if we don't have two kinds of backgrounds. So that's like sort of subpoints here. You do need some preliminary information about one different cultures and two different consciences First concerning different cultures, we have to discuss idolatry and polytheism, and I mentioned that a little bit, the idea of many gods. It's hard for us to imagine this, most of us growing up with Christian upbringing in the States. But again, we must try to put ourselves in the shoes of the Corinthians, for as long as they live, they believe in the existence of many gods. Maybe a modern equivalent is a Hindu culture in Asia or an animistic culture in Africa. Now besides different cultures, we should also talk about different consciences. Now, if you want to take a deep dive on this Subject. There's an excellent book entitled Conscience, What It Is, How to Train It and Loving Those Who Differ, written by Andrew Nasselli and J. D. Crawley. I've read it a couple of times and I wouldn't mind reading it again. Some of our church members have already used it in different small group settings I think it's worth your time. For now, I'll just share a few insights and quotes from it that'll relate to today's passage. The authors Nasselli and Crawley define conscience as, quote, your consciousness of what you believe is right and wrong. I'll repeat, conscience is your consciousness of what you believe is right and wrong. Now your conscience can be helped, and your conscience can be hurt. It can be rightly informed by God's word. It can be misinformed by wrong ideas. The writers cite John MacArthur actually pretty often here, who illustrates that, quote, the conscience functions like a skylight. Not a light bulb. It lets light into the soul. It does not produce its own. So it's key that the conscience is not damaged or covered with dirt. But kept clear. So how do you do that? Here's a word from Jonathan Edwards. The way to keep the conscience tender is to utmost resist sin. That's simple enough. Again, it's easy if it's just me, my own conscience, and God's word. But it's in the church where it gets tricky. Not everyone's conscience is uniform. Now say you meet someone with a weaker conscience When you do, you got to keep this in mind, and it comes from my former pastor. Conscience cannot make a wrong thing right, but it can make a right thing wrong. about that a little bit. Conscience cannot make a wrong thing right, but it can make a right thing wrong. You're like, what? How can something harmless to you and so many others be harmful to this one particular person? Answer he or she's got a weaker conscience. Again, John MacArthur who wrote, the weakened conscience usually is hypersensitive. And overactive about issues that are not sins. Ironically, a weak conscience is more likely to accuse than a strong conscience. It is too easily wounded People with weak conscience tend to fret about things that should provoke no guilt in a mature Christian who knows God's truth. I try to think of an illustration myself and came up with a very personal one. Now our immune system has allergic reactions, and that's good. I want my body to warn me there's mold nearby. That's like a normal conscience. But I don't want it to warn me about a harmless cat. I like cats, but it tells me they're not good. That's like a weak conscience. Anyway, all that's to say is frustrating dealing with weaker consciences. It's difficult to make a progress as a group. So what do you do? You patiently convince those weaker from God's Word. You open up the Bible. You ask them to calibrate their conscience, and this is a word that they use often. often the authors according to the Lord's view of right and wrong. You help them differentiate between mere preferences and true convictions of the conscience But while doing so, you never ever encourage them to go against their conscience, to sin against their conscience. So, with these differences in culture and consciences in mind, let's finally return to Paul's scenario and see how we must limit our freedom if it leads to harmful offense. Now imagine a newly saved believer formerly belonging to a polytheistic background. Now it'd be so much easier if as soon as this person is saved We pop into their skull a USB drive and download all the great theological and Bible knowledge in a matter of seconds. That way he's ready to join our church and ready to serve right away. Well, that's not how it works. The new believer is truly a miracle, new creation, but just a baby. Growing pains. He's working progress, but God works in him. Regeneration is a one-time event, but the renewal of the mind is continual. So the baby Christian in this case still believes idols exist. He also still believes that food dedicated to them are real acts of worship. He now affirms faith in Yahweh, great and dwelling in Mount Zion, but he hasn't yet denied the myths of Zeus and others on Mount Olympus. Even if Bible and science disproves the existence of false gods, the conscience here is not yet convinced. So, because this person believes idols exist, the offerings made to them would be sinful and self-harming. Or, in Paul's words, the act would defile their conscience. It matters less what more mature believers believe about the food, how it has no positive or negative effect on us spiritually. It's more important what this weaker brother believes. He's not yet convinced of what Paul says in verse 8. So the stronger brother must be careful how he speaks and acts around the weaker brother, especially with regard to this particular known weakness. Keep this in mind. You know, the apostle does not rebuke the weaker brother for his weakness. He's not telling him to get over himself, get over his immature views. Instead, he turns to the more mature one and tells him to give up his freedom. The one with the knowledge must accommodate for the one without the knowledge. What happens when you're not your brother's keeper? Well Paul continues in verse 10. Say you don't care about the one with the weaker conscience and He sees you eating in an idol's temple. By the way, as I said earlier, Paul has another, whole another reason why you shouldn't do that in chapter 10. But say you do, now the weaker brother thinks to himself, oh if this guy who's been a Christian for years does it, I guess I can do it too I mean I had my hesitations, but maybe it's time to grow up. Oh man, I don't feel good doing this. My inner voice is screaming at me, but oh well here I go Again, conscience cannot make a wrong thing right, but it can make a right thing wrong. It matters less if you think it's right, if you've emboldened your brother to harm himself. As it says in verse 11, your influence has led him to destruction. You have not valued this person as someone for whom Jesus died. As it says in verse 12, you've sinned against the church and you've sinned against Christ To circle back to the beginning of this chapter, this is not acting in love. Knowledge pups up, love builds up. That love shall go as far as what it says in verse 13. Giving up meat for the rest of your life, for the sake of your brother, so that he will not stumble. Now you hear all this and maybe you say to me, Pastor, I don't really want to limit my freedom, even if it leads to harmful offense. It's not my problem if someone else has an overly sensitive conscience. My conscience is just fine. Well, if you're thinking this way or tempted to think this way, I urge you to return to the gospel, right? The good news of Jesus Christ. The gospel message is not only the Son of God loves me and gave himself for me, it's also Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. As it says later in Romans 14, 15, if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died. If God's love doesn't produce in you a love for your brethren, be concerned. See this emphasis from another apostle, John, from his first letter, chapter 3, verse 10: Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is he who does not love his brother. Chapter 3 verse 14, we know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. Chapter 4, verse 20 to 21. If someone says, I love God and hate his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen? And this commandment we have from him, that he who loves God must love his brother also. We're reminded that besides the fact that we do not love others as we should in our flesh, we failed in so many other ways We bow down to idols of money, fame, sex. Our minds are carnal enmity against God, again, apart from grace. We're ungodly sinners, enemies of the Lord. Prideful and puffed up. We think we know better. I'm glad I'm not God because I'd have no patience with such foolishness. But God is God. He is love. He so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That means God became man in Jesus Christ. Jesus lived a perfect life, loving his father, loving his neighbors, and his disciples. Even loved his enemies. Not only those who rejected him 2,000 years ago. God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. And this is true love. He laid down his life for us. He took the initiative, not that we loved God, but he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation of our sins. Propitiation is a loaded word. That means unpacking sin offends God. It requires payment and satisfaction. Jesus paid the penalty of our sins when he died on the cross in our place as our substitute. He declared his work finished and breeded his last. He was buried, he rose again on the third day. After proving he is alive for many days, he ascended to heaven Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. So now that God has extended his offer of love, the question is: will you love him in response? We do so by repenting, turning from sin, turn from self-righteousness and pride. You've got to stop being a know it all. Rather, know God through his son, even if that means know nothing else. As Paul said earlier, if anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise. The smartest thing one can ever do is trust in Jesus. Receive eternal life as a gift undeserved. Be saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. And this gospel message is what motivates us to love the brethren. So It's in Christ's sacrifice that we have the motivation to drive us to receive one another, just as Christ also received us to the glory of God. Let's remember that as we observe the Lord's Supper. Let's pray first. Lord, we thank you for calling us out of darkness, out of a world filled with idols where we would have No doubt bow down to false gods, even exalt ourselves as gods And we thank you for loving us, saving us. And Lord, you showed us what it means to love. We were not so lovable when we In our past, in our unregenerate state. But we thank you for that love and may we show it to others. May we show it in a commitment that wows the world. To say that what is it that's different about this community? Lord, pray that the message of your son will be front and center, and that around it That you will s that we will be the ones to proclaim it, that everything else orbits around the center of the truth of your word. And Lord, help us to live according to it, not just be hearers. But be doers as well. We ask that you would just be with us as we continue and observe the Lord's Supper at this time. Christ's name we pray. Amen.