Have you ever got lost and asked yourself, where am I? Maybe you took a wrong turn Your GPS signals aren't working. You try talking with Siri and she's like, sorry, I didn't quite get that. You know what else Siri doesn't get is that you're running late for an appointment Again, your GPS doesn't work, but your texting does. The text reads, where are you? And you say to yourself, if I'm you, you know, I'll be there already. Might be a true story. I won't tell. Well, as a dinosaur who got his driver license in the nineties, I should be well equipped to get out of situations like this. Figure out north, south, east, west, look at signs and landmarks. We used to stop at like gas stations and study paper city maps. Um While giving directions to each other, we say things like take the third right and the first left, there's a shell gas station just before the turn, a brick house straight ahead, blah blah blah, all these very interesting details. Anyways, I feel like such is the situation on a more serious note, we find ourselves as a congregation. Where are we? It's a good question to ask as we try to revitalize our church, as we're taking the seminar together. Maybe we took a wrong turn somewhere. Maybe we took several wrong turns. We need to get back on track. Or at a deeper level, as we consider the typical life cycle of a church, again we ask, where are we? Have we declined so much that we're too far gone? Are we beyond recovery? Beyond the point of no return, past the event horizon Or to be on the more optimistic side, is the worst behind us. Because we've hit rock bottom already, is the only way to go up from here on. Where are we? It's a good question. It's a question not only for the council of elders, not only for the Deacon, right, of finance, not only for the church health committee or the finance team, not only for the ministry leaders. It's a question for every member of this local congregation and every Christian who cares about our church. Thankfully, we have something much better than a compass, signs, landmarks, maps, GPS. We have the Bible. And we can't turn more than a few pages before realizing God has a lot to say to his people who gather to honor him. In this holy book, we got instructions for the church, we got promises for the church, we got warnings for the church, we got the universal church, we got the local church, the church mil Attends church triumphant For those who missed last Sunday, uh the and the earlier events of this weekend we're going to a workbook entitled Developing a Disciple Making Culture in Your Church. We actually have that in the back there, so if you need it, uh We can you can grab some, take notes while we're um having doing the sermon here. And the booklet is yours to take home if you want. Okay. So there's plenty back there. And the first for the first three days we've been going in order in terms of the lesson numbers, but today, day four, we shifted the order and postponed the lesson, lesson 14 on budgeting. Earlier this morning we covered lessons twelve to thirteen, which is about just putting to action what we learned so far, and that's very important. Lessons 12 and 13 are so important that they're named after the title of the entire seminar itself, basically. But before we get busy with action items and checklists, to-do lists, our study and meditation of scripture must come first. Ground your applications on the observation and interpretation of God's Word. And what better place to do that than from the pulpit up here? So that's why I'm covering lessons 10 to 11 now during the service time. So you can turn there in the in the folder. Again, it's a gift from us to you, so take it home. There's some QR codes at the at the earlier part to watch the videos. So this morning we're basically serving a small New Testament book. It's one of the missionary letters to Paul, uh letters of Paul, sorry. The apostle wrote two letters to this church in Thessalonica, but we'll only look at one. The first one, just five chapters. It was sort of a homework I gave you guys last week if you were here. But honestly, you could just read that book very quickly, maybe even as I'm talking, but um I don't know what you think about this small letter, 1 Thessalonians, among the Paul's Pauline epistles. I'll be honest, early in my Christian walk, I mostly valued 1 Thessalonians for proof texting. That's when you like try to prove a point. by pointing to a a sp specific passage or verse and I did that a lot in seminary studies. I used to rush through chapters one to three because I found much of it somewhat sentimental I was like, okay, let's get to the good stuff in chapters four and five, the passages about the will of God, sexual purity and sanctification in chapter four, joy, prayer, and thanksgiving, chapter five. In between, there's some eschatology, the rapture of the church, and our preparedness for the end times. And of course, as the letter ends, there's the trichotomous view of man in the benediction. Again, a lot of great doctrinal stuff here. But it wasn't until more recently that I began appreciating 1 Thessalonians and the Thessalonian church in general as the unlikely success story that it is. Now I'm not saying it's a perfect church. What church is perfect? Like any group of saints waiting for glory, they struggled morally. There was some misunderstanding of some doctrines on top of typical in-church problems. Nothing in their external circumstances indicated a bright, promising future for this church. You look at the book of Acts. For example, Paul had only three weeks of preaching ministry in the synagogues. I'm sure he would have wanted more. He had to earn his own living and depend on the donations of the Philippines Nearby. And so that the jealous, and after that, jealous Jews of the city formed a mob and invaded Jason's house. Jason is one of the Christians there in search of Paul and His friend Silas, not finding them, Jason and other Christians, maybe Aristarchus and Secundus among them. They were dragged before city officials The Jews accuse them of housing dissidents. They're forced to postbond for riot. They didn't even start. This unjust punishment had long-term effects. Paul could not return to Thessalonica without risking further danger to his friends to the church there. So pretty bad situation. Wild things happening. And again, what would make us think that a church in this situation would thrive, much less survive? Adina, gathering of marginalized believers become the epicenter of growth. How is this beleaguered congregation in a league of its own so soon after its founding? How did they become examples to all believers in Macedonia, which is the region around it, Achaia, another region south of it? Answer is God's amazing grace. It has to be God sustaining and growing this congregation. And that that's obviously the answer to our church problems too. It's not about having ideal conditions and location. It has to be the Lord preserving us and growing us. But even if the answer to the question, where are we, is not in a good place, not where we should be, not looking up, still it's not over. We're not out of God's reach. not out of God's reach of help, helping us. So with hopes that we can be like them, we're going to go through the first epistle to the Thessalonians now. This is sort of like a big overview survey of the book. Again, I think it'll be really helpful if you haven't done so already. Just read through the book yourself, just five short chapters This congregation from the province of Macedonia is an enduring example of disciple making. That's why we must dig into the letter and meditate on it. Follow along in the workbook lessons 10 and 11. With lesson eleven, there should be some fill-in-blanks, and I'll show that up on the slide. So again, lessons 10 and 11, you'll find in the Arch Ministries booklet and outline of the letter with some fill-in-the-blanks. So if you look at that outline, there's a common thread. is the phrase expectant faith. Expectant faith. And that makes sense At least once in each chapter, there's either the noun faith, right? Just you can look at that as you read, or the verb believe, or both, right? It's a constant thing throughout the letter. Not only that, at the end or near the end of each chapter, Paul points them to the payday, right? The payday of our faith, the future. 110. Wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. 218, what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ? at his coming. 313, that he may establish your heart's blameless and holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. 4. 17 We who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. 523. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. So each chapter sort of ends with this Looking towards the future. That's why we talk about the expectant fate. Expectant fate is a thread that runs through the letter. And then in each chapter we talk about the foundation of it, fellowship, fervor, focus, and future. So first, chapter one teaches us to establish the right start, the foundation of your expectant faith. And it should be in your booklet. And the guy who's been teaching this material, Tim Potter, what he means by right place in verse 1 is this the local church is where disciple making must happen. We are to make disciples, we are to follow Jesus ourselves and help others to follow Jesus. It's not a parrotchurch job, a school, or a seminary that'll do it. We have to do it. As he does in most other letters, Paul begins with thanksgiving. In verses 2 to 5, he recalls speaking the right message to them, which is the gospel, and is grateful for them because he knows they're genuine in receiving them. that good news. Their faith, love, and hope in Jesus are shown in their work, labor, and patience, respectively. By tasting the fruit of these saints, Paul's confident they're beloved and perfect and elect of God. And while speaking the right message, Paul and his team were maintaining the right example of Christian conduct. In verses 6-7, we have some key words, followers, and examples. So the Thessalonians first followed Paul, Silas, and Timothy, and of course most importantly, Jesus who sent them. So hopefully you find the followers and examples. You see the discipleship making taking place at the very beginning. But then what happens next? They became examples for neighboring cities in Macedonia like Philippi. Their example was also known to believers to the south in cities like Corinth in the province of Achaia. And because they were maintaining a right example, they were exerting the right influence. You know that saying, word travels fast around here. Well, hopefully, the word that travels fast is a good word, not gossip, not rumors or ill report. Truths, testimonies, great stories, and good news of Jesus, we want that kind of word to travel fast. And that's what happens in verses 8 to 9. Words traveled fast out of Thessalonica to different places. Look at that verb in verse 8. Sound for it. If I say it in Greek, you might remember it better. It's a prefixed verb, execale, with the prefix ex, which means out The root echo is what it sounds like, echo. Put them together. You got echo out, ring out, sound out. That's the idea. So Paul's making his way to Achaia, leaving Thessalonians, and accounts of his own gospel ministry at Thessalonica have already arrived there. Word travels fast. Sound travels faster than our feet. I calculated the distance from Thessalonica to Corinth and got roughly about 350 miles. Remember, this is a world 2,000 years ago without high-speed internet, social media, you know, trains or planes. To provide some perspective, imagine today flying out of BWI airport to land on, I don't know, Rowley, North Carolina, or Albany, New York. You get up and Christians there are buzzing about a church in Maryland. And that's the idea here. Only months or up to a year or so after its founding, churches far away are buzzing about the Thessalonians. So disciple making church is the right place for the right message. The right message is taught with the right examples. Okay. And the right influence. But disciple-making churches like Thessalonians not only look around horizontally to fellow believers, they look upward vertically and anticipate the right hope, and that's verse ten. They stopped looking to idols and now they're looking forward to the return of Jesus. They wait for the revelation of God's Son. That's the foundation of the expectant faith. Now before I move on to chapter 2, I think this is a good time to review some gospel basics. That's because you can't get going without knowing the good news. And you can't understand the good news without accepting the bad news. All of us were once idolaters. You don't have to bow down to stones and statues to be an idolater. We change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. Well, I didn't do that. Well, if you covet, the Bible says that's idolatry. We worship what we covet. Status, lifestyle, wealth of others. And because we've sinned in all these ways and more, the Holy God justly sends sinners to hell. But the Lord in his mercy did not leave us like this. God the Father sent his son. Christ Jesus. Jesus is God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life, proving himself to be the Savior of the world. Yet as we know, Jesus was not accepted by the world He was persecuted by Judeans who wanted to kill him. They tortured him and crucified him. But that was all part of the plan to deliver us from the wrath to come. At the cross Jesus paid the penalty of evil that we should pay. He paid the full measure of our sins, the multitude of transgressions and iniquity And having satisfied the fury of God against us, he breathed his last, and he died. But that's not the end of the story. That could no longer hold him as he had accomplished his work at the cross. So on the third day he rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection until he ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. And now we can obtain salvation through Lord Jesus Christ. We do that by repenting and believing. Repent by turning from idols and false gods of our own making and imagination. Stop deluding ourselves and think that we can be good on our own. Turn to believe and serve the living and true God. Only trust in Jesus for eternal life. Stop striving and just wait for the Son of God from heaven Put your hopes in the faithful one who calls, sanctifies, and preserves you completely. I like to say, God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So that's the good news of Jesus in brief. We'd love to talk to you more about that afterwards. And by embracing this message, we establish the right start. We have the proper foundation of our expectant faith. So really think through this carefully carefully. We've got to get the foundation right. But you can't get past the first stage of disciple making without first believing in the gospel. That's the first step. Very important first step. Now, assuming you believe, right? In chapter 2, we can move on and discuss in detail what it means to have the right relationships. We go from the foundation to the fellowship of your expectant faith. Again, I'm tempted to rush through chapters like this one. But more than ever today, pastors and leaders should be keenly aware that character matters in ministry. Dali, there's a lot of reports of pastors failing morally. Character matters in ministry, and not just pastors, a lot of people in leadership positions. We don't want that. Character can hinder your witness, or it can bolster your witness. Think about Titus 2. 10 and 1 Peter 3. 5, which tell us Our behavior can adorn our doctrines and testimonies. Our lifestyles contribute to the persuasion of the lost or correction of the disobedient. Say I prepare and deliver solid sermons weekly, lead family devotions daily. But what if I also slander my neigh my leaders? Cuss at my neighbors, scream at my wife, ignore my children, kick the dog, right? I mean my hypocrisy would at least be a at least detract from my ministry. the least about it should be disqualified. Paul understands that. But he's confident that he had the right initiative and approach with the Thessalonians. Verse one he says his visitation was not in vain. They were consistent in their ministry. Now you could forgive the team for feeling a bit discouraged when they arrived in Thessalonica. Consider what Paul and Silas had just endured in Philippi, the s you know the major city of uh that they just ministered at. He was like he was they were imprisoned there. That was beneath their dignity as Roman citizens. They're probably still smarting from the stripes on their back because they've been beating Still we see Paul's team did what they do best. They understood the right motive in pre teaching, they were bold in God, they were not as so many peddle peddling the word of God. No ulterior motive, no inferior motive, no hidden agenda. They just really care about these people, want to want them to come to be uh saved. Then in verses 4 to 12 we see in addition to the right initiative, approach, and motive, Paul, Paul had the right disposition. By disposition, I mean like temperament. I want to point out two striking images used by Paul. One, the apostle was as serious as someone tried in court. Two, yes he was also as warm and caring as our folks at home. We see this in two um specific word choices of vocabulary style the judicial language right and the parental figures of speech First, note how Paul insists on his integrity, calling on witnesses. In verses 5, 6, and 10, the apostle calls God as witness. God who entrusted him as an apostle and steward of the gospel. The Lord would testify on behalf of Paul and his associates. There was no flattery or greed in their ministry. The Thessalonians can testify the same how Paul and his friends acted devoutly, justly, and blamelessly. Also note besides the judicial language, the familial language, family language. Verses 7 and 8, there is the affectionate care of a mother. Verses 11 and 12, there's the earnest zeal of a father. Ira and I, we're still relatively new to this parenting thing. But we know and the kids know that there are differences between my role as dad and her role as mom. I heard once that a father's job is to prepare the children for the world. The mother's job is to remind them they're always welcome back home. I suppose it's a balance of go make your parents proud of you, but also we'll leave the porch light on. Well, as disciple makers, we don't have to choose between fatherly and motherly, paternal and maternal. Paul saying owning the right disposition means having both. And they needed that kind of disposition and Love. Talk about a harsh world. It's a rough going for the Thessalonians. That's what we see in verses 13 to the end of the chapter. I mean we all know we know that the saints already showed signs of maturity, receiving the word of God from Paul with the right perspective. But they had no choice to but to grow up fast. Sometimes kids have to grow up fast because things are not looking so great around them. They endured persecution. The Christian Thessalonians suffered from fellow Thessalonians, unsafe Thessalonians, just as Christian Judeans suffered from fellow Judeans. Meanwhile, such circumstances did not scare Paul away from them. Rather, it made him, Silas and Timothy want to see them even more. Of course, only a true father or mother would rush into danger to be with the child in distress. That's what Paul and Silas and Timothy, that's what their hearts are. So Paul not only longs for their maturity and endurance, he wants to be with them. Just like we may want to be with our children, especially when they're going through tough times, such is the fellowship of the expectant faith. And love finds a way in disciple making. We go on to chapter three. There we learn to cultivate right growth patterns. We go from the foundation and the fellowship to the fervor of expectant faith. Again, love finds a way because even if Paul can't go himself to Thessalonica, he can at least send Timothy. My guess is that earlier Timothy when he When he was with Paul and Silas in Thessalonica, maybe he wasn't in the public limelight in the city and maybe he kept a low profile and that was to Paul's advantage. Timothy could more easily slip in and out of the church. Timothy was dear to Paul, yes, but the apostle would rather be alone than leave his spiritual children alone. So he sends Timothy. And this patch of key figures like Timothy reinforces what we discussed thus far at the seminar. Is that a program that's most important in establishing and encouraging disciples? We're not sure exactly what Timothy taught the Thessalonians there. But we do know Timothy was there. These are relationships, okay? Who would someone who would represent Paul well, if that's Timothy. Relationship is what's going to encourage disciples. That's what we saw in Acts 14, 21 to 22. That's what we see here in verses 1 to 5. A growing faith has the right support system. Again, a growing faith has the right support system. Support system being relationships. It's also true that disciple making and disciple strengthening are beneficial for both sides, both the discipler and the disciplee. That's why we see in verses 6 to 10. A growing faith needs the right spiritual reciprocity. Again, a growing faith needs the right spiritual reciprocity. As Timothy returned and brought back a positive report of their faith, you see how excited Paul is And see how there's all this back and forth of blessings, trading of blessings. It's kinda like, doesn't it feel good to like someone and have him or her like you back, right? Doesn't it isn't it nice to have your kids care for you and spoil you once in a while? I hope I mean it is, right? It is nice. I'm looking forward to it. The kids spoiling me hard. Um Well, it's kind of like that here. First Paul gave them the good news of Christ. That's chapter 1, verse 5. Now Paul receives the good news of their faith and love. Paul began by saying he and his friends remember the Thessalonians without ceasing. That's verse 2 of chapter 1. Now he hears that they always have a good remembrance of them. The apostle really wanted to see them. 217 to 18. Now he knows they feel the same way. As a spiritual father, Paul aimed to comfort them in their afflictions. 2:11 to 12. Now his spiritual children comfort him in all his afflictions. This is reciprocity. Back and forth. Stirs up more thanksgiving, more joy, prayer, and desire to reunite and stimulate growth. That's what they is basically saying to each other, can't wait to see you again Paul ends the chapter with the prayer that epitomizes the fervor of an expectant faith. So in verses eleven to thirteen. Sorry, I gotta go back here. Eleven to thirteen. We see a growing faith is focused on the right passion. Even after Timothy visited them in his place, Paul still wants to go himself, so he prays for a reunion. He also prays for their love to increase and abound more than ever for everyone, for each other, for outsiders, for the apostles, Silas and Timothy. He's not satisfied with external behavior shifts for a season or two. He prays for lasting change. Hearts that are blameless and holy before God at the return of Jesus That leads us to chapter 4, where he teaches us how to live holy lives. We go from the foundation, fellowship, fervor, to the focus of our expectant faith. Paul reminds believers of the foundation of their holy walk in verses 1 to 2. Foundation of their holy walk. We find that much of disciple making is repetition and review. Is it like repetition as mother of learning? Seems to apply to disciple making too. So Paul goes on to urge obedience in verses three to eight. We have the focus of our holy growth. Focus of our holy growth. We're talking about sanctification. Standing opposed to sanctification as its greatest obstacle is sexual immorality. Reading up of Paul's letters, and you'll see sexual sins at the top or near the top of the list of vices and the most urgent matters in his agenda. Romans 1, three times, God gave up idolaters to their depravity, the result of homosexual and heterosexual sins. In 1 Corinthians Paul spends multiple chapters addressing various sexual immoralities. Galatians 5, 19 to 21, we have the works of the flesh starting with adultery and fornication. In Ephesians 5. 3-7, again, sexual sins are at the top of the stay away category. In Colossians 3. 5, we have the kill list, starting with fornication. In terms of discipleship, this is partly why I think smaller groups of men and women separate are key in disciple making. I know it's fun and exciting for singles to be in larger groups with other singles and you're thinking maybe my future spouse is here somewhere, you know But if we really want to focus on holy growth, right, it might be better to seek a different setting, maybe not to do away with you know the co-ed setting, but If we're going to really focus on holy growth, we need the right environment to get into the messy weeds of our lives. And that means building trust over time. with discretion and confidentiality, revealing some deeply private matters. Often such details are inappropriate to share with those of the opposite gender. Rather, one brother to another can be like David and Jonathan. One sister to another can be like Ruth and Naomi. That's where iron sharpens iron. See, we want our churches to be less like social clubs for hangouts and more like forges for blacksmiths. Can we create such groups at our church? I guess that's one of the things we'll talk about. The Thessalonians were apparently already set up for success, that kind of ministry. In verses nine to twelve, as you he speaks of the the freedom of their holy love. He just says, keep doing what you've been doing. But more of it. Love the brethren. There's also some advice as they meet their unsaved neighbors, lead a quiet life, mind their own business, work with their own hands. I take that to mean Christians should be simple in their message and lifestyle. There's no need for endless speculations and nosiness at work. You don't want that kind of reputation. Outside in the world. Enjoy life, work hard, be ordinary, but when given the chance, speak of your extraordinary faith. Be ready for that. Just follow David's lead in Psalm 131, 1 to 2. Don't concern yourself with great matters, nor with things too profound for you. Calm and quiet your soul. There's a lot of good we can do as normal law-abiding citizens who abide in Christ. Now we see most of what Paul says in this chapter is praise for the Thessalonians, but there are some correctives in verses 13 to 18. That's where the apostle addresses the hope of their holy future, the hope of their holy future. The love of their believers, these believers have produced many friendships. But then, as we said earlier, there's a lot of persecutions. So they have to say goodbyes and they have to schedule funerals. The question is what happens to our dearly departed brothers and sisters? Paul teaches them that death is not the end, but they will be reunited with their fellow saints. Someday. It's not goodbye forever, but see you later. Look ahead to the future, to Christ, the focus of our expectant faith. And that leads right into the the last chapter. Finally, that's where we learn to pursue godly goals. We go from the foundation, fellowship, fervor, and focus to the future of our expectant faith. Chapter 5 begins like the way chapter 4 ended. Paul's saying in verses 1 to 5: After you focus on the hope of your holy future, live with the right perspective. Live with the right perspective. That means know what time it is basically. It makes a huge difference. Let's say I need to do some yard work. I actually do. But if it's nighttime and it's dark outside, then I would call it a day. Clock out. Stop working. But if instead it's daytime and it's bright outside, nice weather, then I should get out there and Get some work done. And as we see in verses 6 to 11, it's good to get some help in our labors, have the right perspective together. So Paul encourages us to pursue a godly team effort. Pursue a godly team effort. We are called sons of day and sons of light. We have to keep each other awake, even as our eyelids get heavy. Hold each other accountable. Make sure no one flees his post. Band as brothers in arms. Don the breastplate of faith and love and the help as her helmet, the hope of salvation. Using military language here. Work together, fight together for the common goal of the team, comfort and edification. One more section, which is the remainder of the letter, 512 to 28. At first glance, these verses seem to be disparate paragraphs and sentences. You may be asking what are these, what's the connection? I agree with Tim Potter and um the late John MacArthur that these are in the context of corporate worship. So attached to proper worship context. These godly goals attached to a proper worship context. A disciple-making process is certainly not limited to corporate worship, but it sure doesn't do away with corporate worship either. And even in worship, relationships are at the forefront. You recognize and esteem leaders, you confront the unruly, lift up the faint-hearted and the weak. Of course it goes without saying our relationship with God is most important in worship. You speak to God through prayer spoken, you listen to God through prophecy written. And with expectant faith, you trust Him to sanctify you completely and preserve you blameless until the end. Our future is dependent on the faithfulness of God. So that's it. We made it through First Thessalonians. I know that was really fast, and it's probably best to read it again for yourself. It's not the way I would normally preach through a book of the Bible. Just a quick survey. So we look at this model first century church. We see in it a blueprint for disciple making. And so as we do that, we have to entrust ourselves to God. We ask for his help. We trust he will sustain us Even if we ask ourselves where are we as a church, we have hopes that God can do great things. You know the Paul's benediction in chapter 5. Towards the end reminds me of this last song for today. One part of it goes, With every breath I long to follow Jesus, for he has said that he will bring me home. And day by day I know he will renew me until I stand with joy before the throne. Let's pray, and we're going to sing that as we close. Lord, we thank you for your word. There's so much in your word. Sometimes just we can park at one verse and just I think so many applications about it. Lord, we pray that you would just bless our time of meditation on 1 Thessalonians. Lord, what lessons you have for us? at a as a 21st century church, looking at this first century church. Lord, help us to glean insights. We thank you that, Lord, that the work of ministry continues even though we're separated 2,000 years from this church. And we pray that the words of Paul, that how you speak through Paul and how you use this church, will be the same way that you speak to us. And that you work through our church so that we could uh so that the word would sound out from us, so that we could care for each other as a father and mother to their children. So that we could encourage each other, that there would be reciprocity, disciple and discipler, that we would Just really encourage each other to do more of what we're doing well and also to confront each other about moral issues and things that get in the way of following you. So we just thank you for your word. We pray that you would give us more insight into it and help us to think about ways we can please you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.