When I was growing up, I hung around with various groups of people. In elementary school, there was the football recess gang. And in every group we had, we gave out names. It just so happened that peanuts had come out about that time. So every one of us took one of the peanut gang's name. One unfortunate soul was Charlie Brown. Another was Linus and the little guy that played the piano, Schroeder or something his name is. And then he looked at me and I thought, oh no, please, not Pig Pang. But I didn't get that name. Because of my little shiftiness and sliding and moving around, they gave me the name Snoopy. So for years to many people I was known, it was cut short as Snoop, long before the famous rapper that ever took place. And later on in life I hung around another group, the tennis team. And on the tennis team, I was known as Racket Rocket Randy. I would have liked to play Dr. Beale. It would have been interesting before I broke my hip It would have been interesting. To the teachers, I was known as Bummy. Not that I was one, but Uh Bummy. And so I was getting all these names I was going down the home. Snoop, Rocket, Burk, Bomby. I called myself the Bomb. That was just the name I gave myself. And to the VoTech group, we sat around, we were before sch school started one day and we're watching people going past like, you know, that guy looks like a you know, this animal and that guy looks like that animal. Before long we realized that, you know, we were sort of of a foul disposition. One guy with a long neck and a bulging Adam's apple on a head that was long with a beak and he became Buzz. That's short for Buzzard. Another guy was big and tall with a breast and he sort of walked like this when he walked and he was turkey. And then he looked at me and I said, Oh no. And they called me chicken. I don't hear much of those names anymore. When I go to work, I guess I don't know why my our last name is so Hard to pronounce. Bomb burger. A bomb with a burger on the end. But the guy at work has a hard time with my name. And so Mm with my love of the garden and the stories that we have with creatures that go on and take over the garden is if there's our it it's my their dinner plate or something. And he calls me Mr. Bummy Gardner. Well, let me ask you this, Mr. Bummy Gardner. And one day he wanted me to do something. I said, no, not now. And he wanted to say, no, I don't want to do it. And we were going back and forth. And finally said, Well maybe let me ask you this, because you always give your wife this such a hard time and I said, Oh yes, a whole lot more. And he says, Well let me ask you this, Mr. Bummy Gardener, when you do, what does she call you? And I looked at him and he said, Well, it goes something like this. Look, you remember that, because there's more of you in that than Then you may realize. Today, my goal for you is I want to talk to your heart. Now I know it involves your head, but I want to talk to your heart. I want to try to get somehow to your heart so that it explodes within Enthusiasm and with intensity. This is no easy task. I ask you this question before we start In light of that, do you want to tell me how you do that? It's your heart. And let's face it, we all come from different backgrounds, we all have different problems, we're all coming from different things in our life. So what wows one person, what reaches one person, what touches one person, the other person goes, hmm. You got excited over that? That ain't no big deal. Did you ever notice that? You could say, hey, this happened, you get it really excited. And everyone's like, yeah, okay. Well, I got it because you know I was a last born. Anybody else in here are last born? By the time you're a last born and a family of four Everything's been done. Everything's happened. Look, mom, my first letter. Oh yeah, I've seen that before. You know Well we came home. Look, Mom, I pay I I I I I colored this. I could never stay inside the lines. And my sister was like, yeah, but look at mine And there was no comparison. Different places. And you say to me, how do you do that? Well, you might say, well, just preach the word And let the Word of God and the Holy Spirit of God do it for you. And I said, Well, that's true. But nevertheless, the task that I've set before me today is no small one. And while still trusting in God and His Word, A speaker still has a part to play. And so do you. And that's the part I'm worried about. I wonder if you've ever taken the time to consider how important and what great value and worth it is to your spiritual life and vitality to stop and just. Consider. We might call it think, we might call it dwell, you might call it meditate But how often do we do it? And why don't we do it? I think sometimes perhaps we don't because we think it's a waste of time. We don't see the value in it. There's no point. It's useless. Therefore, I see no need in it. How do you get the wow in your heart and the intensity? I'm going to look at four passages in the Bible today and then share with you what What took place for me a month ago was just before we were ready to come to this table sitting over there. I'm sure you all saw what happened, right? I mean I jumped up, I screamed, I hollered, ran around the room, right? You saw it. Right? Please tell yeah, because you didn't see it. Because it was all happening in here. And the response may be different. Some may go, eh? Some may go, ooh. Other ones they go, Lord, forgive me for I've sinned. The responses are numerous. I can't tell what this response is going to be, but all I want to do is try to reach your heart. I want you to say, hey, I didn't just come in here today and get a bunch of head nods and I walked out and nothing happened. I haven't changed. Nothing took place. Then I want to look at these four passages and then I want to apply it to the table that we're going to take. That we're going to have here this morning. But the first patches passage I want to look at is the one we read in Scripture this morning. Psalm 8. So if you turn to Psalm 8, I'd like to look begin there. It starts out At the beginning and the end, this is what I call a sandwich song. The first piece, the slice of bread, starts out in verse 1, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is you. Your name and all the earth. And the last verse, O Lord, how excellent is thy name. Two slices of bread and everything else in between make up the substance of his praise. So in this psalm, I see three things. I see in verses one and two, David's part as he Sees it in creation. In verses three and four, I see his place in creation. In verses five through eight, David sees his position. In creation. Consider for a moment his part. In verses one and two he says, O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth who has set thy glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast ordained strength. And when I read that I'm like what a what is that have to do with anything? Do you ever notice that sort of just sort of seemed weird? That sort of s awkward. Just sort of out of the mouth of babes I was ordained strength. Since when does strength come out of someone's mouth? And so as you begin to think about this, you realize: well, this was a passage, this will help you understand it, that Christ quoted in Matthew 21:16. It was the day after the triumphal entry. And the day after he went into the temple, remember? And what he did there? He went in and he cleansed the temple and he turned over the tables and he said, You have my father's house is supposed to be a house of prayer, and you have made it a den of thieves. And then he turned and he healed blind people and lame people. And it was going on, and all this commotion was going on, so that the young boys shouted out, Hosanna to the son of David! And this was too much for the religious leaders. They said, You gotta do something about this. Things are getting out ahead. Throwing stuff all over the place. Wonderful things, but just wonderful to them. Not miraculous. It's just wonderful things being done by these people over here. And they run over to the Lord and they say, don't you hear what they're saying? Like, stop them from saying this. You're not the Messiah. And Jesus said, yeah, I heard it. Have you never read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings, thou hast perfected praise? And he departed from them In Psalm 8, the word is strength. Bollinger says that's a metonymy, a figure of strength And David sees himself as part of that. As one. He's offering up praise and he says, I am amazed, God, that out of young Weak, insignificant, what the world calls insignificant things, you use those to defeat the enemy. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, hath God chosen. Yea, the things which are not, to bring the knot the things that are. And David says, Wow, my part in creation. I'm small, I'm weak, I'm insignificant, yet God uses that to destroy. The strength of men. And he's dumbfounded. Verses 3 and 4, he says, his place in creation, one of my favorite sections, he says, When I consider the heavens, What is man that thou art mindful of him? When I was trying to woo my wife one summer, she decided to take off and leave. Well I knew that was a good thing for her spiritually. I mean she was working, but they get a lot of Bible and a lot of singing and a lot of scripture. health. But it was good for her. And when I was down there, I went to visit her for a short time. Do you remember that, Lisa? And they had a guest speaker. And he was in a big auditorium where he was speaking. speaking and he spoke on this passage and I've never forgotten it. And he did something when he got to this passage. Now I'm not going to have the exact distances And I'm not going to have the right proportions quite, but this is basically what he did. And I asked Mackenzie to help me on this. So if we could get Mackenzie out here if she's uh not too shy. And she's gonna uh take that bucket and she's gonna go back to Mr. Gardhart because he's the furthest person back right there And she's going to reach into that bucket and she's going to give him the biggest object in that bucket. Rick, can you reach in there and grab the biggest thing in that bucket? It's right there on the top. And you ni and now hold it up for everyone to see. What is it? No, it is not a basketball. It is the sun. It is the sun. And then he came down a little further. Why don't you come to your grandfather, Mackenzie? And reach in and let him reach in and grab the next biggest thing. We have a softball. Well, you know, well, that's one of the planets. I don't remember which one. I didn't do my research in our solar system and then he came a little closer. Well we'll cover on this side. Yeah let's grab someone. Go ahead. Let her reach in there and grab. The next biggest thing. A baseball. Right, I'm running out of space. You guys didn't sit back far enough. Okay, let's go over here to Mr. Dale and let him reach in. Is that the last thing? Mm-hmm. And what is he holding there? Another planet in our solar system, you may be seated. And then he did this. You know what that is? That's earth. That's earth. And you're on it. David didn't have the hobble To look. All he could do was sit up and look with his eyes. And when he looked at creation, he said, This I am wow, that thou art mindful of me. The immensity of God. When man creates something, you can put your stuff down. When man creates something, he can get on it or stand beside it and practically disappear. Let him build an aircraft carrier. Stand on it. You're lucky if you can see him. Not with God. When he makes things, they're on the tip of his finger. And David says, What is man that thou art mindful of him? And he sees his place in creation. First I'm small, I'm a babe. And next, what am I in this whole course? I don't know, a lot of you travel, I'm you know, you look in the skies around here and you look up, you see you almost don't even see anything stars. Get out somewhere when I went elk hunting out in Idaho when we were thirty five miles back in by horseback, I got up and I could not believe how many stars There are. I mean, it was blastered. I mean, when you look around here, even when I go to my dad's cabin in Pennsylvania, it was nothing compared to up and there. It was just unbelievable. And he's just sitting there and he's looking. Around. And he's in awe. In verses five through eight of this psalm David is in awe of his position in creation. That in light of all the things that have been created, God would take such a person as I and say, There it is, it's yours, run it. Well, I'm a CEO of a multimillion dollar corporation. That ain't nothing compared to creation, is it? He was wowed. He was awed. He couldn't take it in. And as a result of the immensity of God, David turns around and he has Response. It's in verse 1 and verse 9, and he says, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name. I like the word majestic. There's two uses of the word Lord here, one for the existing one, the other one for the sovereign reigning king. Overall. And he sees that. And then he says, How excellent is thy name? The name is who you are, or what you do. What comes to your mind when I say Hitler? Bin Laden, Abe Lincoln, George Washington. I'll leave the presidents out. I'll leave some But what comes to your name? Your mind. Your name is who you are. It's what you have done. It's what you stand for in your n in your character. And he says, How majestic is your name. And I can't help but, David, blended both ideas of the regal, royal reign of God with this idea of sovereignty. and of majesty. When we say majesty, it can be used as a title, Your Majesty Majesty can also just simply mean sovereign reign and rule, and majesty could also mean excellence, splendor, magnificence, grandeur. And that's how David responded to the immensity of God. His immensity caused in God, God's immensity in David caused An intense intensity, immense intensity in his life that he broke out in praise. And he said, Your glory is above The heavens. It's high. It's way up. You're looking up. There again. You're looking up like a skyscraper, and he's just wow in awe. Oh Lord my God, when I in awesome wonder Consider all the worlds thy hands have made. I see the stars. I hear the rolling thunder. Thy power throughout the universe. Are you with me? Let's sing it. Then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou art Then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee How great thou art, how great thou. So with David, I hear him say to me Look you Psalm twenty three A familiar passage. The day in life. The day in life. A day in the life of a shepherd And his sheep, from start to finish. But that's not what I want to focus on. You know it, it's a well known psalm. The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. And in this, in verses one and two, David sees that God supplies. The Lord's my shepherd I shall not want. In verses two And three, in addition to two and three, we see God not only supplies, but that God restores. Verse three, he restores my soul. He forgives, and he causes me to lie down. I'm at peace I have calmness in a in a wicked and wild world. Then he talks about God leading him on in paths of righteousness for his name's sake Verse 4: Even though there's fear and there's trouble and there's dangers in life, through his personal presence and comfort, God, I have nothing to fear. In verse 5, he talks about the good life that a person can possess because God stands around and does his fighting for him. In the presence of my enemies, I can sit down and have a meal. Don't worry about that. The battle is the Lord's. A very famous song. A psalm of confidence Look at it again. The Lord's my shepherd. I'm not going to want. He leads me. He restores me. He guides me. He keeps me set safe. He prepares a table for me in the presence of my enemies. He's filled with confidence at the providence of God. If David was wild the first time with the immensity of God in creation Here he is wowed by God through the providential care in his life. Have you ever taken time to think about that? God hasn't done anything for me. I got where I got with my own two hands. I build up my company I worked and sweat in God's money. What has he done for me? David didn't look at it like that. We know that everything comes from God. In him we move and breathe and have our being. If he didn't give you breath, you wouldn't have got nothing. If he wants to, he he builds up, he tears down. He puts people in positions in leadership, not you. So David is all struck by this, and he ends in verse six. With his heart response of intensity by saying, and rightly so, with confidence, surely. That's the word of confidence. Surely Goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life. We had this little kid in the neighborhood and whenever we were trying to do things, he was a a petty poor kid, but he was always trying to get in with the gods, you know, we were always playing and running here. and doing doing things and he always wanted to be a part and we were like, you know, get away from us, you know. You bother us. And everywhere we went, and sometimes we were cruel. We would take off and hide from him. He'd find We go down here and try to do something and we go over to the neighbor. We did that with my cousin too. He was the past sometimes and it was like at the family functions we get together and we go into my grandma's room and my grandmother had the greatest Places to hide. We'd climb in closets and up and over hats and boxes, and we'd be all back air meeting, and sure enough, here he came. No matter where we went, he followed us like a shadow. On a sunny day in an open field. God's goodness is going to follow him all the days of his life. And then he says this, In confidence, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord. So again, I hear him say to me Look, you You realize I say that using three connotations. Psalm 139. Another well-known psalm. The Psalm breaks down into four parts. Four parts of six verses each. Each one dealing with some aspect of God. In verses 1 through 6, you see the omniscience of God. That means God knows everything In verses seven through twelve, you see the omnipresence of God. That means he's everywhere. In verses thirteen through eighteen, you see the omnificence or the uh what we would call omnipotence of God. An emphasis is his power in the creative order. In verses 19 through 24, you see the holiness of God. But he starts out in verse one, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. And he ends it In verse 23, search me, O God. It's a psalm of searching and of confession and of g wanting God to completely and totally look at him. But here he says, You have searched me. You know my downsetting, my uprisings. You understand my thoughts afar off. Thou compass my path and my lying down, are acquainted with my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo thou hast the Lord, thou knowest it together. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain to it. Has that ever wowed you in your life Have you ever stopped to think about the fact that God has never had a beginning? Have you ever just tried to wrap your mind around that? There was never a time when he wasn't. And have you ever tried to consider, well, how many years did it go before he finally decided to create the earth? Theologians laugh and say, that's a stupid question. I say, no, it's not. Because when I think about it, I go, uh-huh. What? Have you just stopped and taken time to think about that? No Bible verses. You're not cross-referencing anything The lady says to me, Boy, those look like heavy grounds you're dwelling in. I'm like, Yeah, they are. Thinking. Does that wow you? Have you really tried to wrap your mind about it? I I just can't. I can't I'm gonna come away and be like Yeah. I just have to stop thinking about it. It drives you crazy. I just can't get my mind wrapped around that And he ends with praise. Each one of these four sections, there's the immensity of God. He knows everything. Everything about me. You know, there's times talking about accountability, I will confess Steve. There are times when I'm at a crossroad and I'm like, which way do I go? And I stop and I think You know, Lord, you already know which way I'm gonna take. Could you tell me? Because if it's the wrong one and I don't mean about, you know, by this or by that, I'm talking about a moral thing. And I'm like, yeah, well, yeah, yeah. Phew. Better do the right thing. He knows God knows. In verses seven through twelve, he talks about God's omnipresence If he ended his first section with praise, he begins the next one with intensity of praise. Where am I going to go from your presence? Where can he lay high? And then he says four ifs. Look what he says Verse 8, if I ascend to heaven, you're there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, you're there. If I take the wings in the morning and I go here and there, you're there. Verse 11 If I say, Surely darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as day, and darkness and light are both alike to thee. The immensity of God's omnipresence. He's everywhere. Dr. Fowler used to say, we had to have this for a test, a definition. You know, God is everywhere present at the same time, not in parts, but the whole of God is everywhere present And he was rambling on, God is here and God is there, and he even laughed and said, God's even in Satan. But not by personal relationship, by essence. So you can't look in the tree and say, Behold God. Behold, God. No. But he's there. Because by him all things are held together. And all things consist. You know, when I was in school one time, teacher said I gotta go down to the principal's office and so she said, You guys keep reading here and behave and she got up and she went. She knows sooner shut the door and I it started. Man there was a wadd o paper came flying over here, bashed me inside the head. Spitballs were flying from you know what spitballs are? Do you remember that from the day? Back in the day you take a piece of paper, you roll up, put it in your mouth, and you get a straw and you stick it in there. It's nice and wet and you go poof and it sticks, sticks fast, and they're flying. One kid's going over here, desk are moving that way, and then we thought, well, this is not too smart We should have a sentinel. So we sent someone out and they were watching for the teacher. And finally it's like, here she comes. We all sat down and she came in and she looked Around she said, What have you been up to? Look how does she do? She's a genius. She must have eyes in the back of her head. And I began to look around the room and I saw a piece of paper over here. There's spitballs over there, desks out of array, books laying over there, then some Eb went up and had the nerve to draw a picture on the chalkboard. I thought, well, how stupid is that? Do you ever notice how you don't do things when people are around? Another confession, Steve. I probably wouldn't do or say something. Or at least word them the way I do if you were standing next to me. Should that be? But it's probably It is true. D'ye ever notice how saintly you become when you're around somebody from church? Little halo pops up over you. Three hundred years ago a Catholic Chef, by the name of Brother Lawrence, wrote a book entitled Well, he didn't actually write the book, it was an interview. Because of his His lifestyle and his walk with the Lord, it was called practicing the presence of God. This man was some Handicapped. Life wasn't easy for him. And every time and everywhere he went, he held a conversation with God. And in the interview he said, Low O P doesn't fall from the table and roll across the room, which for me is like ca climbing Mount Everest. That I don't roll over and say, Lord, thank you for that. That rolled across the room that by thy grace I know I can make it. And everywhere he went, he talked with God. Do we do the same thing? Are we aware that God is always there beside us? Right now. Not even just beside us. He's in us. What? Know ye not that your bodies are the what? Temple of God. What a difference that makes in a person's life. And then verses 13 through 18 talks about the inevitable God And this time he doesn't end in praise or begin in praise. He can't get through without my praising. He starts a verse, he praises. He talks a little minute, he praises again, sort of like a mountain. Climbing up the hill. It's what you know, he he hits him, he comes back down, he climbs back up the hill again. In verse thirteen he says, You possessed my reins, it's covered me in my mother's womb. And here comes the praise. I praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. I like watching shows that have to do with the body. To look at what goes on and how create how do you take a mind, a mind, some matter You know, some chemicals, a couple nerves and line, you know, blood vessels. And it thinks It remembers things. I can shut my eyes and picture somebody from years ago in my mind. And I haven't seen them for 30 years Hell! How does that happen? David stands in awe. He is stunned In verses 15 and 16, he talks about, hey, not only did you knit me together when I was in my mother's womb, But you have my whole life plan. My whole life is laid out. You know it. You completely know everything. You knew everything about my body. You knew what my hair color was gonna be, how much hair I was gonna lose. I'm s was back there today. I'm like, oh man, I'm losing It's like he knows how many hairs, right? Knitts these things together. And David says it it's absolutely unbelievable. And and knit your your plans for me. He says in verse 17, here it is God's immensity. Here's David's intensity. How precious are thy thoughts unto me, O God. How great is the sum of them, if I should count them. They are more than the numbers of the sand. When I awake, I am still with thee. In verses 19 to 24 we see the holiness of God. You know, as a prayer of confession and cleansing, it was only right that he would get to this point. Point. Because he talks about God's holiness and he says, Look, verse 19, surely you'll slay the wicked, O God. Therefore he says, Depart from me, therefore, you bloody man. For they speak against thee wickedly, and thy enemies take thy name in vain. Do I not hate them, O Lord, that hate thee? Am I not grieved with those who rise up against thee? I hate them with perfect hatred, and I count them as my enemies. Loyalty. Loyalty. God, you have searched me. Now I ask, Lord, search me and see. Search me and see if I'm not on your side. Who is on the Lord's side, right? Who will serve the king? Who will be his helpers? Other lives to bring? Who will leave the world's side and who will face the foe? Who is on the Lord's side? Who for him will go? By thy call of mercy, by thy grace divine, we are on the Lord's side. Savior, we are thine Not for weight of glory, not for crown or palm, enter we the army, raise the warrior song, but for love that claimeth lies for whom he died. He who Jesus Nameth must be on his side. By thy love constraining, by thy grace divine, we are on the Lord's side. Savior, we are thine. And so again I hear him say, Look, you. They say that with three kinds Romans chapter 5. Romans 5. The Apostle Paul, one of the greatest, if not, it is the greatest book in all the Bible on the salvation of God. If you were to give it a theme, it would go something like this. Righteousness is possible. You need righteousness to get to heaven. You need righteousness to live the Christian life. He talks about both aspects in the book. In verses 1 through 17, he shows that righteousness has been manifested and revealed. Man is tested and revealed. There is righteousness. In verses 118 through 320, he proves why righteousness is needed. All the world and every mouth may be stopped and be found guilty before God. In verses three Chapter 3, verse 21 through chapter 5, he shows how righteousness has been supplied. In chapter 6, 7, and 8, righteousness experience. How do I experience this righteousness? Chapter 6, 7, and 8. 9, 10, and 11. Righteousness, watch it. Righteousness can be missed. How do you know? Israel missed it. Chapters 12 through 15. Righteousness lived. Gotta relive the righteous life. What's it look like? 12 through 15. Chapter 16, righteousness displayed in the lives of all the people he mentioned. Displayed in their lives. But in chapter 5 of Romans, he says in verse 6 After writing all these things, he says, for when we were without strength In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. Verse 8, for God demonstrated his love towards us, in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Verse 10. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son. Paul stands amazed in the presence of God of the salvation that he has provided. And in chapter 8, thinking of all these things, he says these words. I mean Paul just starts flailing away. It's like, I don't know if I can describe it. How shall my tongue tongue describe? Where shall praise begin? And in chapter eight and verse thirty-one, in light of the fact that we were without strength, in light of the fact that we're ungodly, in light of the fact that we are sinners, he says, What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he with him not also provide us all things, or freely give us all things? And then he says this in verse 38, For I am persuaded that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. God's immensity in salvation. Paul's intensity in his writing. And what was he thinking on? Did he have some Did he have someone to preach to him? Did he have one to tell him? He had the scriptures of the Old Testament. Considering salvation. Just stopping and thinking and considering Salvation. A month ago, I was sitting over there, and something that was said up here struck me. And I have been feasting on it for a month Now I know when God gave manna, he gave it for several reasons. First of all, we should always look to God. Second of all, he gave manna to realize that all things come from God Thirdly, that man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. Lessons we learned from giving of manna. Trust in his word. And lastly he said, go out every day, right? Every day go out and gather it. Every day it should be new. Every day it should be fresh. Don't live off yesterday because if you try to, it's going to be But I broke the last one. I I I just, you know, sometimes you hear things is right over your head. Somebody else says it, it resonates. They say it a different way. It resonates. And what was said, well, Jim Shopee was up here. It just hit me. Uh it just struck me. Now when I say this you're gonna say, Yeah. Your promise uh, oh yeah? Really? Well, yeah, I knew that Okay, so we're so used to hearing it. But here's what he said. He got up there and he held that bread, and he said, when he did this, here it is, his mind was on You. You know, we're so used to hearing for God's loved the world. He gave his life for ransom for many. He died for sinners, and we throw ourselves in the big corporate group. But you separately, individually, personally It was as if he was looking right at me, and he was. Look, if God can answer and hear, if he can hear the prayers of every person on this planet at the same time. And answer their prayers at the same time. And he can, you can't tell me when he was on that cross, his mind wasn't on everybody. At the same time. His full, complete, total attention is on you, Rick It was on you, Jack. Phyllis, it was on you. Dale. James, you didn't escape. Bob, you neither. John, he was looking right at you. I haven't got over it. That leads us to this table. Three quick thoughts. When I think of the table, I think of three things. I think of the grace of God, I think of the mercy of God, and I think of the love of God. The grace of God. Quick definition. God's unmerited favor. Unmerited favor. You can't earn it It's just something somebody decides to do for you. Nothing because you're good looking or you're funny, you know, or you've you've got things in common, because we sure don't have anything in common with God When you're without strength and you're ungodly and you're a sinner and you're an enemy. God's unmerited favor And I think of that in two ways. I think of God's grace in quantity and quality. Think of this in quantity. I cannot tell you how many times I have said to people, if Adolf Hitler would have truly repented and trusted in Jesus Christ alone for his salvation, though he would have been held accountable For the terrible things he'd done, he would have been saved in heaven. No way, people say. Impossible. You can't tell me. That's not true. You know how many times I heard that? Mostly from unsaved people. I'm shocked even more when I hear it from Christians. What is the totality of Hitler's sin compared to the Totality cumulative sin of everybody who ever lived They don't even compare. Trillions, uh I mean how high numbers go. Trillions of billions of millions God's grace in quantity. Romans 5 20 for where sin did abound, grace did. Abound much more. It's just an abound. Abound is good enough. It's not just more, more is good enough. It's much more abound. Do you have the proper picture of the grace of God? I think of the quality of God. That's the second aspect. God's grace and quality. You got hate? Grace got love. You got sorrow? His grace got joy. You got turmoil? His grace got peace. You impatient? His grace has long suffering. You rough? He's gentle. If you think you're bad, God's grace is good, and he can make you good. If you doubt, God's grace has faith Are you harsh? God's grace has meekness. Do you lack self-control? God's grace has temperance. There isn't one bad thing that you can do, my friend, that God's grace doesn't have an answer for and match it. And at that much. More. Mercy. Quick definition. I think it in two terms, two ways, as in grace. First, God's mercy is Him not giving us what we deserve. We all deserve hell. We all deserve punishment. We did it. We're guilty. Oh, I I just can't take some of these cop shows on television. I just I can't take not see these people doing this stuff and they do this stuff and they snub their nose at authority and society and they go in and judge says, Now don't you do that again. You go What? You call that justice? I'm like crucified crucified. I gotta turn the television off. I can't take it. I like judges. Judy. Okay? You may not. She's harsh, but she's got some wisdom. God not giving us what we deserve, and on the other hand, God reaching down and giving us what we need The lady came to Jesus, the child was struck, and she said, Lord, if there's anything you can do, have mercy. That's the compassion of God. That's the immensity of God. God's grace and immensity in quality, quantity and quality, God's immensity in his Well, once again I turn to Romans chapter eleven and Paul. He steps to the plate again and I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. In verse 30 he says, For you in times past didn't believe in God. Now you have obtained mercy. to the Jewish unbelief. Even so have these now also not believed that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy on all God's immensity. So Paul's like, whoa! And he springs forth with some intensity, and look at this one. This is a real good one. Oh, the yeah, that's enough for us Right there. No. Oh. He says, look at these words. The death of the riches. Both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who hath thou in the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor, who hath first given to him that it should be recompensed to him again? And then he says this, for of him and through him, and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. Amen. That's a second strike at the mercy of God and the grace of God. And then there's love. Several years ago we attended another church, and at East Easter time we did this thing called the Living Last Supper. It was a a picture of Leonardo da Vinci's drawing of the Last Supper, and people get up, the twelve disciples, and once again it was in a group. and I got another name. And this time it was the beloved. And as I sat there as John, the beloved, beside the Lord, we each would get up and give a little bit of our speech and talk about how we met the Lord and stuff. I had a part to say, and one of my things I had to say in my verse was John 3. 16. John 3. 16. The hardest verse in all of the Bible to quote The hardest verse in all of the Bible to quote. First word's not a problem. Four. Second one gets a little harder. God. It was the next one that got me. So How do you say so? So I get up in there, you know, I'm trying to get people to feel how much depth, how much passion, how much God love them, you know, for God so love. God so love. God so love. God so no matter how I Every time I'd sit down and go, that was terrible. Forgive me, Lord I really wonder if any man who truly knows can say the show of John 3:16. Two little letters, one little word. What do you have? Infinity. Can any Man with mouth and tongue and word speak the infinite. I can't Can you? And so it's with that in mind we come to this table. These three God's grace, God's mercy, God's love I call the wow of his sacrifice. That's our intensity. We're asking the question today, or we're trying to answer. answer the question today that I asked earlier. Do you want to tell me how to do that? Do you want to tell me how to do that? And so while we come here and he had us on his mind, let's take a moment and put our mind on him.