Since our son was a baby, he's been fixated on things related to seafaring and ocean life. His favorite stuffed animals, Scarlet, the giant Pacific octopus. One. Um before that it was Captain Calamari, a pirate octopus with an orange boot uh orange boot, I should say No surprise he also likes pirates. We were happy when he got into past the pirate for a bit. These days he enjoys the animated series, The Octonauts. Much of it's educational, teaching us about fascinating marine biology and encouraging problem solving. Oh, that's good. But I'm a bit more hesitant about a new preoccupation of Nathaniel. We were at an indoor playground one day, and there was a National Geographic Kids lying around. There's a huge ship on the cover, so of course my son's interested. It's an issue focused on the 1912 sinking of the Titanic. The contents inside are good and informational. But I guess I'm not sure how to react to this excitement about a Terrible event. He's asking me about the damage caused by the iceberg, the number of light boats and the distress signal answered by a neighboring ship. Carpathia. I mean last time I got into all these details it was in like the nineties. It was like James Cameron movie starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winston. And that Celine Dion song. That Daniel's like, Can I watch that? And like, no, you can't watch that. Just read the magazine. Um I suppose there's an opportunity here to wisely and carefully teach some lessons about this tragedy. What immediately comes to mind is the danger of overconfidence. The ship's builders and passengers may have contributed to the popular notion that the ship cannot sink. The aforementioned film depicts higher-ups prioritizing speed and glory at the cost of safety and the maiden voyage. If that really is what happened, we know it's sank, but we're not sure all the reasons behind it. Many reasons, too. So we see how hubris can be fatal This proverb says, pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. As we open up the Bible today, we see a contrast. We see humility and obedience before God and careful biblical planning. Last week I compared Noah, who built the ark. in the flood, right, to that wise man who built his house on the rock. As Jesus taught in Matthew seven, the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on it. And it didn't not fall. Now don't get me wrong, Noah wasn't perfect. He's still human. I wonder if at least for a moment It had he and those on board felt some anxiety during the flood. Imagine them in there, the ground below them, rumbling and quaking, waves pounding against the ark. It's wooden structure groaning and creaking. But they can rest assured the ship will not be shipwrecked, it remain intact. The ark cannot sink because God won't let it sink. In Acts, the Lord preserved the lives of Paul and his company, but not their ship. But with Noah and his company, the Lord preserves both the lives and the vessel. Let's see how this happened as we continue in Genesis seven, seventeen to twenty-four. Genesis seven seventeen to twenty-four. Now the flood was on the earth Forty days. The waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. The waters prevailed and greatly increased on the earth, and the ark moved about on the surface Birds and cattle, and beasts, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, and every man, all in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, all that was on the dry land died. So he destroyed all living things which were on the face of the ground, both man and cattle, creeping thing and bird of the air. They were destroyed from the earth. Only Noah and those who were with him in the ark remained remained alive, and the waters prevailed on the earth one hundred and fifty days. Outline-wise, we have two time markers that serve as inclusio or bookends of the text. The first sentence of verse 17 speaks of the first forty days of the flood. Recall that it began in the 600th year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day. That day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up. The windows of heaven were opened, the heaven heavy rains poured down. On day forty the rain either stopped or at least decreased. But the subterranean waters continued to flow for sure. The levels rose and rose for another hundred ten days. That adds up to hundred and fifty days as Moses notes in verse 24. We're dealing with about five months of the flood in today's passage. And in between these time markers at the beginning and at the end, the key repetitions See if you can identify them. For example, look at how frequently you see the waters as the grammatical subject. The waters increase, it says in verse seventeen The second sentence, the waters prevailed, it says in 18, 19, 20, and down in 24. So then verses 17 to 20, for one cluster of verses. And the emphasis on is on the compounding power of the floodwaters The remaining verses, 21 to 24, form the other cluster. This time the emphasis is on the comprehensive power of the floodwaters. Six times in three verses we see the Hebrew word cole translated as all or every. Verse 21, all flesh, every creeping thing, every man. Verse 22. All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, all that was on the dry land. Verse 23, all living things which were on the face of the ground In the midst of all this, there's assurance in the last sentence of verse 23. Noah and those in the ark were just fine. Again, the chapter closes with the time marker. To put it all together, we have two clusters, four verses each, 17 to 20, 21 to 24. And looking at each cluster, we learn two lessons about God. In verses 17 to 20, we learn about the Lord's immense power. Now, recently at a beach, I realized how small and weak I am as a human. Okay. Remember thinking, I haven't been to a beach in a while, but you know, I could probably just stand here and stand up against the swelling waves of Ocean City. Before I knew it, I was knocked over and I was tasting salt water in my mouth and very humbling experience. Just a small wave can just knock you over When we face the waters, you and I might be tossed to and fro, like Jonah in the raging sea, or Paul driven by a tempestuous headwind. But the Most High is not like us. Jonah 1. 9 says, he's the God of heaven who made the sea and the dry land. As Psalm 29 says, the Lord sat enthroned at the flood, and the Lord sits as king forever. He's mighty, sovereign over all things. And then moving on to 21 to 24, the emphasis is on the devastating consequences of the deluge. We find that God is indeed the judge and preserver of all life. Act of God is not just a legal or insurance term. It's a biblical concept. Make no mistake, the Lord Himself destroyed life as we see in verse 23. He did not spare the ancient world. He brought in the flood on the world of the ungodly. Yet we also know that he saved Noah and others in the ark. As we go through these verses and watching all the overwhelming waves, keep their eyes on two vital truths about God. You might even call these truths two theological watermarks of the flood. First, know God as almighty and sovereign over all things That's verses 17 to 20. Secondly, trust God as judge and preserver of all life. That's 21 to 24. First, know God is Almighty and sovereign over all things. Again, we start with the first sentence of verse 17. Those first forty days were no doubt the most tumultuous flood waters ambushed earth on both fronts, two fronts, from below and from above. From underneath all the fountains of the great thief were broken, broken up. From overhead the windows of heaven were opened. Now from the second half of verse 17 to 20, we have four sentences. Note how each sentence contains a comma, so you you can break it into two parts If you were to arrange the data in some kind of chart form, the left column mostly describes the increasing power of the water. The right column mostly describes the effect of that water. As we move from one line to the next, it's as if there's a camera that moves along four points of focus. It's like a nature documentary with David Attenborough narrating. So let's follow the action here. First action Waters beneath the ark propel it upward. That's what we observe in the second half of verse 17. There's a vertical movement. Where it started, we're not sure. Maybe from Noah's backyard or some distant field. Wherever it was built, the ark begins its ascent. It rose and rose to great heights. Second action, we see how the arc moves as it floats in verse 18. To be clear, the arc's not designed for long distance navigation, it's designed for stability and durability. Some interpreters suggest that the arc had a bow fin. and stern for alignment with the winds and the waves. Still without sails or oars, it won't get far on its own. Third action, once we're assure that the arc is doing okay, it's as if the camera turns elsewhere. In verse 19, we see the high hills, literally the high mountains. They're pounded by water before they're covered completely by it. And that, by the way, will give us a good explanation of the current fossil record. For example, today we find remains of corals like the Rugos coral in the Grand Canyon. There are quinoids related to the common starfish in the Himalayas. How did they get all the way up there? Well there here's a scenario. The sudden disaster of a global flood member cracked open the ocean floor Not all sea creatures were safe from the catastrophe, as many were buried alive in the upheaval, including marine invertebrates. Then their graves were transported thousands and tens of thousands of feet above. See how violent and cataclysmic was this as the waters rise. Fourth and final action, Moses tells us exactly how far the waters clear, the highest peak. Of the mountains. 15 cubits, it says in verse 20. That amounts to 22 to 25 feet. Once the mountains are submerged, there's nothing else to see except water. None can survive such conditions. I read this week the herds of yaks, grays, and chatterings of chalks nest at high altitudes, very high altitudes. But even they have no place to go in the flood. Now that we follow the movement of the waters, the flood waters, we can look beyond them to reinforce. This theological watermark. Know God as Almighty and sovereign over all things. And this was no doubt a dramatic lesson for those in the Ark. They witnessed firsthand the Creator's control over waterfalls and billows. When the flow of water stopped, it's as if the Lord closed the faucet. Noah and others would learn the lesson of Job 38. 8-11. The Almighty shut in the sea with doors and fixed this limit for it with bars. Once again he commanded the waters. This far you may come, but no farther. And here your proud waves must stop. There's not only God's immense power on display here, they can learn something Under and below this deluge is another theological watermark. Trust God as judge and preserver of all life. As I said earlier, there's in verses 21 to 24 an emphasis on the comprehensive, ubiquitous, all-consuming power of divine judgment. Verse 21 alone has the word all or every Three times. None can move out of the way of danger. A griffin vulture will not fly high enough. A cheetah will not run fast enough. The Belgian blue bull, the strongest cattle today, could not stand up against the waves. The Parsons chameleon, the sneakiest lizard today, could not hide away in a crevice. All flesh perished Verse 22 restates the idea, but with less focus on wings and legs, the more focus on nostrils and lungs. When we speak of creatures having the breath of life, we're talking about typical land varieties and sky varieties. That excludes, it seems, bugs and insects. The their the matter of their survival outside or inside the ark is upwards. Debate. I'm not gonna spend too much time on that. More clear and important are the two points made in verse 23. First, God is the judge of all life. That's what we see in the first and second sentences. Ultimately, it's not the waters that destroy the world and its inhabitants. The Lord is the judge. He sent the waters to destroy creators. Moses uses one verb destroy twice to make this point. As a result, the judgment's complete All these details add up to the conclusion that the flood was indeed worldwide, not merely regional. There's a relatively new idea in church history, one that says Noah's flood is only local. Proponents include respected names, I won't say right now, but just as a friendly public service analysis. You don't have to agree with everything someone says to respect him or her. We don't need the acceptance of skeptics and the scientific community to advance the truths of scripture. Also, just read the Bible yourself and come to your own conclusions. Anyways, one argument for a local flood Bew here is based on the Hebrew word erretz translated as earth land or ground depending on the context. So, locating this word in Genesis 6 to 9, a claim is made that this disaster happened on a much smaller scale. Only a portion of the world, not all of it. But the plain language and context here does not support this claim. Logically, it makes no sense either. Consider the decades Noah spent building the Ark. A structure that's the length of one and a half football fields. And four stories tall. Was that all that effort necessary for a local flood? Also, if only regional flying creatures would have found some place to land elsewhere. I read this week that one migratory bird, the bar-tailed godwit that's a cool name, bar-tailed godwit, has been sighted traveling eleven days non-stop, over 8,000 miles from Alaska. To Tasmania. Moving from one place to another then would have been a breeze for birds, and even manageable for the nimble, strong land dwellers But as the waters covered everything, they eventually ran out of energy, ran out of ground, fell exhausted, and drowned. So God does indeed judge all life. That we also see in the third sentence of verse 23. That God also He is the preserver of all life. Noah and all those who were with him in the Ark remained alive, it says, All in there survived, and after the flood the creature kinds who lived through it became Ancestors of the great variety we see today. But first things first, Doa, his family and friends are not out of the water yet. At the close of chapter seven, the time marker reads day 150. Many more days and many more nights must pass before it's all over. Months must pass before the tops of mountains can be seen again. In the end, Noah will have spent more than a full year inside the ark before stepping on to dry earth. But rest assured, he, his wife, his sons, and their wives, and all those with him, the animals and birds with him, inside the ark, they will survive. They'll all be free. They'll live because not only is God the judge of all life, he's also the preserver of all life So now let's take these theological watermarks and draw some applications from them. Thankfully, the New Testament encourages thoughtful meditations on the topic of Noah's flood. For example, Carrie, our elder, read for us earlier a prophetic teaching from Jesus in Matthew 24. Those in the seven-year tribulation must be ready for the second coming of Jesus. Of course, many will ignore the signs and warnings to their own peril. They'll be busy eating, drinking, marrying as people did in the time of Noah. The saints, of course, must be different. They must prepare for the final day. Okay, then to be more specific, what are some practical ways for us to prepare? It's not up there, but one of my favorite passages on this subject is Romans 13, 11 to 14. I'll just read it for you. Hopefully you can meditate on it and chew on it throughout this week. Paul says in verse 11 of Romans 13. And do this, knowing the time, that now it is high time to wake out of sleep, for now our salvation is nearer than And lust, not in strife and envy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill his lusts. We're not sure the exact day of Jesus' return, but we are sure that with the passing of each day, our salvation future is nearer than We don't know how many thing uh we don't know many things about heaven, but we do know our duty here on earth. We must equip ourselves, put on the holy character of Jesus, be conformed to his image, flee sexual immorality. Deny ungodliness and worldly lusts, live in harmony with each other, love our neighbors. These are just a few ways Christians can prepare for the final day. Is another parallel between Noah's situation and our situation. Peter, Apostle Peter makes a gospel connection between Noah's safe voyage in the ark and us benefiting from Christ's life, death, burial, resurrection, and ascension. In the first of his two letters, towards the end of chapter 3, the apostle makes a comparison between Noah on board in the ark and believers in union with Christ. The two juxtaposed stand together as type and anti-type, or shadow and substance. The Old Testament event points ahead to the New Testament. Just as the arks say the remnants are of physical dangers, Christ will save us from spiritual dangers, from the peril of drowning in sin. So we're not just talking about water anymore, as in H. 2O, right? Peter makes it clear in verse 21 of 1 Peter 3 But the baptism he has in mind is not like showers or baths, right? We're not talking about getting clean physically, removing dust and dirt and sweat from our bodies. Even water in church context, in sacramental ordinance, cannot get rid of our original sin. It cannot get rid of any sin, for that matter Only the blood of Jesus washes us from our sins. By it we cleanse our conscience. By it, we can purify our souls. And appease the wrath of the holy God and approach him. So the baptism Peter explains here is a real identification with Jesus It's a spirit baptism into Christ's body. It's about being buried with him into his death to share in his life. Just as the Ark was in a sense at one point dead in the water, right? We who rest in Christ die to ourselves. But also later, just as the ark was preserved and all who were in it survived, those who take refuge in Jesus will find safe passage. It will emerge unscathed, unharmed. That's because believers are tied intimately to Jesus, who died to pay the penalty of our sins. And Christ didn't stay in the grave, he rose from the dead, gone up into heaven, and is at the Father's right hand. Those who trust in Jesus are raised together with him. They'll be guaranteed to enter heaven. and the kingdom of God. There may be this talk of connection between Noah's watery rescue and spirit baptism in Jesus This may sound a bit confusing, maybe it sounds new to you. Or you may even say to me, Pastor, I don't really have a sin problem. My conscience is doing just fine. I'm good enough for heaven. Thank you very much. I don't need all this talk of cleansing and purification and blood of Jesus. But I must warn you that what counts is God's estimation of you, not your own. Heaven belongs to him. He who is perfect and holy determines the insurance requirements. You think your conscience is your ally, but someday it'll bear witness against you, accusing you of breaking the law. You might very well defend yourself and say, You've never murdered anyone or committed adultery. But as God goes beyond the surface to judge the secrets of all men, he will also judge your innermost sins. That includes lusting, which amounts to adultery, and coveting, which amounts to idolatry. So if you haven't done so already, before it's too late, repent. Turn from sin. Turn from self-righteousness. Again, your only hope is Jesus The perfect Son of God and Son of Man who died in your place at the cross, was buried in the grave, resurrected, and ascended to heaven He will return someday to judge all mankind. You can identify with him only by placing your trust in him. There's nothing you can do to earn eternal life or deserve it. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And by the saving faith, we can enjoy assurance of eternal life. But sometimes our faith, even if it's genuine, can feel weak and wavering, little and listless. We cry out for help. We lean on Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. We turn to the Spirit of God, who not only saturates us and connects us to the Son of God. The Spirit Himself abides with us and dwells in us. And our Heavenly Father, sovereign and in control, will lovingly guide us to safe harbor. God is indeed the answer to the questions asked in catechisms and even in our final psalm. Who holds our faith when fears arise? Who stands above the stormy trial? Who sends the waves that bring us nigh unto the shore, the rock of Christ? Let's pray Well, we thank you for This passage, or even in the early chapters of the Bible, it points us to what you have accomplished in your Son Jesus Christ: His life, death, burial. Resurrection and ascension. We pray that everyone in this room will be in union with Christ your Son So that we do not have to face eternal consequences of our sin. Pray that this kind of introspection will be led by the Spirit, grounded in your word. Pray that all will be assured of salvation in Jesus' name. Pray that you'll convict the hearts of those who are listening right now or through a recording to turn to you. And Lord, we do pray, and we do praise you, that you are sovereign and powerful. and that you will judge all mankind someday, not by water, but by fire. We want all of we pray that all of us will be ready, not only by being saved, but living a life of holiness and growing in Christ. I pray this for every person in this room. Pray for myself and pray for all believers. We thank you for salvation in your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.