It's a pleasure to be with you. Don't even have to have guards here to keep everybody in line. Uh for those of you who don't know me, I uh my name's John Plaster. I I uh have a jail ministry. I actually work under the authority of my local church because I believe that's better than being an independent nonprofit organization, uh I do have a nonprofit organization through which I channel funds strictly for purchasing uh Bibles, correspondence courses, and other things that are valuable that I give out at the jail. If you want to know more about the jail ministry, I have some newsletters in a pew up here where I was sitting. I am supported as a faith missionary. There's a picture of my family if you want to pray for us. My wife is here today and I have five children. But uh more than that, uh being a local missionary It's more important to me that the local churches, if you have people that want to be involved in jail ministry, if you have people that want an opportunity to teach or to be involved in that way, I would like to be able to assist you with that. And you just get in contact with me, or if you know somebody that is itching to have their own Bible class or something. There are opportunities like that, both in the city and in the Baltimore County Detention Center, and although I don't have very good connections in other detention centers, I can give you some advice. uh about things. So I like to do that because you know it's it's important to build up the body of Christ. What exactly do I do? Well I'm recognized as a chaplain there. Uh each week I give out Bibles in central booking, about fifty or sixty Bibles a week. I give out Gospels of John, uh some other literature, daily bread booklets. I give out about fifteen hundred of those per quarter. You say, why do you give out more of those than Bibles? Well, for a couple of reasons. For one, the Bibles get re-used. When people leave, a lot of times they leave a Bible there. And a lot of the Bibles, somebody else will pick them up, or I will collect them from where they pile up and bring them back to the reception area where people use them. But it gives you an idea of the magnitude. When I first started a jail ministry, I was giving out about a hundred Bibles a week. That was when O'Malley was mayor 18 years ago. They had a policy where we were bringing about 80,000 people a year through central booking. Not that we housed that many. We only ever housed about between five and six thousand. But j gradually that the population declined in the jail uh because they had different policies. Uh after the riots it dipped below 2,000 because the police weren't arresting anybody. Uh as you know, you live near enough to Baltimore that there was not because there wasn't any crime there. But uh but in any case It's exciting that I do I do the Bible distribution. The second part is I make available correspondence courses. I grade about About 60 to 80 of those a month. I give out between 100 and 120, something like that. There's also group Bible classes that I do. And some of those with the juveniles it's basically a ill was uh object lesson, gospel presentation with the adults. It's a more serious Bible study And you know, I'm very encouraged. Uh it the Bible classes are not huge. They don't allow them to get much more than twenty people because of security issues and stuff. Uh so I have to go different places to meet with people. It's kind of segmented. Um but I've been given more freedom than most people, in part because the way that I do my classes is to focus on discipleship. And uh, you know, the officers typically when I start a class they'll say, those men don't care about what you're teaching. They don't, you know, they just want to get out of their cell. Uh but just this week, you know how hot it's been? The two regular Bible classes I have, neither of them are in an air-conditioned space. And uh the officer was I went in Thursday morning said, you know it's hot in there. In fact, it was hotter than outside. And outside the heat index was over a hundred. She said they probably won't come. I had a full house. Uh the guys want to hear the word. Uh they get used to being fed. Uh they themselves become like missionaries within the institution. Most of the ministry that goes on in the jail is not by the chaplains. It's by the uh other uh by the inmate to inmate. Some people ask, well, why are you uh missionary chaplain? Because they have state chaplains. Well there's one issue with that, and that's that To be a state chaplain, you have to sign an agreement that you will serve all faiths. And I serve the Lord Jesus Christ, and uh it allows me more freedom, actually, uh to do it that way. Uh, because I'm not being all constantly put upon to do other things uh like the state chaplains are Anyway, enough about me. Let's just have a brief word of prayer. Again, if you want to know more about the jail ministry or just want to hear stories about prisoners, sign up for my newsletters. I I get them out about quarterly nowadays. I used to try to do it monthly and then it went to every other month and uh there's always so many other things to do, but I try to put in A mixture of things, prayer requests, encouraging stories of how the Lord's at work in lives for just the general edification of people as well as making known what the Lord's doing. But let's just have a brief word of prayer before we look into God's Word. Father, as we open your word now, open our hearts to understand your truth. Convict us, encourage us, rebuke us, whatever the need of our heart is. Search us in our hearts, lead us in the way everlasting. And Father, equip us to go and share the word with others And we pray these things so that you would be glorified through this. Build up this church and this body. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's go to the Gospel of John chapter 4. A very familiar passage to probably most of you. But one that I like to share when I'm especially first time that I share with people. And what I'd like to do, for those of you who aren't familiar with it or haven't read it for a while, I'd like to read through the whole passage and then come back and look at the parts. I know this is a little long, but stick with me. Chapter 4, verse 1, the Gospel of John. Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, Though Jesus himself did not baptize, but his disciples, he left Judea and departed again to Galilee. But he needed to go through Samaria. So he came to a city of Samaria which is called Sikar near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus, therefore, being weary from his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, give me a drink. You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our Father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself as well as his sons and his livestock? Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into everlasting life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You've well said, I have no husband, for you've had five husbands And the one whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming who is called Christ. When he comes, he'll tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. At this point, his disciples came and they marveled that he talked with a woman, yet no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? The woman then left her water pot, went her way into the city, and said to the men, Come, see a man who told me all things I ever did. Could this be the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came to him. Now the story goes on a little bit further, but this is the part that I want to focus on. It starts out with Jesus. Leaving Judea to go to Galilee, he had been in Judea for the feasts, and Israel, as most of you probably know, the northern part was where Galilee was. The Sea of Galilee was there, that was the region was called Galilee, that's where Nazareth was. That's where Capernaum was. That's where Jesus and his disciples were from. That was their home area. In the southern part of Israel, was what was called Judea, and in Judea was Jerusalem, and that's where the temple was, and the religious leaders mostly were there, although there were synagogue leaders in Galilee too. But uh the temple and and and its services were there in Jerusalem down in Judea. Three times a year all the Jews had to go to Jerusalem to worship the Um in the springtime, the uh Passover feast, the Feast of Pentecost, and the Feast of Tabernacles. And now Jesus had been at one of those feasts, and he was going back. And in between Galilee and Judea was Samaria. If you've read through Kings, especially 2 Kings, you've read the phrase, the sin of Jeroboam. And what that's about is this, that that area that's called Samaria, in the days after Solomon, there was a revolt and the kingdom split, and a man named Jeroboam, son of Nabath, became king there. And he set up calf idols and said, These are the gods that brought you out of Egypt. Well, if you know anything about Old Testament history, you know that was a terrible thing to do. Not only that, but he appointed people to be priests that weren't Levites. And he had the same feast that the Jews had, but he changed the dates of them Which Moses had prescribed in the books of Moses. And the Samaritans, because of that, and not departing from the sin of Jeroboam, eventually they were invaded by the Assyrians. And the Assyrians Took them captive and resettled the area with other people. And the people that came there continued the sin of Jeroboam along with their own idols and things. And so These people were regarded by the Jews not only as enemies because they actually had wars with each other, but as apostates. as as you know unclean. They were people who had left the faith. Not only had left the faith, but had made a a mockery of the faith. And because of the hostility, there there was uh in effect Jesus was on the wrong side of town, we would say If you doubt that, we're not going to look at this, but look at Luke chapter 9. The last time Jesus is going to Jerusalem, the time when he was going there for the Passover where he was betrayed. And crucified. They go into a Samaritan town and they're run out of town. That's the occasion where the disciples say, Lord, do you want us to call down fire on these people? And why were they run out of town? Because they were going to Jerusalem to the feast. And it was this disagreement about the uh uh uh worshiping in in which temple? Well I shared all that to share this little application When Jesus started talking to that woman, she was startled. How is it that you, a Jew, are talking to me, a Samaritan woman? And there's a lesson in that for you and I, because sometimes as believers, people think that we despise them, we hate them, because of the stand that we must take on biblical truth. The Jews could never agree that the Samaritans were right. If they did, they would be denying what Moses said. There had to be, you know, a thing. You remember when the Jews came back from exile in Babylon in the book of Nehemiah and they say, we're rebuilding the temple, and the people of the land come up and say, Let us help you. We've been worshiping the Lord ever since the king of Assyria brought us here years ago. That was the Samaritans. And that continued right up to the time of Jesus. This rival temple and this this uh tension. And the Jews couldn't agree. That they were right. But that didn't mean that they all despised each other as individuals. And so when Jesus starts talking to this woman, she's startled. Sometimes today people think that we as Christians don't like them. Uh, you know, because of our convictions on a variety of things, whether it's social issues or or moral issues or or uh you know our our stand on biblical truth, you know the issues. Sometimes we have to as believers take the initiative to to engage people like that. uh and and be friendly toward them, uh not to deny anything biblical, but just to to Share the word with them. You know, one of the interesting things about jail ministry, there's usually a waiting list for Christians to come into the jail. Uh the Muslim chaplain there, occasionally I have interactions with him over different things. Not that we have fellowship together, but just as part of our professional duties, I'll say there's somebody over there that needs this or He'll tell me things that that I need to know about. But he uh told me one time, he said, you know, we don't have Muslim volunteers. Because the Muslims think that they did a crime, they're getting what they deserve, leave them there. Why bother with them? But Jesus came to seek and save sinners. And so there's a waiting list of Christians to be there. Why? Because Christians are not looking for good people to join their cause. They're looking for someone for Jesus to save. And there's a huge difference because most religions do just that. They're looking for good people that can join their religion. Jesus came to save sinners. And so Jesus engages this woman. And he tells her in verse 10. When she startled by him engaging with her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Well, what is the gift of God? What is living water? I I think the gift of God is salvation. Some people think that it's Jesus is talking about himself. Well, he was sent to be the Savior, so either way it's it's salvation. But what is living water? Well, it so happens we don't have to guess. Flip over a few pages to John chapter 7 and look at verse Thirty-seven through thirty-nine. John chapter seven, verses thirty-seven through thirty-nine On that last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If any one thirsts, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in him would receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified So what is the living water? It's the Spirit that God was going to send, the Holy Spirit that would come on the day of Pentecost because he hadn't come yet because Jesus wasn't glorified. The day of Pentecost after Jesus ascended to heaven, the disciples waited and the gift came. So he's telling this woman, if you knew the the gift of God, if you knew who I am and and and what I have to offer you, you would ask me and I would give you living water. You can't have that. But you notice that Jesus It mentions there in John 7, or John mentions that, or Jesus says, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Where in the Old Testament did it say that people would have the Holy Spirit or rivers of living water? Well, living water is actually mentioned a lot in the Old Testament, probably at least a dozen times. But the phrase first it shows up when Isaac digs a well in Genesis 26 And it says that it was living water. Now most translations say something like running water or flowing water or something like that. But if you look at the original words, it's living water. And so we learn from that that the Jews thought of spring water as living water. The Jews tended to use words in a figurative and a literal sense I'm not saying that, you know, today sometimes people try to make everything figurative, but the Jews themselves, like for example, most of their Hebrew words for emotions were a literal body organ. So there's a literal and sort of a figurative use of the word. Well, when you go a little further, you find that the Jews used living water in their ceremony for cleansing lepers in Leviticus 14. And also in Numbers 19, whenever they had the ceremony where they took the ashes of the red heifer, you know when they were confined outside of the camp as unclean? Before they came back in, they had to use living water. Mixed with the ashes of a red heifer, and again, sometimes it'll say running water or something like that, but if you look at the original words, it's living water. But that was a ceremony of cleansing that the Samaritans would have been familiar with because they studied the Pentateuch. As you get a little further along in Scripture. And uh I want to look at this. If I had to pick one verse, go to Isaiah chapter 44, verse 3. While you're finding that, as I mentioned, it's all over the place. In the Psalms, a lot of times thirst is talked about Thirst for God, like in Psalm 42, verse 1, my soul thirsts for God, like the deer pants for the water, so my soul thirsts for you. Uh Psalm thirty-six talks about uh your loving kindness being like a fountain. But look at Isaiah chapter forty-four, verse three. If I had to pick one verse that Jesus might have been referring to when he's talking about Scripture predicting living water flowing from your heart, it would probably be this one. Isaiah chapter 44 verse Three, let me find it here. I will pour water on him who is thirsty, and floods on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring. And uh so again A prediction that there would be this outpouring of the Spirit that would be like water on dry ground. Skip over a few pages in Isaiah and look at Isaiah chapter 58. You say, okay, well that's saying that water is going to pour out, but what about out of your heart flowing rivers of living water? Well, God's blessings are always meant to be passed along. But look at Isaiah 58, verse 11. This chapter is about the difference between true and false fasting. But if you go to verse 11, it says this The Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your soul in drought and strengthen your bones. You shall be like a watered garden and like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail. Those from among you shall build the old waste places, you shall raise up the foundations of many generations, and you shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in. And so there it's predicting that God's people will not only be satisfied by God's living water, but they'll also be like a spring of water that will flow through them to other people. Let's look at one more Old Testament scripture before we go back to the story in John 4. Flip over to Jeremiah chapter 2, and as you're finding it, Jeremiah chapter 2 verse 11. What happens when people are thirsty for living water, but there's reasons why they're holding out on God? Well, Jeremiah tells us. Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 11. Has a nation changed its gods, which are not gods? But my people have changed their glory for what does not profit. Be astonished, O heavens, at this, and be horribly afraid. Be very desolate, says the Lord. For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewn themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. Well, if people are not drinking of the living water, what do they do? They try to find satisfaction in other things. Remember in Romans chapter 1, the passage where it says, when they knew God, they didn't honor Him as God, or didn't give thanks, and their thinking became futile, and God gave them over? What happens? It started with the people knowing God but but uh you know not honoring him as God, but instead they make idols and and things and and then their lives become filled with immorality and filled with evil. Could it be that that was what the woman's life was like that Jesus was speaking to? That she had been trying to build cisterns in the form of Marriages to broken relationships and things, uh living with a man that she's not married to? Very likely. And so when Jesus begins this thing, the woman is bantering with him, like, you know, oh yeah, where are you going to get this water? The well's deep. Oh, and by the way, you say this water, you think you got better water than this? This is the water that our father Jacob gave us. And Jesus tells her at the end of this, she says, Give me this water so I don't have to come here and draw. She's thinking of water out of a cup. Jesus is talking about spiritual thirst. And at this point, when she says, give me this water, if it had been me, I would have done something like I just did, I'd have said, Look, I'm talking about spiritual thirst, spiritual water. But Jesus does something better. He says, go call your husband and come here. It sounds like he changed the subject. But not if as a son of God he knew that her failed relationships were her effort to fill up the void, to make a broken cistern. From not drinking the living water. And at this point, the woman begins to do three things that people do when they need God's living water, they need a relationship with the living God. But they're trying to avoid it because of issues in their life. First thing she does, and she's doing this not deliberately, but reflexively. It's stuff that everybody does, that people do. The first thing she does is denies that she has a problem. She says, I have no husband. Well, she was talking to the Son of God who knew all about her, so Jesus calls her out. She's Jesus said, You've well said I have no husband, for you've had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband. And that you spoke truly. A lot of times when I go through the jail and I'm giving out Bibles, inmates that don't already know me see me and they think that I might be an attorney or a social worker who can help get a call to their family. And they'll call out to me, who are you, or who is you, or whatever they say. And and um so uh when I come over to them occasionally I tell him I'm a chaplain Sometimes I get this response. Oh, oh, I'm okay, I'm okay. And I want to say, if you're okay, what are you doing here? I don't say that. I don't say that because I don't want them to think I'm looking down on them, but you know, if if they if they're locked up and they didn't do anything, that's not okay. And if they did something, that's not okay either. So, but in any case, why do they do that? Because they're saying, I don't have a problem. Well, Jesus didn't he called out her her her broken relationships and you notice he doesn't go off and give her a A lecture on marriage, because he's I think he brought this up just to change it to spiritual, you know, talking about the spiritual thirst. Not that he couldn't have, he could have, but his issue is something more. And so then the woman does a second thing that people do when they need living water. She tries to divert it into a religious argument. She says, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is a place where one ought to worship. If there was one question you didn't want to bring up between Samaritans and Jews, that would be it. One question that was calculated to end in an argument. It's not that it wasn't clear what Moses said, it was that people just they weren't going to agree. This happens, you know, sometimes I'm teaching the Bible class and Somebody will raise their hand just when we're getting to a point where it's like you feel like there's some application of conviction of the Spirit. Somebody will raise their hand and say something like, Well, you know, why did George Washington have slaves if he was a Christian? I wouldn't have done that. students are African American and and uh and why do they do that? Because they're trying to drink or they'll they'll say a question like, Well, you know, how come when the flood happened the baby died? You know, if God is good and He's loving like That might be a question to ask sometime, all those questions, but sometimes people want to have a debate. I used to have a guy in my class He always would come in and want to know what verse to share with the Muslims, and he would, you know, be pumping me for information, and I'd say, okay, we got to start the class. And if while I was teaching, if I said something he thought was good, he would stand up in the back of the class and he would be pacing back and forth like this, you know, and and and trying to formulate what he was going to say because he couldn't wait to get back in the dorm and start up the argument again with the Muslims. And again, there's a place for that too. But That's not hearing what God has to say to me. And sometimes it's easier for people to have religious arguments about the word than it is to hear what God has to say. And again, I think the woman is doing this reflexively, you know, not plotting out how she can divert this whole thing. How's Jesus going to answer this? Verse 21, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem you will worship the Father. And he answers her question. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship for salvation is of the Jews. You know, you could have had Pharisees come down and tell the same thing to the woman, Woman, you've had five husbands, and the one you now have you're not married to. You worship what you don't know. We know what we worship. Salvation is of the Jews. And and you would have had a totally different result. But Jesus, being a Son of God with a pure no beam in his eye, was able to deal with this woman's problems. And she wouldn't deny it. Later, she'd say, He told me everything I ever did. And uh, you know, because the Spirit of God, it says in Corinthians that when people spoke the word of God in the early church, that their thoughts of their hearts are revealed. And this woman is speaking to the Son of God who's can see right through her, and she knows it. But Jesus then says this the hour is coming and now is when the true worshipers Well, worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. What does he mean by this, worshiping in spirit and truth? Well, when Jesus says the hour is coming and now is, he's saying neither this mountain nor in Jerusalem. I think he's talking about worship in the heavenly tabernacle. Because it wasn't many years after Jesus walked the earth. In 70 A. D. , the Jerusalem temple was destroyed. I'm not sure what year the Samaritan temple was destroyed, but neither of them are there today, and they haven't been for a very, very long time. And so how do people worship? Well, we come through our high priest in the heavenly tabernacle to offer our sacrifices. Remember Romans 12, 1 and 2? I beseech you, brothers, by the mercies of God, present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God. Don't be conformed to this world. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That's worshiping in spirit and in truth. You know, today a lot of people think that worship there's books written about, you know, the music program. And I'm not. Saying that those books don't have some value. But you can do anything you want with a church service. But if you don't have a heart relationship with Jesus Christ, and if you don't have the humble yourself before Him to offer yourself as a living sacrifice, no matter which way you sing, it isn't going to be worship. Because God requires your heart. And you can be there singing, going through the motions with your mind here or there, and you know, all over the place. But God is seeking such to worship in His spirit and truth. He's looking for people You know, in Hebrews, when it talks about the heavenly tabernacle, in fact, let's look at this, I'm running out of time here, but look real quickly at Hebrews 13. Hebrews 13, verses 15 through 17. If you don't want to turn there, I'll just read it to you. Hebrews 13, 15 through 17 says this. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God. Notice it's by him, by our high priest in the heavenly tabernacle. Offering the sacrifice. What kind of sacrifice? Praise to God, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. Obey those who rule over you and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls as those who must give an account. Let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. So that The the worshiping in spirit and in truth is really what brings meaning to life. I read a book a while ago about a pastor, this was a pastor that was in New York City. And he had let it be known through channels that if anybody wanted help with uh with uh morality problems, you know, gender identity, uh homosexuality, all those kind of things. that he would be willing to help them from a Christian perspective. And he wrote a book called Engendered, and it was a very interesting book. And you know what he said in there? He said that this a lot of people who had come to him would react when they hear things like, wives, submit to your husbands. Or something like that. They felt like that was all wrong. But he said, those who actually practice it and embrace it found it was the most fulfilling thing that they could do. Why is that? Because marriage is an image of Christ. Marriage is a relationship all through the Bible. You know, the covenant relationship is referred to as as uh almost like the the wedding, the marriage supper of the lamb. And if you don't worship God in spirit and truth, it robs you of joy and meaning of everything that you do. Because where it happens, that passage in Hebrews says, obey those in authority over you. Why is it that every time in Scripture it says, you know, servants obey your masters and please Christ even when your master isn't looking? Husbands, love your wives even when they're unlovable. Love them like Christ loved the church. Wives, submit to your husbands even when they're unreasonable because of the way Christ submitted to the Father. And all those things, why should you do things like that? Because that's what brings joy and meaning and purpose to your life. And that is ultimately humbling yourself and accepting God's working his life through you and living his life through you. Well my time's almost up here. There's a lot more I'd like to say to that. By the way, let me just say this. You know when b the believers in the jail come back to the Lord, you know, the the guys are usually a mess when they come in. A lot of times had been on drugs. And along with that was a whole lot of other evil that you wouldn't get arrested for. And there used to be a sign-in sheet where you sign in and you'd sign your name here and put a prayer request here. The guys, when they would first come in, would always say, pray the judge drops my charge. Well that can that's understandable. I'm in a pretrial jail, they're waiting for their court date. But you know what the believers prayed for when they came and really started to grow in the Lord, almost without exception, pray for my wife, pray for my children. Why? Because they were beginning to realize that they've worshiped God in spirit and in truth. And the natural flow of things was to get it right with the people that they have wronged. Anyway, so the woman, first she denied she had a problem, second she tried to divert it into a religious argument, and Jesus brought it right back to her need, and then she did a third thing, and I'll close with this. The woman said, I know that Messiah is coming who is called Christ. When he comes, he'll tell us all things. She's saying, you know what? Someday I'll get it right. When the Messiah comes, then we'll have this will be and a lot of people are waiting for something to happen. Well, you know, when this happens, then I'll do what God wants me to do. When that happens, then I'll be able to get it all straightened out. Now is the day of salvation. Today is the time to begin following God and let it untangle the problems of your life. There's a man in my Bible study right now, Tavon. One day we were talking about family issues. He said, Yeah, I'm worried about my children. I said, Well, how many do you have? I have nine. And one of the other guys in the Bible study says, ooh, I don't even want to know how many mothers. He said, six. And he's trying to get his life together. I don't know what to tell him, but I do know this. If he worships God in spirit and in truth, yeah, you know, some things you're gonna have to live with. It's never gonna be normal. But God can still bring something good through that man if he's willing to humble himself and follow what God says. And and so I leave you with that challenge. You know, uh the woman went back, told the men of the city, sometimes if it People that have had a problem like that, they have to not go preach to people, just say, come check this out for yourself. But um but I'm gonna close now. And now is the time to begin worshiping God in spirit and in truth. If sometimes if your Christian life seems boring, It's not because God is boring or his plan for your life is boring, it's because you haven't humbled yourself enough to really yield to where he leads you and to what he has for you to do. Uh because even mundane things are filled with joy when you're doing it for the Lord's sake. And that's what worshiping God in spirit and truth is all about. Father in heaven, we thank you for this story of this encounter that happened so very long ago, but is still so much like today. I pray that you would speak to each of our hearts to the areas where we're holding out, where we're having religious debates when we should be hearing and obeying your word, where we're having Issues that we're waiting for you to do something so that we can do what is you've already commanded us to do? Lord, Make us channels of blessing to other people. We want to be filled with your spirit and to be a fountain of living water in our community, in our home. And we pray these things so that you'd be glorified through us. In Jesus' name, Amen.