You know, I forgot. I brought my clock with me, but you have a clock right here on the pulpit, so I am without excuse if I go over, but I don't know what over is is exactly but you'll probably tell me. It's great to be with you here again and uh perhaps you were thinking, well gee, last time he was here he spoke on Mother's Day. So it's about time he spoke on Fathers for Father's Day, but it's not Father's Day yet, so I guess he'll just have to wait a little while for that one. But uh uh by the way, I I must say that last uh uh song I had never heard that one before either. So this is the second time I have come to a church and heard a new song which is It is a very nice uh one as well. So uh yes, I like the old favorites, but it's nice once in a while to have a new favorite uh as well. Well, although I did miss, what was it, your second Sunday choir, right? Is that what it what do you call it? Second Sunday singers, of course, there's alliteration there. I should have figured that out. But that's okay. And so we'll have to catch another second Sunday, so I hear like half of you come up here and sing. That's a wonderful thing too. Well, as we begin this morning, I want to ask myself and each of you a question. When things go wrong, or when things are really difficult, where do we go for help? You know, what's our first line of uh attack? Of course we're here in church, so you probably give me the right answer. But uh if we weren't here in church and it happened on a Monday or a Tuesday or a Wednesday, what do you do? And maybe you trust in yourself for that help. That's probably where I would tend to go first. I don't think know about you, but refusing to go anywhere else. You can tough it out and you can figure it out for yourself. Um well maybe you're used to trusting in the government for help. Well Let's just say that I'm not quite sure how well that will work out for you, not getting into any politics or anything, but uh trusting in government just doesn't seem like a wise idea. And as already been mentioned this morning, there's all kinds of things happening in this world. And there are a lot of things to uh be uh fearful about. Even the uh scripture reading of Psalm thirty-seven says, Look, we can't press because of evildoers, and that's part, of course, of what uh we deal with on a constant basis. Well, this morning I want to look to Isaiah chapters 36 and 37, part of a four-chapter section in chapters 36 to 39. That form an historical interlude between the first and the second portions of the book. And all four chapters deal with the events that happened during the reign of King Hezekiah. Chapters 36 and 37 speak of the Assyrian crisis facing Hezekiah. And I want to focus on those chapters this morning. And if you're uh if you've heard me preach Before you say, wait a minute, that's two whole chapters. Am I gonna get a get you know get home in time, you know, for I don't know, two o'clock or something? If that's uh what's gonna happen. Well, uh I'm just gonna highlight, of course, uh some of the aspects in these chapters because they really reinforce what I think is The central theme of the entire book of Isaiah, and I would say actually probably the whole Bible. And that is in whom do you trust? For your deliverance or your salvation? And that is the key question, I think, in the book of Isaiah. And it's the key question that is addressed in these two wonderful chapters. Now, if you are following along on an outline sheet, I did get a bit uh creative uh for this uh message, and so on your outline sheets I've outlined them as if they were a four-act play. Uh I w I was an English major in college after all, so occasionally it seeps out in my uh messages. But don't worry, I'm not going to quiz you on what is iambic pentameter or anything else of some of the other rather interesting things that uh uh English majors are supposed to say. Uh and I would also like to uh emphasize right from the start that unlike many literary plays, the events in these two chapters Absolutely are historical and they happen exactly as the scripture says. But they're highly dramatic nonetheless, and that's what I hope to illustrate. Now, some plays have a prologue, and ours does as well. But that prologue actually occurs all the way back in chapter 7. The time period was 734 B. C. and Ahaz, the king of Judah, the northern kingdom king Pekka, and the Syrian king. uh resin were uh all very worried about the very real threat of Assyria. Uh Assyria was getting ready to invade their lands. And they decided, so they tried to get, Rezin and Pekka tried to get Judah and Ahaz to go along in a coalition against Assyria. But Ahaz refused. And so they decided to make war against Judah and Jerusalem and replace Ahaz with a puppet king. So the result was that Ahaz was very scared. In that time of crisis, the Lord took the initiative. And uh uh in in back in uh chapter 7 in verse 3 he told Isaiah and his son to meet Ahaz in a specific spot. And you're going to just store this up in your memory banks for just a little later, not long-term memory, just your short-term memory. The spot is at the end of the aqueduct from the upper pool on the highway to the Fuller's Field. You say, so why am I storing that up again? Well, y I can't tell you now, but I can tell you later. So that's in Isaiah 7. Verse 3. And the message the Lord gave Ahaz at that exact spot was not to worry that their plans would come to naught. So it didn't have to worry about these things. Two countries that were invading Judah and Jerusalem. The Lord tells Ahaz to ask for a sign, but Ahaz refuses. Maybe that sounds like him being pious, but actually he's being disobedient. Why does he refuse? Well, because Ahaz has already made his plans to form an alliance with Assyria in order to deal with the current crisis. It reminds me of sometimes things that you and I do. We we we We we don't take a long-term view. We take a very short-term view for uh immediate resolution when sometimes God wants us to take a long-term view. Well that's exactly what Ahaz does here. And so God provides an amazing sign of reassurance and ultimate deliverance in Isaiah 7. 14. Through the virgin birth, excuse me, can somebody get me a cup of water? That would be really helpful. Through the virgin birth of the Messiah, but Ahaz isn't interested in that either. Now imagine that. If the Lord were to ask you for a sign, he says, Ask it as uh high as the heavens or as deep as Sheol, uh, what kind of sign would you ask for? I don't know, but I'd ask for something Something great. I don't know what exactly. Uh I don't know, something probably with the sun and the moon or something like that. I have no idea what I'd ask for, but it'd be a big one. Well, Ahaz just says no thanks. And yet the Lord gives him this huge sign, Emmanuel, who is born of a virgin. But Ahaz, thank you so much Ahaz pays absolutely no attention to the Lord. Very similar to how many people today aren't paying much attention to what God is doing either. I hope you're not one of them. Now the Lord tells Ahaz that the real threat was Assyria, but Ahaz didn't believe the Lord, nor did he want the Lord's help. So Ahaz's lack of faith in the Lord in 734 B. C. forms the prologue to our events in Isaiah 36 and 37. Now that leads us to Act 1, scene 1, and the time period is now a little over 30 years later, 701 B. C. Hezekiah, Ahaz's son, is now on the throne. Verse 1 mentions it's the 14th year of his reign, probably referring to his soul reign beginning in 715. And guess what? Just as the Lord had warned in Isaiah chapter 7 and 8, Israel and Samaria had both faded off the scene exactly as the Lord told Ahaz. And Assyria was now the big threat. Imagine that. What the Lord had warned about had come to pass. Big surprise there, right? But when God warns us that there will be consequences, the things that you and I do, uh, do we pay attention to it? Or do we ignore him just as Ahaz did? Sometimes I'm afraid we ignore the Lord just as Ahaz did here. Well, we do that at our own peril. Assyria had defeated Damascus, the capital of Syria, and Samaria, the capital of the northern kingdom, Israel. And now Assyria was right outside of Jerusalem. They had already taken the fortified cities of Judah, but they hadn't yet taken Jerusalem. So in verse 2 of Isaiah 36, the Rabshaka, King Sennacherib's military general, came with a large army to Jerusalem And guess where he stopped to deliver his scathing message? Look at chapter 36, verse 2. It says, remember that you just stored it in your short-term memory, right? I told you you you'd use it pretty quickly He stood by the aqueduct from the upper pool on the highway to the Fuller's Field. Now, I don't know where that was, but obviously it was a specific place, and it's mentioned it's exactly the same place. where Isaiah had delivered his message to Ahaz 32 years earlier. That's hardly a coincidence. It's as if the Lord was saying, so your father thought there wasn't much of a threat from Assyria back in his day, did he? Well, I tried to tell him, but he didn't listen. Again, guess what? He was totally wrong. So here's where Ahaz's pro-Assyrian policy had landed Judah. Assyria was now threatening to exterminate Judah from the very same spot that Isaiah had occupied with his words of encouragement years earlier. So Act 1, Scene 1, consists of Rabshaka's first speech. In whom do you trust? Verses 4 to 10 of chapter 36. Now this is quite an impressive speech. And what is so ironic to me about this speech is that it's the theme, as I said, of the entire book of Isaiah. In whom do you trust? But that theme isn't here echoed by Isaiah or another prophet of the Lord. No, it's said by the Assyrian general. And it isn't just a passing line, it's the theme of his entire speech He starts out by saying literally, what is this trust in which you trust? That's literally what it says. What is this trust in which you trust? The Hebrew uh verb batah, trust, is used eight times. in chapters 36 and 37. And the noun is used once here in verse 4. And all of these occurrences are in the mouth of the Assyrian officials. In verse 5, there's another occurrence of the word. Now, in whom do you trust that you rebel against me? The Reb Shekah identifies two possible sources of trust. First, he mentions Egypt in verse 6. And in fact, Hezekiah's officials had gone to Egypt for help. And the Lord actually had rebuked Hezekiah. For that in Isaiah chapters 30 and 31. And in another irony, here the Rabshekah's arguments echo the Lord's The Lord had warned Hezekiah in Isaiah 31, 1-3. He said, Woe to those who go down to Egypt. And for help, and rely on horses, who trust in chariots because they are many, and in horsemen because they're very strong, but who do not look to the Holy One of Israel, nor seek the Lord. And he continues in Isaiah thirty one verse three says, Now the Egyptians are men and not God, and their horses are flesh and and not spirit. When the Lord stretches out his hand, both he who helps will fall and he who is helped will fall down. They all will perish together. So God's warning about going to Egypt for help was very, very plain. And the Rabshaka likewise says it's stupid for Judah to trust in the Lord in ver in Egypt, excuse me, in verse 6. Of Isaiah 36. He says, Look, you're trusting in the staff of this broken reed. So it's like you're leaning uh for support, which uh sometimes some of you I think have to do with a cane or something, and more increasingly I almost have to do. And you're leaning on this staff, but what the staff is so weak it breaks. That's not really very good support. If you're going to lean on something, you at least hope that it's going to be sturdy enough to hold you, right? And he says, You're trusting in the staff that has broken reed Egypt, in which if a man leans, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to all who trust in him You know, it's interesting because remember the devil often will use what? Partial truths uh to convince uh people of what he's trying to say. And sometimes God even uses unsaved people To echo the Lord's truth. And that is exactly what's happening here. Both the Lord and the Rebshekah are saying that for Judah to trust in Egypt is foolhardy. Here basically wrote Sheikha in this case was 100% right. Don't trust in another nation's military might to save you. It won't work. But then in verse 7, the Rebshekha mentions another possible source of trust. The Lord Himself He says, Well, if you say to me, We trust in the Lord our God, is it not he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away and said to Judah and Jerusalem, You shall worship before this altar? Well, here the Rabshekha obviously misunderstands the nature of the worship of the Lord, thinking that these syncretistic high places uh were actually places for true worship of the Lord. In fact, they were just the opposite, and that's why Hezekiah and many of the godly kings had ordered that they be taken away. But for those who really didn't know the difference uh between true and false religion, which sadly I think uh probably included most of his audience, The Rebshekha's argument sound pretty good. He then indulges in a little sarcasm in uh I call it almost trash talking, uh if you don't mind me. saying that in a sermon. In uh verse eight, he says, Well if you pledge allegiance to the king of Assyria, I'll give you two thousand horses. Well, that is, if you're able to find enough men uh around in Judah to ride them. So he kind of insults them there. And then he makes one final argument in verse 10. This is a pretty audacious one. He says, the Lord told me to destroy your land. So far from going against the Lord, I'm actually doing his bidding. That's what Rebsheikh is saying. Well you say that a pretty crazy argument. Well, not entirely. After all, in Isaiah ten in verses five and six, the Lord says, Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger and the staff in whose hand is my indignation. I will send him against an ungodly nation. And so in essence, yes, the Lord sometimes did use a foreign nation as his agent. He did uh with Assyria for the northern kingdom, and later he would do the same with Babylon for Judah herself. And so, yes, that is possible that God would use uh Assyria in a way such as this. So it's pretty good argumentation on the part of the Reb Shekah, I would say. By the way, don't think that we've got four acts, and I've already taken all this time on the prologue in Act One, and you're extrapolating. I've got one act that's only like just a couple Sentences. So you're in great shape. And just I'm just wondering about the clock watchers. You know, there's always clockwatchers. So Act 1, scene 2, uh in verses 11 to 22, consists of the Reb Shekh's second speech. This one seems to be designed for the people. More than for King Hezekiah. Hezekiah's officials in verse 11 urge the Reb Shekah to speak in Aramaic, which is a language used for diplomatic communications. Much like Latin was later used, and actually English is pretty much used today. They didn't want the Reb Shekah to arouse the people of Judah, so they encouraged him to speak in Aramaic. and not Hebrew. But in verses 12 and 13, the Rabshaka refuses, saying that he'll speak to the common people as well as to the king. So he raises his voice and shouts out his speech to the multitude. So even if you were hard of hearing, you would hear him. And uh uh it's pretty funny. He says, well, uh the essence of the Reb Shekah's message is don't listen to King Hezekiah. He won't be able to deliver you, he says in verse 14, and of course that's correct. Hezekiah by himself would have been no match for Assyria By the way, in another ironic twist, the Hebrew word deliver is actually used nine times in chapters 36 and 37 Once again, always in the mouth of the Assyrian officials. But then in verse 15, the Rebshaka goes one step further. He says, nor let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, the Lord will surely deliver us. is that word again, deliver. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. There is that theme again. Don't let Hezekiah trick you into trusting the Lord. He explains in verses sixteen and seventeen that he'll treat every person who uh who surrenders to Assyria well. Boy, it sounds so much like a typical amp empty uh campaign promise, you know, before the elections where they promise all kinds of things if you just vote for the candidate. That's been going on for what? Years in both parties. And it sickens me. I think, why can't they all just tell the truth? Well, they don't do that. They promise everything. And of course, then people are disappointed because everything just can't happen. Well, at any rate, this guy's got got it down uh uh you know beautifully. Oh no, uh if you just surrender uh surrender to me, everything will go just great. Yeah, sure You're going to be captives. But he just sort of leaves that out. And then in the final argument in verses 18 to 22, he points out that none of the other gods could deliver their people. from the hands of Assyria. And he mentions these other folks in verse 19, Assyrian cities. And of course Samaria was the capital of the northern So he says in verse 20, why should the Lord be any different and be able to deliver Jerusalem from my hand? None of the other gods could do anything, so why would the Lord be able to do anything? It's another powerful argument, but this time the Reb Shekah impugns the Lord's honor and power. And that's never a smart thing to do. By the way, there are all kinds of folks in our own day, I think, that believe that all religions are the same They're just a crutch for the weak and the gods are powerless, and they all basically say the same thing Well, that is absolutely false, and it's a lie from Satan. Our God is different. He is a miracle-working God Who cares so much for you and for me that he sent his son Jesus to be born of a virgin miraculously, as Isaiah 7:14 prophesied, 700 years ago. In order to live a sinless life and to die on the cross and be raised from the dead for our sins in our place. Our God is a powerful God And he's a personal God, and there is no one like him. Act one ends with the Judean officials. not answering the Reb Shekah at all, because verse 21 says Hezekiah had wisely warned them not to answer him and risk further provocation. Probably a good message in that, isn't it? If you got somebody that's mad at you, what do you do? One of the best things you can do is be quiet. You start raising your voice and getting things upset, guess what? Things don't usually go well. Um Proverbs says a soft answer turns away wrath. Well I guess that's good for discussion with warring uh nations and it's also really good for marriages. Just thought I'd let you know. And you get your spouse is mad at you, a soft answer turns away wrath. You get upset and rattled, then all of a sudden a little issue becomes what? A great big issue. Okay, none of you have ever seen that. that happen, I'm sure. Yeah, right. Okay, well, now we move to Act 2, beginning in chapter 37, verse 1. In scene 1 in verses 1 to 5 of chapter 37, Hezekiah asks Isaiah to pray to the Lord on their behalf. Hezekiah tears his clothes, he covers himself with sackcloth, and he goes to the temple. Then he sends his chief officers to Isaiah with a request in verse 4. It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rabshekah, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent, to reproach the living God. And will rebuke the words which the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left. In other words, Hezekiah's hope is that the Lord will hear the Reb Shekah's challenge to the Lord's authority just uttered in verses 18 to 20 and then do something about it, that is, intervene on their behalf. Notice once again the contrast between Ahaz and Hezekiah In chapter 7, the prophet Isaiah had to seek Ahaz out. Here, Ahaz's son, Hezekiah, is quick to seek out Isaiah himself. And so I would ask myself and you this morning, is that where we go first for help in a crisis? Do we go to the Lord in prayer, even as Hezekiah did, or do we go to Him simply as a last resort when everything else has failed? Seems uh rather clear what the right thing is to do. In Act 2, scene 2, we read of Isaiah's first answer. In essence, he says, Don't be afraid, I've got it covered. In verse 6, the Lord makes clear that he has heard the statements of the Rabshekah, and they amount to blaspheming God. So verse 7 says that the Lord would cause him to return to Assyria because of of some war rumors, and there he would die by the death of the sword, not in Jerusalem, but back in Assyria. So the resolution in Acts uh in Act 2, scene 3, is rapidly stated. Indeed, Sennacherib had to deal with uprisings in Libna and Ethiopia. And so the threat to Judah was momentarily resolved And I've entitled this scene A Temporary Victory. Everything looked great. There were rumors of war on multiple fronts, so Sennacherib had to occupy his attention dealing with those threats. So that's it, right? This is a wonderful message. Hezekiah prays in humility. The Lord answers, and the victory comes quickly. Isn't Christianity wonderful? It always has a happy ending. By the way, I love movies with happy endings. If you have me watch a movie and it doesn't have a happy ending, I do not like that movie. Why not? Because life is like that so often. If I want to watch a movie and escape, you better give me a happy ending. Same thing as True for any books that I read, I need a happy ending. So I'm sorry if it's nice and stark and realistic, fine, but there's plenty of that in real life if I want an escape. I want a happy ending. Well, ultimately, of course, you and I do have a happy ending. If we've truly believed in Christ, we know that ultimately the Lord is going to overcome. We're going to be with him. and we're going to spend eternal life with him. So that's a happy ending. But that's a little further away. It happens in the end time. It doesn't always happen right now. So no, it doesn't always have a happy ending, and so no, we can't end the message right here. Because guess what happens? Just as in our lives, trials may come, they may cease for a time, but then they can come again with even greater force. One of the diseases actually I hate the most, I'm a type one diabetic. So you'd think I'd hate diabetes the most of an uh type one diabetic for fifty-one years. That is not it's a It's an insidious disease, but I think cancer's worse because in cancer, you know, people say, Well, we got it all and I don't know how many times I've heard that, and then what? You know Maybe a few months later, a few years later, well, they didn't get it all, and uh it it's insidious that way. Well, sometimes that's the way life is. Uh it comes sometimes a trial or a tribulation comes with even greater force. Remember that Jesus said to his disciples, uh In John 16, 33. In the world you will have tribulation. Not you might, but you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome. The world. So it's not a happy ending, not yet. Hezekiah's faith, just like yours and just like mine, needs to be tested again We, you know, as I said, I like a happy ending. We all like happy endings, but sometimes they need to be deferred and delayed. Acts 3 only has one scene. You can see that it parallels Act 1 in structure, but once again there's a strong threat from the king of Assyria, only this time it's not in the form of a speech. It said it's a threatening letter from the king. It's addressed to King Hezekiah, warning him not to let his God, in whom you trust, Deceive you, verse ten. He reminds him what's happened to the other nations who tried to rebel against Assyria. All those kings are gone, long off the scene, he says. verses eleven to thirteen. And in essence, this is a condensed version of the speeches in Acts 1 in chapter 36. Only here it's addressed to King Hezekiah himself. Don't trust in the Lord for your deliverance. And that brings us to Act 4. Well, like Act 2, there are three scenes in Act 4, and they all parallel the scenes in Act 2. First of all, in Acts 14 1 in verses 14 to 20, Hezekiah prays to the Lord. Now, it's possible I am reaching here a little bit. Um I don't think so. But in the corresponding scene uh uh scene in Act two, Hezekiah asks Isaiah to pray to the Lord for him But here Hezekiah prays directly to the Lord himself. And I think this represents a positive step for Hezekiah going from his initial reliance, remember, on an alliance with the Egypt for help, then using an intermediary such as Isaiah to pray for him. And now praying to the Lord Himself directly for deliverance. And in the crises that you and I face, hopefully we have learned not uh N not just to well certainly not to go to Egypt for help, relying on uh something that the Lord never intended. And while it is wonderful for us and right for us to ask others to pray for us as Hezekiah did, it's also essential for you and for me to go to the Lord ourselves and bring that request before him. That's exactly what Hezekiah does here. Isn't it amazing that we don't have to go through intermediaries to pray to the God of the universe? You know, and some uh uh abuse uh uh is Sometimes, of course, in some brands anyway, Roman Catholicism, you have to what? Pray to the saints. Well, uh you no, you actually don't need to pray to the saints. You need to just pray to the Lord directly God cares about each one of us personally. He says the very hairs of our head are numbered. I guess some head Heads take a little longer to count than others. Mine is getting a little less numerous by the by the year, but he cares about us that much. He knows everything about us. And because of Christ's work on the cross, which we'll celebrate in just a few minutes, we can go to him at any time on the basis of what Christ did for us. We're going to be celebrating communion, Christ's death and resurrection, as we partake of communion together, recognizing uh all that his death on the cross has accomplished for us. We can go right directly to the Lord in prayer ourselves because of that, because of that relationship. Because we pray in Christ's name. That is on the basis of what He accomplished for us at the cross. Well notice the content of Hezekiah's prayer. He acknowledges the Lord as the creator God and the holy God who in One sense dwells in the Ark of the Covenant. He asks the Lord with his infinite power to judge Sennacherib for his blasphemies against the Lord. He hasn't just insulted Hezekiah, you see, or Judah. He has reproached the living God, Hezekiah says in verse 17. Yes, the Assyrians came and conquered the whole area and threw the people's gods into the fire, verses 18 and 19. But those gods were just wood and stone. They weren't real. And they weren't powerful. Hezekiah ends in verse 20 with a plea to the Lord to save his people so that all of the nations would recognize that he alone is the true God. What a tremendous prayer. It is always wonderful to acknowledge the many attributes of God in our prayers. That's exactly what Hezekiah does here. Hezekiah here explains that the Lord's honor is at stake, much as Daniel did. You remember back in Daniel chapter 9. And verse 19, Daniel says, O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive, O Lord, listen and act. Do not delay for your own sake, my God, for your city and your people are called by your name. If you and I identify with the Lord, that's a powerful place to be. It's a powerful place to be. Well, in Acts 4, scene 2, in verses 21 to 35, we have Isaiah's second answer. Assyria will be defeated without a battle. The Lord first challenges Sennacherib's audacity in blaspheming the one true God. He says in verse 23, You have blasphemed the Holy One of Israel He's not like all the other gods. Sennacherib, you may have thought you were in control of all of your conquests, but you weren't. And because of your pride, you will be judged. Verse 29 says, Because your rage against me and your tumult have come up to my ears, therefore I'll put my hook in your nose and my bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way which you came. And then in verses 30 to 32, the Lord promises Hezekiah that soon he will have normal harvest, the siege will be lifted, and things will get back to normal. And finally, in verses 33 to 35, the Lord gives an amazing prediction of Assyria's defeat. He says, Therefore the Lord uh says concerning the s uh king of Assyria, he will not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor build a siege mound against it, by the way that he came. That's the way he's going to return, and he shall not come into this city, says the Lord, for I will defend the city to save it for my own sake and for my servant David's sake. What a prediction, but it would soon come to pass. And that brings us to Act 4, Scene 3, which speaks of a permanent victory The outcome of this whole matter is stated quickly and eloquently in Isaiah 37, 36. It says, then the angel of the Lord went out and killed in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred and eighty-five thousand. And when people arose early in the morning, there were the corpses. All dead. Now that is an amazing verse. We had fifty-seven verses. Verse 57 speaking about the dire crisis that Hezekiah and Jerusalem were in. But only one verse is all that's needed that describes the Lord's victory. The so-called battle was over in an instant before it had even begun. Assyria was devastated without weapons being used, just as Isaiah had prophesied. You see, when the Lord gets involved in the picture, things can happen lightning fast. All Hezekiah had to do was to trust in the Lord completely. Unlike his father Ahaz, that's exactly what Hezekiah does here. Now, interestingly, by the way, this is one of the cases in the biblical narrative where we have an extra-biblical source that confirms the accuracy of the Bible. In his annals, Sennacherib wrote, after the recording of the capture and spoil of 46 Judean cities, he says Himself, that is Hezekiah, I made a prisoner in Jerusalem, his royal residence, like a bird in a cage. Now remember the annals of uh kings were uh in fact very much like the memoirs of presidents, even in a free country like ours, you you know Y Richard Nixon, for example, mate wrote many books. He didn't talk much about Watergate in any of them. Sorry if some of those that goes over your head a little f farther away, but you know what I'm saying. Uh and that's uh and so they never talked about their defeats, they talked only about their victories. That was uh even more true. of kings in that era. So he says, yes, it's true, Hezekiah was shut up in Jerusalem like a bird in a cage, but the bird escaped. He didn't mention that little part, uh and uh just a slight little uh addition to the uh story. Well, uh I find that fascinating because it absolutely authentic Everything that the scripture says, because he never said, I conquered him. And he didn't. Now, now, verses 37 and 38 report that later, while Nebuchadnezzar was in his Hometown of Nineveh, as he was worshiping his God, his sons came and killed him, and thus fulfilling the prophecy that was given by Isaiah at the end of verse 7. You see, God's promises are sure. We may not know exactly when he will fill uh he will fulfill his promises. And certainly many times we're very impatient and want it done right away. And uh it may not be right away. But his promises are a sure thing. And I would ask this morning, are you and I willing to wait for God's promises? Or do we get impatient and do we try to hurry it along by taking matters into our own hands? I think about Abraham and Sarah in that regard. Well, how long are we going to wait? And so they decided to do it a little different way. That way didn't work out so well, did it, for Abraham and Sarah. No, we need to wait for God's timing. Well, in our epilogue, I want us to look at three lessons for us from Isaiah 36 and 37. First of all, when we face trials, we should humbly go to the Lord in the In prayer. We should humbly go to the Lord in prayer. We're not on our own. The God of the universe, the God who cares so much about us that He sent His Son To die on the cross for us and be raised again, he is there to help us if we humbly go to him. He is all powerful. And he's all compassionate. Second, I think you're gonna like this point. I thought it was kind of funny. You need three applications at the end. There's just some unwritten rule about it. So listen to my second application. When we face more trials, we should humbly go to the Lord in prayer. Has a strange ring to it, doesn't it? Uh we should humbly go to the Lord in prayer. We shouldn't expect to have just one wave of trials and that's it. That's not the way life works. So we should be prepared for it and we should continually go to the Lord in prayer once again. And finally, in all things, we should trust in the Lord alone. Trust in the Lord for our salvation first and foremost, but also for our daily struggles. He knows all about them. And he welcomes us to lean on him, not some empty reed. Some people are trying to uh make enough money so that they can be sure that they're going to have enough money to be, you know, if they if their health goes. Well, you know, if your health goes, all the money in the world isn't really going to help you all that much. But no, we lean on all kinds of things And we don't always lean on the most important, the Lord Himself. He knows all about us. Are you all caught up in these world events and worrying about the future of our country, all sorts of threats uh looming and people committing terrorist attacks? Uh all of these things are horrible. Uh but uh is there a reason for you and for me ultimately to be worried? Are we worried about some things in our own lives? with or family or job or perhaps your uh own health issues that you face. The answer is the same in each case. We need to stop. We need to pray to the Lord and we need to trust Him to do His work in His time, not ours When he acts, things can change in quite a hurry, just as they did for Hezekiah. So are you and I like Ahaz, unbelieving and seeking everywhere else to find a solution? to our worries and problems, or we like Hezekiah, trusting in the Lord for our deliverance, even when things look dark. I close with this verse a few chapters later in the book of Isaiah, Isaiah 41, verse 10. Fear not. For I am with you. Be not dismayed. For I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this word from the Scriptures, Lord, that speaks directly to our basic issues of life Lord, there are many reasons why we can be afraid. I confess that sometimes I'm afraid when I realize and I think about it, I realize how foolish that is. Because you promise, you say, Fear not, I am with you. Emmanuel, the one who is prophesied in Isaiah seven fourteen. Is God with us? I thank you, Lord, that you care so much for us that you sent the Lord Jesus Christ to be born as a baby, to live a perfect life. Perfect life and to die on the cross for our sins in our place and be raised again. All for us, Lord. All we need It even today. For the rest of us, Lord, who have trusted in you for salvation, help us, Lord, to trust you day by day. As things come up, Lord, help us not to react as the world reacts, but help us to react as believers who look for you and trust in you in all things. Pray this in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving.