Pittsburgh. They went to Pittsburgh. I mean it's I'm sure There might be some Pittsburgh Steelers fans here, I hope not. But there might be and uh uh yeah, th I guess it's a great place to go. But I must admit when uh Pastor Sung told me that they were going to Pittsburgh for their uh uh vacation uh anniversary. Um wow, it's the first time I've ever heard of anybody going to Pittsburgh from here. But you know And Pastor Sung just he's got a wider way of thought than I do, let's best put it that way. Um Sharon and I were were talking about that in the car coming up and And we said, you know, when we found a place that we liked, we went to that place and we went to it again and again, you know, so that Maybe that's tells tells you something about us as well. Anyway, it's great to be with you. And uh I'm delighted that uh uh Pastor Sung and E Ray can uh uh uh have a uh chance to uh uh to have some uh time together. Uh we just uh thank the Lord for them and I'm sure uh you uh do as well. Uh I would appreciate prayers. I don't usually mention these things that much, but my uh um oldest brother and my Uh uh older brother, I have um uh an older sister also, but she's doing fine, and both brothers are doing fine, but both of their wives have cancer. Brad, my um the brother that I'm probably closest to in age and um otherwise very strong believer, his wife Carol um has uh lymphoma and uh It's uh pretty serious. She's had a couple of chemotherapy um sessions already, and things are uh going well. So we're very thankful for that. And Uh my oldest brother Sandy, his wife Virginia, had breast cancer a number of years ago, and uh um and that was uh dealt with and now in the other breast she's got had cancer and so going through that once again. So appreciate your prayers for both of them. I think we're doing pretty well. So that's our health update. And uh just uh uh thank the Lord for uh this church and for your uh continued concern uh for us. uh and encouragement in so many different ways. Well, uh Steve just showed me a a uh a bulletin from nineteen eighty two and wanted to know what I preached on in 1982. I do have records of this and actually it will it will uh um be uh uh somewhat involved in this message. I'll uh point out a thing or two about w when I've preached here, but I do not remember uh from nineteen eighty-two. However, I can look it up and I will get back to you. Uh but a few years ago, not nineteen eighty two, but uh back in twenty eighteen when I was coming here uh uh around once a month, do you remember? in between as you were in the past or search process. And I preached a message on the importance of biblical prophecy. And in that message, I especially emphasized biblical predictive prophecy uh seeing how the prophet foretold events that were hundreds of years and even thousands of years uh ahead of time And these amazing prophecies demonstrate the truth of God's word and God's sovereign control over all of history. And of course they point people to our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. But in that message, which I'm sure you don't remember all that well, three years ago, I did uh point out that the biblical prophet was more than a predictor of future events. He was first and foremost a spokesperson for God. And that usually involved condemning the sin and the idolatry of the people, especially the nation Israel, and warning them to turn back and repent and turn back to God, or else they would face certain judgment The prophet was like a watchman of a city on the lookout and warning people of danger that was to come. In fact, I think a good uh biblical preacher is similar in that respect, not the predictive prophecy part, but in that respect uh to the prophets of old as they see various trends in the culture and say, look, we need to be aware of these things, because here's what the scripture says and here's where we are heading. Now, personally, and this will come as no shock to you. I love the prophecies of Isaiah Uh yes, there are prophecies of judgment, but Isaiah contains an abundance of prophecies about God's salvation through the Messiah and the peace that will eventually be worldwide because of His glorious reign in the future. So if you've paid any attention to my preaching, uh especially the last few years. You already know that I love the book of Isaiah. By my records, this is the fortieth time. That must probably the first time back in 82, the fortieth time that I've preached here. And I preached from the book of Isaiah, and yes, I looked this up. I don't have this in my memory bank. I preached from the book of Isaiah fifteen times. Uh almost forty percent if you're a math uh person, thirty-seven point five percent actually. But there are other major prophets in the scriptures. Not that you would know it by hearing my uh messages. Uh the next major prophet, Jeremiah, I I've never preached on here. And uh I think, you know, when I I don't know how it's gonna be in heaven. I have no idea. People write all these books about what heaven is like. I don't know how they know all this from a few verses of scripture, but they seem to be writing lots of good books about it. I don't know, but I I expect that I'm going to be meeting Isaiah and Jeremiah. And Isaiah's going to be happy and give me a handshake and maybe a hug. But Jeremiah is going to say, how come you didn't preach on me at all virtually? So Anyway, I feel like I almost have to apologize to him. It is pretty sad because Jeremiah, you do realize, and this is a good You know, if you like facts and statistics, this is a good one. Jeremiah is actually the largest biblical book of all. You say, wait a minute, what about Psalms? I'm not talking about chapters. I'm talking about the actual length in the Hebrew text And the reason I'm so confident of this is the back in the old days we had uh we had um The Bible on floppy disks. Anybody remember floppy disks? And I could tell you how many bites Jeremiah was and how many bites Ezekiel was, and I'm I'm sorry, and the Psalms, and Jeremiah barely beat out the Psalms. So you can take my word for it or you can count the number of bytes. I don't know if I have all those files to do that anymore. Anyway, probably the main reason that I haven't preached on Jeremiah all that much is his message is largely one of judgment. on his people, uh, Israel. It's not as wonderful, at least in my thinking, as the book of Isaiah, but it's just as necessary So this morning I want to speak on Jeremiah 2. It's a much lesser known passage, but its message was very significant. uh for the nation Israel at that time and I believe it's just as significant for us today And by the way, if you like this message and uh you might want to join our Miles Bible class held from ten. to eleven in the morning on Tuesday mornings and we do zoom so distance is not a a a factor. In fact some of you uh here um uh attend that. And we are actually uh doing an in-depth study of the book of Jeremiah and we're going at a just a rapid pace We've spent a year and we're on Jeremiah 31. So we took off for the summer though, so I mean it's not as bad as it sounds. Anyway, that so this is sort of like a a promo uh for that if you're interested. You can uh uh well you can talk to Steve, you can talk uh you can email me, whatever Well, the situation of uh uh Jeremiah's prophecy to Judah was very similar to our own day. Judah had been a great nation as God's chosen people. Judah had been blessed uh greatly by God. But in the late 7th century B. C. , when Jeremiah was writing, godliness was largely a thing of the past. The people only gave lip service to God while they followed after idols and did whatever they pleased. The king Josiah, who was on the throne when Jeremiah began his ministry. He tried to institute religious reform, but the reform didn't last, and the four kings who followed Josiah were all spiritually bankrupt. Ultimately, despite Jeremiah's warnings against their sin, this proud people, who didn't think anything could happen to them, since after all, they were God's chosen people. They were taken captive by Babylon in 586 BC, and they would never have a king again. How did this happen? How did this nation that was God's chosen people with all of its blessing fall into apostasy and God's judgment? Well, in chapter 2 of Jeremiah, the prophet gives an indictment of the people that details their road to independence. their declaration of independence from the Lord. Now, of course, in this country we certainly celebrate the Declaration of Independence from the tyranny of uh Britain and the religious freedom that uh uh entailed and uh all of that and that is wonderful. But uh sometimes the idea of independence is not a good one. And in the case of independence from God, it's decidedly a bad idea. On your outline sheets, it's uh uh Towards the end of your uh handout there, I've divided this chapter into four parts. Uh the first three outline the steps that Israel took away from God. And the fourth one details God's judgment upon them. But in reality, as we see shall see, there's much overlap in these four sections rather than a simple linear arrangement. After the Lord reviews Israel's original relationship to the Lord in verses 1 to 3, with Israel likened to a bride married to the Lord. He asks why she is no longer following him. So my first point is that we must not forget God's past faithfulness and goodness to us. We must not forget God's past faithfulness and his goodness to us. And so after this question He's he when he asks why Israel is no longer following him, he asks sarcastically in verse 5 whether they have found some injustice with God. In other words, has God changed any? And we actually sang in some of our hymns about that aspect that God does not change So if you were paying attention to the hymns this morning, you got that message already. The obvious answer is obvious that God has not changed God says in verse 2 that he remembers Israel. But the problem is that Israel has not remembered God. Verse 32 of this chapter says the same thing using a similar metaphor of the new bride. He says Can a virgin forget her ornaments or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me days without number. Imagine a bride forgetting her wedding dress on the wedding day. You think that's very likely? I don't think so. I remember after uh my daughter Debbie uh got engaged uh to uh Roderick and uh boy I don't know uh Uh Sharon probably knows exactly, but it was not very long after that engagement that she had already picked out and bought her wedding dress months before the wedding. Can you imagine forgetting it? That's pretty silly, right? Well, that's exactly what God says. He says, my people have forgotten me days without number, and it's just as unthinkable. In verses 6 and 7, God reviews all that he had done for Israel, bringing her up from Egypt, leading her through the wilderness. Supernaturally providing food for them in the desert, bringing them to a bountiful land. But Israel had forgotten all of that I like what Charles Feinberg wrote concerning these verses. He says, again and again, Scripture demonstrates that to be thoughtless is to be thankless To be thoughtless is to be thankless. Like 21st century America, Israel had forgotten the one who made her prosperous in the first place. We have gone from a nation whose Congress in 1777 issued a proclamation of thanksgiving to God. and in that same year instructed the Committee on Commerce to import 20,000 copies of the Bible Can you imagine that today? Passing both houses of Congress twenty thousand copies of the Bible. We've gone from that to a nation where we barely acknowledge his existence and ignore his precepts routinely. We are for the most part a nation like Israel of old that has forgotten God and his goodness to us That's the first step down the road to apostasy. Maybe it seems like just a little step at first, like the nine lepers who were cleansed but fail to go back to give glory and thanks to God. Luke 17 talks about that. I wonder if we do more complaining to God than thanking him. Do we take for granted all that he has done for us, creating us, saving us through the blood of his son, or and keeping us each day and reserving for us a place in heaven when we die? Are you and I known as a thankful people, with praise to the Lord continually on our lips? Or have we lost our first love and are prone more to complain and to forget all that God has done for us? Notice, too, in passing, that the leaders of the nation are particularly singled out for blame in verse 8. The relieder religious leadership was bankrupt. They didn't know the Lord or his word, and they didn't seem to care. The prophets were prophesying by Baal instead of prophesying by the Lord. And I would uh wonder and when we search for new elders, new leaders of ministries, new uh pastors, new We must make sure that they are people who are qualified spiritually, people who know the Lord and who know his word thoroughly. Not experts in the things of the world, but in the things of the word. And that's why I'm thankful that you have such a pastor as Pastor Sung. uh who uh really I know I that much I know. Now is everybody perfect? Am I perfect? Are you perfect? Is Pastor Sung perfect Answer? No, of course not. But I know he is committed to following and seeking out the truth. in God's word. And that's what we need. And we must continue to pray for our leaders that they remain centered on God and His word in all that they do. Satan would love nothing better. than to get the leadership off track, whatever church or ministry we're talking about, to get them to forget the Lord. That's what happened to Israel of old. We must not forget the Lord's past faithfulness and the Lord's past goodness to us. Well, second, we must not exalt man and his works in place of God. This is in verses 9 through 19. We must not exalt man and his works in place of God. The second step down the road to apostasy is to do that, exactly that. And that's what secular humanism is all about. We see this throughout the chapter, but especially in verses 9 through 13. The people traded God's glory for man-made substitutes. What an amazingly foolish thing to do! The Lord says that even the heathen nations don't do this, but God's people did it. Look at verse 11. He says, Has a nation changed its gods, which are not gods? But my people have changed their glory for what does not profit. That last phrase for what does not profit is actually a play on words in Hebrew with Baal. That word is Ya'al. The Hebrew of course is Baal. Be it, Baal is the chief Canaanite idol. There is no prophet in Baal. But imagine trading God's glory, which is infinite, for worthless, man-made, finite idols. It is unthinkable indeed. The Lord gives another analogy of what Israel has done in trading God for man-made substitutes in verse 13. It's a picture that is so poignant that I trust it will stick in your mind as it has in mind. He says, My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewn themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. What a picture. What a horrible trade that Israel has made. Imagine living in a hot desert area such as Israel, totally dependent upon rainfall for your existence. You have the choice between living by a natural spring of fresh running water or going elsewhere and building a huge man-made cistern. Why in the world would you ever leave the spring? There'd be no reason to build a cistern in the first place In fact, it's interesting. We were talking about vacations, and one of the places that my wife and I like to go was Skyline Drive, and we liked to then hike. That was then. It's not now. We like to hike to the waterfall. Some of the some of the trails were easy, some of them weren't so easy. But boy, if we could see a waterfall, we would that would motivate us to hike for, you know, a good way. uh back then when we were uh sung in E-Ray's uh age uh perhaps. Uh why in the world would you trade that in For a leaky cistern. It just doesn't make any sense. And turning away from God and trying to do it on our own makes absolutely no sense either Yet continually from the Tower of Babel to today, man wants to do it on his own without any help from God whatsoever. Exalting man at the expense of God because we want to get the glory and we don't want to share it. May I say that this is precisely what the unsaved person does. Every false religion of the world is based on a works alone, not by any works that you and I could do, through faith in Jesus Christ and His finished work on the cross, dying in our place for our sins, that we might have eternal life and We can try to build our towers of Babel and our leaky cisterns and our United Nations all we want, but we will fail miserably. We can't get to heaven by doing good works. They are like leaky cisterns in God's eyes. We can only get to heaven by trusting in the fountain of living waters, the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh and of course Jesus said to the woman at the well in John chapter four, Whoever drinks of this well water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water sh that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. John 4, 13 and 14. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted in Christ as your Savior, then I would ask That you would do it today. Ask him to come into your life and to save you because you cannot do it on your own. No matter how hard you try, it just won't work. For those of us who are believers, and I assume that's most of us here, we need to recognize that we often make the same foolish choices in our daily life We insist on doing things our way in our own strength rather than waiting on the Lord. The antidote for this, I believe. is to have a strong prayer life and saturate ourselves with the scriptures, to be constantly in communion with the Father, even in the little decisions and choices of life. We must lean upon that fountain of living waters and not our own worthless cracked cisterns. Verses 14 to 19 largely detail the result of Israel's exaltation of man at the expense of God. Instead of sons of God, verse 14 says that they have become slaves. And verses 15 to 18 state that other nations were threatening them, even though Israel foolishly had turned to them, to some of these nations, such as Assyria and Egypt, for help. But verse 19 returns to the cause for all of Israel's distress. It says, You have forsaken the Lord your God, and the fear of me, that is God, is not in you. Well, the exaltation of man and his works over God ultimately leads to the third step towards apostasy: creation and worship of man-made substitutes for God. So my third point is that we must not become enslaved to man-made substitutes for God. Verses 20 through 28. We must not become enslaved to man-made substitutes for God. It's in man's nature that he must worship something. So God designed it so that man would worship him. But when man turns his back upon God and exalts himself, that need of worshiping something outside himself is still there. So he worships the sun or the moon or man-made idols. I see four steps to Israel's enslavement in verses 20 to 28. First, in verses 20 to 22, Israel broke free from God to worship idols. She broke free from God to worship idols. Verses 20 to 21 should be translated, you have broken your yoke and burst your bonds, and you said, I will not serve. when on every high hill and on e under every green tree you lay down as a prostitute. Israel had refused to serve God and di declared independence from God's yoke. But was she really free? No. She simply enslaved herself to her idols. And that's exactly what it says. Once again, in verses 21 and 22, the Lord explains He'd given Israel every chance to flourish. In the imagery of a vineyard, he had planted Israel as the finest vine, but she had turned into a degenerate plant, producing no fruit. That same image is used in Isaiah chapter 5, verses 1 to 7, and indeed the same word for choice vine is only used It's used here and only used elsewhere in Isaiah 5. 2. Now Israel tried to say she was fine. She tried to wash herself off. But as one commentator has put it, Judah's sins were so deeply ingrained that they were ineradicable. Outer cleanliness could not hide the people's inner defilement. Sin is more than skin deep. Do you find yourself drifting further and further away from God, but denying it or trying to cover it up? Well, it may fool the people around you, but it won't fool God. But the look at the progression here, it gets worse. Second step in verses 23 to 25. Israel became hopelessly addicted to her godless substitutes. Israel became hopelessly addicted to her godless substitutes. Even while denying she had a problem, she got deeper and deeper into it. It's no accident here that the imagery in verses A 23 to 25 is sexually loaded of a she camel and a donkey in heat doing anything to quench their desire. The sexual imagery that's used here, I think, is in part because uh the worship of idols was often connected with cultic prostitution and sexual immorality. They went hand in hand. In verse 25, Jeremiah warns Judah not to run after these gods until her shoes wore out, but she is addicted. She says, it's no use. I must follow my passion. How many today are enslaved in a similar bondage to drugs, alcohol, gambling, or sexual addictions? The only real answer is to turn to the Lord for true release. Instead of depending upon these things, we need to depend on the Lord. But the picture gets even worse in verses 26 and 27. We see here, third, that Israel becomes confused as to her origin and sexual identity. Israel becomes confused as to her origin and sexual identity. Notice that verse 26 indicates that all of Israel's leaders were similarly mixed up. Kings, princes, priests, and false prophets. It didn't matter who. Denying God as her creator, Israel instead was forced to turn to her idols as her parents. How foolish to ascribe to lifeless objects life-giving powers of creation. Yet many today are doing the same thing. Satan has gotten many, even some Christians, to believe in the myth that somehow we all evolved by chance. In order to get us away from the idea that God is both our Creator and our Redeemer. So if you think Israel sounds ridiculous to say that trees and stones gave birth to her, how foolish do you think uh it sounds to say that God has nothing to do with man's creation? And yet that's what's being taught today in the most prestigious colleges and universities across America, even in some so-called Christian ones. Even the term mother nature, so often used, is is actually a rather foolish expression. Nature isn't our mother or our father. God is. By the way, if somebody uses mother nature, that's fine. I'm not gonna you know, jump all over them, but it really doesn't make a lot of sense to a believer. Now I want you to notice an ironic twist in verse 27. Not only did Israel call trees and stones her parents, but she reverses the roles. The tree, or asherah, was a wooden pole that represented the female Canaanite deity, while the stone, or Masebah, was a pillar representing the male Canaanite deity. Many of which have been found in excavations in Palestine. But Israel has gotten it all mixed up and exchanged the functions of the male and female deities Just as today, they were confused about their sexual identities and the role of a mother and a father. Once you and I turn our backs away from God's Word and what He clearly outlines in terms of male and female roles in Genesis 1 and 2, Then we can have all kinds of craziness, including homosexuality and transgender people, defined by the National Center for Transgender Equality as, and I quote, People whose gender identity is different from the gender they were thought to be at birth. End quote. Were thought to be at birth? Was there any doubt? These people are not only denying the Creator God and His Word, they are denying basic biology. I want to scream this to the mountaintops and hope that people listen. I don't know if they do. Uh how crazy is this? And uh uh I I wonder, you know Is there anything else to say? It's not just scripture, it's biology that teaches these things. And so if you don't think, by the way, that the Bible is relevant to today's issues, then maybe you need to read and study it. A lot more, because it's sure relevant uh to me. Fourth, verse 28 tells us that Israel increased her dependence on idols, even though they were useless. in the time of trouble. So they increased their dependence on idols, even though they were useless in time of trouble. They didn't, by the way, just have idols. One idol? No, they had one for every city, just like the pagans. The more the merrier. This is where I never understood Greek and Latin. mythology. I studied Latin in high school, had three years of Latin, and the teacher wanted to teach us all about Greek and Latin. mythology because that was all a part of it and I thought all these gods and guy goddesses fighting each other and all that uh it just didn't make any sense The Lord says that not one of these gods could actually save Israel in times of trouble. They were utterly useless. Israel becomes more and more enslaved, became more and more enslaved to their man-made substitutes for God. And you and I have to realize that any time that we put something, whether it's money or sports or sex or fame or health or beauty, anything ahead of God, we are in that sense committing idolatry. And yes, here in the 21st century, just as in Jeremiah's day Sex was a main form of idolatry. And once we start to go down that path, just like Israel, it becomes easier and easier to become enslaved. There's only one way out, and that is to renew our dependence upon God and put Him first in every thought and in every decision that we make. Well, what was the result of Israel's forgetting and turning away from God and his goodness, exalting man and his works instead, and becoming enslaved to their man-made idols? Well the final verses, verses 29 to 37, give us the tragic consequences. And that is that we must not Turn away from God and become enslaved to man-made idols, or else our final point in this message or else like Israel we will face God's judgment. We will face God's judgment. This last section sums up those previous themes and then declares God's judgment. In verses 29 and 30, the Lord says that despite their sin, he tried to chasten his people, but they didn't listen. And instead they turned on the true prophets. such as Jeremiah himself, who was later imprisoned by the king. In verses 31 and 32, the Lord laments that Israel has turned away from him despite his guidance to them during the wilderness wanderings. Just as a bride would never forget Her wedding dress, so Israel, should never have forgotten the Lord, but she did. Instead, verses thirty-three and thirty-four say they were great at teaching other people how to pursue sensual desire, verse thirty-three, but righteousness was another matter. On their skirts were found the blood of innocence. Verse 34. You know, we've got all kinds of books and articles on how to attract one another sexually. as if we really need any help in that area, while at the same time we show no compunction about murdering our unborn babies in the name of rights. Just a week ago, Saturday, there were thousands of protesters in D. C. and about 600 other cities. Protesting a Texas law that tried to protect the life of the unborn child. The Washington Post reports that the protesters were, and I quote, Hoisting homemade signs and chanting. Abortion is health care. Abortion is health care? No, it isn't health care. It is murder of unborn children on a scale equivalent to what was done To Jewish men, women, children, and babies during the Holocaust. How backwards is our thinking when murdering babies is something we applaud Righteousness has taken a back seat. As a result, verses 35 to 37 conclude: God is going to judge Israel. Somehow Israel had deluded herself into thinking, verse 35, that she will escape God's punishment because she hasn't really sinned. But God says that He's rejected Israel's allies and will reject Israel as well. And as we know, just a few years after this prophecy in 586 BC. Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came and destroyed Jerusalem, destroyed the temple, and took Israel's king captive. Do we really think, as a nation or as an individual, that we will escape God's judgment if we persist? In pursuing our own agenda and our own man-made substitutes for God instead of God Himself. Scripture teaches us otherwise. Well, I know this hasn't exactly been an enjoyable look, but I trust that it's been a profitable look at Israel's road to apostasy. Beginning with those who should have had a knowledge of God, they forgot God's past faithfulness and goodness to them, not being thankful. They exalted man and his works at the expense of God, exchanging God's glory for that which did not profit. and they became enslaved to their man made idols in place of God, becoming addicted to their behavior, becoming sexually disoriented, and seeking sensuality rather than righteousness. Now that you've seen this path from Jeremiah 2, in closing, I'd like to turn to a familiar New Testament passage which outlines the identical path to apostasy. I'd like you to turn to Romans chapter 1, verses 18 to 32. Don't worry, I'm not going to preach another m message on Romans 1, but I at least wanted to mention it because the parallels are uncanny. God says that all people knew God, Romans 1, 19 through 21. They knew God through the general revelation of creation. That's why the evolution-creation controversy is so foundational. You can see the stars and the heavens and know of God and his attributes there, but not if, of course, we deny that it's from God. But they've turned away. Look at the process. First of all, verse 21. There is no thankfulness or praise of God. Verse 21 says, although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, neither were thankful. Second, verse 22, there's an elevation of man and his works. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools Third, in verses 23 to 32, they became more and more enslaved to idolatry and godless passions including vile passions in verses 26 and 27, specifically mentioning homosexuality in vivid detail And so finally, as verse 32 says, God would have to judge their behavior. Ultimately, the answer for all of this is in Romans chapter 3, verses 21 to 26. Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and his righteousness. All of us have sinned and fall far short of the glory of God. But you and I are justified freely through His grace, through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus. if we trust in Him, if we depend upon Him as our Savior. We can't do it by ourselves or by our perceived good works, whatever they might be. You must trust in Christ alone. For your salvation. Rather than declaring our independence, we must make a declaration of dependence upon God. For some, perhaps for the first time, trusting Christ as personal Savior, and for the rest of us, recognizing the need to continue to be thankful. Not forgetful of God, increasing our prayer for our leaders and for all the decisions that we make, big or small, realizing that without God's help, we're simply Building broken cisterns and making sure that we deal honestly and openly with our sin. not hiding it or denying it, being submissive to godly counsel, to deal with it in a biblical way. Let's stop trying to be independent, building up or patching up our leaky cisterns of human works. Instead, let's daily depend upon the eternal fountain of God's grace through the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's join in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, even for this passage in Jeremiah today, which uh speaks uh so clearly of your love for your people and yet their abandonment of you. And I pray, Father, that would not be true of us. I pray if there's anyone here that's never trusted in Christ as their Savior, from sin that they would do it today. Because none of us can approach you on our own merits, but it's only through the blood of Christ As our substitute on the cross and being raised again to demonstrate your satisfaction for that, Lord, that we can have eternal life and forgiveness of sin For those of us who have already done that, I pray that you would help us to remember and not forget the Lord, even in the little things, Lord. Just as we go through our daily tasks in the little decisions, in the big decisions, Lord, that we would put you at the forefront and not ourselves Lord, I pray that you would continue to strengthen us and help us to renew our own commitment to you, that we might indeed be lights in this world of darkness. We pray this in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.