Alright, this morning, let's open our Bibles to Psalm chapter 2, or I should say Psalm number 2, Psalm 2 What would happen if you had a child who was four years old, maybe you have one, or a grandchild, and you decided that you were going to command that child for a week? In a special way, showing your authority, testing the will of your child or grandchild. And this is what you decided you would do. Every day, three times a day, you would ask this very special child if they wanted a cookie And you wanted to make sure your authority was really exercised in their life, so you figured you would change it into a command. I command you, holding up this freshly baked chocolate chip cookie, I command you in my name as your grandparent or your father or mother. To eat this freshly baked chocolate chip cookie. Well, as you might imagine, that would not be much of a test of your authority Because I have found in my own life that 99. 999% of all children love freshly baked chocolate chip cookies. Right? Some of you are frowning. Should I change it to peanut butter? Or maybe some fudge? Or maybe a freshly baked pecan pie? Are you waking up a little bit? I mean these are things that should make your mind start to spin a little bit. What if you just You you went through that for a whole week, you know, they were so obedient, they just said, Oh yes, sir, and they just ate, they devoured that cookie. What if you said, you know what, I'm gonna test my authority a little bit more in their lives? I'm going to command them. Every day to play with their toys. So on Monday morning, you get your child, you invite them into the playroom, and every day you say, I command you, play, play, have fun. And lo and behold, to your surprise, they say yes. They play with their toys. Now we know we don't, as parents, typically do this because kids naturally eat cookies and play with toys. And it kind of follows us through life. It's just something about being a man and owning a sports car and uh, let's see, what do ladies like that you I mean, shopping, you know, you don't have to command a a woman typically to shop or a man to drive a fast car. It's just something we we have desires, right? And so for someone in authority over us to command us something that is in keeping with our desires, it's really not a test of obedience to us. But there are commands sometimes that authorities give that are not explained. Do you see that tree? Don't eat from that tree. The day you eat of it, you will die. Now that was some explanation and a serious one, but not really a whole lot of explanation. I mean, there are a lot of trees, but there's this one tree. No. Or there are other commands. I want you to have one man and one woman for life, and that is marriage. Or children. Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Or, husbands, love your wife as Christ loved the church The true test of an authority is the type of commands that they give that cross the will of the one who is given Try putting a cookie on the nose of your dog and asking him not to eat it. No. Try telling your child not to play with toys. Clean them up now. It's time to go to bed. Tell your grandchild, no, you cannot have a third drink of water before you finally put your head on your pillow, and then suddenly you find that there is authority that bec is at odds with Those who are under authority. We all know from Psalm 2 that there is this reaction of rebellion in the hearts of Of men and women all over the world when they consider the authority of the anointed one of God who is Jesus. It says in Psalm 2, verse 2: the kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. Their response to the law of God is that it binds, it restricts. It's not acceptable, and so we're going to set ourselves, array ourselves in opposition against him and the anointed one who would dare bind us with such cords. Psalm 2 is one of those Old Testament passages that just brings out the authority of God that is so beyond understanding, that is so. That is so distant from the authority of men that when God hears that, his response is what? Verse Verse 4, he that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. Because in the end you cannot box against God, as the old preacher said. Your arms aren't long enough. You can't rebel. And even though in the Garden of Eden mankind disobeyed, and so all have sinned since that moment, this is all going somewhere. And so it is that we have a theme that is born in the Old Testament and that is sort of carried through the river of time from Old to New Testament of the ultimate authority of God. One day. Every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. But that is one day, that is not now, but all of history is being carried to that point. And as this theology develops through your Bible, you see it become the kingdom of God. You see the authority of Jehovah in the Old Testament in the life of the Jew And then you see this authority of God over the New Testament church and eventually over the whole world, a kingdom that Jesus said starts out like a mustard seed. This tiny little thing. And you plant it and it grows into this huge thing. And Jesus said it's like leaven. It's this little tiny powder that you put into this loaf of bread and suddenly the whole loaf is affected by it. It rises and changes, and it's like it's just seed and it grows, and you don't know where it grows, how it grows. That is the case. Turn to Ephesians. In this morning's text, we're looking at Ephesians chapter 5, 3 to 7. We have a reference to the kingdom of Christ and God and to inheriting that kingdom. Ephesians 5, verse 3 says this. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting which are not convenient or the words appropriate, but rather giving of thanks, for this you know That no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. What we have with woven into the context of this verse is the concept of the kingdom of Christ and of God. Folks, can you bear with me for a moment? And can I take you on a very quick journey in the Gospels to hear what Jesus said about the kingdom of God just quickly? Jesus spoke of the kingdoms in terms of maybe four or five basic concepts. First, there was the character of kingdom citizens and the lifestyle of kingdom citizens. citizens. What is someone like who is in this kingdom like in their character? That's Matthew 5 and 6. And what are they like in their lifestyle? That's like the passage we just read. They're not sexually immoral. They're not covetous. These kinds of people don't inherit the kingdom of God. God. He speaks of the kingdom of God, kingdom character, kingdom lifestyle. Then Jesus also speaks in terms of the kingdom of God. by talking about what it takes to enter into it. He says it's easier for a rich man, or I'm sorry, for a camel To go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. The implication seems to be there that money won't get you in. And then he says elsewhere in Matthew that your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees to get into the kingdom of heaven. And that means Whoa, you have to be really righteous. So maybe righteousness isn't really a prerequisite because compared to a Pharisee, I don't have a lot of righteousness. But then he says things like this, allow the little children to come to me, for of such are the kingdom of God. And and he says this to Nicodemus, you must be born again. Except you're born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God God. These are all things that Jesus says as he talks about the kingdom. The kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of Christ. It's all referring to this structure, maybe not structure, this organized group of people who have a king that has authority. Can I just invite you to turn to some of these passages? First, there's Jesus announcing the kingdom. Open to Matthew 3, verse 2. Look at Matthew 3, verse 2. The Gospel of Matthew really is the gospel of the kingdom. Except Matthew does not say the kingdom of God. He often says the kingdom of heaven. But in Matthew 3, verse 2, you have Jesus beginning his ministry, and this is what he says. Oh, I'm sorry, you have John the Baptist here first. John the Baptist, the precursor to Jesus, in preparation for Jesus, and I just wanted to show you this so you can see that it's a consistent message with Jesus. Repent ye, it says in Matthew 3. 2, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Then turn, just look at verse chapter 4, verse 17. And you see, Jesus. John says, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Jesus began to preach, this is Matthew 4, 17, and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now, did he say this only once? Did John the Baptist stand up and on Tuesday say, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and then move on to a different message? Did Jesus say it once Well, if you look on at chapter 4, verse 23, you see that this message of repentance in the kingdom was a continual message. We could put it this way, it was part of his repertoire of messages. Because it says in Matthew 4. 23, and Jesus went about all Galilee Teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among all the people John talks about the kingdom. Jesus talks about the kingdom. But what does he say about it? Alright, he's he's saying first there's repentance. What is repentance? Repentance is a change of mind that results in a change of action. It's not just a change of mind because the two are linked Repentance always brings forth some kind of fruit, some kind of result. And that's why when John the Baptist preached repent, And the people said, What we do? He told the tax collectors not to collect too much. He told the soldiers not to use their abuse their authority and hurt people. He told people what they would do to show their repentance. So repentance is not just a change of mind, although certainly that is where it begins, but it it will always result in some kind of change of action. A change of attitude is a change of action, going from a certain attitude towards sin to a different one because you changed your mind. In John's case, he was preaching a baptism of repentance. It's different from the Christian baptism. When you get Immersed here, you're being baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. When John the Baptist was baptizing, it was an admission of guilt. People were coming to him and saying, I'm a sinner, I repent, I need to repent. And so it was a symbol of repentance. Different from what we do today. When Jesus came and was being baptized by John, what did John say? Hey, whoa, no. You don't need this baptism. Why? Because Jesus was perfect. He'd never sinned. And yet Jesus allowed himself to be baptized in that way because he was identifying himself with sinners. Because when he died on the cross, he took sin upon himself and died in our place. The beginning of his ministry, he was baptized and identifying himself with sinners. And at the end of his ministry on the cross, he was identifying himself with sinners as he died in their place. Repentance and the kingdom. It means that you are changing your mind about what God has to say about the kingdom. That you're willing to admit that you're a person who sins, that you need, that you need a savior, that you need something in order to enter this kingdom. Repent, repent, repent. It's everywhere. But then we see in Matthew 13, if you turn there a few pages, and we're going to stay in Matthew so we don't go through all the gospels. We see a series of parables about the kingdom. Matthew 13, 24 says this, another parable. This was part of Jesus' kingdom parables, his repertoire of kingdom parables Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. And while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householders came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then hath it cares? And he said, verse 28, An enemies done this And they asked, should we gather up the wheat right now? That's verse 29. And he says, No. Verse 30. Let both grow together until the harvest. And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in the bundles, and burn them. What is he saying here? Well, he's saying in this parable that the kingdom is going to be in close proximity to what is not the kingdom. And we are living in close, such a close relationship to one another in the world. By the way, this is not the church. This is not a situation where we have a local church and there are tares and there's wheat and we let them both grow up together. The fact is that there probably are people in this very room who aren't saved, maybe even church members who aren't saved. But if we find out about it, our response is Matthew 18, not let's just let them both grow up together. This parable is about the world, not Not the church. In the world, there's the kingdom of God, and there's those who are outside the kingdom, and they're in close proximity one to the other. But then I already mentioned, if you go on a little bit further and you look at verse 31, that this kingdom is growing up. The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all seeds. But when it's grown, it's the greatest among herbs. It becomes a big tree. So, even though there's this close proximity to the kingdom and people outside the kingdom, the kingdom over time will continue to blossom and grow. Let me give you an illustration of this. In 1992, when I went to The Middle East, I was able to go and see some Christian churches, some evangelical Christian churches. I won't name them. I don't want this going out over the web. And and People being hurt. They were brothers in Christ, and they were scattered around the area there. Recently We had a man come to our church and share what he is doing in the Middle East in his particular country, and he is talking about a huge growth there of Christians. He said that there are certain Muslims who are getting disgusted with the violence of ISIS. They're the more moderate ones, and they look at these ISIL or ISIS people chopping Christians' heads off, and they're going, Whoa, is this really Islam? And they're starting to doubt their faith. And he said that Muslims are coming to Christ not even because anyone's evangelizing them. They are seeking Christ out. And if you remember, it was on a snowy day, it wasn't very well organized, but we were all here, and he showed us pictures. Of Muslim women dressed from head to toe in their black outfits, holding Bibles that they picked up on their own because they wanted to find out about Jesus. You won't see that broadcast on the news. That's a mustard seed and it's grown into a tree and it's Silently growing. I mean, nobody ever goes out and broadcasts how the trees are growing in the forests as exciting news. But in the kingdom of God, it just quietly goes on. So what's happening today in that particular country that I went to so long ago is that you have that tree and it's expanding and expanding And exactly what Jesus said is true. But then there's what you have in China, which is Incredible! I can't wait to get to heaven to find out how many millions are saved in China. You have the Boxer Rebellion. And all the missionaries are kicked out of China. They can't stay. Hudson Taylor and the China Inland Mission, you can read stories of how the Boxer Rebellion that meant some of his missionaries were killed. In there some pretty uh scary stories of how they tried to flee the country and some of them were just killed by mobs and things like that. But what was left behind? There was a nucleus of believers there who were true believers. And there were the scriptures in Chinese Folks, that was not too long ago. And now you have probably the biggest mustard tree. In all the world in China. They say, missiologists, people who study this out, not me, but people who actually try real hard to figure this out, say that in a few years there will be more Christians. a greater percentage of Christians in China compared to its population than there are in America compared to its population. There probably are already Stat to stat, statistically, more Christians in China than in America. But the the figure I'm talking about is percentage. Now there are more people in China overall than America, correct? That is what God is doing. What Jesus described here in this parable is happening. And here's the amazing thing about all of this. That all of these people, all of these people have a certain character and lifestyle It's not about culture. It's not about the language they speak, or the clothes they wear, or the food they eat. It's about character and lifestyle. Go back to Matthew 5 and look at it. And this is what you need to think. I might, I don't want to do disservice to the word of God here, but I might insert. Well, let me see how I can do this. Does not offend anyone. Matthew 5, the Sermon on the Mount, is often described as a sermon about the kingdom and kingdom citizens. And here is their character. Matthew 5. 1, seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came unto him. He opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. There's a certain spirit to people of this kingdom. And folks, it doesn't matter whether they're living in Ghana. Or China or France, and you all heard about the earthquake that just happened in Nepal. This is universal character to Kingdom City. Citizens, poor in spirit. Blessed are those that mourn. There's a certain kind of mourning that kingdom citizens have. They are meek, they're gentle, verse 5. They're going to inherit the whole earth. But they're gentle. They're not conquerors, violent conquerors. Six, they hunger and thirst for righteousness so that they can be filled. I don't know if you've heard of the formation of the British Bible Society. But it was first formed partly when it was discovered that a Welsh girl saved up I won't exaggerate, but I think it was over three years this little girl saved up her money only so that she could buy a Welsh Bible The day came when she finally, after years of saving, imagine I think she was like nine years old. From the age of nine to the age of twelve, a little girl putting away every cent, every bit of money she had. Of course it wasn't Sense because it was Wales, but she put that away. She set out on her journey. She had to walk miles to get to the bookstore where they said there were Bibles. She gets there, and they're sold out. Someone heard that story and started that Bible society in part because of those kinds of needs. That girl was hungering and thirsting for righteousness. She wanted a Bible so bad. Forget the Nintendo Game Boys or whatever all this other junk. She wanted a Bible. She was from Wales, probably spoke at that time period in Welsh. She's a kingdom citizen. Verse 7, they're merciful. Verse 8, they're pure in heart. They strive for purity. Verse 9, they want peace. They're peacemakers. But verse 10, 11, 12, they're persecuted. What we have here is a description of Christians wherever they may be found. Have you read recently in certain parts of China the arrests that were made? I try to keep up on some of them. This so that you can know. And do you not, have you not read of something as simple as those bakery owners in Oregon who were this past week fined $150,000? Because they didn't want to portray a message on a wedding cake. They're probably going to lose their business. And so it is that we are persecuted. And it goes on and on, of course, we know in other parts of this. So Jesus talks about the prerequisite of repentance. There's this kingdom, there's this character of kingdom people and this lifestyle. What about the apostles? Do they just kind of leave this wording behind? No. Turn to Acts quickly, Acts chapter 1. In Acts chapter one, we have Jesus finishing up. Acts one, verse three. And this is what he did. Now think of this. He's risen from the dead. He's having his final debriefing with his apostles before he leaves them behind. I can't imagine. What I would have said, but this is what he talks about. Verse 3: He showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to The kingdom of God. Verse 6. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou now at this time restore again? The kingdom to Israel. I mean they'd heard so much about the kingdom. They wanted to know, Is it time? Is it time? And he said, No, it's not for you to know this. But the apostles take this message out into life because if you go to Acts 8 verse 12, this is what we see. The Philip preaches it in Acts 8. 12. It says, When they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Then you flip over to Acts 14, verse 22, confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting these to continue in faith. And that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Folks, you look, you don't have to turn there, but Acts 19, Acts 20, and Acts 28. All mention this again. This is not just something the apostles said and then forgot about. Again, it was part of the repertoire of their theology. It was something they brought up again and again as they went out and planted churches. So what we have is the kingdom is part of the gospel message. Now I want to be careful. I'm not saying it's more important than the death, burial, resurrection of Christ, but it is up there as something that was stressed all the time. John, Jesus, and the Apostles in the book of Acts. So I want to know what the Apostles say And we have to just here's what here's how I summarize how the apostles use this, and I can show you all these references later if if you want. But as they wrote to churches. I'm typing. Yeah, right. The apostles typed. Yeah, this doesn't make sense. As they wrote on their scrolls or through their or through their scribe, this is what they said. If the Corinthians were really selfish, They would say, now wait a minute. That's not like the kingdom of God. This is the kingdom of God. Now listen to this. Some of you are puffed up as though I were not coming to you, but I'll come to you shortly, if the Lord wills. And I will know not the word of those who are puffed up, but the power. For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. What do you want? Shall I come to you with a rod or in love in the spirit of gentleness? You see how he's saying that? And he says this, you know, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God Alright, that's not going to happen. Corruption doesn't inherit incorruption. It's kind of say, okay, it's not like this, it's like this. Corinthians You're being rebellious, that's not the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of heaven is a power, and do you want me to come to you that way? And and this is this is not the kind of body that's going to get into the kingdom. So there's kind of this contrast between Our current life and what we're supposed to be as kingdom citizens. A challenge to us. Not this, but this. And then they also talk in terms of walking worthy of the kingdom. And I am trying to go somewhere with this, so hang on, hang on. You want to walk worthy, and that's the passage that John read to us. Look, walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. That's 1 Thessalonians 2. Walk the right way. And they talk about the kingdom lifestyle, just like Jesus did. They said, you know, this is the way people who are in this kingdom live, walk worthy, suffer in a way that is worthy. That's 2 Thessalonians. And Paul, when he writes to Timothy, he really takes it to the bar. He says, Timothy. Preach the word. I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead and his appearing in his kingdom. You preach the word. And what we have when we put all this data together is we have this growing understanding that as Christians There's the local church, and there's the church with a capital C, and it's part of this kingdom that's going to go on and on and on. And we are part of that kingdom. And where does that lead us with the remaining time? That leads us to Ephesians, where he's just talking about, hey, don't be deceived about the kingdom. Don't be deceived about it. Because he's telling the Ephesians here, if you turn back to that quickly, he's telling them that there are certain sins that don't mark kingdom citizens. And it's possible that you and I could be deceived into thinking that they're not that bad. Look back at Ephesians chapter 5 again. Verse 3. Now, we're all tired. It's getting hot in here, and you're probably starting to think about the roast beef in your oven. So hang in there and let's wrap this up. Right now, we are living in a day of utter spiritual confusion. Probably hasn't changed since the first century But you have talking heads who know religious jargon and doubles, but they kind of spin it into this doublespeak. For example, I'll give you a real people. You do have Oprah Winfrey, and she's very spiritual. She talks about spiritual things, and occasionally she's even recommended Oprah's recommended books. Spiritual books. Now, over time, her message has morphed. I read a biography that a man, a Christian man, wrote on the theology of Oprah Winfrey, what it's like, what she believes. But is she a woman who is moral when it comes to not to be blunt but her sexual choices? I can say this publicly because she is very public. Don't worry, I won't say this about private people. Is she saying you can be spiritual and still be sexually immoral? I think I mentioned Paula went one time to, I think, of a physical therapist or a doctor. She was talking to the nurse, and the nurse Was so enthusiastic about going to church, asking Paula, hey, help me find a church. And in the course of the conversation, She mentioned her boyfriend and how they were living together and how they were both looking for a good church Folks, is it possible for today for people to actually think you can be a part of the kingdom, you can inherit the kingdom and live in sexual immorality? Now I want to be careful. Do Christians fall into sexual immorality? Do they sin? David did. Was he not part of the kingdom? No, he was very much part of the kingdom because God made a covenant that one of his ancestors would be on the throne forever, and that's Christ. That's the Davidic covenant But when a Christian falls into sin, what does he do? Eventually he repents. He gets back up and he tries to reestablish his life and go on. But someone who is living in sin unashamably, who is talking about it and exalting it or ignoring it Are they inheriting the kingdom of heaven? You look at your Bible here again and look what Paul says. It's a very strong warning. In Ephesians 5, verse 3, fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be named among you. Look, verse 5. You know this. You know no whoremonger or unclean person or covetous man, blah blah blah, is going to be part of the kingdom of heaven. It's going to inherit it. Verse 6: don't let anyone deceive you. We have, I don't think, now certainly in my lifetime, we've ever lived in a lifetime of more deception when it comes to this Our young people, our teenagers, are taught that anything goes, anything. Has there ever been a day in America when anything has not meant more than it has today? And yet you can still be a Christian and do these things And our young people could be deceived into believing this. They could actually start to think, hey, it's not that bad. It's two consenting adults. Or you know what? I'm gonna live for material things. That's the covetousness. Here's what marks my life. I want the best job. I want the best position. I want full bank accounts, the two SUV and the big house. I want that, and that's going to be my life. That person won't inherit the kingdom of heaven either. So we are warned in verse 7, don't ye do not, be not ye therefore partakers with them. Now next week we will look at the walk in the light. It's the contrast to those who are part of the kingdom of of heaven. And we're out of time today, so I I just have to to wrap it up this way. All over this world today, there are people that are a part of this kingdom. Jesus taught it. There are kingdoms, there's kingdom character, kingdom lifestyle. And there's a king. And he has authority. And the question I have for you today is: are you living under the authority of Jesus? A perfect law of liberty that sets you free. It's a paradox. Obedience that sets you free Slavery that offers you freedom. And yet it is true. The Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Let's pray.