Is there a children's church? No? Dismissed? Would you like to go to children's church? You can. It's okay. I don't see a big clock on the back wall. That's a good sign. Usually there's a giant clock facing me right over that door. No clock. Is this water for me or is this left from last week? There's nothing swimming in it, so that's a good sign. So I already told you who I am, so I don't have to do that again. Is there a certain time you have to be out of here? Nobody's saying anything. That's a good sign. Okay. I usually preach for an hour, so I'm new. Faith Bible Church. I like that name. Faith, forsaking all, I trust him. I like that. Bible's right in the middle. And everybody have one? Good. That's where you have to start. Anybody got one of these on you? You want to do this right now. Hit the button on the top and hit the slide power off and shut it off. Because if it goes off while I'm speaking, I'm going to come down and answer yours. Okay? You want to shut it off? Because the most important thing at a Bible church is what? The Bible. God's Word. Worship is human response to divine revelation. That's the best definition of worship I've ever heard in my life. Human response to divine revelation. When I pastored a church, I did things in reverse. I would get up and I had the bullets answer something important. I would say it and then I would open in prayer and then we would start preaching. We preached first. And then we did everything else. Because worship is human response to divine revelation. So we gave out the divine revelation, and then everything else correlated to what God just told you. So now I'm going to give you the word of God, then you're going to go eat chicken. Whenever you have Roger Boguski, Kathy would tell you RB stands for roast beef. Roast beef. What you buy is about a five or six pound bottom round roast. And you put it in a pan, put the fat side down. Get a package of dried onion soup, Lipton or Campbell's, with no MSG in it, because it'll give you migraines or bring up your blood pressure or cause your acid reflux to go nuts. Sprinkle it on, put about a quarter cup of water in there. Get your potatoes, carrots, onions, cut them up, throw them in the pan, cover it with tin foil. Early in the morning, 7:30, 8 o'clock, slide it in the oven at 2. 75, shut the door, don't touch it. And let it go. The longer I go, the better that roast is going to get. So right about now, 1132, and potatoes are stuck in that juice up. On your way home, stop at a Popeye's and get a dozen rolls. Have some homemade applesauce. We bought a bunch of it yesterday, didn't we? Some apple butter. Mmm Now all you gotta do is pull in. If you got one of my white spies, you're in good shape, you pull in and you're ready to go. So you don't care how long I go Just let that potatoes and whatnot just suck that juice up and you can cut that roast with a fork. Getting hungry, aren't you? Roger Boguski, Roast Beef, Faith Bible Church. Well, I'm glad I'm here. We're going to talk about intimacy with God. If you missed Sunday school this morning, you missed a blessing. Tim did a great job. And I am so glad that he was using Greek left and right because I'm going to use a little bit and some Hebrew. And I was a little leery about using Greek and Hebrew here, but now I'm not leery at all. Because he bombarded us this morning. I felt like I was in Greek class this morning Steve called me for the title of my message, and he also called me and wanted to know some passages. So I'm going to be all over the Bible. So I hope you have a Bible. You need to bring a Bible, and I hope you have one, because we're going to be going all over. So you need to move your fingers like this. Just kind of loosen them up because you are going to be moving today We're going to start off in Philippians 3. Philippians 3, 10 through 15. Actually, we're going to throw verse 16 in. I have a King James Bible. Is that okay? Am I right with a King James? Somebody said probably on Facebook, you don't have to use the King James Bible to go to heaven. There that's fake news, by the way. That's fake news You know, why anybody would want to take a chance on something like that is beyond me, but that's okay. But I got a King James Bible, and if you look in your I know mine has these little things called pill crows Like chapter 1, verse 3. It's like a tomahawk going to the left. It's a little funny-looking symbol called a pilcrow. That means change of thought. And then he dropped down to verse 12 in chapter 1, you got it again. It's a pill crow. Do you have one in your Bible? Funny looking hatchet. See it? 112. Then he got another one way over in 219. Then he got one in 3-2. That's a Pilcrow. That means there's a new thought coming from 2, 3, 2, all the way to the end of the chapter. And then it's in 410, 421, 423. Change of thought. Well, the thought starts in 3. 2, but we're going to pick up at 3. 10. Now I studied for five years in a synagogue with a rabbi and about 25 people, and here's this Baptist minister sitting there. And it was wonderful. I'm going to tell you what, to sit there and study the Bible through Jewish eyes was amazing. You see, everything you and I hold dear to us as Christians comes out of the womb of Judaism. Jesus was Jewish, did you know that? Still is. All the apostles were Jewish. All the early Christians were Jewish. The question wasn't, how do we let a Jew into the church? By the way, any Jews here besides I'm not really a Jew or Jewish, my grandmother was. See, the question is not, how did we let Jews into the church in here. What's Romans 15? What's the problem? How do they let Gentiles into the church? That was the question. So everything you hold dear to you as a Christian comes out of the womb of Judaism. I don't care what it is in the church. I can take it back to Judaism and show you its origin. Communion, baptism, anything. Reading the Bible. I went into the synagogue service and there's an ark up here, a box, a big place, and inside were the scrolls And they would take out that scroll and he would walk down to the Bhima. This is the Bima up here, walk down to a podium, walk up and down the aisle with the scrolls, and then people would take their teeth sheet, little fringes. kiss it and touch the scrolls. But the minute he got to that podium and he opened that scroll, everybody did what? What did they do? Annie? They stood to their feet. Nobody had to say, let's stand and give honor to the reading of God's word. They just stood up. What happened in Ezra chapter 8? Remember? They stood from morning until noon while the scriptures were being read. Because up there over that box Were these words in the Hebrew, Da Lithnai, me, Ata, Omed. No before whom you stand. You know why you're here today? Are you here to hear me? No, you're not here to hear me. You're here to hear him, aren't you? Can I have an amen? God was so weak. I get more amens in a Methodist church You're here to hear from God. You know what the problem is with the people that I minister to? I minister the Jewish people is they know all about God, but they don't know. And you know what the problem is in the churches today? Christians know all about Jesus, but they don't know Jesus. So you can know all about somebody and never know. That's a scary thought. Scary thought A lot of people know a lot about me, but only she knows me. And she knows where the hot button is, and she knows when to touch it and when not to touch it. You can know a lot about God, never really know God. So let's read Philippians 3, 10 through 16. And I'm asking to do something. What's that? Stand. And we can give honor to the reading of God's word. Can you do that? I'm gonna take a drink out of this cup. Follow along with me. Here we go, that I may know him. Oh, there it is. Tim, Genosko. Know by experience. Ginosko means experiential knowledge. That I may know him. There's another word in Greek, oida, perfect knowledge. Paul's talking about experiential knowledge. And the power, the dunamis of his resurrection, and the fellowship, the koinonia of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. We ought to have that verse inscribed in our hearts. That ought to be on your refrigerator. If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, arrive at it. Oh, he's going to. We're all going to, unless the trumpet sounds. You are pre-trib, pre-mill dispensationals, aren't you? Okay? Am I all right here? All right. Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, but I follow after, if that I may apprehend, that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus, brethren I count not myself to have apprehended, laid hold of, but this one thing I do forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth onto those things which are before. Here he comes. I press toward the mark scopas. Have any hunters in here? Anyone hunting here besides me? I don't get anything. I don't even take bullets anymore. I just take my gun for a walk. And I take my Bible and I take a sandwich and an apple. I really do. I don't just I don't want to hurt anything out there. It's just nice out there in the woods I dress towards the Marktoskopas. This is the word for a telescope. You know, he's focusing in I press towards the mark for the prize, the brabus, the medal, the crown of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Well, he's focusing here Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded, and if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, ooh, I love that word. 99 times in your Bible, nevertheless. Somebody wrote a book on the word nevertheless. Jesus used that in the garden. Remember? Father, remove this. Cut from me. But there's the word, nevertheless, not my will but yours be done. I'm so glad he prayed that word, aren't you? Otherwise, you and I would have had to drink your cup. You wouldn't have made it. Nevertheless, we're to, or as to that which we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. Pray with me, Father. As we look into your word, may your Holy Spirit, the Ruakha Kodesh, be our teacher VR in struggle. Open our eyes. Father, we know the time is flying. It's 11. 45 and I haven't even started Maybe I should just fold up this sermon and put it back in the book. And we can go home and eat that pot roast that's cooking. But Lord, you have a message for us. You have something to teach us today. You have something to tell us. Your Holy Ghost has got something to teach us about intimacy with you, Father. That we may know you. Please teach us. Quiet our hearts, quiet our spirits, and speak to us from your word In the name of Yeshua HaMashiach, Jesus the Messiah, we pray. Amen and amen. You may be seated. Book of Philippians is a wonderful book. Chapter 1 is all about Christ and the Christian's life. Chapter 2 is about Christ. the Christian's pattern. Chapter 3 is Christ the object of the Christian's faith and desire. And chapter 4 is Christ the Christian's strength. Beautiful book. But I want to talk about intimacy. Intimacy. In love with God. Are you in love with God I mean, do you really love him? Do you tell him you love him? Never walk outside and look up and say, I love you. I want you to know, in case somebody didn't tell you today, I love you. Just wanted you to know that today. Okay? Good. By the way, if I told you I love you lately, just let you know. I love you. He likes to hear it from you. Just like your wife or your husband likes to hear it. God referred to Moses as his friend. The word is Reah in Hebrew His companion, his associate, a close friend. Go with me to Exodus 33. 11. Told you I'm going to wear your fingers out. Exodus 33. 11 It's kind of an idiom. But the friend word friend is used here, Exodus 33, 11. It says, and the Lord Jehovah, the Yudhe Vubvah, the Tetragrammaton, all uppercase letters here. And the Lord spoke unto Moses face to face as a man speaks unto his friend. Now Moses didn't see the face of God because nobody could see the face of God in the lips. It's kind of an idiom here. And the Lord spoke unto Moses face to face as the man speaks unto his friend. He also referred to Abraham as his friend or his lover, and the word there is Ahab or Ahab. Which means have a strong affection for. And we see that in 2 Chronicles chapter 20. Turn there. 2 Chronicles Samuel King's Chronicles kind of goes in reverse order, but 2 Chronicles chapter 20. Want you to go there with me. This is important. Come on. Don't get tired The roast is still sucking up those juices, so don't worry about it. 2 Chronicles 20, verse 7. Here's Abraham. And this is Jehoshaphat's prayer. And he's praying to God. Verse 7, art thou, verse 7, chapter 20, 2 Chronicles 20, verse 7, Jehoshaphat's praying. Art not thou our God, he prays, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham, thy what? Friend, Ahav, thy lover, thy lover, forever. Whoa Jehazabhat's referring to Abraham as God's lover. We're going to see this again in Isaiah 41. 8. Are you requoting this? Is that carry back there? Yeah. We're gonna make CDs, right? They'll be on sale for $14. 95. Goodbye as many as you want. We're gonna give them to you today on sale, two for ten dollars. Isaiah 41. I don't know what carry charges back there, but so you don't have to worry if you miss some of these verses. Isaiah 41, 8. Lover. Abraham was his lover. I'm going to show you that word in just a second. I'm looking for chapter 41, verse 8 of Isaiah. I did a study this summer on my own with the words Israel and Jacob in the same verse. Very, very interesting study The old Schofield's got a very interesting note in chapter 32 of Genesis. But thou, Israel, Isaiah 41:8, art my servant Jacob. whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham, my friend, Ahav, my lover. God's calling Abraham his lover. Wow. Can you imagine God referring to you as his lover? So we need to get an understanding of that word. So go with me all the way back to Genesis 22. Genesis 22. We have to go to the source. What we call the law of first mention. Some people don't like the law of first mention. So we can call it the science of etymology That's the science. You find out where a word is used the first time in the Bible and you follow it all the way through, or any writing for that matter Genesis 22, 2. The same word that's used here. When God is directing Abraham in Genesis 22, verse 2. to take his son Isaac, whom he loves, Zahab, and offer him for a sacrifice to Mount Moriah. A burnt offering. They're going to burn the whole thing up. I could spend a lot of time in Genesis 22 because I remember being in the synagogue with a rabbi and studying this, and he opened my eyes to truths that I never saw before in my life, even in Hebrew class. Wow. Wow. What the Jewish sages could show you in this chapter would blow your mind. I came back from that class that day. It was incredible. I don't have time. But verse 2. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Yachid, one and only, not Ekkad, Yachid, the one and only I don't recognize Ishmael. Isaac, whom thou lovest, Ahav, and get thee unto the land of Moriah. Now I like Paleo Hebrew. That's ancient Hebrew. That's before the Babylonian captivity, before they started getting into blocked form. Back there, Paleo Hebrew, it was Sort of like pictographic, not high, but not like hot like Egyptian hieroglyphics, but pictographic. So the olives was a circle with like two little horns on it. And aleph is the word for ox, and it looked like the head of an ox, circle with two little horns. After the Babylonian captain, it looked like an X, a line with two other lines like an X, but they weren't connected. Ox. Head, strong one. Okay? The bet, the bee, before the Babylonian captivity, looked like a teepee. It was shaped like this. Looked like a tent. with a chimney on it. And this part was not connected. It looked like a doorway. After the Babylonian captivity, it looked like a box, three-sided box Bet meant house. Olive Bet put it together. Ab Abba Jesus prayed to who? Abba, Papa, Daddy, the Father Who is what? The strong one of the house of the picture. Now I take the hay. And I put it in the middle of those two letters. And I have the word ahav, which is the word for love. And it means the heart of the Father. That's love. I want to cry. Because all I see is John 3:16. Which says what? For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son His heart. It broke his heart to love you. Broke his heart. He wept. You think it was easy for him to give his son to die for you and me? Jesus wept in the garden. Great giant tears. Hebrews 5 7 The heart of the Father. In fact, Jesus in John 14 through 17 on his way to the Garden of Gethsemane, the Garden of the Olapress, said in John 15, 15 I call you not servants, but I have called you friends, filas, associates, companions, one particularly favored with another's intimacy. How would God refer to you today and me? Would he call you his friend? Would he? Or would he call you his lover Or his intimate companion or just an acquaintance. Which word would he use to identify you or to me? What would he call you today? We'll talk more about that in a moment. I was challenged recently by someone, as I enter what they call my sunset phase of my life. and ministry, 20 plus years unsaved, 20 plus years in a pastor and evangelism, 20 plus years in Jewish missions, to help people begin to prepare for the stage of life where they will meet their God. I drive into Lancaster and I see a sign, prepare to meet thy God. Amos 4. 12 To help them cash in their 401k, 401 kingdom plan, in order to make plans to meet the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. You know what the problem today is? Too many people my age are spending all their time with one of these Oh, there's nothing wrong with that. I've tried to find a recipe for those. Put them in a crock pot for eight hours. You still can't eat them. There's nothing wrong with that. Or those. They're not turning this year. They're just falling. Or we just spent a week at the beach. Bees. I can't tell you how many people were walking down the beach collecting bees Oh, there's another pretty one. Oh, look at that one. What are you gonna do with them all? I think one lady went home with a pickup truck load. Now there's nothing wrong with a hobby. I mean we have a store called Hobby Lobby or something. I mean that's all right to have a hobby. I mean I have a hobby. That's a 51 Willie's pickup truck. I call her therapy. My doctor said find a hobby and get lost in it, non-work related. So I bought an old pickup truck, but I don't get out there that much There's nothing wrong with one of these in moderation, but God said, seek ye first of what? Oh yeah, you know that verse. Okay. So I don't have to belabor the issue. So we have to watch our priorities, especially when the sun begins to set in our lives. Amen? Huh? Starts to go down. We need to be careful. Doesn't mean it's over, just needs to be careful. Okay. Um Now when we talk about intimacy, thoughts of warmth and feeling and caring and affection and tenderness and love come to mind as well as Personal, private, secret, as well as internal, intrinsic, innermost, and inborn thoughts. However, the last one we seem to get intimate with is God Himself. Why is that? Why is God the last one that we really get intimate with? Why are we afraid to get close to him? Or to let him get close to us? Why? Why is that? Why are we afraid to let God get close to us? Do we have some things we don't want him to see or find out about? Tim was talking about some of that today in Sunday school class. Like I said earlier, do you tell them you love them? Honestly, do you really tell them that? I before my head, when my head is tapped, before I go to sleep, I say, I just want you to know I love you. With all my heart. And I had a good day today. And I love my wife and my children. And but I love you more than anything else in this world. And I just want you to know that. I let him know that every single day. I love him Remember, intimacy lets you into their inner circle and lets them into your inner circle. A friend is someone you know well and trust with your secrets. And regard with affection. I'm talking a friend. Prior to Pentecost, the disciples knew it was Jesus who gave them the power to overthrow demons and to bring about revival. Luke 10, 17 through 20. It's 12 o'clock. I'm running out of time. This was a wonderful. What time are we supposed to be done? Honestly, I'm on page one. We never stop at twelve. You stop at twelve? Oh, you never do. I thought Beth was saying we stop at 12. Phew. I'll mail you the rest. This was a wonderful familiarity. But these were much close, there's a much closer intimacy coming. The disciples were telling Jesus, you know, we we went out and the very demons fell down on our feet. And what happened? Jesus says, hey, hey, hey. Don't get excited because the demons are falling down. You want to get excited because your name is written in what? The book of life. Oh. That's why you want to get excited. Your name is in the book of life. Forever. Yeah. That's wonderful. Friendship. John 15, 15, he said, I have called you friends, not servants, friends. True friendship is rare today, very rare. Amen? It is rare. If you find it, treasure it. A friend is a gift you give to yourself. My father had one, his name was John Kobac, and he really wasn't that close. My dad didn't have very many friends. In fact, someone said once, when we lose a friend, we die a little. I lost my best friend December the 4th, 2007. Charlie Monty. We met in the second grade. And we were friends for over 55 years. 1952, September, Calvin Leeds School. That's when we met. And we were friends for a long time. We adopted boys together. He got his on September 7th and I got mine on September 2. 26th or 7th. It was just a wonderful, wonderful friendship. Friendship means identity and thought, heart and spirit, one specially favored with another's intimacy, a bosom friend, as Anna Green Gables would say. Do you have any of those? A bosom friend? One you can share anything with. Proverbs 18, 24 says, there's a friend, a have, a lover. That sticks closer than a brother. I got two brothers. They're not close How many of those do you have, lovers? Count them. Just think about. Let's see, there's one. Let's see, there's Gary, there's John, there's Jim. No, not Jim. There's Gary, there's no forget Gary, there's Jim. How many fingers? Hmm. I have about five. Is God one of yours? He should be. Do you talk to him before you fall asleep and when you first wake up in the morning? Usually the first words out of my mouth in the morning are, good morning, God. How was your night? I had a good night's sleep. I bet you didn't sleep at all because the Bible says you never sleep or slumber. Your whole purpose in life is to enable you to enter into this intimate relationship with Jesus Christ. That's why God created Adam in the first place. For fellowship and friendship and communion to build a relationship with him, to walk with him and talk with him in the garden he built in Genesis 3. Read it over and over and over on your knees. Genesis 3. Go home and read it. Kneeling. How's your relationship with him? You know, this is a great day to take a walk and eat an apple. Here it is. Take a walk and eat an apple alone with God. Find a tree. Sit down. Talk to Him. Now we need this relationship with Jesus, not just as our Savior and Lord, but as our friend, our confidant, our companion, and our soulmate. We receive his blessings and we know his word, but do we really know him? The word in the Hebrew is Yada, Y-A-D-A. I love Hosea 6. 3. I use it a lot with my Jewish friends. Then they will follow on to know the Lord when they know the Lord. It almost sounds repetitive. You know, you can know somebody and never know somebody. Jewish people know all about God, but they don't know God. God says, you will follow on to know me when you know me. Adam Yadad Eve and she had a baby. That's intimate knowledge. That's intimacy. Genesis 4. 1. He yaddahed her. Now don't make this dirty. It's not intended to be dirty. It's intended to be intimate. Fruit-bearing, we're talking about fruit-bearing with Tim. John 15, 1 through 40, on that time, is always mentioned as the manifestation of an intimate union with Jesus. Always. If you're not intimate with Jesus, you can't bear fruit. It is an absolute joy to Jesus when one of his friends gets more intimate with him and abides with him and he with them. He told his followers it was expedient and profitable soon Pharaoh for them to their advantage if he went away. John 16, 7. Why? So he could send the Holy Spirit to fill them, teach them, seal them, comfort them, guide them, and point them to Jesus and us too. That's why he went. So why wouldn't you want an intimate relationship with Jesus Christ? It's a no-brainer. No-brainer. Amen? Are you still with me? Are you ready for lunch? Huh? Shake it this way, no? Yes? Blink. Wave at me. Do something. Amen? Stick out your tongue. Do something Well, in fact, when we finally have intimacy with Jesus Christ, we are never lonely. We never need sympathy or pity. And we pour out our hearts in prayer to God without ever being pathetic, pitiful, or paltry. The Christian who is intimate with Jesus will never have an impression of himself or herself ever, ever again. Intimacy. Intimacy. They will emit a yuazo, and boy, I wish I had time for that word, three times in your Bible. Three times you'll emit this sweet smelling aroma to God. And he'll go, ah, three times. When you speak a word for Jesus, 2 Corinthians 2, 14 through 17, just speak a word. When you love the brethren, Ephesians 5. 1 through 5, when you love the brethren, I mean love the brethren, and when you give sacrificially, Philippians 4, 16 through 19. nineteen. Not giving from your abundance, not throwing twenty bucks in the offering, when you give from your very survival. Who did that? Who threw the money in the plate and Jesus said, she did more than all you combined? The who? There you go My wife and I read one today about Gladys Islewood. Remember? She got on her knees at her dad and dumped her pocketbook out in two pennies. Fell on her Bible. She said, All I have, God, I give to you. Two pennies! She said, I'm going to China. And she did That was in my devotional this morning. She gave her all. Wow. Leave an impression of Jesus everywhere you go so that others can see Jesus in you. In your ministry, in your life. They can smell the aroma. Friendship is two friends in the same boat rowing in the same direction with the same goals for the same purpose to the same port. Wow. If your friend don't want to go where you're going, then leave your friend. Find another one. Find another one. We all need to get more intimate with Jesus, but remember, chance makes our parents, choice makes our friends. Joshua said, choose you this day whom you will serve, but as for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. Webster says intimate means private and internal. Very close, familiar, deep, thorough, and it comes from the Latin word intus, from within. Think of it this way: intimate is three parts, into your mate. Into God. Get involved with Him, body, soul, and Spirit. Do you really know Jesus? I mean, do you really, really, really yada him, or do you just know about Him There's a world of difference between those two things. You can know all about someone, but never really know them. Let me just have your attention for a moment. We were talking about this in the Sunday school class. A tree has three priorities. We're talking about trees, him. The first priority of a tree, any tree, if I'm using apple tree First priority of a tree is to draw enough nutrients, water and and nutrients from the ground to stay alive. That's its first priority. It has to draw enough from the ground to stay alive. If it doesn't do that, it's going to die. Second priority, it has to draw extra nutrients from the ground to promote growth. So it can grow and have branches and leaves and stuff. Third priority: it has to draw excess nutrients from the ground to produce fruit. So, this apple I hold in my hand is nothing more than excess life. That's all this is. This is excess life. The same thing is true with you and me. You have to get in this book. Study to show yourself approved unto who? Oh. Not anybody in this room, or your mom, or your daddy, your brother, your sister, or anybody in this church. Study to show yourself sputison, to show yourself approved unto God. Why? 1 Thessalonians 2. 4. Because you're open-heart surgeons. That's why. Because you've been put in trust with the gospel. What are you going to do with it? You're going to go right into somebody's heart with it. If you're going into hospital for an open heart surgery, you're not going to go to the doctor that says, okay, let's see, wait a minute, page 14. Give me a scaffold. Okay, page 14. To make a four-inch incision. Okay, wait a minute. Let's see, number twelve. Okay, break the clavicle. You don't want him! You want somebody who knows what they're doing. That's why you study You got to get in that book so you've got enough to stay alive. You've got to get extra so you're growing. And you've got to get excess. So you are producing fruit. If there's no fruit in your life, you're not spending enough time in here. That's why. So I don't see any fruit in my life. I say, well, you're not spending enough time in the book. Number one. There's five means of growth. That's just one That's just one. Now like I asked you in the beginning, and I'll ask you again. I wish I had a clock up there. Okay, I'm good. It's not one o'clock yet A man who has friends must show himself friendly. Someone once said a friend is the most precious gift God can give you. And I'll wrap this up so you can go home and eat chicken. Now, like I said, or asked you in the beginning, and I'm going to ask you again, how many friends, close friends, do you really have? A friend is someone You can count on to count on you. Here's a good example. Call one of these five. Say, Jim, I need $5,000. Right now. And if he's a true friend, he'll say, you want cash or a check? And you say it doesn't matter either way. And he hangs up the phone and his wife says, Who is that? That was Mike. What do you want? Five grand? Oh, okay. I'm just gonna write him a check. Okay, honey. That's a friend. No questions asked. You're that close. He has a knee. And he knows you can meet it. And he's gonna meet it. That's the five. They can count on you no matter what. I need to borrow your brand new pickup truck. Ho ho ho ho I'll throw it up at gas, don't worry about it. Count on him. Count on your fingers. Not acquaintances, friends, lovers Jesus said in John 15, 43, greater love has no man than this, and a man what? What? Laid down his life for his friends. Do you ever see anybody do that? Did you ever see that? I have more than once I saw it happen, almost on a daily basis In Vietnam. There's nothing to see. Nothing to see. Any of you served in a military in a combat zone, you saw it. was nothing. It was normal. Those were heroes. Now those were regular men. Military. They were not, I'm going to be a hero today. No, they just got up and did their job. Nobody even thought about it. This is what God desires from us on a spiritual level. And shall we know Yada if we follow on to know Yada the Lord? He wants you to know him. Fruit, no fruit, more fruit, mushroot, abiding fruit, John fifteen, one to fourteen. Are you a fruit Tree drawing excess nutrients from his word daily to produce much abiding fruit, or just a piece of fruit, just a product of someone else's labor hanging on a tree, ripe? And turning rotten, ready to fall. I went out to find a friend, but could not find one there. I went out to be a friend, and friends were everywhere. Listen, friendship involves partnership. Unity, sharing, intimacy, and spiritual yada. We all know about the Lord. We all have a B. S. or a PhD in God, but we still don't know the Lord. You only get to know someone by spending a lot of quality time with them. Amen? You're getting quiet. You're hungry. One on one time, intimate time. Question. Listen to this. If God the Father were to talk to God the Son today about you, you. How would he refer to you as a friend, as a lover, or as an acquaintance? Which one? If God the Father was talking to the Son, he said, Hey, what do you think of Roger Boguski? He's my friend, lover, or acquaintance. You put your name in there. You put your adjective in there. What would he call you? Now, how do you fix that? Simple. These are five means of growth. Bible. Bible prayer worship fellowship witness. Bible. Study the book. Get in the book. You need to spend time right here. That's not the only way. When you read and study, not just read, study the book. That man brought us a lesson today. It wasn't because he read the book. He studied the book. He studied the book I don't like to go to Sunday school because most of the time a guy gets up and just reads a lesson I enjoyed that man's class because he studied and prepared and he had something to say and teach. I'd like to come back next week, but I'm like an hour and twenty minutes away, and that's another hour and a half back, but he ain't gonna be here next week. He prepared. Study. God says study. But that's it. When you study the book, God speaks to you But then you have to pray. And when you pray, you talk to him. It's a two-way street. I mean pray Pray. You need a prayer list, a prayer log, a prayer journal. You need something. I have I carry one with me all the time. Here's one right here. When I'm driving, walking, whatever, there's a vital list of all kinds of people and names and needs right there. It's with me. Close to my heart. Why do I keep it there? Because you remember the priest and the high priest, what do they have right here? The breastplate, all those stones, all the nations, close to their heart. So I carry these right over my heart. And when I have five minutes, ten minutes, or an hour and I'm driving, I can take it out and I can start praying for those needs. And then worship. Bible prayer worship. Human response to divine revelation. Worship. And then fellowship. Two fellows in the same ship rowing in the same direction. Get together with somebody. Go and eat that. Pot roast with somebody today. Spend some time with them. And then witness. Witness. I don't know what your method is. This is one of mine right here. I just ordered a thousand of these. Just a cross, it's a plain cross. And I use that for witnessing. I've laid that in people's hands and tears start running down their cheeks. They know what that means. Opens the door. Find a way to witness. Could be a track, could be anything you want. I love the story about This businessman who got on the plane and the only seat left was in the middle. Big heavy set guy, him and a young girl with Special ed down syndrome girl. She's looking out the window about twelve years old and he sat down and buckled up. He got a magazine. Okay. Plane took off, leveled off About five minutes later, the little girl turned to him and she goes, Mister, do you brush your teeth? He goes, What uh yeah, honey is a matter of fact I do every day, sometimes twice a day. She says, that's a good thing, because if you didn't you'd get cavities that fought in your mouth. He's reading the magazine. Five minutes later she turned. She goes, Mr. Do you smoke? He goes, No, I I don't smoke. So that's a good thing, because if you smoke, you get cancer and die and go to hell Well, okay. And she turned and looked out the window. And five minutes later she turned and says, Mister, are you saved? He goes, Well as a matter of fact I am. I know Jesus is my Lord and Savior. She that's a good thing. That means you're gonna go to heaven when you die Okay. She turns, looked out the window, and I guess I'm good now. She's reading the magazine. About five minutes later she turned to him. She goes, Mister, ask the man sitting next to you if he brushes his teeth And they led him to Christ. That's a twelve-year-old girl with Down syndrome. That's her method. What's your method? She had a plan. It worked. Do you brush your teeth? You have to draw enough to stay alive You have to draw extra to grow. You gotta get some excess to produce fruit, and you better have a plan. If you're here today without Christ, salvation is as simple as ABC. A. Acknowledge you're a sinner. Sin is anything less than perfection in thought, word, or deed. You have to acknowledge, not admit it. Admitting means you've got your hand in the cookie jar. Acknowledge means you're broken. You know it and you're in contrition. Acknowledge it and repent of it. Tell him you sorry. He went there for you. His father's heart was broken And be believe that Jesus Christ came to this earth, died on a cross, or buried, and rose again the third day, and paid that penalty for you. and see call upon his name. Maybe you are saved, but you're not walking the way you should. Mm-mm So the next three letters are for you. D E F. Luke 9, 23. You have to deny yourself. Once and for all. Er is tense. Eris tense. Done. Deny yourself. And E embrace the cross. I have the passion play by what's his name? I don't like it, except for one scene Where that Roman soldier said, looks like he's embracing the cross. He was. You need to pick it up and embrace it. Once and for all He did for you. You need to do that for him. You need to feed Sid and your wife. And then F follow him day by day. Deny is an error's tense. Embrace is an error's tense. Follows the present tense. Follow day by day, step by step, moment by moment. Every single day, it's a battle. It's a battle. I hate to tell you what the next three letters mean. If you don't want ABC and DEF, they fall in sequence with G H I You know what that stands for? Going to hell. And I hope you have insurance, but I don't know of any. Leonard Ravenhill was a good friend. He died in 1994. I wrote him a letter. He wrote me back. He said there's a million roads into hell. There ain't one out. So if you don't get saved, and if you are saved, you're not walking with the Lord, oh there's only one other way out. In And my friend, you have to make a choice. And no choice is a choice. And we're going to sing a hymn right now. It's the last one on our list. It's called Close to Thee. Thou, my everlasting portion, more than friend or life to me, all along my pilgrim journey. Savior, let me walk with thee. Close to thee, close to thee, close to thee, close to thee, all along my pilgrim journey. Savior, let me walk with thee We're going to sing those words, but if you don't mean them, don't sing them. I'm going to come down here. You want to come up here and pray? Come on I'll pray with you. My wife will come and pray with you. There's other believers in here pray with you. Not for ease of worldly pleasure. Nor profame my prayer shall be. Gladly will I toil and suffer. Only let me walk with thee. Close to Who picked this song Somebody would have thought I picked it and wrote it. Close to thee, close to thee, close to thee, close to thee, gladly will I toil and suffer. Only let me walk with thee. Lead me through the veil of shadows, bear me over life's pitful sea, then the gate of life eternal, may I enter, Lord, with thee. Close to thee, close to thee, close to thee, close to thee, then the gate of life eternal. May I enter, Lord, with thee. Let me pray with you before we sing this. I don't know where you are. Heads bowed, eyes closed, please.