Okay, I'm going to title this Introduction to Spiritual Gifts, and this is going to be an infomercial. Everybody know what an infomercial is? That's the thing that you see on TV where they uh try to get your attention, baiting the hook, and so on like that. They put out teasers to create problems like a leaky roof, leaky basement. Leaky boat. And for you ladies, the instant pot that you as soon as you think about it, the food goes in it and it cooks it all by itself and puts it on the table for you. All these things too good to offer. And then the sponsor provides a solution. And it's what? Their product that they're trying to sell. Alright, so take your handouts, and I know it's a lot of scripture to cover. But that's why I did it this way. It's kind of organized so you don't have to keep turning back and forth. And it's going to be kind of a running dialogue through the book of Acts to try to create the need. kind of come up with a solution uh towards the end. So if you can kind of just keep track of where we are with that. I'll try not to back up too much. Just stay in acts. I'll give you the verses that we're going to be dealing with. A little bit of room to jot some notes down so you don't have to We're going to be all these verses down as we go. So with your hand out in hand, take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 15, beginning with verse 22. And now it's time to play Biblical Detective. So I'll give everybody a chance to get there. Doing more pages rustling. So here we go, Acts 5. 22. Then pleased it the apostles and the elders with the whole church to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, namely Judas, our name Barcabus. and Silas, chief among the brethren. Verse 30. So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch. When they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle. And the epistle is the declaration of the Jerusalem Council that takes place earlier in the chapter. Then verse 33. After they had tarried there a space, They were let go in peace from the brethren unto the apostles, which means they go back to Jerusalem. Verse 34, notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still. Paul also and Barnabas continued in answer. Teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. And some days after Paul said to Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached. We preach the word of the Lord and see how they do. And this is probably the beginning of Paul's second missionary journey. And verse 30. thirty seven. But Barnabas determined to take with them John whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought not good to take him with them, for he had departed from them uh departed from pamphylia and went not with them to the work. So what is his decision based on? Opinion? Vibrations, the Holy Spirit telling them that? Why did he decide that it was a bad idea to take along John Mark? Well, what happens? Verse 39. And the contention or disagreement was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from the other. Sabonabas took Mark and sailed into Cyprus. Paul chose Silas, who had bought the uh his as his stuck around and departed with him, being recommended by the brethren unto the grace of God. And he went through Syria and Silicia, confirming the churches. And they all lived happily ever after. And out the stories go. So we see two men with two different opinions that produce seemingly drastic consequences. Could we call this a church split? Think about it. They have just been commissioned with an important mission and already have a falling apart before they can ever get started on their mission. Does it sound like a success story? Why? Well, there's two forgotten and long overlooked lessons or principles that we can learn from this. But I'm not going to give them to you right away. I want you to see if you can pick them up as we go through. So we'll save it to a little bit later. But any one hazard you guess right now. What principles are we looking for here? Can we deduct from this? A seeming failure. Discord amongst the brethren. No happy campers. Alright, we'll go on. A little background. Let's look at the two protagonists in our story. The first will be Barnabas. What do we know about him? Anybody want to hazard a guess? An encourager, very good. She's reading my notes here. His name is mentioned 26 times in Scripture. That tops out all the apostles except for Peter and John. You know, this obscure guy we never think we hear of, but he's an important player in the early church. So let's look at some character traits as we do a background check on Barnabas. Acts chapter 4. We've got to back up a little bit now. Verse 34. This records some of the formative stages of the first or early church, and it's our first clue about Barnabas. Neither was there any among them that lacked. This refers to the first believers who hung around after the first Pentecost. For as many as were possessors of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet. And distribution was made to every man according as he had need. And Hoses, or Joseph, as some texts would read, who by the apostles were surnamed Barnabas. which is being interpreted as Michelle said, son of consolation, or from the Greek paracolesis, or encouragement, a Levite out of the country of Cyprus. So he wasn't a native of Jerusalem. Having land sold it, brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. So in a sense, he bought in to the early church early on. So what's your first impression of Barnabas? I think Mr. Michelle summed it up pretty well. Kind of nice guy. Uh outgoing, meeting other people's needs. Well did you know after the death of Stephen in Acts chapter 7? And Philip's departure to foreign regions, Acts chapter 8, where he meets the Ethiopian eunuch, it appears Barnabas takes a key role in the early development of the church. Where do we see him next? We're going to see him much as what Barnabas was trying to do for Mark back in that we just read in Acts 15, we see him earlier on trying to do with Paul. So go to Acts chapter 9, verse 26. And if you can follow your handout, you can pretty much know where I'm going. So you don't have to wait to turn there. Zach 926. This is soon after Saul's conversion when he was zealously persecuting the church. 926 says, And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he essayed to join himself to the disciples, but they were afraid of him. And believe not that he was a disciple. Put Barnabas to the rescue. Remember, due to the rebuff, and without Barnabas, we may have never heard from Paul again. Ever think about that? Because what did Barnabas do? Verse 27. Excuse me. Barnabas took him Brought him to the apostles and declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, that Paul had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. So what's our next impression of Barnabas? And now, a short interlude. Remember we were looking at the characteristics of both players here. We'll continue on in Acts chapter 9, verse 28 here. And he saw was with them coming in and going out of Jerusalem. So he's been accepted. But he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, disputed against the Grecians, and they went about to slay him. And it's a little quote from John MacArthur's commentary on Acts. He says, Because of his intolerant attitude that he had done so much to initiate in chapter 8, verse 1, which is B the persecution of the early church, the church soon discovered that it was almost as bad as as bad having Saul with them as against them. He quickly stored up a hornet's nest, and no doubt in the minds of some, as much as for their own good as his, they decided to send him home. Which when the brethren knew, they brought him down to Caesarea, sent him forth to Tarsus. And in the words of some of these old-time westerns, son, it's time to get out of dodge. the heat is on. So remember where we leave Paul or Saul in Tarsus. So just kind of park that for a few minutes and back to our main dialogue. Now, before we go there, we have another interlude. Peter learns his lesson about God's original plan to reach the Gentiles in a very graphic way. He has some pretty bad dreams or visions. And he's troubled about eating unclean things. on clean food. But what's his conclusion? What does he conclude by what has happened to him? Acts 10, 28. It's only one verse. You don't have necessarily And he said unto them, Ye know that it is unlawful for a man that is a Jew to keep company or come unto one another of another nation. But God has showed me that I should not call any man common. or unclean. So it's about food that he has the visions, but it's about relationships of what God's teaching them. And this is a whole new realm to the Jews. that the Gentiles are going to be reachable. So we have to park that thought for a few minutes and we go on. But look who is sent out, even though this incident sets up a very revelation, a very important revelation to follow. So we're back in Acts chapter 11 verse 19. It says, Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen. And remember, Paul was part of that, Saul is part of that, traveled as far as Phantas and Cyprus and Antioch, a key place, preaching the word to none other but the Jews only. And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene. Remember where Barnabas is from? Sound familiar? His hometown. Which when they were come to Antioch spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus. Now looking back to Peter's encounter with Cornelius, verse 21, and the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Then tidings of these things came to the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem, and they sent out who? Peter? No, they sent out Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch. Who when he came and had seen the grace of God was glad and exhorted or encouraged them all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord. For he was a good man, or about his character, full of the Holy Ghost and of faith, and much people was added unto the Lord. So any more comments on Barnabas's character? Bye. Dislike Barnabas? Is he kind of a neat guy? Alright, good. Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus. Why did he go there? For to seek who? Saul. Why would he want Saul? Saul's a troublemaker. Saul stirs up things. And after all, this is Barnabas' assignment. This is his chance to really look good, to really glow in the eyes of other believers. But a mature Christian should look to get the best help he possibly can. and not be afraid of the competition, who may take the lead, or who would get the glory. So he went after the best he could come up with, and that was Saul. Verse 26. And when he found him, what did he do? He brought him to Antioch. And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people. And the disciples were called what? Christians first at Antioch. What a legacy to be involved in. Right at the ground floor. This new church concept that was going to the Gentiles. Barnabas was there and he had brought Paul along as a helper, Saul along as a helper. So how did Saul really get his start? Think about it. Would Saul have been Paul if Barnabas hadn't gone after him? Only God knows that. Now enter the source of the problem or conflict, chapter 12, verse 25. And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had fulfilled their ministry, which is basically taking up a collection in Antioch to take the uh funds back to Jerusalem where there was a drought and starvation and overpopulation with Christians to help them out. So they go to Jerusalem, but what did they come back with? And took with them John, whose surname was Mark. So they go to Jerusalem, take drop off the funds, and this guy by the name of John Mark, looks like he might be a potential candidate for a disciple and beyond. So they bring them back with him. to Antioch, which turns out to be the sending church for the great missionary endeavor that's going to be about to take place. So Acts 13, verse 1. Now there were in the church that was Antioch certain prophets and teachers, and this may possibly be office, not necessarily a function, of a prophet and teacher. But anyhow, some of these people are Barnabas and Simeon. It was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manian, which had been brought up by Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. So here they're given the office or function of prophets and teachers. And in verse 2, as they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul, for to work whereunto I have called them. This is orchestrated. This is commissioned by God through the Holy Spirit to start the great missionary endeavor that's going to reach the whole world, the whole new world. with the gospel. And once again, I'm going to ask, how did Saul get to Antioch in the first place to be part of this? Our little friend Barney. Barnabas. Barnabas recruited him. What a team. And notice who got the top top billing. It's the Barnabas Saul team, not the Paul Barnabas team, at least not yet. When they had fasted and prayed, verse 3, they laid their hands on them and sent them away. And look who went with them, verse 4. So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed into Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus. Who was from Cyprus? Barnabas. Thank you. And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews, and they also had John to their minister or assistant. So he's a big helper. So who was John Mark? Well, some people think he may have been the man who fled naked in the garden in Mark 14. That's speculation to what he can prove it one way. Way or the other. I'm just throwing it out there. But what do we know specifically about him? Acts 12, 12. You know, let's turn there. This happens after Peter's miraculously released from prison. He came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark. were many that gathered together praying. We see him again in Colossians 4. 10. Paul writes, Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sleweth you, and Marcus, sister son, to Barnabas. And in my way of figuring that makes him a nephew of Barnes, blood relative, and also in a sense a spiritual relative. Alright, returning to our narrative. And note some of Saul's change, name change, and possibly why we'll see in a minute. So we're still in Acts 13, verse 9 now. Then Saul, who was called Paul, see the name changed, filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him, and him is the sorcerer of our Jesus or Elimos, who wasn't a nice guy. Because he's trying to defeat the gospel being presented to Sergius Paulus, the uh the ruler in that area. And it says in verse 10. O full of all subtlety and mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord? Kind of gives us a little bit of insight into Paul's personality. He's kind of a conference. upfront kind of guy. Who does he remind us of very early on in the gospel accounts? Peter. Go back further than Peter. John the Baptist, right. Because what did John the Baptist say in Matthew 3, 7? But when he saw the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said unto them, O generation of wipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Great way to start off an evangelist, evangelistic meeting, right? Sticking your fingers in somebody's face and saying what's going to happen to them. So kind of birds of a feather. But uh what title did John the Baptist have, by the way? John Luke 7, 28 says, For I say unto you, among those that were born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John. the Baptist. So what do prophets normally do? Speak the word of God. And how do they speak it? Remember what's that? Bolie. Remember Nathan the prophet came up to David? And I don't know if he had a bony finger, but I can just paint a picture of that bony finger. Thou art the man. So that's the kind of thing prophets do. So just keep prophet in mind, keep Paul in mind, keep Arnabus in mind, as we go on with our adventure here. Acts 13, 13. Now, when Paul and his company loose from Paphas, they came to Perga and Pamphylia. John departing from them returned to Jerusalem. Jerusalem. That's a key event in our story. So just remember that. But before we dwell on that in typical Powell fashion in verse 16, we see him just getting a guy. Getting up the steam here. Then Paul stood up, beckoning with his hand, said, Men of Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience. And he goes into a really great sermon. Very much like what Peter did in Acts chapter 2 and Stephen did in Acts chapter 7 with boldness, rehearses the history of Israel, beats the people up to the point where you guys gotta make a decision about who Christ is, what he did, why he did it, and what what you need to do about it. But back to verse 13 again. Did you notice the stages being set for the upcoming conflict that we read about? Let's just read it again. And when Paul and his company loose from Paphos, they came to Perga and Pamphylia, and John departing from them returned to Jerusalem. So what would we call John Mark? A quitter? Chicken hearted, chicken livered, I don't know, whatever you want to call it. Just doesn't like he sound like he's in it for the big haul. But that doesn't stop the dynamic duo For they press on with the official proclamation of a new ministry, priorities to another Antioch. And this is the Antioch of Pisidia, which is much further west. Continue on in chapter 13, verse 46 now. Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold and said, It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you. The Jews. But seeing you put it from you, you judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life. Lo, we turn to the Gentiles. And if there's ever a turning point in New Testament history, this is it. Because up until now, the gospel's been for the Jews, offered to the Jews. The Gentiles are kind of a side sideshow. But if this is a turning point on this missionary journey. Where Paul and Barnabas are going to say, our mission now is to the uncircumcised, to the Gentiles, not to the Jews. Now they'll still start off in the synagogues, wherever they go, once they're rejected there, then they're going to go to the Gentiles. But this is the Gentile story. This is the world story. This is the story that goes way back to Genesis chapter 12, 3, where God says to Abraham, and thee shall all nations of the earth. Be blessed. And that was Israel's responsibility throughout the Old Testament. And they fell flat on their face with that. As we'll see in a few minutes. Or maybe less than a few minutes. Verse 47. For so hath the Lord commanded us saying, and this comes directly from Isaiah 42, 6-7, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldst be for salvation unto the ends. of the earth. That's their mission. And in verse 48, when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as were ordained or appointed or chosen to eternal life, believed. And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the region. So what events led up to the coming tension and conflicts? Let's read on. But the Jews, now why would they do that? Stirred up the devout and honorable women and the chief men of the city and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas and expelled them out of their coasts. Why? Why would they do that? They've already rejected the message to them. Why should they be jealous if it goes to the Gentiles? I don't know. Think about it. But that's what they did. But they shook, Paul and Barnabas shook off the dust of their feet against them and came into Iconium. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Ghost. Now the conflict starts to get ugly and painful. Chapter 14. Beginning at verse 11. When the people saw what Paul had done, this was healing of a crippled man from birth, so that's kind of miraculous. Couldn't even never stand his whole life. Can now can can jump up and walk. They lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lyconia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men. Skip down to verse eighteen. A lot of good stuff in there, but We don't have time for that right now. Verse 18 says, And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people that they had not done sacrifice unto them. And there came certain Jews from Antioch and Aconium. Obviously the troublemakers we saw back in chapter 13 must have followed them. who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing that him had been dead. Howbeit his disciples stood round about him, I don't know if they were praying. Moaning and groaning, we don't know. He rose up, came into the city, and the next day departed with Barnabas to Derby. Now did he just faint? I don't think so. You know how far it is from Derby to Uh the next town? Thirty miles. That's quite a feat. Possibly this could have all been Paul's out-of-body experience that's uh referenced in 2 Corinthians 12, 1 to 7. You decide about that, just throwing it out fruitfully. But verse 21. When they had preached the gospel to that city and taught many, they returned where? Again to Lystra and to Iconium and Antioch. Right back to the Hornet's Nest. You've been beat up pretty bad and then even killed. You want to go back to it? That doesn't hold Paul and Barnabas back. And what do they do there? Confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting or encouraging them to continue in the faith that we through much Tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. When they had ordained them elders in every church, see the early churches beginning to form and prayed with fasting, they committed unto them to the Lord on whom they believed. And after other travels in verse 26, they sailed to Antioch from whence they had been recommended to the grace of God for the works which they had fulfilled. And when they were come and gathered church together, They rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles. And there they abode long time with the disciples. So they're safely back in Antioch, the place that they went out from. did the big circuit, the first missionary journey, and once again they all lived happily ever after, right? Not so. Note the background from our problematic passage that we started off with way back in the very beginning. Because now we're in Acts chapter 15. We're going to get the background of what happened for Paul and Barnabas to have. that falling out. Verse 1. And certain men which came down from Judea to Antioch, this would have been the homesteading church of Paul and Barnabas, talked brethren and said, this is important. Remember, except you be circumcised after the manner of Moses, you cannot be saved. Is that true? That's an error. How important an error is that? Extremely important. So just keep that in mind as we go on. When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, obviously. They, the church at Antioch, determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain other should go up to Jerusalem onto the apostles and elders about this question. These guys came from you, said they came from you. They ain't telling the truth. Let's go check it out. So we have this deputation to go back to Jerusalem and get the facts. So what these two guys must have to go through together. Verse 3. And being brought on the way by the church, they passed through Phantos and Samaria, never passing off an opportunity. Declaring the conversion of the Gentiles, and they cause great joy unto all the brethren. And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were to receive the church and then the apostles and elders. And they declared all things that God had done with them. But there arose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed, saying, that it's needful to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses. Well, we have a conundrum. We have a problem here for that early church. So the apostles and elders came together for to consider this matter. Well, you know the story. The matter is resolved by the Jerusalem Council of Apostles and Elders. And this brings us back to we started our story, our lesson, or infomercial, and gain a little more information from it. And this will be a little bit of a repeat of what we just read. Verse 22, then it pleased the apostles and elders with the whole church to send chosen men of their company, probably for verification, to where? Antioch, the starting place for Paul and Barbaro. With Paul and Barnabas, and these other guys go along, which we read before, but in verse 23, they wrote letters by them after this manner. And this the letter would say this would be the heading. The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the brethren which are the Gentiles in Antioch, Syria and Silicia. For as much as we have heard that certain went out from us, So they're setting the record straight. They've gone back to the source. They've got it all worked out. And it seemed good unto us, being assembled of one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul. Men who have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch. When they gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle, which would have been the declaration from the Jerusalem Council. And if they tarried there a space, they the other men that came with them were let go in peace from the brethren unto So they went back to Jerusalem. Just for sake of time, 34 through 36, we've already read, but let's concentrate on our problem passage against passage again. Verse 37. Barnabas determined to take with him John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought not good to take him with him, who departed from them from Pamphylia. Went not to the work, and once again the contention was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from another. And you know the story. Barnabas goes one way with Mark, Paul goes another way with Silas. So, what do we know of that? A little more on Barnabas before we go on to a conclusion. Can we spot any weaknesses in his to this date in his unflawed character? Okay, let's read on. This next portion of scripture we're going to look at is probably the lead-in to Acts chapter 15. When studying the book of Acts, it's always good to try to go back and get the epistles that corroborate more information. Kind of fills in the gaps. So you almost can't do Genesis or Genesis. Acts fifteen with going to the look at the book of Galatians. Because they kind of interlock here. And I want to try to quickly put these things together so we get a little more behind the story of what happened in uh Acts fifteen. fifteen. So Galatians chapter two. Uh if you probably want to turn there Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem. Now Paul's writing this introduces us a little bit to his more of his temperament personality with Barnabas and took Titus with me also. This was probably to the first Jerusalem council we just read about. And I went up by Revelation and communicated to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which were of reputation. Les Brianni means I should run or had run in vain. I'm sorry, this is 14 years earlier. So this is probably the first time that he went to Acts. Not in relation to uh Galatians 2. But neither Titus, this is 14 years ago, who was with me being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. So this was established way back when first Paul went out. out from Jerusalem. So keep that in the back of your minds. Jump down to verse 9. Because now we're going to fast forward. And with Cephas. And James, or Peter, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me. They gave me, gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship. I'm sorry, this is also probably 14 years earlier. That we should go unto the heathen and they to the circumcision or the Jews. So this is all hashed out years ago. Only they would that we should remember the poor, probably those back in Jerusalem. The same also which I was forward to do. And we saw this in Acts chapters 2, 4, and then chapter 11, where Paul and Barnabas took up contributions from the Church of Daniel. Antioch is take back to Jerusalem. Now we're going to go the 14 years to the present. Verse 11. 14 years later. But when Peter was come to Antioch, probably just read. recently, I was stood him to the face because he was to blame to be blamed. Why? And if so, why didn't he follow Matthew 18 that everybody pulls out all the time? when you have a disagreement. Let's read on. Verse 12. For before that, certain, these are probably the troublemaking Judaizers of verse 1. Came from James. He did eat with the Gentiles. Why not? He remembered what happened in Acts chapter 10. It was okay to do. But when they were come, he withdrew himself. separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision. So typical of Peter. What was Peter like? Wishy washy. Now once the Holy Spirit came, and he got bold most of the time, but here he's kind of flip-flopping again. But that's not the worst of it. And the other Jews dissembled or act hypocritically likewise with him, insomuch that Barnabas, good old Barnabas, also was carried away with their dissimilation or hypocrisy. Now, I just food for thought here. Could this be the beginning of Paul's lowered view of Barnabas? Paul could forgive, but could he forget? So by the time we get to the issue with Mark, Paul may have been thinking, here he goes again, soft on the issues. I don't know if that happened, but just food for thought. But the Galatians incident was about doctrine and integrity and hypocrisy, where the Mark incident in Acts 15 was about procedures. opinions. And it's interesting, Peter Conrad last week, and I forgot to mention this when it started, I'm glad we flipped weeks because so much what he said last week I can build on. Where if I had gone first, it wouldn't have made as much sense. But one thing that really stuck in my mind is the importance of maintaining unity in the church. And we'll mention that more in just a minute. But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the gospel, the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter, before them all. If thou being a Jew livest after the manner of the Gentiles, and not as the Jews, why compelest thou the Gentiles to live as the Jews? So I ask again, why didn't he follow Matthew 18? Process of discipline. It's food for thought, but if you want the answer to that, we don't have time to deal with it tonight. Just go back and read that passage in Matthew 18. And there's a different set of circumstances there. But remember Peter's message from last Sunday night. Doctrine versus procedure. This was about salvation. It was not about a preference. And since Peter is acting up in front of people, he had to be addressed. So what does Paul say? Verse 15. We who are Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles, basically saying like Gentiles who did not have the law and should would not have known better. Verse 16, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, which would be circumcision, but by faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, not by the works of the law. For by works of the law shall never flesh be justified. And then a classic verse. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. I live not yet I, but Christ liveth in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ died in vain. That's important. That's a very important charge. So is this an important doctrinal issue that Paul had to deal with? It needed to be corrected instantly. You know, after all, this is the heart of the gospel message. This is the heart of salvation. But Paul, 15 years later, still has a high view of Barnabas. Don't turn there. 1 Corinthians 9, 6 says, Or I only and Barnabas have we not power to forbear working? So he identifies with Barnabas. He says in Philemon 23 to 24. Therefore, salute Epiphrast, my fellow prisoner in Christ, Marcus, Aristarchus, Demus, Lucas, my fellow laborers. So we see God just functioning that way through Paul. And now directly on to Paul. We've had our Shot with Pharmabus. Let's look at Paul. We don't have to spend as much time on him. I think his character traits, personality, spiritual gifts are coming out by now. How would you describe his personality? Zealous. Zealous. Says it all. Very good. We've already seen some hints of this in his travels with Barnabas and how he reacts to circumstances. Now we're going to see Paul Front and Center, chapter 16. And this is a little the way he thinks and works. He came to Derby in Leicester. The old stoning ground, by the way. And behold, certain disciple was there named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, who was a Jewish and believed that his father was a Greek, which was well reported of by the brethren that were Leicester and Iconium. Remember this? That's where you have a stone. Him would Paul have go forth with him, and took and circumcised him because of the Jews that were in those quarters, for they knew all that his father was a Greek Just remember that. And as they went through the cities, they delivered them the decrees. These are the ones from chapter 15 they hadn't got around to doing yet. And it was all initiated by what? Circumcision was an issue that had to be taken care of. And what did he do with Titus when he took him there? No way. It can't be done. But now he's had Timothy circumcised. Think about that. And they're supposed to keep the decrees ordained by the apostles and elders which are at Jerusalem. And so were the churches, verse 5, established in the faith and increase the number daily. But wait a minute, why is this disagreement between Galatians 2 and Acts 15? Why did he have Timothy circumcised and not Titus? Well, here we are in Galatians chapter 2. Back to it again. Then 14 years, we just read this, but I'm going to say it again. Fourteen years after I went up to Jerusalem with Barnabas and took Titus with me also. So, but neither Titus who was with me being a grief was compelled to be circumcised. Now, isn't this hypocrisy on Paul's part? Is he not following the same passion we saw as Saul when he persecuted the churches before he was saved? Shouldn't what's good for the goose also be good for the gander? How is it some people are always right in their own eyes? This shows some of Paul's makeup. But in his defense, we learn a valuable lesson that he reflects on in 1 Corinthians 9. And for those of you who were here this morning, remember what Dale read? Remember what we read from about the race? But prior to that, what was lead into it? For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself a servant or slave unto all that I might gain the more. And I'd like to read the whole passage, but for sake of time jump down to verse 22. To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I made all things to all men, that I might by all means save Some. This I do for the gospel's sake. So the lesson. This is extra credit. Still doesn't do what the first lessons were too related. Lessons we're going to look at. Paul could be pragmatic if he did not violate scripture or conscience. If a practice has made an issue, we may take a stand. But it doesn't hurt to avoid an issue before. it becomes one. And as we read through the life of Paul, we'll see this happening numerous times. It looks like he's kind of being wishy-washy on things, but it's well thought out. And he makes statements like, if it makes my brother to offend, I won't eat meat the rest of my life. That's kind of a bold statement. Anyhow, back to our passage in Acts. 16 and look at the more um the impulsiveness of Paul. He's trying to chart his next course of where to go, and I'll just do this quickly. He wants to go to Fergia in the region of Galatia, but they were forbidden by the Holy Ghost. Verse 6. Verse 7, but the Spirit suffered them not. He wants to go to Mycenae down to Troas, but then he gets a vision in the night. And he says, no. Holy Spirit says, go to Mass. Macedonia. Well my bags are already packed. We just change trains, change buses, change ships, and we're on our way there. Verse 11. Therefore loosing from Troas we came a straight course to Sam Withracia and next day to Neapolis, they wind up in Philippi and we'll cut it short about what happens there. They run into this Hussein damsel who tells fortunes, follows Paul and Peter Paul and Silas around, and says things like, These men are the servants of the Most High God which will show you the way of salvation. Now I'm thinking to myself, why not let her talk? She's got the gospel. But what does Paul do? He says, Paul being grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, in the Spirit, to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth to come out of her. her. And what happens to them because of that? They wind up in jail. And what happens when they're in jail? They get out of jail. And what happens to the jailer? He gets saved. Okay, you know the story. But the often forgotten part about that story is in verse 35. And it was day, this is the day after this are already out. I don't know, maybe the jailer put them back in just for safekeeping, because he knows they're going to be checked on in the morning. The magistrate sent the surgeon saying, let these men go. And the keeper of the prison told the saying to Paul, The magistrates have sent to let you go, now therefore depart and go in peace. I think I would have said, Thanks, I'm out of here. But what does Paul say? Excuse me. They have beaten us openly, on come down with being Romans, and have cast us into prison. And now that they thrust us out privily, nay verily let them come themselves and fetch us out. Would Barnabas have said that? Probably not. I wouldn't have said it. I would have been glad to get out of there. Not Paul. Our next observation of Paul. Fast forward to chapter 23. He's always talking and getting himself in trouble. He's incarcerated. He's taken into custody again. He's beginning to stand trial with the Jewish establishment. Verse 1. Paul earnestly beholding the council said, Men and brethren. I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day. And their high priest Ananias commanded them that they stood by him to smite him on the mouth. Then said Paul unto him, God smite thee, thou whited wall. For sittest thou to judge me after the law and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law. He was right, by the way, because they weren't allowed to do that. But kind of Bold? Maybe even not thinking to do things like that? So much for turning the other cheek, right? Verse 4, and they said, the Subhi said, Revilest thou God's high priest? And Paul said, I wished or didn't know, brethren, that he was the high priest, for it is written, Thou shalt not speak against me. But what's he do down in verse 6? He perceived there are Sadducees and Pharisees there, so he cried out to the council, Men and brethren, I'm a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee, of the hope and The hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question. We so said there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the multitude was divided. And I'd say on that on Paul's part it was sneaky sneaky. Right? He knew it was going to happen. So he's just stirring up more trouble. And if we summarize below the next couple of verses, there arose a great cry. And uh what happens? Great distention, they're ready to rip him apart, so the Romans have to grab him, put him back in custody for his own protection. With this all set in motion, his eventual trip to Rome. That But after all this is said and done, what's ever what's become of John Mark? Well, we find out that he is let go until farmers picks him up. But then Paul writes about him at the very end of his life when he writes to Timothy. He's kind of a kind of uh like his last will and testament uh take care of this do this because I think this is the last roundup guys I'm in jail and maybe not get out of this one but what does it say to Timothy in verse nine of chapter four. Do thy diligence diligence Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me. For Demoth has forsaken me, having loved this present world and departed thus Cretan's the Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. Only Lucas with me. Now listen to this. Take Mark, the same guy, John Mark. Bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me. For The ministry. Now, how did John Mark get to where he was? How did Paul get to where he was? The lonely Paul's looking for Mark for help, but without Barnabas' influence on Paul, both those lives, I think our New Testament would have been much different. So what do we make of Paul's personality and temperament? Was Paul wrong about Mark? Was he sometimes just bull-headed, kind of a bull in the china shop guy? What about Barnabas? He never quit, kept on believing in people. He could love others who he didn't think or who didn't think as he did. So where and when was Barnabas right? And why? You don't have to answer. Where and when was Paul Wright? And why? How do we answer these questions? Two great guys with two different makeups can either Can either be wrong? Could both be wrong? What does this reveal about them? What does it reveal about mankind? It reveals strengths and weaknesses. weaknesses. How do we work with people who have strengths and weaknesses? And I think all people do. Where would Mark have been without Barnabas Probably another castaway of spiritual loss on the floatsome of the sea. And where would Paul have been without that strong beginning from Barnabas? So my question is, how do we avoid message like this? Are you interested? Have you hooked yet? What's the answer? Are you ready for the sales pitch in my product? Ready to buy yet? All right, I say way it's back in the beginning. Two long forgotten and overlooked principles or lessons that can be learned from this. Do you know what they are? People it might be more lessons than I want to do, so nobody's wrong here. All right. To understand and properly use spiritual gifts And secondly, that God can take our worst conflicts and failures and turn them into what? Victories. He split Paul and Barnabas, but through that he got two. Strong teams. We won't dwell on that tonight because this is called the introduction to spiritual gifts. Paul will write on spiritual gifts, but not till ten years later. So my question is do you understand the pitfalls or weaknesses? Did not know that until later. So why do Christians disagree? Why can't Christians seem to get along? Why do churches split? Peter Conrad last Sunday night made a statement. Heresy is not always doctrine, but a lack of unity or believers in conflict. We need to ask ourselves, is the difference over practice, as we saw in Acts 15, or doctrine integrity, as we saw in Galatians 2? I should say the latter half of Acts 15, not the first half. We know all about spiritual gifts and people talk about them all the time, but do we do we know how they are supposed to work and how we're supposed to use them? properly. A threat of truth we have heard from so many guest speakers, but how do we practically apply it? And it's interesting the past three months are the guest speakers we've had, I think four times and five Pastor before he left, he mentioned spiritual gifts and unity in the church. So the gifts have to get along if you want to have unity All that, and we still haven't started on spiritual gifts yet. So this is my product offer. I don't want to disrupt any other Sunday school classes, but our discipleship class, probably the end of July, first part of August. we're going to be going into spiritual gifts. So this is my commercial. If anybody's interested in this, and I'm not trying to rob members from other classes and won't keep you forever. You maybe just want to kind of tune in. You can go back to your regular programming channel later on. But just think about it. But before we do, I want to do a little introductory quiz for you. Take your handouts. And on the bottom, I've listed the seven gifts that Paul lists in Romans chapter 6. And without defining any of the gifts, we have Two players on the scene tonight, Barnabas and Paul. See if you can figure out what their gifts were or might have been. Make it easy. Just pick the one that strikes you best for each one. Any takers? I think Paul's easy. I think I gave you enough clues on that. So finally give the fit. He was he was a giver and he showed her And he did minister and taught and he exorted because he exorted the people to the letter in a time. Okay. Yeah, most of them would fit him. A lot of them would fit Paul, but what do you think Paul's predominant gift was? Thank you. All right. So without defining anything, we've kind of paired these guys up. Alright, so to wrap things up, that's kind of the things we're going to do as we go through this. Also, what I bolded down here, these are the four passages that deal with spiritual gifts. There's other ones allude to them, but they're the biggies that we will look at, and we'll kind of break them down in great detail. What do you think are the two most diametrically opposed gifts that we see on this list? Right. They're kind of polar opposites, right? So the question is, you got that right. It's like mixing oil with water. They should complement each other if they're working right, but if they're not, we have a Paul and Barnova split. Oil and water don't mix normally mix well, but in my pocket I have the magic product. It's called Soap. It's soap, but it also goes by another name. Any chemists in the group? Help me out. It's E. Multifire. It's got big molecules, and some end of the molecule likes to be attracted to water, and the other side likes to be attracted to dirt or oil. So you put water and oil together, you dump in some dish soap, and presto changio, the grease comes off your dishes. Alright, so my question is what is the spiritual soap we need? to understand spiritual gifts. One more passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, and I'll try to be brief Go all the way down to the very end. And 1 Corinthians 12-14, it's all about more about the abuses of gifts rather than how to use them properly. Because Paul, the Corinthians are always getting things messed up, so Paul has to correct errors. Verse 28. He's trying to get their attention here. And God has set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers. And after that, miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversity of tongues. Are all apostles, are all prophets, or all teachers? Rhetorical questions, obviously, no. Are all workers of miracles? Have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? But this is the teaser. Covet the best gifts. All right, pick out the one you really want. Covet. He says, but I show unto you a more excellent way. And he goes into chapter 13. of 1 Corinthians. Now you usually hear it read at weddings and things like that, but it's sandwiched between the abuses of spiritual gifts. That's why he wrote that. It's all true about love. Agape. type love. But that's why it's there. So he goes on to say, though I speak with the tongues of men and angels and have not charity or agape, love, self-sacrificing love. And that's the love that implies action, not necessarily a feeling of emotion. I become the sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity or love. I am nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, though I give my body to be burned, to its charred, it's hyperbole. Um, as talking to my brother-in-law Chuck on the way home today. And have not profit uh love, it profiteth me nothing. But what does Paul say in Galatians 5? 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is, the first thing he lists is love. So my question then is, what is the soap of Scripture? What is the emulsifier of scripture? What is the thing that makes these diversely dipolar whatever you want to call them gifts work together? Love. So we should call this love instead of Irish Spring. But anyhow, as we wrap this up That's my offer. If you can make the Sunday school class, the discipleship class, uh be loved to have you. Not trying to shut down anybody's classes, but if you want to play hooky for a couple weeks. It'd be a great opportunity. What we need to do is be able to determine if someone is exercising their spiritual gift or just being cantankerous. the church. We must be able to determine if they are using their spiritual gift properly. Are we seeing their strengths or their weaknesses? How do we work around their weaknesses? How do we let them know about their weaknesses? Determine how we're supposed to respond to both our strengths and weaknesses. Because I may need to get beat up by a prophet or an exhorter or a teacher if I'm out of line. And once I've been run over by the bulldozer, then somebody with the gift of mercy can pick me up, dress me up, clean me up, and set me on my way again, like Barnabas. So, how do we overcome the weaknesses of a gift? How do we learn to do all this? Well, I'd like to say, come to our class. Satisfaction guaranteed? Money back. If you don't like and if you don't learn. So, well, and on a humorous note, but I think it's a very serious thing that I think a lot of people just don't understand spiritually. spiritual gifts. It's all emphasized on the tongues and the healings and the Pentecostals and the charismatics. And uh if you you know we're really all charismatics because charispa charismatic charisms just a gift. Uh they've just taken gone and agree with that. Uh I want to concentrate on the positive thing of gifts. We'll deal with some of the excesses later on. But that'll be the the upfront thing we want to look at. So I know I'm way over time. I've probably read way too much scripture, but I'd rather have God talk to you than me. That way you can't blame me for anything I said wrong.