Um if we don't understand the Old Testament, somebody else will interpret it and tell them what the Old Testament is all about. Um and you see in that quote there's a lot of presuppositions there. There's war and violence in the Old Testament, that's true, but he considers it fiction. Um and then he doesn't seem to have any emphasis on the origin of sin and human responsibility in that. You can go all day in this, but but as I'm alluding to this, it's sad to say this might be how non-Christians understand the Old Testament, maybe not with that kind of arrogance, but They must say, hey, look at the Osford Doctrine Dawkins and I I trust his reading of the Bible. Uh I don't know the number now, but the number of religiously unaffiliated um made up about twenty-five percent of the US population in twenty sixteen 25%, that's pretty big. That's more than Catholics, mainline Protestants, and non-Christian faiths. So they considered themselves atheists or secularists or non-religious. But let's say they take out the Bible and read it cover to cover. They don't listen to you and say, oh, I'm not going to read John. I'm not going to go from Genesis, right? And so we have to defend the contents of the Old Testament, but I mean so today I wanted to begin a survey of the Old Testament on as what we'll take based on Wednesdays. So like I said, I'll probably start with Genesis. I'll start with Genesis and go all the way to Root and then take a break from there. So let me give you the rationale for starting this survey. There's nothing too deep about it. Uh at a few times in my life I will pick up a new translation of the English Bible and go through it cover to cover. In my teenage years it was um the NIB, uh forgive me, but so I had okay. Um my seminary professors use the New American Standard Bible, so I have to read that through my through my seminary years, three or four years. Then when I graduated someone gifted me with the English standard version, which I read during the summer. So now that I'm at Faye Bible Church, I have an opportunity to read. New King James Version, right? Um and it would be a good opportunity to read it not only for my own edification but also for The purpose of my teaching ministry here, of course, because that's how that's what we use for our pulpit, right? But instead of going through the Bible verse by verse or paragraph by paragraph, I decided to prepare some survey lessons. And where we study bigger portions, such as sections, and at times maybe even like the entire book. And I think that Noah's Sunday school is sort of like reading the Bible together and then like discussing it. So it is sort of you guys are sort of surveying it in that way. Um Now, I'll probably cover per session at least two to three chapters at most of the chapters. And there are certain books of the Bible that require more careful consideration, such as Genesis 1-3, which we'll cover next time. Uh there are other books that are better studied with samples, which I think songs, instead of reading 150 chapters in one week, maybe we'll just read a sampling of it. But before I proceed, I want to defend first the method of survey. Some people insist, may insist, their pastors go through a book of the Bible verse by verse. So inevitably after year 14 in the book of Genesis, people may get a little bit exhausted. Like, what are we going to be doing? But there I think there are some biblical reasons to do survey. First of all, this is just purely logical or historical, verses and chapter numbers were not part of the original text. Just letting you know it's not there was no Psalm 130 or 150 in the original text, and the verses. There were later inventions of scholars, editors, and translators from medieval and reformation eras. So it's really up to the preacher or the teacher how much of the text he's going to cover one at a time, or they could go several verses at a time. Secondly, such freedom does not violate the principle of exposition because exposition is simply bringing the meaning out of the text. Instead of deposit, you exposit, right? And making that meaning the main subject of teaching and preaching. So that's what that's what expository preaching or teaching is. Taking the meaning out of the text, right? Not reading the meaning into the text. The definition of text is not limited to a verse or a sentence like I said. I believe this kind of survey exposition would complement the verse-by-burst exposition that takes place on Sundays. Thirdly, Jesus surveyed the scriptures and he was able to do it in a few hours. In Luke 24, Jesus joins two of his disciples in a journey from Jerusalem to Emmaus. Which is seven miles in distance, the Bible tells us. Now let's just say that they walked a very slow pace of 30 minutes per mile. Assuming Jesus met them at the very beginning of the journey, that would be about three hours and thirty minutes of talking. We read in verse 27 of Luke 24. Beginning as Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Now I think we are fairly certain our Lord did not go verse by verse here. Maybe he stopped at certain verses, but it's highly probable that he summarized and surveyed much of the Old Testament. We also find the survey method employed in evangelistic and discipleship efforts narrated in Acts. And the final reason for surveying the Bible, perhaps a friend, a co-worker, or a family member who's not a believer asks you, what is the main message of the Bible? Or can you give me a quick summary? You could go verse by verse. Let's just say you're only gonna meet this person for one hour during lunch or or thirty minutes for coffee. Can you summarize it? Do you have like him summarizing the Bible in five minutes, five hours, five days? Right? So um we should be able to quickly and clearly go through the big narrative picture of the scriptures. In order to articulate the gospel. I think a popular way to do this is to use three big words, creation, fall, and redemption. A lot of times people use that in their evangelism. as a big you know headings. So that's one way to do that. So the survey method appears to be a viable method of way of teaching the Bible. Next I move away from the method to the content. What benefit is there in studying the Old Testament? I'm just going to from now call Old Testament Old T and the New Testament N T. First, Oki is inspired and profitable. We should keep in mind that when Paul wrote to Timothy, the words of 2 Timothy 3, 16-17, he was primarily referring to The Old Testament, let's read those verses, let's read those verses. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. for correction, for instruction and righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. So from the OT we get our doctrines, reproof, correction, and instruction in righteousness. All that we need for our head, heart, action. We also observe that the old test OT is the foundation for the MT. Knowledge of the old is assumed. In the genealogies of Matthew and Luke, the direct quotes of Hebrews, the illusions of Revelation, and there's plenty, and the theological illustrations of Romans. And Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 to 4, for I deliver to you the first of all, that which I also received, that Christ died according to our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Those the twofold uh the repetition of according to the scriptures. That's very important. The third reason to study the Old Testament is that it completes our understanding of God. Not only does the Old Testament lay the groundwork for the New Testament, we see much of the New Testament. Going back to the Old Testament to revisit it with a new perspective. For example, the early followers of Jesus Understood only after his public ministry that the Messiah was made two trips on earth to fulfill the Old Testament prophecies. From the perspective of the Old Testament, there was just one advent of the Messiah. But now they have the benefit of hindsight and say, oh, so these prophecies were fulfilled, but these are yet to be fulfilled. So they get had to revisit the Old Testament. And you see that in the book of Acts as they are trying to figure out what do we do about all these Gentiles coming through faith and they seem to be receiving the Spirit as we are And so they didn't know about this current church age that stands between the two advents. I say that's the mystery church age The next major question is this: what is the Old Testament? It consists of 39 books written by around 30 authors in a span of about a thousand years. It is remarkable in unity of message, yet diverse in literary forms of poetry and narratives and backgrounds of altars. It is mostly written in Hebrew with parts of Ezra and Daniel written in Aramaic. Those two books were written after the Babylonian exile, so as we see um the influence of Aramic, which was the lingua franca of that time and uh place The Hebrew arrangement of the books, the Old Testament books, which is in three parts: Law, Prophet, and Writings. The law for the Torah is the Pentateuch, you guys know him already. The first five books of the Bible, the books written by Moses The prophet is a little bit trickier because that's not the way we think of the prophets, but here are the twenty-one prophetic books in this scheme. Joshua, right? They say Joshua is a prophet, well he is the successor of Moses, so that's how they see him. Judges, 1st and 2 Samuel. Um by the way in the Hebrew Bible it's sort of they don't say first and second tenants just one book. We decided to split it into two. Um First and Second Kings Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Lord Sudden say Daniel, uh-huh, uh-huh. And then the 12th minor prophets, Hosea to Mount. Okay, so those are the 21 books, right? And then, oh, this is Bible, Jewish traditions credit Samuel and Jeremiah with the authorship of judges and kings. The first and second kings, respectively. So Samuel with Judges and Jeremiah with first and second kings. So that's why it's probably placed in the section of prophets. The writings are formed by 13 books. Psalms, Job, Proverbs, Ruth, some of Psalms. Ecclesiastes, Lamentations, Esther, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, first and second chronicles Most of these are written by or focused on public leaders such as David, Solomon and Ezra. So it's interesting that they thought Daniel is more of a public figure, political figure than So that's the Hebrew way, Hebrew division And Jesus was accustomed to this arrangement of books, as evidenced by Matthew 23, 34 to 35, Luke 11, 49 to 51. This is when Jesus is condemning the religious leaders of his day. He summarizes, he talks about the blood of Abel to Zechariah. A to B, right? But um what this what is this talking about? Um well able is the first um instance of a righteous person being murdered, right? Genesis 4. And Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the temple, his martyrdom is narrated in 2 Chronicles. And that would be the last book in the Hebrew arrangement. So Jesus is saying first murder to the last murder and the canonical order The English arrangement which you see in your Bible has five major parts: the Pentateuch, the historical books, the poetical books, the major prophets, and the minor prophets. In both types of arrangements you have the first, uh you have the in at the very front uh the five books of Moses at the beginning. So we're gonna zoom into this portion and see what it's all about. What is the Pentateuch? It is Moses' commentary of events revealed to him. That's a good way to put it. It's not exhaustive in the inclusion of events. Moses didn't write every single thing that happened since the beginning of time. Nor does Moses necessarily comment on every event that he does, as the message of a given episode might be self-explanatory or strongly implied. Another way of describing the Pentateuch is interpretive history. Now, Moses was free to make grammatical choices, use storytelling methods. Single shifts in perspective, select and arrange events. And by doing some careful exegesis, we can Learn a little bit about the author behind it, Moses' personality and background through his writing. Now, to be clear, interpretive history does not mean historical fiction. That's probably how Dawkins would see it. Moses did not add what did what did not happen. He did not embellish sustentively or create non-historical characters or events. Now, that may seem obvious to us Bible-believing folks, but you might be shocked to see what is accepted as scholarship out there and what they're saying about just the just the early chapters of Genesis. In terms of subject matters, the Pentateuch broadly deals with three major topics: election, promise, and legislation. Sah has elected a seed and people to establish individual and national relationships And related to that is promise. God has made promises to the elect, stating their destinies Finally, legislation addresses how their relationship with the electing and promising God must function. The law is there to govern how we relate with this holy God. Through law and rhythmic regulations, his people can know who God is and how they can have a proper relationship with him. So these books teach us that. And here are some quick summaries, very quick summaries of each book. Genesis narrates how God chooses a people for himself through which to bless all. In Exodus, God forms them into a nation with him as their king. In Leviticus, God gives them his laws by which they may live with him. In numbers, God disciplines his rebellious people and provides for their needs. Finally, in Deuteronomy, God prepares the nation for the land. Now the the general flow of God's plan to form a nation for himself, right You need three things and we're going to talk about these hopefully as we continue along. People, constitution, and land. Which is true of any nation at any time, right? You need a people to create a nation. You need some kind of law. Right? And you also need a place for them to be. So a people, constitution, and that we'll see as we go through the pedestal how each of that is developed. Really mostly what we see in Genesis is the development of the people. God provides all three in Moses' account eventually. So with this big picture in mind, we must ask how we ought to study the Pentateuch. Now you may realize, well, you just open the Bible, read it, and take notes, right? That's how we should study the um the penitenti. But among the majority of not evangelical scholars there are four major approaches. And all of these are based on the assumption that the Israelite religion evolved from polytheism into what it is, monotheism. Yeah, evolution of religion kind of concept behind them. Um and non evangelical when I say that I'm talking about You know, just liberal liberal Protestants and Catholics too. That's what I've been through to school. Um because they don't really believe in this, you know. Sola scriptura, they're free to say, and they just believe in the authority of the magisterium, they're okay with the Bible being, you know, errant, right? So Yeah, I'll read my liberal Protestants in as part of my reading and they maybe read it in my PhD studies because that's what they uh look at. Okay, so they also believe that Moses did not write Genesis to Deuteronomy. So if you ever purchase commentaries um of liberal scholars just be aware that these are going to be underlying assumptions. So if you see a commentary like word biblical commentary, they're very much seized in this. Another one is termin. So those two are like ones that pop up in my mind. Obviously there are other little commentaries out there The first approach is called the literary analytical approach. This is probably the most foundational approach for non-evangelical scholars. If they're bread and butter. Underlying this approach is again the gradual development of religion from polytheism to monotheism and the denial of mosaic authorship. Critical scholars have initially observed certain literary features such as changes in divine names. One place it will say Yahweh, another place it will say Elohim. stories similar in content, variety of place names, and decided that the Pentateuch was stitched together by a combination of four literary sources, J, E, E, P. This idea was first advanced by a man named Jean Astro, right? A-S-T-R-U-C, 1753, but it was fully developed by Julius Bellhouse. 1877. James source is from the uh a man they call Jehovahist, or you can call him Yahweh. He's a man, this is all hypothetical by the way, a man of the southern kingdom from of Judah from 850 BC. And that will be about 600 years after the Exodus. If you go through the pencil and you see personal, biographical, and topomorphic, prophet-like and theological um portions that favor the name of Yahweh, they'll say this this material is from this guy, Jehovah Islam. It's a J source Okay. And they will say he's the first contributor to the penicillin. Secondly, the e source is from the allochemist. Who, as the name suggests, favored Elohim as God's name. He lived in the Lord Kingdom around 750 BC So 100 years later, after J, it is postulated that around 650 BC these two J-E were combined together. D stands for Deuteronomic. It is thought to be composed by Hilkiah, the priest around 621 BC, as a part of King Josiah's religious reforms. So as you can obviously you would see that the Deuteronomy corresponds to Deuteronomy, the Book of Deuteronomy. Furthermore, some scholars believe the students of this source rework the historical books. Right? So you might go first and second Samuel and things like that. Finally, the peace source is the priestly source concerned with origins and establishments of theocracy. genealogies, rituals, sacrifices composed between 570 and 445 BC under Ezra styles. So they see Ezra as a major influence of that. And then over time these four sources were gradually combined and redacted. So that's the foundation for these liberals' um approaches. This J E D P, which they call documentary hypothesis form the basis for form critical and traditional historical approaches. Forum critical approach is attempts to reconstruct the smaller units of oral traditions that lie behind the core sources. So they see these JEDP written sources and they're trying to go behind that to these oral sources. It's like you know like a world within a world, they're trying to dig deep into it. They want to go back to the oral tradition. So they attempt to isolate individual texts, identify form or genre, term and structure, identify original setting and state. The original intent. This is very subjective. They assume that there's a long tradition. Obviously, it tears the unity of the text apart. Traditional historical approach is similar to poem critical, except there is more attempt to understand the development and transformation of oral tradition before their written form. So forum critical is more about like the oral sources. Traditional historical is about how they transform and work these oral traditions into the written form. The followers of the rhetorical critical approach do not care as much about the origin and transmission of oral tradition and sources. They care most about the final product, looking for features of the text such as the structure, alliterations, syllables, words, phrases, repetition, emotional reactions. Well this approach is an error that goes in the opposite direction. Now we should care about what the original intent is to say. How the message would have been received and transmitted. But these guys are just saying, well we don't really care about that, we just want to see um you know what it means to us Now, adherence to these approaches do make good observations of literary features. I mean most of them are very They know like eight languages, eight semic languages, and they're very educated. And so they do they are very careful to look at the original language. And we can even concede that there are certain exceptional portions of the text written by someone other than Moses. Deuteronomy 34. I'm okay with Moses not writing that, right? It's fine. But I I have problem when you're saying most of it, right, or all of it was not written by Moses. But they don't believe in divine revelation. Yes. Right. And the approach I prefer is the historical grammatical exegesis. As I stated above, Genesis to Deuteronomy is the interpretive history. Like any other history in the narrative, there are structures, emphases, and key influential figures. Grammatically speaking, we should pay careful attention to the original language, the Hebrew, the arrangement, the order, meaning of certain words, sentences in their literary context. Right. And exegesis, ultimately what we're doing is bringing out the message from the text. And that's how we form the basis for biblical theology. How God progressively revealed Himself, His purposes, and administration of His purposes. So I think that's like the basis of biblical theology, right? How does God reveal himself, his purposes, and the administration of his purposes through the text? Okay. Turn to authorship, like I said, I believe Moses Moses um wrote it, right? That's one of the reasons I did not do Old Testament in biblical studies in um at Catholic University. I mean, I'm not saying I was scared of ridicule, but the fact that they don't even like to think that Moses actually wrote Genesis to Deuteronomy to them is laughable. Like People don't uh even consider that anymore. Anyway, but I believe Moses wrote the Pentateuch. Um his education and background qualifies him for authorship. Acts seven twenty-two says he was learned in all the wisdom of Egypt, right? God spoke to Moses and then he wrote down as God uh commanded him. You see that in various places. Other Old T writers confirmed his authorship. NT writers repeatedly cited Moses as the author of penitent material, including Jesus. So I'm not taking at his word. So now let's focus on Genesis. What are the structure and content of Genesis? There is a development of opposing themes of blessing and cursing Laid out generally in chronological order, with a few exceptions. The focus on the elect is highlighted through genealogies, promises, and dream revelations Now, we sang a little bit of Hebrew. I'm going to teach you one more Hebrew word. A very important word found throughout Genesis is polidol. Which means accounts or records of generations. In the ESP and the KJV you'll find the phrase the generations of eleven times as a translation. The generations of that. And that allows us to divide our Genesis into twelve sections. Eleven Ford also gives us twelve sections. Now you see on the handout how each section breaks down. One, there's no full of heading in Genesis 1-1 God's creative work is a flute and blessed. This is very very short some way so broken by generalization there. Two, man no longer lives under blessings, but God promises restoration. That's obviously in the fall there. Three, man's corruption is evident in death and grief. For God judges mankind through the flood, but it spares and blesses Noah's family, yet Canaan is cursed, and that's very important, right? As this is written for Israelites as they're getting ready to enter. Conquer. Five from Noah's sons, nations arise in spite of the confusion in Babel. Six, from Shem to Abram, God elects to bring forth a seed and a nation. Seven, God blesses Tara's son, Abram, who believes the promises of land, seed, and blessing. Eight, Abraham's son, Ishmael, and his descendants are not chosen for blessing. Nine, God continues to extend his promises to Isaac, Jacob, and his sons. 10. Isaac's son Esau and his descendants are not chosen for blessing. One more small note on Esau. From Esau's descendants come the Edomites, Amalekites and Orites. Twelve Jacob's sons are removed from Canaan to Egypt through Joseph and Bless. See, not every section is about God's chosen individuals and peoples. You see that sections 8, 10, and 11 focus on those outside of God's plan. As Israelites read and hear the words of Genesis, they understand God, whom they serve, and their own role in the line of Lazarelect. Now, maybe that would help them to Like have faith in God and stop complaining to Moses, but obviously he didn't. But that might have been one of the reasons to really stabilize them as they're wandering in the wilderness. So we'll start with Genesis 1 to 3 next time, but there's another quick quicker way to summarize the concept of Genesis. Generally speaking, chapters 1 to 11 deal with four major events that reveal God's selecting purposes for blessings and cursing, creation of flood, battle. Chapters twelve to fifty deal with four major people Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. That's another quick way to summarize Genesis.