Yeah, I pity my poor s uh secretary, Wilma McMahon, for many years trying to keep up with me because I was going here and there and everywhere and it was pretty funny really. But uh we're still good friends today, so I I must not have offended her too many times. I really like this. You've got you know, you've got your your music on the one side and then you just turn it over and you've got your outline. Pretty neat I've never been called being on the goat side before though. I'm really not too happy about that. My both my brothers graduated from the Naval Academy, so you know, the goat I guess is their uh mascot. I don't understand. some of these mascots. I mean the the Democrats have a donkey as their mask mascot. The Republicans have an elephant. I'm not sure that that's a lot better. Well at any rate, we've got a lot of things to to talk about for um uh for uh today so I better just get right into it. Last time I was uh with you I finished uh uh a brief uh series of uh five messages on my favorite, absolute favorite book of the Bible, which is uh Philippians. Uh and uh It it just so resonates with joy despite uh Paul's uh suffering, uh that for me that's my absolute favorite book. But my second favorite book and my favorite book in the Old Testament is certainly uh the book of Isaiah. And so I I want us I realize to talk about a series When I'm here once a month is kind of silly, but um in my mind it's a series and just because it's You know, not once a week, but once a month, it still i is a series. And uh so I'd like to uh start uh a series of selected passages from Isaiah. I say selected so that you don't think, oh wow, you know, he's going to go through all 66 chapters For one thing, I am really praying that you folks get a pastor before I could ever even think about going to through sixty-six uh uh books of the Bible or or chapters of the Bible. Uh and for another thing, when I taught this book in my Sunday school class, it took me about a year and three quarters. to get through. So um if you a if you take that in months instead of weeks you can you can do the math. And that would be a little difficult. But I do hope to preach on selective passages that I think will give us a flavor for the book, and especially focusing on some of the messianic uh passages. within the book of Isaiah. Now why is Isaiah my favorite Old Testament book? And why do I hope that at the end of our uh time together uh however uh long it is, that it will be one of your favorites as well. Uh consider these four reasons. First of all, it's one of the most beautifully written uh books in the whole Bible. Many scholars have commented on the beauty of Isaiah's poetry, and in fact many believe that Isaiah is the greatest poet in the Bible. One commentator said the power, imagery, and technique of Isaiah's writing are scarcely equaled anywhere. And I'll be commenting on a few morsels. Of Isaiah's poetic artistry as we go through various passages of the book. Second, and perhaps more important, it is one of the most theological books Books in the Old Testament. It is deep, as John Oswalt says, whatever may be its strengths as a piece of literature, they tail in comparison. to the breadth and the sweep of the book's theological insights. And I would certainly agree with that. And I'll be pointing out some of those in a moment. Third, it's the most quoted uh uh prophetical book in the New Testament, and it may even be the most quoted uh Old Testament book. It depends on how you count it, whether Psalms or Isaiah comes out first. Sometimes I count it one way and Psalms wins and sometimes Sometimes I count it another way, and Isaiah wins. But at any rate, uh there are over sixty direct quotations and three hundred uh allusions. To the book of Isaiah in the New Testament. So if it's important to the New Testament writers, I would think that it should be Important for us. And forth, going right along with this, it contains more prophecies of the Messiah than any other Old Testament book There are over a hundred messianic prophecies in the book of Isaiah with at least 26 messianic passages. Uh uh a a few years ago I spoke at a three-day uh Bible uh conference in a church in Virginia and I went through um uh I tried to go through anyway many of these messianic uh passages. Uh uh in Isaiah, I spoke on seventeen of the twenty-six passages that refer to the Messiah. Uh Alan McCrae has even written a book called The Gospel of Isaiah because of that emphasis. And uh it uh absolutely contains such of some of the most extensive references uh to the person and work of Christ found uh anywhere in in the Old Testament. Uh I I must confess that there are other books that I don't like quite as much as Isaiah, such as Ezekiel, and I just got through uh teaching a weekly Bible class on Ezekiel. And uh I love Ezekiel, it's a great book, but there just aren't enough for me messianic passages. I mean there are a few gems in there, but you have to go, you know through quite a few pages before you get one. Not so in Isaiah as you will see. So Let me give you a little bit of background on Isaiah. Isaiah 1. 1 actually gives this to you. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amaz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. So this verse tells us that Isaiah ministered during the span of four kings. Of Judah, Uzziah from 792 to 740, Jotham, there was overlap in these kings, 750 to 732, Ahaz, 744 to 715. and Hezekiah 728-686. And so Isaiah ministered in a very tumultuous time. His ministry began at the end of a very prosperous period uh for both Israel and Judah, but soon Assyria threatened uh them and captured both Damascus, Syria. in 732 BC, and then uh Samaria, the captain uh capital of the northern kingdom in 722 BC. And the southern kingdom of Judah was actually threatened uh as well, especially in 701 BC, but they survived in the midst of this dip difficult political climate And uh yet uh, of course, the tendency of Israel and Judah's leaders was to rely on other nations for help. instead of relying on the Lord alone for their deliverance. And so that gives you a little bit of the background. Now As we will see, Isaiah has numerous prophecies, not only of that period, but also the Babylonian captivity, which occurred after his lifetime. In 586 B. C. , and it has prophecies also of Israel's return to the land under the Persian king Cyrus in 539 B. Isaiah even mentions Cyrus by name in Isaiah 44, 28 and 45. 1. And that causes some critical scholars who do not believe really that the Bible is the inerrant uh word of God. They decide then that large portions of this book were written by someone other than the eighth century. Because after all, how could an eighth century prophet know something that's happening in the sixth century? Well, I would like to say Duh. He's a prophet. Okay, but I don't say it quite like that. Uh but I feel like saying that uh every once in a while, especially when they're so on their high horse, you know, with all these Ariudites, you know, PhDs and everything after their name and they say, you know, it couldn't possibly be so. Well, uh do we believe in predictive prophecy? It's really the issue. Um if he can prophesy about Christ, the Messiah, who's coming over seven hundred years after he's writing, I think he could handle a hundred and fifty years for um you know, for Cyrus. Well that's just me. Uh the great Isaiah scroll found at Qumran by by the Dead Sea in 19 contains all sixty-six chapters of the book. That's dated around one twenty-five BC. And I found it fascinating that they the first thing they checked is to see if there's any major division. between chapter 39 and chapter 40. Well, um actually if you look at it, the 39 ends almost at the bottom of uh uh of the I was gonna say a page, but it's a scroll, but you've got it, bottom of a column is what I should say, right? And yet chapter 40, verse 1, begins on the very bottom line. Now I'm pretty frugal, but I might have started. I might have skipped the space, right? And gone on and started 40. I'm so glad they didn't skip that space Because if they had critical scholars would have said, aha, you see? You know, they're dividing it up too, but there's no um evidence of that division. Whatsoever. And so I can't see a bit of a problem with Isaiah prophesying, either a near-term or far event. Now for the rest of the time that we have, I want to introduce five major themes in the book of Isaiah, and then, and don't gasp, I will be able to finish I don't know what when on time is, but I'll be close. I want us to look briefly at chapter one, where we see almost all of these themes represented. I see the overall theme of the book as this: In whom do you trust for your salvation or deliverance? In whom do you trust? Do you trust in other gods? Do you trust in nations or your own military strength? Do you trust in yourself? Or do you trust in the Lord 100% of the time? Now, maybe thus far in my message, some of you You've been put to sleep, although I can see all of you quite well and nobody's asleep yet, I'm happy to say. Uh but uh you know, with all this boring background and everything else. But I hope you realize that this theme of Isaiah is absolutely the fundamental question for each of us here today. When you and I are in a bind, where do we go for help? Where do we turn first? for help. I would love to say, well of course, I always turn to the Lord first for help. Uh that's not always true, right? Uh uh someone already mentioned this morning you You know, that the Lord knows all of our thoughts and ev everything and so um we can't lie. No, I don't always turn to the Lord first for help. Uh I I recognize it. Usually if it's a big crisis, right, then I turn to the Lord first for help. If it's something smaller Hmm. You know, I somehow think I can manage that on my own and oftentimes mess up. I am sure that's not the case for you folks. Um you're further along in your sanctification than I am. But where do we turn first for help? Isaiah is telling us, and this is the message of the whole Bible, I think, that we need to turn to the Lord and to him alone. Okay, the first main theme in Isaiah is God's person, God's person, and specifically the Lord's majesty, his holiness. His uniqueness and his sovereignty, his majesty, his holiness, his uniqueness and his sovereignty. Now I'm not going to amplify on that point very much right now because we'll be stressing that almost every time. The title, The Holy One of Israel, is used uh twenty-five times in this book and only six times elsewhere in the Old Testament. Now what was fascinating to me, and I know at least I don't believe that you could have uh known that I was gonna say that, but uh our scripture reading for this morning had one of those other six times in Psalm uh eighty nine, eighteen. So So as uh it was read uh this morning, I I sort of chuckled and thought, there we have the Holy One of Israel. And maybe it wasn't accidental because you folks are just so sharp that uh you know you did that on purpose it could be. Uh but at any rate that's only one of uh six times that that term the Holy One of Israel is used. Um is it possible Thank you. That would be great. Otherwise, you're gonna have to listen to this raspy voice the whole time. And uh That's going to be a bit of a problem. Well, uh there are a few corollaries to that theme of God's person, namely the foolishness of idolatry, and that the Lord alone controls history. Whatever n nation or radical group you can think of today, they don't control history, though they may think that they do. Uh the Lord alone uh controls history. What a wonderful thing that is. is. Well the second main theme that we have, and I'm gonna take a just a break here, thank you. A second main theme of the book is man, and specifically man's sin, his pride and rebellion against God. The book begins, as we'll see in a moment, and ends with man's sin. In chapter 1 and chapter 66, rebellion is seen as an expression of man's pride. A third main theme, not surprisingly, is the Lord's judgment on man's sin. We see this theme once again from beginning to end And by the way, this now is probably as good a time as any to point out that a common misperception about the book of Isaiah, and I've read this in lots of places even in very good sources, but I think it's a hundred percent wrong. And that is, people will say Isaiah 1 to 39 is all about God's judgment. But 40 to 66 is all about God's redemption. And some people even go further and point out, by the way, in fact, I'm teaching Teaching uh online for liberty and I criticized this in some papers that I got actually um a a few weeks ago until I realized that their textbook said that same thing. And so I was really criticizing the textbook, not these poor students. Anyway, uh but it's just some people go further than that and they point out, well just like and if you do this Okay, and if you did this before, you're forgiven, okay, for past offenses. But if you do it going forward, there is no forgiveness for that. I'm of course Kidding. Uh but they say just like there are sixty six books in the Bible, thirty-nine in the old and tw and twenty seven in the new, so in the Old Testament God is a God of wrath and judgment. He's an angry God, right? But in the New Testament, God's a God of love and redemption. And Isaiah does the same thing in its two sections. Isn't that wonderful, they say to me Well, if it helps you remember that there are 66 chapters in Isaiah and that there are two major sections, that's great. But the rest is utter nonsense. First of all, the Old Testament has plenty to say about God's unfailing love and desire to redeem man, right? I hope you say right? And the New Testament has lots to say uh uh about r uh God's wrath. Just check out the book of Revelation. It's kind of an important book and it's the last one I would think that you should be able to do that. at least consider it in your wonderful summary. You know, God's character doesn't change from Genesis to Revelation. Uh i God is just, but he is also what? Loving. They're both true, through both testaments. And so anyway, but for sure the Lord's judgment on man's sin Going back to Isaiah, that's an important and a major theme throughout the book. A fourth main theme is the Lord's redemption of his people. Through the Messiah, his servant. We'll look at the four messianic servant passages later, but the redemptive theme is also clearly found in the first chapters of the book. And a final theme in Isaiah is the Lord's ultimate restoration of the universe. Yes, there's ultimate restoration of the universe. people, Israel, but ultimately that restoration includes Gentiles and in fact the whole earth. Isaiah speaks of a new heavens and a new earth, the only Old Testament prophet to do so. So it's part of Isaiah's overall point that God is sovereign and He's in control of the entire universe. And by the way, uh one of those aspects of the Lord, when I say his majesty comes out, of course, in creation, which is also heralded in Isaiah and fits well with your movie series in the evening on creation. Well, I know this has been a bit of a long introduction, and I'm sure that many of you have plans for this afternoon, maybe preparing for Memorial Day, something else, but I want us in the second part of the message to look at chapter one of Isaiah, where I think you will see most of these uh themes that I've just outlined uh uh in fact also themes of this first chapter. Now um if I were writing the book of Isaiah, don't laugh, but if I were writing the book of Isaiah, I'm laughing. I would have started with my call to ministry. Isn't that a good place to start? I mean, Jeremiah does that, you know, a lot of them do that, not Isaiah. He doesn't. That's in chapter 6. uh which we'll look at uh later on. Instead, I think he he starts off with the message and as if to emphasi empathi uh emphasize that his message is the key thing. The messenger is not as important as the message. And uh what we What we see in the first chapter of Isaiah is the Lord's unflattering assessment of his people, Israel. Well, the first section after that introductory verse that we already covered in the background. is the Lord's assessment of Israel's condition. The Lord's assessment of Israel's condition in verses 2 to 9. Isaiah begins by calling the heavens and the earth as a witness as the Lord himself presents his case. And he begins in verse 2 by explaining his tender care for Israel. I have nourished and brought up children, he says. And those of you who are parents here today know just how many sacrifices you have made to nourish and bring up your children. Well, that's the illustration that the Lord gives. He did everything for Israel. Well, how did they respond? The verse goes on: I have nourished and brought up children, but they have rebelled against me. Remember that second theme I gave? Man's sin, pride and rebellion against God? Well, here it is in the first verse, right after the introduction. Literally the Hebrew says, they, they have rebelled against me. And uh, you know, it's how how sad it is and so the Lord is emphasize uh emphasizing this. I'm sure that uh um um you have known as I have cases where parents have brought up their children in a godly way and done everything they possibly could, but one or more of the children simply refuse to follow in that way and reject, rebel against their parents and the Lord. I have folks in my Sunday school uh class at at Forcy who are older than I am and and one of their constant prayer requests is for uh one of their children that uh may not uh still uh know the Lord. It's absolutely heartbreaking. But maybe you're saying, and I kind of hope you're not saying this, well the parents weren't exactly perfect. Well, for sure that's the case, because not not one of us is perfect, but here we're talking about the Lord, right? He did everything right, uh, but still they rebelled. Why? Well, it goes back to Genesis 3, doesn't it? We have a sin nature, and we are naturally rebellious against God. The tragic thing, verse 3 explains, is that even animals, the dumbest of them, oxen and donkeys, maybe they should have put some goats in here too, just In light of today. Anyway, oxen and donkeys are not the smartest of animals, right? But they know who's feeding them, who takes care of them. But Israel, the nation who is chosen by God, doesn't know. How tragic. Israel is dumber than a donkey. As one commentator puts it, to Isaiah, the most astonishing thing about this rebellion is its stupidity. And I would agree with that. And folks, we are just as stupid today as if we fail to acknowledge the Lord not only as our Creator, but the as the one in whom we can trust in all situations. in everything that we go through, just like the perfect parent. It's easy to say, well that was true of Israel, but of course I'm different. But but are we really all that different? Verse 4 continues the theme of the sin of the nation, calling them sinful, laden with iniquity, evildoers, corruptors, and those who have forsaken the Lord. Notice in verse 4 that Isaiah introduces, as I've already mentioned, one of his favorite expressions for the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. Uh you know, sometimes we can think uh i if we're comparing ourselves with other people, we can think we're pretty good because who do we compare ourselves with? You know, well, an axe murderer or somebody else, right? Well, yeah, I'm pretty good. Sure. What about comparing ourselves instead to the Holy One of Israel? You know, how do we fare in that comparison? I still remember my freshman year in college. Um I had this uh fellow that was next door, lived next door door to me in the dorm and he was bragging about what a great tennis player he was. Now I came from a family of very good tennis players. Both of them in the Naval Academy. They were on the tennis tennis team, etc. I was crummy. So I told him, so he said, Oh let's pla we should play sometime. Do you play? I said, I'm not very good. I am I was not very good. Well I played this guy and I crushed him. Well the the reason I crushed him, I mean yeah he had a he talked about his survey had a great survey it was fantastic. Holy f thing is he couldn't get it in half the time. Well he double thought. That's no good. You lose points. Anyway, the difference is and I'm sure in his hometown I still remember he's from Ohio. Nothing wrong with Ohio, but I'm from New York and there's competitive people in New York, a whole bunch of 'em. And I was nothing. Well Mm, you know, uh I mean it just depends on who you compare yourself with. I was comparing myself with my brothers, and I was nothing. Uh believe me. Uh but no Uh oh. That you know we do that, don't we? We we'll compare ourselves, but if we compare ourselves to the Lord, that's a bit of a problem. Uh the gulf between sinful man, not just Israel, but you and me and the Lord, that gulf is immense. There is no way by ourselves that we can be acceptable to the Lord. And that's why we commemorate our Savior's death once a month when we celebrate communion, because it's on the basis of Jesus' perfect life and sacrificial death for our sins and his resurrection, that we can have that kind of forgiveness of sins and a righteous standing before a holy God. Well, verses 5 and 6 continue the revolting picture of Israel's sin. Again, like many of us, Israel thought they were pretty good. Yes, they weren't perfect, but all in all, they were okay. On a scale of 0 to 10, maybe they were a 7 or an 8. But guess what? On a on God's scale, Israel was a zero. A zero. Using the image of a body that was sick. Uh it it wasn't just one part of the body that was sick, it was the whole thing. Because of their constant rebellion, verse five says the whole head is sick, and verse six says there isn't a bit of soundness anywhere. From head to foot, they're only open, thestering wounds that have never been treated. It's a horrible graphic image. You think maybe the Lord's trying to get their attention and move them out of their complacent state? In verses seven and nine, Isaiah changes from metaphor to direct language as if the other verses weren't enough. He says the land is desolate, cities are burned, strangers are consuming the land. We aren't told exactly when this is occurring, perhaps deliberately. The result is that Zion, Jerusalem depicted as the Lord's daughter, is so besieged as to have and be only a small watchman's hut in a cucumber field. In fact, verse 9 says, if the Lord hadn't left Israel a small remnant, they would have been as bad off as Sodom and Gomorrah. And you remember back in Genesis 19 what happened to those two cities that were totally destroyed because of their blatant sin. Notice, by the way, even in this dismal scenario, the remnant concept is introduced, uh it demonstrating the Lord's grace. Not all will be destroyed, yet here the remnant is a very good thing. Exceedingly small. A bleak yet not entirely hopeless picture is painted by Isaiah in these introductory verses. Well, that's the Lord's assessment of Israel's condition. But now in verses 10 to 15 we see the Lord's rejection of Israel's worship. The Lord's rejection of Israel's worship. In verse 2, the Lord was calling the heavens and the earth to listen to the Lord. Now it's the leaders of Israel that are to hear the word of the Lord. Only look what he calls them. He says, Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the law law of our God, you people of Gomorrah. Look at Isaiah's poetic genius here. In verse nine the nation was compared to Sodom and Gomorrah. You're like them. Oh, that's horrible, you know. But not all that bad, after all, Sodom and Gomorrah. Gomorrah were completely destroyed. And that wouldn't happen to Israel. But in another sense, Isaiah is saying, God is saying, Israel's leaders were just as bad as the corrupt and godless leaders of Sodom and Gomorrah. So he calls them. By that name. Israel and its leaders are morally bankrupt, as Sodom and Gomorrah. And look what happened today to them. Did they think they were all that bad? No, of course not. After all, verses 11 to 15 explains, they did all of the religious things. They did all the things that they thought they were supposed to do. They offered all the sacrifices. They observed all the holy days and everything else. In our tur uh terms, they might say they went to church every Sunday, every Sunday morning, every Sunday night. Right? They gave a tithe to the church. They went to prayer meeting as well. They did the whole works. But God wasn't fooled by the Israelites' religiosity. He says in verse 11, What's the point? I've had enough of your bloody sacrifices. He calls them futile in verse 13, and he says he can't endure their special feast days. In verse 15 he says, even when they pray, God won't listen because their hands are full of blood. And uh you say, I say, wait a minute, didn't the Lord prescribe these things if as part of uh Israel's worship? Um and the answer is yes he did, but n as an indication of a life of obedience, not as a smokest By the way, you might think that in verse 15, the hands full of blood speak of hands bloodied by sacrifices. But as we look later in verse 21, it tells us the blood is actually the blood of murderers. You know, it's very interesting. The Lord can see right through our external actions into our hearts. You know, We can uh fool our neighbors, our friends, maybe our family, and maybe our church, but we can't fool God. He can see right through to our motives and to our heart. We All of our external actions don't fool him one bit if they're not coupled with genuine love for the Lord and obedience to him. his word in our lives. Well, is there any hope? Is there any hope for Israel and for us? The answer comes, of course. In the third section of this chapter in verses 16 to 20, which is the Lord's plea for Israel's repentance. The Lord's plea for Israel's repentance. He doesn't want ritual sacrifice or uh obedience. Verse 16 says he wants clean hands, as opposed to the bloody hands of verse 26. fifteen and clean hearts. He wants righteous living and removal of sin. He wants true justice rather than oppression. He wants the needs and the cause of the orphans and the widows, the powerless in the society to be met rather than the cause of the rich and famous. These two short verses in verses sixteen and seventeen contain nine imperatival commands. Nine in two verses. There is hope for Israel, but they must change their ways. I think of Micah six, uh six through eight, which contains the same thought. You might want to jot that down. I was gonna read it, but um time. is uh fleeting as usual. Uh but uh w what a uh what a tremendous uh uh uh Uh testimony. The Lord doesn't want all of those rituals. He wants our heart. He wants our heart. Notice that it's only after these nine commands to change their ways that we have verse 18 Come now and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they'll be white as snow. Though they're red like crimson, they will be as wool. Maybe many of you have memorized this verse. I hope you have. It's a gracious invitation. But do you see the context? God is not fooled by our pretense of worship. He knows exactly who we are and how far we are from him. But he is gracious and he exhorts his people to come to him. He uses actually a softened imperative in verse eighteen. Uh and and and uh thus uh um softens this uh uh command and and shows his tenderness. You know that same tone is evident in in the New Testament in Matthew 1128. Come unto me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Reasoning with the Lord, by the way, doesn't mean bargaining with God. You know, like uh you know, two lawyers going up against each other. or something like that. It means thinking his thoughts after him. But God graciously includes us in the process. Isaiah's imagery, of course, here is beautiful, though red like scarlet, a color which really stands out, our blood uh filled sins will be washed white as snow. It's a wonderful thing. promise to be sure. There's opportunity for repentance and obedience. But look at verses 19 and 20, which for some reason, and I'm not being too picky here, but a little. For some reason we rarely quote verses 19 and 20. They provide two paths. Willing obedience leading to eating the good of the land, or rebellious disobedience leading to being eaten by the sword. So you're and uh the the Hebrew wordplay is tremendous. It's either eat or what? Be eaten. Be devoured. It's exactly the same word. So you got a choice, a blessing or judgment will follow. There's a choice depending on Israel's action. Is this negotiable? Not at all. As verse 20 declares, For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. This is the amazing thing about the Lord. Could he have created us in such a way as to force us to obey him? Absolutely he could have. Uh he could have, uh since he is God, but he chose to give us free will, uh desiring our voluntary obedience Um by the way, just as we as parents ultimately do not, and of course in our case cannot, force our children to choose Choose what is good. We don't do that, do we? Um and so God does the same thing. He pleased for his people and for us to take the right path. But the consequences of the two paths are clearly set. Well, the fourth and final section of this chapter in verses 21 to 31 speak primarily of the Lord's judgment of unbelievers. but also of his restoration of Israel. The Lord's judgment of unbelievers, but also his restoration of Israel. In case we're not convinced yet of how the Lord views Israel, and particularly Jerusalem, verses twenty-one to twenty-three make it absolutely plain. The past city under David's rule was regarded as faithful. and full of justice, but now it was a place of harlotry and a refuge for murderers. Verse 22 explains that everything is polluted and impure. Silver has become dross. Wine is mixed with water. In case that was too abstract, verse 23 explains the leaders are rebellious, they consort with thieves, and they only care about bribes, not about true justice, defending the orphans. and the widows. And that's true, by the way, in most of the countries of the world. You know, we say, oh, well, you know, this is bad in the United States. um you know, as we uncover one instance of bribery or something like that. Well in many parts of the world that's a way of life. That's a way of life. And And uh hopefully that doesn't become the case here, but one never knows. Uh you know how we act towards those people who can't do anything for us. is a very good barometer and indication of our character. Of course we're nice to people who are important. right, who we think are maybe in a position to help us later on. But what about those who are not? Do we do what is right simply because it is right, or do we do nice things to those who can do nice things for us. A wonder sometimes. Well we see the judgment of the Lord in verses 24 to 26. We don't have time to go through those verses in detail, but the Lord is going to take vengeance on his enemies, those who oppose him, including Israelites. In the midst of all that judgment, though, look at the end game in verse 26. The ultimate result will be the final theme of Isaiah that I mentioned in our introduction, which is Jerusalem will again be called the city of righteousness. the faithful city, and he will set up uh uh righteous, God will set up righteous leaders. Verse 27 says, there will once again be justice in Jerusalem when it's redeemed. And that will happen in the end time as chapters two, verses one to five four described in the millennium when the Lord Jesus Christ will reign. Jerusalem will then be restored. People will flock there, chapter two says, in order to learn the ways of the Lord. So, yes, even in this very dark chapter, there is the Lord's plea for repentance and his promise of ultimate restoration for his people. But notice how the chapter ends in verses 28 to 31. The restoration of Jerusalem will come about, but so will the destruction of those, either Israelite or Israel, I o often think about my garden in July and August, not right now. It's looking great right now. All the rain and everything is terrific. My wife, we of course buy new plants every year. I always wonder, but what about July and August? You know We're going to get through that because then it looks like the one that is talked about here. Uh a garden or an oak that has no water will die. And ultimately all it's going to be used for is a great bonfire to burn up everything in judgment. So here in this amazing opening chapter of Isaiah, we see most of the themes of the whole book, the holiness of the Lord. Sin and rebellion against God, the Lord's judgment upon that sin, and yet the Lord's promise of redemption and ultimate restoration for those who trust Him We don't see the Savior clearly here in this first chapter, but we do see the heart of God, who as 2 Peter 3. 9 says, is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Well as we conclude this morning I would ask each one of us, well, what's the Lord's assessment of us? Are we filled with good deeds, including going to church and all the rest, but really with a heart that wants to Do what we want to do when we want to do it and not follow God's will in the big decisions or even the little decisions. of our lives. God is not fooled by our outward behavior any more than he was fooled by Israel's Have we truly recognized God's holiness and the depth of our own sin? Or do we think that we are pretty good? My my dad, who did not uh know the Lord, I'm not sure about uh when he died, but uh uh in a conversation earlier, and he said, well, no, he thought he was good. And I thought Okay, that's the problem right there, which I did try to explain to him, but he didn't seem to understand it, at least not at that point. He thought he was pretty good, you know? Uh again, who are we comparing ourselves with? that we look so good. Hopefully we've come to that point of repentance, recognizing there's no way to be accepted in God's sight except to claim the provision of His Son Jesus Christ, who died in our place for our sins on the cross. And you know, as tomorrow we celebrate Memorial Day, rightly honoring those in the military who died in order to keep our country free, as has already been mentioned this morning. As important as that is, and certainly it is important, very important, how much more important was and is our Lord's death on the cross and his resurrection, that you and I might have eternal life and forgiveness. Of sins. While the Lord's assessment of us may have been bleak, just like Israel, if we've trusted Christ as our Savior, then we will know that we have true freedom indeed. Let's close in prayer