Sides packed, right? Uh as a result of fantastic, thank you so much. Fantastic evangelist Okay, that's it. That's all my meddling. I'll I'll be nice from now on. But uh really, I mean we've got the you've got the room, we've got the uh um uh you know know everything is all set so the next move is up to you guys right? Amen. Okay. I I say Amen, but I I don't know. I hope you do too. Well, it's a joy to be with you uh after being with you monthly uh for about a year and a half. And my only observation uh has been that the traffic actually has increased a little bit. on Sunday morning since the last time that I was here. Um so that's less than a year, um, which is rather interesting. But if you remember, and I'm hope you remember At least a little bit. The last six months we did focus on my favorite Old Testament book of Isaiah. The last message, which I don't expect you to recall. was from Isaiah 29 in the book of woes and deliverances. I uh put an outline there of Isaiah as just sort of as a reminder, uh and that's in section four. And that focused on not simply giving lip service uh to the Lord, but our whole hearts, not simply uh going through the motions, but uh really making a difference. in our lives. And as you can see from your outlines, the fourth section then is an historical interlude which looks back to the Assyrian crisis that King Hazard Hezekiah face, but also ahead to an even greater threat, and that is that the Babylonian captivity that happened after Isaiah and Hezekiah's time in uh uh uh uh much later in the sixth century BC. And I actually preached a message here two years ago. I know I'm really stretching the limits of uh your um remembrance. Uh on Isaiah thirty-six and thirty-seven. That's before I realized I was gonna try to do like a whole series in Isaiah. And that message talked about the theme actually of the entire book of Isaiah, which is Oh. Which is you don't remember. In whom do you trust? You remember that now? Okay, good. Okay. It's been a long time. But that is the theme. I think it's really the theme of the whole Bible. Uh but it's certainly the theme of uh Isaiah, and it was actually my sermon uh title in Isaiah 36 and 37 because it talked about the importance of trusting the Lord at all times. And uh in whom do you trust? Do you trust in the Lord? Do you trust in yourself? Do you trust in um in your intellect or whatever? And Hezekiah was a tremendous example of a godly king who trusted the Lord in a time of crisis. And as a result, the Lord answered in a In an amazing way. And you can go back and review chapters thirty-six and thirty-seven, and uh a hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrians were killed without a battle. An amazing thing. And the threat by the Assyrians was averted. But sadly, Judah continued to rebel against the Lord in subsequent years. And in chapters 38 and 39 of the book, God told Hezekiah the nation would go into captivity. You remember Hezekiah had been sick, but he recovered. And uh when he was recovered, chapter 39 records that he entertained these visitors from afar off, from b Babylon. And he showed them the works, showed them all the treasuries of the temple and everything. And then God used, uh and that was not the smartest thing to do, of course, but God used Isaiah to tell him that these same Babylonians one day would carry everything to Babylon And nothing would be left. Isaiah 39, 6 says, Behold, the days are coming when all that's in your house and what your fathers have become Accumulated until this day shall be carried to Babylon, nothing shall be left, says the Lord. And that happened much later, not in Hezekiah's life. time, but in six oh five, five ninety-seven, and it culminated in five eighty-six uh BC when the temple at Jerusalem was destroyed and the southern kingdom of Israel came to an end. Now they endured seventy years of captivity and then they were permitted to return. But really from that time forward until even the present there has been no king or temple in Israel. at least not as a theocracy. For the faithful in Israel, surely uh this was a dark time that the Lord uh uh uh had Isaiah prophesy about And they must have been wondering where do we turn for deliverance? And may I for a moment say, uh getting back to where we are today, I think we're facing dark times for the faithful. in America as well. We can hardly be called a just nation ourselves anymore. We've legalized abortion, guaranteed. We have the rights of homosexuals preserved and uh just more recently we have gender confusion in many places. If you're a student in Montgomery County, you can uh you can check male, female, or female. Something like other or X. Well come on now. Is there something other? Well yes, according to the really, really smart people of today, there's almost no such thing as gender. Now I think they're kind of staring. uh common sense in the face by saying all that, but that's what uh things are happening today. And we have little freedom in our own public schools to speak of the Bible or our Christian principles. So unless there is a revival, and there for sure could be, and I pray that there will be, the nation is indeed headed for more difficult times ahead. I mean we can just look at I just taught last week in my Sunday school class. We happen to be in the book of Genesis where we've been for a year. And we're all the way up to chapter 19. Yeah, that's not the fastest pace you've ever seen. But uh Sodom and Gomorrah. And we uh simply have to realize, you know, I think God was telling us some things there that there are certain things. Uh when we get this disobedience That these things happen and God uh is going to judge. And so, unless there's a revival, I think we are headed for difficult times, and those who are faithful to the to the Lord will have turbulent waters ahead. But into this picture, both for Israel and by way of application for us today, comes a message from God so reassuring and so uh beautiful Isaiah chapter 40 is one of the most beautiful passages in the entire Bible, both thematically and poetically. It deals with the theme of who God is. and his relationship to men. And so whatever trials that you and I are facing today, I hope that you'll be able to enter into this chapter with me as we look at God's answer. to for a needy people. And that's us. The key to facing trials in life is to recognize in whom we can trust. Not ourselves, not our own works, not other people or false uh gods, certainly not money. No, you and I need to trust in the God who created us and who redeemed us. Chapter 40 begins a section that contain so many future prophecies, including the prophecy of the Persian king Cyrus in chapter 44 and 45, that some critical scholars believe that the last 27 chapters of Isaiah, sections 5 to 7 on your outline sheet, weren't written by the 8th century prophet Isaiah, but by a single century. Sixth century prophet who simply witnessed the things supposedly prophesied. You know, it's easy to be a prophet Um, you know, when you when you already know the results. So I I prophesy uh that the Nationals will uh win their uh wild card game. I can't talk about the Orioles because we're not in the playoffs, okay? So just for the moment I'm going for the Nationals, the Orioles will well maybe next year for the Orioles. At any rate, uh uh and that's a great prophecy, isn't it? And you're all laughing at me, those of you who know what I'm talking about, because of course they already played the game. It doesn't really take a profit. Uh not only that, you got fifty fifty odds pretty much. much and it was a home game so maybe even more than that. Regardless. Uh that's not a prophecy. Well that's the critical view of prophets. Well they're there around the same time. They do the same thing with the book of Daniel. And they say, well the prophecies are after The time, which is nonsense, and there's no evidence for that either in Daniel or in Isaiah. And not only that Of course, as we saw throughout our series in Isaiah, there are all sorts of messianic prophecies in the early chapters of Isaiah as well. So if Isaiah is indeed a prophet who is empowered by God, and he is It is hardly a problem for him to predict things that God has revealed to him a hundred years, two hundred years, or twenty-seven hundred years ahead of time. Chapter 40 breaks fairly neatly into three parts. All three sections are different, but totally related. The first section made famous by Handel's Messiah, and perhaps other than those last uh verses that have already been quoted this morning, are probably the best known. And uh that is verses one to eleven. And the main point that I see in this uh section is that we should trust in the God who gives comfort to his sinful, feeble people. We should trust in the God who gives comfort to his sinful, feeble people. Verses one and two of the section form an introduction not only to this section, but to the entire chapter and really to the rest of the book. the book of Isaiah as well. And the chapter begins with these glorious words. Nachemu, Nakemu, comfort, yes, comfort, my people. Says your God. What a note of encouragement. In case we might miss it, the imperative comfort is repeated for emphasis God is telling Isaiah, despite the horrible situation to follow, that he's already prophesied. In chapter 39, he says, despite that He and the other prophets were to bring a message of comfort. Notice the contrast between my people And you're God. There is a close relationship between God and His people expressed here. Even though Israel had so failed the Lord again and again, ultimately the nation was still God's people. Verse 2 says, literally, speak to the heart of Jerusalem. That is, give a message of comfort to the heart of Jerusalem. And this message was which was to be shouted out. was that her hard service was ended, her sin was pardoned, and she had received full, literally double, punishment for her sins. And what a joy that her warfare was coming to an end. That would speak, first of all, of Judah's return after the Babylonian captivity. But that's only the first stage. I believe that it goes far beyond this. to a time of ultimate restoration in the millennium, which is yet to come, which is future from our point of view. And so those folks that think they're going to have an end to warfare be before that time. you know, maybe the United Nations is gonna finally do something. I doubt it. Uh they're really kidding themselves. It's just not going to happen. We're gonna have war and more war. And then it's Doesn't take a a genius to see that uh uh on the world stage, but especially as we look in the pages of scriptures. It says that evil times that these things will become what? Worse and worse. until the end. That we know, but what a tremendous uh joy that that time of warfare eventually would be over. And I believe that will be after the tribulation period in the millennium. Well, there are three voices that are given in verses 3 to 11, which explain how the comforting promises of verses 1 and 2 will come to pass. First, in verses 3 to 5, a voice cries out in the wilderness. We are not given the identity of the voice here, but it is from a representative of the Lord. In the New Testament, This voice is identified as John the Baptist in all four Gospels. His message is to prepare the way of the Lord in the wilderness. The idea in verses 3 and 4 is that the way for the Lord had to be prepared. That is, the people had to be ready to receive him. A parallel phrase today might be: roll out the red carpet. Or something like that. The spiritual implications of these verses are plain. All had to be made right before the coming of the Lord. While the coming of the king in his public ministry during the time of John the Baptist is a partial fulfillment of these verses, I believe that the ultimate fulfillment won't be until after the tribulation period at the second coming of the Lord. It is at this time truly, as verse 5 states, that the glory of the Lord will be revealed and all flesh will see him. Revelation 1 7 says, Behold, he is coming with clouds, and every eye will see him, and they also who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. they'll realize what they had done uh in in crucifying him. In verse six, a second voice is heard. The voice says to cry, but here uses the singular, probably directing his message to Isaiah. The prophet responds, What shall I cry? The content of the message is then given. People like the grass of the field will fade, but God's word stands forever. I see two emphases in these verses. First, people and their glory, their accomplishments apart from the Lord and his word are fleeting People and their glory are fleeting. They are only transitory. Today we worship people who have great intellect or great beauty or great athletic ability. We put so much emphasis On this and on man's accomplishments. And yet, how soon all of this will pass. Things done apart from Christ simply won't last. They won't stand the test of time. They will wither just like the flower of the field. At least in our area down in Lanham. Now maybe you've had like abundant rainfall here, but down in Lanham, we've had a drought. Uh and our um all those carefully planted flowers that uh my wife Sharon has uh planted in the spring, well, they look like rubble. Okay, maybe a few are still um that that she waters because they're in pots. Maybe we still got a few that aren't. But guess what? It's October It's then gonna be what? November, we're gonna get frost sometime. Um uh I think winter w is coming, I'm not sure, but I think so. And so they look pretty bad. They were beautiful earlier, but not now. And do you and I really understand this? Do we understand that we, mankind, and our life on this earth is like the plants? Yeah, we got a little longer, unless you're a sequoia or something like that, you know. w we'll have a little longer than maybe some annuals in your garden, but not all that much longer. And do we understand that and have we ordered our priorities in life uh in light of this fundamental biblical truth. And I think sometimes we have a lot of work to do in this area. How much how many things am I doing in a day that are going to matter for eternity? That's the question that I asked myself, and I think we need to uh ask one another. But there's a second emphasis in verses six to eight as well, and that is that the word of our Lord stands forever. The word of our Lord stands forever. And that's truly a message of comfort and hope to those in bondage. Because God's word does stand. The present trials will not be the end. The future judgment of God's enemies and redemption of God's people, and they go hand in hand, those things that were promised earlier will take place. In the New Testament, Peter applies Isaiah's words here in 1 Peter 1, 22 to 25, to the Word of God, which produces an eternal fruit in the new birth. As the Lord states so plainly, the Scripture cannot be broken. John 10, 35. What a joy to us today as well. We know that the scripture the scriptures are true. Regardless of the trials that we may be going through, regardless of whatever our nation is going through, we know that God's word stands Firm. He won't go back on his promises. His word endures. So you and I can trust in God's word and in God's promises. In verses 9 to 11, a third voice is identified. Zion and Jerusalem are personified, just as in our first hymn that was sung today, right? O Zion haste. Right? Well that's uh the Zion is actually personified here as the messengers of good tidings which will be brought to all the cities of Judah. The poetry and the repetition in these verses is absolutely Uh beautiful. Oh Zion, you who bring good tidings. Oh Jerusalem, you who bring good tidings, lift up your voice and uh lift it up. Don't be afraid. And then of course Well there may be an immediate fulfillment in the return from Babylon or in the first Advent. of Christ. But the ultimate fulfillment clearly awaits the second coming of Christ, as verses 10 and 11 make plain. The Lord God will come, and when he comes, he's going to do marvelous things. Again, that puts life's difficulty And trials and the things that we struggle with sometimes in an entirely different perspective. He's going to come in strength, and his arm will rule His reward, namely his redeemed, will be with him. Look at this in verses 10 and 11. The contrast is absolutely beautiful In verse 10, the picture of God's arm ruling is a picture of strength. God's arm, you see, he's coming with his strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. It's a picture of strength, but notice the beautiful contrast in verse eleven. Here God's arm, same word, God's arm is also seen, but it's tenderly gathering the lambs as he carries them through. in his bosom. What a joyous message that we have a strong God who will defeat all of his enemies, and yet that same God gently cares for the flock. He is the good shepherd, as Jesus calls himself in the New Testament, John 10, 11, who will tenderly care for the flock. That tenderness and compassion of verse 11 beautifully reflect the message of comfort. given in verse one. You know, some people emphasize one, some people emphasize the other. What a beautiful balance when both are emphasized. They just read a book by Ted Decker. Girl with the I don't know, behind the red um rope or something like that. I you c you can look it up, Decker. At any rate, I like his writings normally. He's a little fancy Fantastic, but it's it's nice. But un but now he's gone to this wonderful, beautiful theology, God is love. Is that true? Sure it's true. God is love. And and uh there doesn't seem to be any evil around. It's just ignorance. It's just shadows. A fear is just shadows. No, there is a real enemy. There's a real spiritual enemy. And God is going to come in what? Judgment. upon those people. And redemption as well. And it's both uh you can't just emphasize the one and forget the other, because otherwise, uh if it weren't for man's sin Why did Christ have to come in the first place? Why did he have to die in the cross for our sins in our place and be raised again? No. Sin is real and it's in each of us. It's not some myth, it's not some shadow. It's wrong, it's evil, but it's in us And around the world. And you just can't close your eyes and say, well, everything is great. Well sure. Uh that's wonderful. But we can't do it alone upon the early. So our God is a God who will come in judgment, but He is the same God who will give comfort to his needy, sinful people. In the second major section of chapter 40, verses 12 to 26, Isaiah stresses the nature of the one who is coming to Christ. bring comfort. And in this uh section, the point is simply that we should trust in the God whose attributes are incomparable. Trust in the God whose attributes are incomparable. Simply put, there's no one else who can compare with him. Therefore, he has the power to accomplish the deliverance of his people. And so you and I should what? Trust in him. Same message. First, in verses twelve to seventeen, God's knowledge and wisdom are stressed By a series of ten questions in verses twelve to fourteen, the prophet Isaiah invites comparison of any God or human being with the Lord. And the effect is striking. There's not a thing that anyone can say in response to these questions. They're irrefutable. The questions are laughable Verse 12, who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, you know, scoop out the Atlantic Ocean, right? One scoop. Two scoops. How much time would it take for you to measure with your hand? How silly is that? It's vast, right? Well, what about uh measuring heaven with a span? Okay, one, two, three. can't even get up to the ceiling. Maybe I could if I had a big enough ladder, but uh up up the heavens. Let's try that. I don't think it's gonna work too well. What do you you think? Uh or uh holding all the dust of the earth in a measure to finding out, you know, how how much it was, or take the mountains and put them on a scale and uh weigh them. One is reminded of the Lord's questions to Job in Job 38, 4 and 5. Where were you, God says to Job, when I laid the foundations of the earth? I want that question to all the evolutionists out there that say what? Billions and billions of years ago this or that happened and they say so authoritatively, I say, Oh, do you have the video? You know, yeah, really you got it you got it measured. Oh no, but we know. Well how do you know? Yeah, by faulting dating measures, that's how you you know, and by denying ca catastrophic events such as the global flood. That's how you know. But God says, where were you? Tell me. If you want have understanding, who determined its measurements? Surely you know. So I think modern scientists would be wise to take heed and listen carefully to Isaiah's message before they make their all uh um all-knowing declarations. In verses 13 and 14, the questions have to do with the Lord's wisdom Who gave him direction? Interesting here. The same verb used in measure in verse uh uh twelve is used in uh in verse thirteen. Who measured out the spirit of the Lord? My The translation has directed, but it's the same verb. Who measured out? You know. Well, you think you can measure out the the waters of the Atlantic or the Pacific. How about measuring out or Uh the spirit of the Lord, which you can't even what? See? Uh that's pretty impossible, isn't it? Uh and who has counseled the Lord? Who has given him instruction? Boy, we try, don't we? We try to tell the Lord what to do, but He for some reason doesn't listen to us, which is a good thing, uh, because we don't know much. In wisdom and knowledge, the Lord has no equal And just as verses 12 to 14 demonstrated the Lord's superiority over nature because he created the world, verses 15 to 17 show the Lord's superiority over the nations. They are as a drop in the bucket, as fine dust on the scales, their presence is negligible. In comparison to God, the nations don't even show up on the scale. I love that uh that uh emphasis. The contrast between the weight of the nations in this verse, small dust on the scales, and the hills and the mountains in verse uh twelve, you see, uh uh i is just striking. The islands mentioned in verse 15 refer to the Mediterranean, that is, from the author's perspective, the faraway places. And these islands could be lifted up by the Lord like a piece of dust. Verse sixteen states that even all the wood of Lebanon wouldn't be sufficient for an offering or its animals for a burnt offering. And Lebanon, of course, was known for its wood, the cedars of Lebanon. Uh all of the nations are as non existence before the Lord, even less than nothing and empty. And that's how the nations are considered considered with respect to the Lord. And it doesn't matter what nations we're talking about. It includes China and Russia and North Korea. If we're worried about them, Iran, Afghanistan, the United States, and any other nation that you and I could think of. In verses eighteen to twenty, the Lord's uniqueness is contrasted to the human idols. Notice again the questioning manner which indicates the foolishness of any comparison. There's absolutely no way to compare God to anything. And verses nineteen and twenty depict the various ways a rich man and a poor man select and make an idol. The way I look at it, you know, the rich man is there in in uh verse nineteen that's the guy from Montgomery County and then the poor man, he's from my county Prince George's County, you know, but they they uh the poor man's just happy to get what? Something that will stand up on its own and won't collapse. The rich man's got silver and and gold and everything. It doesn't matter what it's made of compared to the Lord. It doesn't do a thing. And that's what he says. A pitiful God indeed. Verses 21 to 26 then stress the Lord's sovereign control over the whole world. And again, verse 21 uses repetition. Haven't you known? Haven't you heard? Hasn't it been told you from the beginning? And uh verse uh and and basically Uh he he says the point is you don't understand. You don't know what's going on. You may think you do, but you don't And when will you and I recognize that our human knowledge is very limited? That's the problem, by the way, with the smartest people. The people that aren't as smart, they understand they don't under know everything. But the really smart people, they teach in universities and they think what they've got everything figured out and they don't need God to figure it out figure anything out. Well they're completely wrong. They're utterly wrong, but sometimes they're the ones uh that uh lead others astray because they think they know far more than they do. Have you ever been to the doctor's office, right? And the doctor, some doctors, I love certain doctors, because they say, hey, I don't know. I haven't seen this. I'm not sure. Even if they've had thirty-five years in practice, they may not have seen everything. They acknowledge that what? They don't know everything. And then you got the other doctors. They're gonna give you the answer whether they know anything or not, because they are in charge and they are authoritative and I try to run from those doctors. doctors because they don't know everything. I want the one that's honest and knows a lot, uh, humanly speaking, but doesn't claim that they know everything because That's not uh so smart, is it? Okay, well the Lord, verses 22 and 23 contain three participial clauses. First, the Lord sits above the circle or horizon of the earth and he rules everything. From God's perspective, the inhabitants of the earth would seem as small as grasshoppers. I love it. When you're going to the airport, you're stuck in traffic, you're trying to get onto the plane, right? Once you get on the plane and it lifts up and then you see all these little cars, you know, they look like little matchbox cars or something, and you think, gosh. You know, I'm way above these guys. Don't have to worry about uh the DC or Baltimore traffic or anything like that or the state of the BW parkway and whether you're gonna ruin your Car and potholes. Oh anyway, regardless. You don't have to worry about any of that because you're way above that. Well that's the way God views uh us all the time. It says God stretches out the heavens as a curtain. or a tent for dwelling. And even the rulers and judges of the earth are brought to non-existence, and he makes them empty, the same two verbs he used in verse 17. According to the verse 24, these uh two leaders are scarcely in power before the Lord blows them away like stubble. I always think of dandelions, you know. One blow and poof, they're gone. They will wither, these leaders. They will wither just as the grass mentioned in the first part of the chapter in verses seven and eight. Nebuchadnezzar is a great example of that in Daniel 4, 30 to 32. You remember when he says, Oh, isn't this great Babylon which I have built, etc. A lot of eyes. in uh chapter four until what? God gets a hold of him and uh and humbles him in an amazing way. And uh we have all kinds of examples uh today. I know I'm dating myself, but I still think of Saddam Hussein, remember? He was oh such a A great leader, and then I who can forget that picture of him coming out of the hole, right, cowering uh when he was uh captured Uh God steps up and he takes down leaders in his time. And God is in control of the Middle East, Russia, China, the United States, and whatever country we can Imagine. He is sovereign. Was it military might that won Israel her battles in Old Testament times? How about in chapter thirty-seven, which we already mentioned? of Isaiah when a hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrians were killed without a battle. Isn't it trust in the Lord? It's the key to the success of any nation or individual. God has a way of turning things around very quickly. from a human point of view. We've seen that even in our own uh lifetime in the last thirty to forty years. It Remember the Berlin Wall, then the demise of the Soviet Union, then uh China then reversals in some of these areas where in Russia there's actually less religious freedom than ever before, etc. So things can go go back and forth. So let's not get too complacent or too worried about current changes in the world. Let's make sure instead that we look to the Lord and to his strength. In verse 25, the Lord returns to the same theme as that which began the section in verse 18, in the same words, except now in the first person. To whom then will you liken me? There's no one to equate with the Lord. He calls himself here the Holy One. You see, uh that uh we talked about that phrase, the Holy One of Israel, used all the way through through the book of Isaiah, which stresses the Lord's distinctiveness from men. Isaiah continues to tell his readers to lift up their eyes to the heavens to see what God has created. The stars are not only numbered, but named. Imagine that. All of the stars of the universe. Every time that I do any research of If I'm uh speaking on, for example, Psalm eighteen and talks about the stars, I I I go to the latest information about the number of stars, and it's always increasing because you know, they've got better telescopes, etcetera. And and every single time it's increasing. Well God has each one of these stars named. It's not just like the Big Dipper and the Little Dipper. It's sa every single star. And by the strength of his power he says, not one will fail, because the Lord who created them is able to sustain them. And the Lord who created us is able to sustain us. Well, the third major section is in verses 27 to 31. We saw in the second major section, 12 to 26, we should trust in the God whose attributes are incomparable. In 27 to 31, Isaiah says we should trust in the God who gives strength to those who wait on him. Trust in the God who gives strength to those who wait on him. In light of the Lord's power and strength in creation and preservation, how could his people worry about their situation or think that God, who counts each star, has forgotten about them? Sometimes you you and I may think, well, God's kind of forgotten about us. He doesn't know my sin. situation. You know? Well that's kind of silly, isn't it? He knows everything about us. And uh in fact Israel basically at at this time is saying the same thing. Repeating the questions from verse 21, Isaiah asks again in verse 28 whether the people know or have heard and the attributes of the Lord that are stressed in the end of verse 28 is that the Lord is everlasting. He isn't limited by time. He's the creator of the ends of the earth. He's not limited by space. And he doesn't faint or grow weary, and one cannot fathom his understanding. His ways cannot be fully understood by mortal man. Because the Lord isn't weary. He is able to give strength to the weak, and he increases strength to the ones with no might. Unless anyone think that some people are not to be classified as weak, Isaiah continues in verse 30 to point out that even the young men and the choicest ones at that faint and are weary and utterly fall. And of course sometimes we see that in the Olympics, don't we? Um I I love, you know like Time magazine or Sports Illustrated, they'll have all the the projected, you know, the the Olympians that you and I should watch out for because for sure they're gonna get a gold medal in the Olympics, except what when they don't. You know, something happens and they utterly uh fail. Even the greatest athlete uh that can happen to, and we recognize that after all, they're flesh and blood just like we are. And so God says, even the choicest ones, uh, he says, faint and are weary. And the verbs used here are the same as those used in verse twenty eight. The contrast couldn't be made more clear. The Lord doesn't faint, but even the choicest young men do. And finally, verse 31 gives the comforting assurance that the ones who hope in the Lord will exchange their weariness for strength. That's literally what it says. It's a uh um your translation may not have that, but it's exchange. And I love this. You know sometimes if you go to a store you don't have the receipt, you're gonna have to exchange for something else of comparable value. Right? But how often have you gone to a store and said, I'd like to exchange this, you know, I have, oh I don't know, a a four year old uh phone and I'd like to exchange it for uh iPhone eleven. I think that's the one they're up to, right? I've never bought an iPhone in my life, but But at any rate, it's fun to say. So I'd like to exchange my whatever it is to an iPhone 11, the latest model. And they'll say, sure, for you I'll do that. No, they won't. You never exchange something inferior, right? for something that's better in a store. But you do with God. You do with God. You exchange, that's what it says, you exchange your strength for his. I'll take that deal anytime, right? Uh even if you feel really strong today, I'm sure there'll come a time when you don't feel so strong. And uh that's a great exchange. Uh to emphasize the point, Isaiah adds that they'll lift up their wings as the eagles do, that is effortlessly. They will run but they won't be weary. They will walk, but they won't be faint. I can walk about a mile and a half. That's it. Then I'm faint. I try to do that actually a mile to a mile and a half every day, but after that, that's it. Sadly, I usually need a little nap even after that. I'm sorry to say, but it's the way it is. Um the same uh is the same two verbs are used in verse twenty eight for God and again in verse thirty for the youth. In Isaiah's context, the reference was probably to the Jews who had been in captivity, but it certainly applies to all of those who wait for God in any age. Ultimately, those who wait patiently for the promises of the Lord to be fulfilled will not be disappointed. And unlike now, they will have boundless energy and strength because they're completely united with him. J. Vernon McGee, I like reading. J. Vernon McGee once in a while tells of a preacher who exhorted his church, saying, Brethren, this church needs to walk. And one of the deacons said, Amen. Then the pastor said, Brethren, this cheat church needs to run. And the same deacon said, Hallelujah. Then he said, Brethren, this church needs to fly, to which the deacon responded, Amen and hallelujah. Then the minister said, Well, it's going to cost money to make this church fly. To which the deacon replied, let her walk, brother. Let her walk. I love that. That's just funny. You know, oh yeah, everything's great until we what? We get down to the bottom line Uh well following Christ, whether walking or running or flying, is a costly thing. I continue to say that genuine Christianity is radical. It's not safe. We read the gospels, it's radical. Uh you love your enemies. That's pretty radical. Everything else. Following Christ is a costly thing. It will cost you something. We're not trying to fool anyone here. But God will give us strength if we wait on Him. And let us remember that it costs God a whole lot more in sending his Son to die on the cross and uh for us and being raised again than it will ever cost. You and me. Let me read just one other excerpt from a little book entitled The Lordship of Jesus Christ, written by William Pate. He's writing on this passage over 70 years ago. But his words are quite relevant today. You can just substitute internet for TV, and the rest is exactly the same. He says, to walk without feigning is the greatest miracle of of all. Most Christians at some time or other are able to manage a spectacular flight into the heavenly places, their wings momentarily as strong as an eagle's At the final day of a great convention, the whole congregation may suddenly take off as they soar to the rare atmosphere of great spiritual heights. Running is also a fairly common phenomenon. At most evangelical churches, the congregation breaks out into a fairly brisk trot regularly every Sunday morning and follows up with another burst of speed on Wednesday at the prayer meeting. But a steady, consistent walk up and downhill, fair weather or foul, alone or in company is rare. It is rare because we do not wait on the Lord. We faint or fall because we do everything except go to the Lord who has an abundance of what we need. Look at the threatening nations, read the news reporters' gloomy prophecies, seek the sorry comfort of the TV, and you will soon you will soon faint for fear of the things which are coming on the world. Spend as much time with the Lord as you do with your newspaper and TV, and your strength will be miraculously renewed. By the way, I think of global warming and all that, and everybody's worried. Now young people are all worried about global warming. How about worrying about spiritual things? How about that? Where is that in all of this? I'd be a lot more concerned about that. And so that's my exhortation to you as well. Spend as much time with the Lord as we do with these other things. And our strength will be miraculously renewed. We have no strength in and of ourselves. Some of us are further along in the process of recognizing that in our own lives. We are but flowers of the the field that soon fade. But as we wait on the Lord, we receive his strength and his power in us. So we must make spending time with the Lord in prayer and meditation on his word a priority in our lives if we expect to grow strong. As Christians. Well I hope these three truths of this beautiful chapter have helped us refocus our minds and our hearts upon as Gives strength to the weary if we only wait on him and rely on his strength rather than our own. Let's pray.