When one speaks of religion, politics is just around the corner Let's say I give you a list of contemporary moral issues and ask you to categorize them as either religious or political. Here they are. Abortion. Racism. Kingdom of God. In my opinion, none of these topics are exclusively religious or exclusively political. With abortion and racism, we must be thoroughly equipped in biblical anthropology. We must understand the doctrine of God's image in humanity to counter our society's false views. As for the kingdom of God, we do not think of it in the abstract or deem it distant and far away. When Jesus returns, an angel will announce, the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. And he shall reign forever and ever. That's in Revelation eleven, fifteen Sometimes the religious and the political are so closely aligned that we can't see one without the other. Sometimes we get a peek into someone's religion through her politics. Vice versa, we see someone's politics through his religion. How about ourselves? Is the hope of our hearts in a political party or a candidate? Is our souls security In a certain form of human-ruled government, we reveal our cherished values in our politics and religion. So you can understand why G. K. Chesterton once quipped, quote, I never discuss anything except politics and religion. There's nothing else to discuss. End quote. In today's passage, I hope you will observe with me an important intersection between politics and religion. In brief, we are challenged to recognize our God as king. That's the simple lesson. I don't have any genius ideas about politics. Just recognize God as king. That's the basic point. But I think there's other things we can learn. So let's read 1 Samuel 8 together and see what truths we can learn. First Samuel eight Now it came to pass when Samuel was old that he made his sons judges over Israel. The name of his first son was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba, but his sons did not walk in his ways. They turned aside after dishonest game, took bribes, and perverted justice. Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah and said to him, Look, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. So Samuel prayed to the Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, Heed the voice of the people in all that they say to you. For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me, that I shall not reign over them. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them out of Egypt, even to this day. with which they have forsaken me and served other gods, so they are doing to you also. Now therefore, heed their voice However, you shall solemnly forewarn them and show them the behavior of the king who will reign over them. So Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who asked him for a king. And he said, This will be the behavior of the king who will reign over you. He will take their sons and appoint them for his own chariots and to be his horsemen, and some will run before his chariots. He will appoint captains over his thousands and captains over his fifties. will set some to plough his ground and reap his harvest, and some to make his weapons of war and equipment for his chariots. He will take your daughters to be perfumers, cooks, and bakers And he will take the best of your fields, your vineyards, and your olive groves and give them to his servants. He will take a tenth of your grain and your vintage and give it to his officers and servants. And he will take your male servants, your female servants, your finest young men, and your donkeys and put them to his work. He will take a tenth of your sheep, and you will be his servants. And you will cry out in that day, because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, and the Lord will not hear you in that day. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, No, but we will have a king over us, that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. And Samuel heard all the words of the people and repeated them in the hearing of the Lord. So the Lord said to Samuel, Heed their voice and give them and make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, every man go to his city. I think there are three lessons for us from this passage. One, weakness of human leaders should lead us to God. That's verses one to six. 2. Rejection of God as king results in disaster. Verses 7 to 18. 3. Stubbornness of sinful people is permitted as judgment. That's verses 19 to 22. First, weakness of human leaders shall lead us to God. There are two weaknesses, moral and physical The first corresponding to Samuel's sons, and the second corresponding to Samuel. Joel and Abijah had the vigor, youth, and energy on their side. But they lacked the faith and the integrity of their father. Samuel had the faith and the integrity, but his vigor, youth, and energy were fast waning The younger judges exhibited moral weakness. The older judge showed signs of physical weakness. Specifically, we read in verse 3 that Samuel's sons did not walk in his ways. They turned aside after dishonest gain, took bribes, and perverted justice. Tragic consequences of such corruption, especially corruption among leaders, are recorded throughout the Old Testament. Moses warned Israel that a bride blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous. That's in Deuteronomy 16, 19. Proverbs warned, a wicked man accepts a bribe behind the back to pervert the ways of justice. That's in 1723. Later, prophets also warn Israel against corruption and its consequences. There's a violent bloodshed of innocence in society. Isaiah 33, 14-15. Ezekiel 22, 12 to 13. Habakkuk 1, 2 to 4. The righteous and the poor are marginalized. See that throughout Amos 5. And not much has changed since the days of ancient Israel. Here and now, in the present age. Assault against human dignity continues through dishonesty and injustice. More victims are added daily. The unborn in the womb, the elderly in isolation, the minority in discrimination, the lowly in the margins God have mercy on us and our leaders Only if there were younger versions of Samuel. Now it is true that Samuel was getting up there in age, as seen in verses 1 and 5. The man does not deny it. He's probably around 50 years old, and he's definitely slowing down. He could continue as a spiritual leader, but he's no Gideon or Samson. He's no longer fit for battle against enemies like the Ammonites, new threats from the east side of Jordan. The people were also probably concerned about the Philistines that they would rise up again as Samuel grows greater. But it's not as if Samuel's youth gave them victory in the first place. I don't know how these elders forgot the lessons from the battles with the Philistines. They forgot the tumors, the thunder, mizfah, ebenezer. Does our God the King need men with vigor, youth, and energy? Does our eternal God grow uneasy as Samuel grows old? Have we not known? Have we not heard? The everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, neither faints. Nor is weary. No one is holy like the Lord, for there is none besides him, nor is there any rock like our God. That's what Hannah said back in chapter 2, verse 2. I'm sure Samuel reminded them to trust God above all during his time as a prophet and judge. As he grew older, I bet he reiterated the words of Gideon before him. That's in Judges 8:23. I will not rule over you, nor shall my son rule over you. The Lord shall rule over you. In response, the Israelites should have done what they did in the previous chapter. Repentance. Worship, prayers, fasting, confession, sacrifice. Samuel pointed them back to God many years ago at that battle of Mitzvah. It wasn't Samuel that saved them in the first place. It was the Lord. So it's fine that the Israelites said, look, you are old and your sons do not walk in your ways. But what if they said right after that Instead of now make us a king to judge us like all the nations, they said, now pray for us to God our King to judge us directly, unlike all the nations. What if they said, We know you're growing old and your sons are corrupt, but we trust God will lead us with or without strong human leadership? What if they said, our special significance is not in having a king like all the other nations, but we shall be to God a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Alas, that's not what they say. But what the Israelites refuse to do, namely praying to the Lord, Samuel does in verse 6. So let's stop here for some applications to the moral and physical weaknesses You see in human authorities drive you to trust God more and more? It's a good question to ask anytime, but especially poignant in election year. Do the moral and physical weaknesses you see in our candidates lead you to deeper trust in God? Good leaders, sadly, do not live forever. Bad leaders, mercifully, do not live forever. We should not be looking for an earthly king to solve our problems. Sadly, the Israelites did look for an earthly king to solve their problems because they have rejected the divine king. And that leads to the second point. Rejection of God as king results in disaster Feeling underappreciated and unwanted, Samuel went to the Lord who assured his prophet that it was not him they were rejecting. In reality, they were rejecting God Himself. We see in verse 8 that idolatry was the problem. Idolatry can be an image of a false God, or it can be an image of an ideal human king. They broke the first commandment because they did not put God first. This present sin was completely aligned with the past sin of Israel from the days of Exodus, the journeys in the wilderness, and even their more recent struggles in the Promised Land. They got out of Egypt long ago, but they still needed to get Egypt out of them. They as a people have forgotten how bad it was under the harsh rule of the Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. What is sad about this chapter is that God would have eventually given them a king. God is not anti-king per se. He promised Abraham and Sarah and their grandson Jacob that kings would come from them and their seed. Jacob predicted that the scepter of rule would remain in the tribe of Judah, his son. Moses anticipated that people would want a king and gave strict guidelines in Deuteronomy 17. And in due time, God would have raised up a royal root of Jesse and the seed of David. Ultimately, God had plans to give the world the greatest king. His own son, Jesus. He is perfectly qualified to rule as both Son of God and Son of Man, divine and human, perfect in every way. Why would anyone settle for anything less? Why be like other nations when they are God's special possession? Well, the Israelites decided to settle for less. Now they have to put up with the behavior of their king. The original word for behavior in verses 9 and 11 is mishpat, and it's often translated as judgment elsewhere. But it has a wide range of definitions. And depending on the context, it could also mean custom, such as that of priests in chapter 2 verse 13. team or behavior as such as that of rulers as seen here. Some commentators note how this rhetoric could be a word play, satire, or sarcasm. It's as if God is saying, Oh, you want the judgment of the king? All right, I'll give you the judgment of the king And we don't have to go through all the details of his behavior to figure out that it's going to be bad. David Guzick observes from verses 11 onward, quote, The Lord gives fair warning. Most kings are takers, not givers, and they come to be served, not to serve. If Israel wants a king, they must realize he will be a taker, not a giver, and they will be his servants. Verse 11, he will take your sons. Verse 13, he will take your daughters. Verse 14, he will take the best of your fields, your vineyards, and your olive growth. Verse 15 He will take a tenth of your grain and your vintage. Verse 16, he will take your male servants, your female servants, your finest young men, and your donkeys. Verse 17, he will take a tenth of your sheep. Take, take, take, take, take, take. No wonder we read in verse 18, and you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves. And the Lord will not hear you in that day. Going back to Deuteronomy 17, we see the contrast between the king the people choose versus the king the Lord God chooses. The ideal king does not add, accumulate, or multiply horses, wives, silver, and gold. The typical king does add, accumulate, and multiply for himself. He builds a hedge of protection and privilege for himself at the expense of his subjects. This is what a normal monarchy looked like in a fallen world. They chose this over theocracy, God's benevolent direct rule. Rejection of God as king results in disaster. Like I said above, the king the Lord God chooses is none other than Jesus from the line of David The people should have been satisfied with the promises and prophecies of his coming to sustain them in faith. So their faith would ultimately be in God, not in man. Their faith will be rewarded because the Messiah is not like the kings of other nations The New Testament reinforces how Jesus our King is different than other kings. The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. He was among his followers as the one who serves. The teacher and the Lord washed their feet. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. Jesus, being in the form of God, did not consider robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant. Coming in the likeness of men and being found in the appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. The king of human choosing takes and takes for himself to be exalted over all. The king of God's choosing gave himself a ransom for all, gave himself for us. The king of human choosing enslaves us to be his people, just as kings of other nations do, zealous to work for him. The King of God's choosing redeems us and purifies for himself his own people, his own special people, zealous for good works. 1 Timothy 2 and Titus 2. Will never truly be satisfied with the fellow sinner ruling over us. Why not serve the sinless Jesus? Why not get to know him? The one who gives, gives, gives and gives. Now, if you want to know him as Savior, you must know him as King. Please make no mistake. There's no such thing as accepting Jesus as Savior without accepting Jesus as Lord. That's like saying I accept Jesus as a Jew and a Nazarene, but not as Christ. The very identity of Jesus and his title of Christ, the anointed one. Points to the kingship of Jesus. Give yourself to Jesus Christ the King. Because Jesus Christ the King gave himself to you. He will accept you, though you have nothing to give him. Though you may be poor, weak, sinful in thought, word, and deed, repent and trust in him alone, not in your works. He offers you eternal life, the life he purchased with his own life, die on the cross in your place, rose again from the dead, and awaits the day of his return. To earth, to judge as the wrathful king. Make the choice now to meet Jesus as the merciful King. Those who persistently reject God as king are in grave spiritual danger, a precarious position, a step away from eternal punishment. In fact, because of their unbelief, they stand condemned already. John 3:18 says, He who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. That leads to the third point. Stubbornness of sinful people is permitted as judgment So we wrap up this chapter with Samuel as the goal between the people and God. Samuel is faithful to transmit to the people all that the Lord has told him, and vice versa. Sadly, the people refuse to listen. They maintain their position and dig in their heels. In their minds, the era of judges is over. Let the monarchy begin. The final verse records how God let them lets them have their way. This is a tragic moment. Stubbornness of simple people is permitted as judgments. judgment. Let's apply this individually. We've talked about stubbornness and how it's related to being stiff-necked. I shudder to think what would happen if God unleashed me and let me go my own way. I'm so thankful that he has mercifully brought me back to myself back to himself time and time again. I hope that none of us, for no one we love, gets all that we want for ourselves. That's not a good thing. That itself is a judgment. Stubbornness of simple people is permitted as judgment. Let's apply this corporately in our culture. As we watch in horror the downward spiral and decadence of our society, know that we are not merely headed towards judgment or condemnation. We are already under judgment. As Paul said in Romans, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. He already gave the idolatrous humanity over to uncleanness, vile passions, and debased mind. Okay, so depressed yet. Um, here's some good news. We who submit to Christ can rest assured that God is in control. A king will not rise from Israel, and even evil governments that appear to run amok are not outside of God's sovereignty. Samuel will transition from judge to kingmaker, but that's not without the Lord's permission. God is in control, even in dark times of human stubbornness. The Israelites have made their choice. But what about us? What about you? I'll mention some uh closing applications for the unbeliever, the believer, the church, the political-minded person, and the religious-minded person. First, I address the unbeliever once more. You think you are your own boss and ruler, but your kingdom will not last, and you will not survive the day of judgment. Make that life-altering choice to enthrone him as king. Submit to the righteousness of God instead of establishing your own righteousness. To the believer, we must grow in our submission to Jesus, our King. Continually submit to God and resist the devil, as James tells us Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, as our Lord Jesus told us. To the church, let's continue to pray and stay in his word. As your pastor, I often hear prayer requests and concerns about the state of our nation. Really, the best we can do for each other is to pray and remind ourselves of biblical truths. God is King. He's in control. Jesus, the head of the church, is also the King of kings and the Lord of Lords. To the political-minded person who consumes a lot of news and is very concerned about the politics of today, seek God's grace. Yes, our nation may shake and someday crumble to pieces. Our leaders are weak morally and physically. But the writer of Hebrews, I think, gives us two grace verses. That are, I guess you can say political, but it's also spiritual at the same time. Since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken. Let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. That's Hebrews 12, 28. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Chapter 4, verse 16. We find and claim grace at that throne room. Visit there often. Find Jesus, the King of glory and of grace. Our sympathetic high priest sitting at the right hand of the Father. He's in control. Finally, to the religious mind that individual Christian who don't really care about politics, my political statement is that you would ask God would reign in you, reign in us through his spirit. That he would be king. If you don't know how to ask for this, perhaps this Puritan prayer from Valley of Vision can be an inspiration. O God of the highest heaven, occupy the throne of my heart. Take full possession and reign supreme. Lay low every rebel lust. Let no vile passion resist thy holy war. Manifest thy mighty power and make me thine forever. Thou art worthy to be praised with my every breath, loved with my every faculty of soul, served with my every act of life. As we close, we will sing a song based on this very prayer. Let's make our religious and political statement. The Lord is the great God and the great King above all gods. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you confessing. Our rebellion, that we come before you confessing our weakness, moral weakness, physical weakness. That we don't deserve to sit on the throne where you rightfully sit. We confess that we have rejected you And at times, even in our walk, even in our sanctification, or that tendency, that inclination to reject you and make ourselves the king. Lord, it creeps back. Pray that you'll give us the power through your Holy Spirit. Lord, we confess that we are stubborn. We want it our way. Lord, when you challenge us and when you show us gently and lovingly and kindly through your word and persuasively, we still say no. And Lord, we confess that when we say you are king, and when we sing these songs and hymns, and when we read these passages, Lord, we have not been good servants. But we're thankful that we find forgiveness in your Son Jesus Christ. Who is the humble king who showed us, not only forgiving us of our sins, but showing us how to live a life that is pleasing to you. So we pray that as we sing this last song and as we meditate on your passage, on your word, may we be able to say more than ever before, in a new way, each and every day, that you are King over our lives. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.