Well, one of the benefits of growing older is seeing predictions of a dark future come to nothing. I'm sure people were relieved that as 1984 arrived, George Orwell's dystopian future vision was not realized. The so-called Mayan prophecies predicting that the world would end in 2012 were not true. Some of these are entertaining, some are silly, while still others are eerily coming to fruition. There is one more I want to mention. In 1992, English writer Phyllis D. James wrote a book entitled The Children of Men. It depicts a dystopian future set in, you guessed it, 2021. What's most interesting about this future is this. Mankind is reeling from mass infertility and is on the brink of extinction. In mid-90s, sperm count dropped to zero, and the last people to be born were marked as omegas, and they enjoy many special privileges. In the span of about twenty-five years, these omegas are spoiled and act-entitled. Newborn animals are idolized in place of newborn babies. Except for a privileged few, the elderly and the infirmed are forced into suicide. Thankfully none of this is happening. But like many dystopian novels, readers are motivated to keep the fiction from moving into reality. I hope you don't need much convincing that we'd be impoverished in a world without children, with our babies and infants. In place of such a sad outlook, I'd rather meditate on the visions of Isaiah The visions of the coming millennial kingdom, the wolf shall dwell with the lamb, the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, the calf and the young lion and the baffling together, and a little child shall lead them. Isaiah 11. No more shall an infant from there live but a few days. Isaiah 65 Instead of a dystopia without children, we await a utopia with children. And not only are literal children there in heaven, but there will be saints who are like children in the best possible way. I think that kind of vision is what Jesus had in mind in today's passage in Luke 18, 15 to 17. Let's turn there now. Then they also brought infants to him that he might touch them, but when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to him and said, Let the little children come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God. Assuredly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. Because this is a short passage and familiar to most, we might skim over it without much care. But I'm willing to bet this is an important passage for this church. It must be so important that you get a stained glass window of Jesus with children and hang it up there. It must be so important that in our church history past, we've expanded much energy, time, and money to reach the children of the community. It must be so important that we're gearing up for another nine months of awana during the school year. So then we must peruse these verses and not skim over them. And if we read these three verses carefully, we notice some repetition, and usually repetitions signal some kind of emphasis. Notice little children in verse 16 and little child in verse 17. Note also the kingdom of God in both of those verses. That helps us connect this passage to the broader theme of responding to the kingdom in chapter 17, verse 11 to 19, verse 2017. And that's the last major section of the travel narrative. So, as we ask, how do we respond to the advancing kingdom of God? We look at children for answers both literally and symbolically. As we think about communicating the good news of heaven, we consider the little ones both as direct objects and object lessons. I see two principles from Luke 18, 15 to 17. Evangelize children. That's verses 15 to 16. sixteen and two resemble children verse seventeen. First evangelize children This incident is recorded in the two previous Gospels, Matthew and Mark. Just to be clear, Matthew, Mark, and Luke do not contradict each other or attempt to change the story as they saw fit. Each one is telling or retelling his own unique version of the story with preferred emphasis and de-emphasis. There's no need to question that this incident really took place. But it is enlightening to look at the story from all three different angles. So I'm gonna hop around a little bit between the three Gospels if you want to follow along. Since it's a fairly short story, I'll read the parallel accounts in entirety. First, let's go to Matthew 19, 13 to 15. Matthew 19, 13 to 15. Then little children were brought to him that he might put his hands on them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, Let the little children come to me and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and departed from there. So Matthew spells out that the crowds wanted Jesus to put hands on the children to pray for them. I don't think they merely consider this a symbolic gesture. Recall how Jairus, the synagogue ruler, requested back in Matthew 9: My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her and she will live. He did, and she was miraculously revived. Also, recall how the report of this miracle went out into all that land, even if there's nothing wrong with the children brought to Jesus. What parent wouldn't want him to pray for them, put his hands on them and pray for them? So then Matthew supplies more detail than Luke concerning Jesus' actions. Mark supplies more details too. Not only concerning what Jesus did, but also what Jesus felt. Let's turn to Mark 10. Mark 10, 13 to 16. Then they brought little children to him, that he might touch them, but the disciples rebuked those who brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was greatly displeased, and said to them, Let the little children come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God Assuredly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. And he took them up in his arms, laid his hands on them, and blessed them Mark begins the narration in much the same way as Luke and includes Christ's exhortation to be childlike. But we have a fuller display of his emotions here. When the disciples rebuked those who brought the little children, Mark tells us that Jesus was greatly displeased. We're not talking about annoyed, disturbed. We're talking about indignation. This is how our Lord feels when his disciples mistakenly think that he has no time for little children. Perhaps there were more important figures standing in line to see Jesus, like the Pharisees, or someone similar to the rich young ruler in the next passage. But they assumed wrong. Far from keeping distance, Jesus held them close. He took them up in his arms, laid his hands on them, and blessed them. Okay, now back to Luke eighteen, fifteen to seventeen. Luke does add one key detail lacking in Matthew and Mark. We're told in verse 15 that the little children are infants. A different word in the original language than what we find in verses 16 and 17. I want to make two notes about this word, one concerning the definition. And second, concerning the translation. First, definition-wise, infants are a smaller subset of a larger category of little children. Think nurseries and diaper stations more than awana or children's church. So Luke is more specific than Matthew and Mark in describing their specific life stage. Another note on the word infant concerning its translation. When it comes to verse 15, I prefer the translation of the New International Version and the New American Standard Bible. Instead of infants, they have babies, and I think that's more consistent. Back in chapters 1 and 2, he used the same word to describe John the Baptist and Jesus in their early lives. The same word Luke uses to describe baby Jesus in chapter 2, wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger. is used to describe John the Baptist inside the womb of his mother in chapter 1. Interestingly, Luke did not see a categorical difference between a baby inside the womb and the one outside of it. They're both babies. Now, all this to say the same word for babe in Luke 1 and 2 is used here in Luke 18, verse 15, in the plural. I don't deny that toddlers and older children were brought to Jesus during his ministry. Check out the scene in Jesus' triumphal entry in Matthew 21, verse 14 to 17. We sang about that gathering of children in the hymn, Hosanna, Loud Hosanna. I'm not saying the principle of evangelized children cannot extend to older children and teenagers. I'm just saying proper exegesis and harmonization of Matthew, Mark, and Luke here reveal how this story is about very young children, closer to months in age. than years in age. It's worth establishing this these details correctly Now the general principle of evangelized children isn't difficult to understand, but it can be challenging to apply. I'll give one misapplication and some proper applications. In an article of New Horizons. The magazine of Orthodox Presbyterian Church. I saw that Luke 18, verse 15, was cited as a proof text for so-called infant baptism, which I believe is not really baptism at all. As much as I admire my Reformed Presbyterian brothers in Christ, I cannot follow this practice. Preach the gospel to them at a young age? Absolutely. Read the Bible? Yes. Sing hymns to them? Please do. But sprinkle them in water and declare them part of the covenant community in parallel with the circumcision of Israel. I don't think that's really a proper application of Luke 18, verse 15. Let's wait until individuals make their own professions of faith. Now for some proper applications. I think whether you're a Baptist or a Presbyterian, we all want to see our loved ones know Christ as soon as possible. Even at a very young age. So what can we do, practically speaking? I understand that I shall not hinder children from coming to Christ. We don't want to be like the disciples here who rebuked and forbade those who brought little ones to Jesus. Of such is the kingdom of God. So what can I do to do the opposite? Now this will be a perfect time in this kind of sermon to insert Parenting principles and resources, I'd certainly benefit myself from them. But a few days ago, I spoke with a former pastor of this church, Dan Peters, and I regularly seek accountability and encouragement from wiser, more experienced, and more skilled pastors like him. As some of you know, Dan Peters is a grandfather of, if I recall correctly, eighteen grandchildren. Anyway, he has a lot of grandchildren. I'm getting the sense that most of us here are more like him and Diane than me and Ira or Mark and Lauren. So I'm talking to him about today's sermon passage. It's giving me tons of ideas and applications for grandparents. He encouraged me to check out a ministry called Legacy Coalition. I encourage all of you who are parent grandparents to do the same. Go to Legacy Coalition, that's one word. com. And I love the message at the center of the front page Grandparents have an important spiritual role to play. Culture says it's time to take it easy and enjoy spoiling your grandchildren. Scripture says, grandparents are called to a greater level of influence. Teach them to your children and to their children after them. Deuteronomy 4:9. As a Christian grandparent, you are important to your grandchildren. You are in a unique position of influence. You can build and grow relationships with your family. I think that's the contemplation of Asaph in Psalm 78. And I hope that that becomes your vision and prayer. Do you realize that you as a Christian grandparent occupy a unique position of influence? Let me list some things you can do to evangelize grandchildren. Some applications are from Dan and some I've thought of myself. I hope at least one application can become yours. First and foremost, encourage your children to teach God's truth to your grandchildren from an early age. You the parent used to raise children. Now see if you can raise parents of children. Raise them to be good parents Wisdom of parenting is definitely a benefit we receive from our parents. Write grandchildren letters or cards of encouragement and prayer. You can include with those gospel tracts or other Christian literature. Better yet, why don't you put to use your personal salvation story? I asked you a while ago to prepare a 500-word personal testimony Keep a copy of it with you and share it with others when opportunities arise. Now, perhaps with all the COVID restrictions, your contact with unsafe neighbors have dried up. But you can still send your testimony to your grandchildren. Sure, you can tell them about the good old days or complain about how bad things have become, but I don't think you can do better. than telling them about how you met Jesus. If the Lord has blessed you materially Finance their participation or enrollment at a Christian school or another parachurch organization Of course, they have to be the ones you trust. And some of you know Pastor Ed Simpson of Harvester Baptist Church Who serves alongside his son Matthew? And I read this in their website that Matthew had a breakthrough spiritual experience at Wilde's Christian camp. And though I've not been there myself, I've heard great things about it. It definitely got me curious as a parent. Maybe I'll send Nathaniel there someday. Perhaps there are other resources that you believe could help the little ones in your life. Before I came to the States in 1989, I spent some time living with my paternal grandmother Let me tell you, she was scary. Unlike my maternal grandmother, I got whipped and disciplined often when I misbehaved. But she also prayed for me when I got hurt or sick. She made me go to church where I learned the gospel and word-saturated hymns. All this took place at a formative stage in life and set me in a path towards the Lord. I'm thankful for her lasting influence. I'm far from being a grandfather, but being a father for me is enough for me at the moment. Lots of time and energy given. But I can't emphasize to you enough how wonderful it is to be a parent. And for anyone who has a chance to work with children or spend time with them as uncles and aunts. Teachers, and like I said, grandparents, I say it over and over again that it's rewarding. And how is it rewarding, you ask? And that leads to the second principle, resemble children. We move on to verse 17, and there Jesus gives us a universal principle for all. While verse 16 relates to specific babies and their caretakers and Jesus' disciples, verse 17 is about whoever, generally speaking. Whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. There's only one way to be reborn as a child of God, and that is to be childlike. But what does it mean to receive the kingdom of God as a little child would? Jesus can't mean every quality of a child is worthy of imitation. Consider Proverbs 22, verse 15. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. The rod of correction will drive it far from him. We don't want to act like children as they act the fool. Consider also Ephesians 4:13 to 15. There Paul desires the maturity of believers, that we should no longer be children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. By the trickery of men in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, children can be naive and gullible. And we don't want to imitate that. So then what does it mean to resemble a little child? This is where I think Luke provides better contextual clues than Matthew and Mark. In Matthew 19 and Mark 10, this teaching on children follows a teaching on divorce, and there's little connection between the two. But here in Luke 18, the teaching on children comes after the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector. We look there for some help and we find most relevant the second half of verse 14. Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted When we combine the general principle of verse 14 with the general principle of verse 17, we get the interpretive answer we're looking for. What does it mean to resemble children? It means to humble yourself. Instead of overthinking this idea of childlikeness and searching too deep for some moral excellence or innocence in the little ones, let's just look at what's most plain and obvious about them. They're helpless. They're in need constantly. They're dependent Now of course I'm not saying we should be helpless in need constantly and dependent as adults at work or citizens in society. But when it comes to our relationship with God and the kingdom of heaven, we must be childlike. We must seek humility. Rely children. This is easier said than done. When God offers Himself as our Father and promises us good and perfect gifts, how do we react? Do we receive the gifts and the giver with willing and grateful hearts? Like a child? Do we open our mouths wide and expect our Father to fill them? The mighty man of Valor, Naaman, had to get off his horse and chariot Strip off his armor. All the proud marks of adulthood were gone. And he was naked as a babe in the waters of Jordan. Because of that childlike humility, Naaman's flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. The man of the Pharisees, Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews, a teacher of Israel. was told to leave behind his adult learning, to become a pupil of Jesus, be born again, and enter the kingdom of God. Unless you are converted and become as little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. For those of you who have never thought of entering God's kingdom, I encourage you to do so now. Hear and believe in the good news of Jesus. Consider the dreadful alternative. To be excluded from the kingdom of God is to be cast out into outer darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, torment day and night forever and ever. That's the destiny we deserve. Eternal judgment in hell. Because God is holy and just, and we are sinful and evil. Though he is our creator and we are his offspring, we've rebelled against him in idolatry and disobedience. We have become by nature children of wrath. But because God loves us, he did not leave us in our misery God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. God's Son Jesus Christ came to earth, lived a perfect life, and gave himself to die on the cross for our sake. He, the obedient Son, took our place and faced the punishment we deserved. He paid it all at the crucifixion. Died and rose again from the dead and ascended to heaven. He did all this so that we, the children of Wrath, might become the children of promise. Now we can all be sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. If you want to receive the kingdom of God as a little child and enter into it, you must humble yourself and put your faith in Jesus. God's Son. All your hopes of entering heaven must be removed from yourself, your achievements, your qualities, your relationships, your decisions, and be placed on Jesus Christ alone. The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Do not delay. Rely children in their humility and depend on Jesus. Run to Christ. This is the gospel. Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us that we should be called children of God. Relying children in their humility continues even as we mature as Christians. Are we crying out, Abba Father, by the spirit of adoption we received? Having tasted the Lord is gracious, are we as newborn babes? Do we desire the pure milk of the Word that we may grow thereby? Even if you've been walking with the Lord for many years and many decades, I hope you're growing continually in your dependence on the Lord. I hope that the gospel moves you now as it first did long ago. I like how John Piper puts it You never outgrow your need for the gospel. You never graduate to a course where the gospel should not be the center of the curriculum. There is no post-gospel graduate school in the Christian life. The center of every ongoing growth in knowledge Has Christ crucified, risen, received by faith alone like a little child Of course, I'm not saying you are to be saved again and again. I'm saying that upon the stable foundation of salvation, We God's sons and daughters can fall in love with our Heavenly Father over and over. Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Because we're accepted and loved by Him, we can strive to be blameless and harmless Children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. We accomplished this mission by faith in God, who gives us strength to stand as children of promise. Fix our eyes on him, our soul's reward. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for making clear and simple what we must do to be saved. And what we must do as we are saved in reaching out to the helpless in our community, the orphans, the widows, the poor, the lame So infirmed and as you spoke in this passage to little children, we once were helpless, and we still are when we think. About it. Help us to be humble always, even as we mature, to be childlike, to always grow in our dependence on you, Abba Father. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.