The eighteenth-century Scottish philosopher David Hume once wrote, The Christian religion not only was at first attended with miracles, But even at this day cannot be believed by any reasonable person without one. End quote. Well, he's right about one thing Jesus did perform many miracles, and so did his earliest followers. From the very beginning of Christianity, there were miracles. But Hume also states that it would take a miracle to believe in Christianity. I say yes, but for very different reasons than Hume. Hume says Christianity is unbelievable because miracles are impossible and accounts of miracles are not trustworthy. I say Christianity is not believed because we are blind in our sin and it takes a miracle for us to see. Paul wrote in 2 Corinthians 4, 3 to 4. Even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. whose minds the God of this age has blinded, who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, shall shine on them. Do you believe in miracles? If not, I'm afraid we have nothing for you at Faith Bible Church. Our core belief is in God incarnate. Jesus performed miracles, died on the cross, and rose again from the dead. And if your reason and mind does not allow for miracles, your faith and heart will not allow for Jesus. The four accounts of Jesus' life from Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John are filled with signs and wonders. It was a wonderful ministry or full of wonders. And we're going to look at some today in our passage. We will see that Jesus' wonderful ministry points us to his wonderful identity. That's my sermon in a nutshell. His wonderful ministry points us to his wonderful identity. Please turn with me to Luke chapter 4, verse 38, and we will read until chapter 5, verse 16. Luke chapter four, verse thirty eight, to chapter five, verse sixteen Now he arose from the synagogue and entered Simon's house. But Simon's wife's mother was sick with the high fever, and they made a request of him concerning her. So he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she arose and served them. When the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them. And demons also came out of many, crying out and saying, You are the Christ, the Son of God. And he, rebuking them, did not allow them to speak, for they knew that he was the Christ. Now when it was day, he departed and went into a deserted place. And the crowd sought him and came to him and tried to keep him from leaving them. But he said to them, I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this purpose I have been sent. And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. So it was as the multitude pressed about him to hear the word of God that he stood by the lake of Gennesareth, and he saw two boats standing by the lake. But the fishermen had gone from them and were washing their nets. Then he got into one of the boats, which was Simon's. and asked them to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the multitudes from the boat. When he had stopped speaking, he said to Simon, Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. But Simon answered and said to him, Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing. Nevertheless, at your word, I will let down the net. And when they had done this, they caught a great number of fish, and their net was breaking. So they signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish which they had taken. So also were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Don't Do not be afraid. From now on you will catch men. So when they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him. And it happened when he was in a certain city that behold a man who was full of leprosy saw Jesus and he fell on his face and implored him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me un make me clean. Then he put out his hand and touched them, saying, I am willing, be cleansed. Immediately the leprosy left him. And he charged them to tell no one, but go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing as a testimony to them, just as Moses commanded. However, the report went around concerning him all the more, and great multitudes came together to hear and to be healed by him of their infirmities. So he himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed. I have four points in my sermon, all centered around Jesus' identity. You will find the points in the bulletin. Jesus is one servant preacher. We see that in chapter 4, verses 38 to 44. He is too divine master. Chapter 5, verses 1 to 11. He is 3, Grace Giver, verses 12 to 14 of chapter 5. And he is also 4, man of prayer. Verses 15 and 16 of chapter 5. First, we learn from the last seven verses of chapter 4 that Jesus is the servant preacher. Jesus is a true servant who does not care about the spotlight. Look at verse 38. Jesus leaves the public synagogue to enter a private home. See how in verse 40, Jesus worked overtime, past sunset into the night for all the needy patients. Verse 42 seems to indicate that he didn't sleep that night. See also how our Lord takes time to lay his hands on every one of them before healing them. Jesus served so faithfully that he had to go to a deserted place to spend some alone time with the Father. You know, if I was Jesus, and again I am thankful I'm not, and you should be thankful too, then I would have just healed all of them at once, okay, without touching them. But that's not the way Jesus does it. He takes time and cares for each and every individual, not just the masses of people I'm glad that he is my sole physician who cares for me individually. And witness the power of Jesus' miracles. Now, I'm sure all of us have benefited from modern medicine, and you have maybe you were cured of a high fever recently. But what is remarkable is that when Jesus rebuked the fever and it left the lady, we read in the second half of verse 39. And immediately she arose and served them. No grogginess, headaches, nausea ringing in your ears. There's no warning label of side effects for Jesus' healing. He simply spoke, and Simon's mother-in-law was up on her feet and serving the Lord. And we also saw, as we saw last week, this week, Jesus also rebuked demons His holy authority gives them power over them, and they could not help but confess Jesus' true identity. But this here, as you see here, this is another type of authority that makes Jesus' message appealing. In addition to his holiness. We see his humility. You often hear people say actions speak louder than words. I want to modify that. I say actions make words speak louder. And Jesus' acts of service made his preaching speak louder. No doubt Jesus' service to others gained him a great audience. Now how is it that Jesus was so humble and holy, such a servant and a preacher? The answer is that he understood his calling is from God. He had a message and he lived with the purpose. He knew the one who sent him to earth. He says in verse 43, when crowds try to stop him from going to other places, I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also. Because for this purpose I have been sent, sent by God above, the Father. He teaches us that wherever we are, whatever major we choose, whatever career path we take, whatever city we settle in, we must preach the kingdom of God. And we need to do that with humility. Like Jesus, we should strive to serve others always and preach the gospel. The gospel as opportunity presents themselves. In verse 44, we see him departing from Capernaum to reach other cities to preach the good news of the kingdom. He had people to meet and synagogue services to attend. One important encounter is found at the beginning of chapter 5. We're about to see that casual followers of Jesus become his loyal disciples. They're going to learn that he is not just master, not just a teacher, but the divine master. And that leads to the second point of the sermon As expected, great multitudes gather wherever he goes. In verse one We see they have pressed up against him at the shore of the lake of the Nazareth. We also know this lake as the Sea of Galilee and the Sea of Tiberius. Verses 2 and 3 imply that this was not Jesus' first encounter with Peter, his brother Andrew, and the sons of Zebedee, James and John. And I find that interesting that Jesus makes disciples by first asking for help and then helping them. Just being a normal person. I need your help. And now let me help you. As you see in verse four, since Jesus benefited from Simon's vote, he wants to return the favor. And he did a lot more. He said to Simon, launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. Simon responds in verse 5: Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing. Nevertheless, at your word, I will let down the net. Now stop here and consider what Peter may have been thinking, what he could have said to Jesus. I could imagine some few lines of thought here. Quote, this is just my imagination. Jesus, I know that you're a good teacher and you have skills as a carpenter. But I'm a professional fisherman. I've been fishing for a very long time, much longer than you. Nighttime is actually the best time to catch fish. It's daytime now. We were washing and rinsing our nets because we were done and we're about to put them away. I'm tired and I want to go home and rest. We caught nothing. I'm discouraged. I just want to go home and eat a meal and then go to sleep. Besides, there was a noisy crowd gathered here, and you were teaching with a loud voice. All the fish were probably scared off. That's probably what Peter wanted to say. This is a test of Peter's faith. If the desert is where Jesus was tested, the waters will be where Peter will be tested. Will Simon Peter rely on his experience and knowledge, or will he trust and obey? Thankfully, he trusts and obeys, and we see the results in verses 6 and 7. There were so much fish that the nets broke and reinforcement was needed. So much fish that the boats were full and began to sink. Whatever doubts Simon may have had, they were buried under the piles and piles of fish and broken nets. And you might think, well, the payoff for Peter's obedience is the two boatloads of fish. No, I say that's just an add-on. The greatest benefit from this miracle was the realization that Jesus is not only Peter's master teacher, he is the Lord of all. Jesus is the Lord of all areas of my life. My work, my career, all areas of my mind, including my hidden doubts. All areas of my heart where unbelief dwells. Peter felt exposed and confesses in verse 8, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. What does Peter mean by this? Why is he recoiling at Jesus? Peter had an epiphany moment, a eureka experience that left him feeling utterly miserable in sin. He realized Jesus is God and he isn't. He felt in the depths of his soul that Jesus is holy while he is unholy. R. C. Sprohl commented on this passage in his famous book, The Holiness of God, in the chapter entitled The Trauma of Holiness. The trauma of holiness. He wrote, quote, Sinful people are not comfortable in the presence of the holy. Sinful misery does not love the company of purity. Peter got a message that was impossible to miss. The transcendent standard of all righteousness and all purity blazed before his eyes. Like Isaiah before him, Peter was undone. Peter could have melted away from all from the all-consuming holiness of Christ, but he was shown grace. Lord Jesus says in verse 10, do not be afraid. From now on you will catch men. Simon Peter, Andrew, who was also there, James and John, men who caught fish for a living. Um left behind their earthly businesses and entered the kingdom business. They were masters at their work, experienced in their vocation, acquainted with the waters of the lake But now Jesus calls them as their divine master, even though they are inexperienced in the ways of soul winning, they follow him into the unknown in verse 11. There's much to learn here. For one thing, discipleship following Christ is not confined to Sunday school or classrooms or the sanctuary on a Sunday. It could take place on a boat on a Monday. Have you brought Jesus with you to work for school? Now I don't mean that literally, of course. What I mean is this if Jesus sat next to you at your desk or office. Would you trust Him to guide you? Or would you say, Jesus, I know you are my Lord, but you don't understand the business world or the ways of 21st century? You have your ways and I have mine, so let's just leave it at that. Instead, can you trust in Christ enough to say Master, I don't know how following your direction will yield results or bring me success. Nevertheless, nevertheless, at your word, I will obey you. How has the Lord challenged you and rewarded your faith in Him recently? Not just at home, but at work. Do you know Jesus as the divine master? It's not enough for us to know him as Master. Know him as Lord. Know him as holy. Know yourself as human. Know yourself as sentiment. So let's go on. Verses from verses twelve to fourteen, we learn that Jesus is the grace giver. In verse 12, we find Jesus at another city, presumably at an isolated portion of it, where a leopard dwells. Now, in contrast to the parallel accounts in Matthew and Mark, Luke describes the same person as a man who was full of leprosy, not just simply a leper. So then the writer of the third gospel emphasizes his deplorable state. We picture him with rotting flesh all over his body, perhaps with stumps for hands and feet. He seems far gone. Adding to the physical suffering were lonely existence, isolation from society Shame from those who pass by. Leviticus chapter 13 records detailed instructions in the law concerning skin diseases And proper steps to diagnose and quarantine the ceremonially unclean person. There are also specific instructions for the victim of the highly contagious disease. I'm just going to read a few verses from there. This is verse 45 and 46 from Leviticus 13. Now the leper on whom the sore is, his clothes shall be torn, and his head bare, and he shall cover his mustache and cry, unclean, unclean. He shall be unclean. All the days he has to soar, he shall be unclean. He is unclean, and he shall dwell alone. His dwelling shall be outside the camp. And traditions and other laws were added to make sure that there are extra precautions According to Jewish laws and customs, one had to keep six feet or two meters from the leper. If the wind blew toward a person from a leper, they had to keep 150 feet. Or 45 meters away. We feel terrible for this unnamed person, but we understand why these regulations have to be in place. God appointed priests and boundaries to prevent epidemics and outbreaks. Just as we appreciate hospitals, modern medicine and center for disease control, we observe wisdom in these precautions. The leper here has accepted his condition until the day he heard about Jesus. He has heard about the miracles and the healings, and he believed Jesus could save him from leprosy. See how in verse 12 this man calls Jesus Lord. Just as Peter did in verse 8. But I say this leper was even better than Peter. Peter had to witness two bowls of fish and broken necks before calling Jesus Lord, while this leper could only hear isolated reports from his location. Yet this nameless man believed Jesus to be the Lord. Once he caught a glimpse of Jesus, it was not a matter of ability, but the willingness of Jesus. That's why he prostrates himself and says, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. In verse 13, we see that Jesus is not only willing, but compassionately willing. You know, Jesus again could have simply said, be clean, and it would have been done. But he touches the untouchable. He relates with the isolated, and the leprosy immediately left. Now, leprosy would normally spread to another sinful human being, but it could not latch onto Jesus' flesh because he is holy God in flesh. In verse 14, we have Jesus' instructions to the restored man to keep this a secret and be reinstated into society. But go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing as a testimony to them, just as Moses commanded. Now can you imagine how this man's family, friends, and neighbors would have responded? We don't know how long, but probably for a very long time they were separated from him. And now he walks into the city completely healed. Can you picture the scene in Jerusalem? The priests would have squinted their eyes, checked and double-checked, to make sure this man is indeed completely leprosy-free. They would turn to the rarely applied chapter 14 of Leviticus. They will get the two living and clean birds, Cedar Wood, Scarlet, and Hyssop. All required for the restoration ceremony. You see what kind of testimony this is As the priest witnessed this healing. Moses is the lawgiver. All that the law can do is isolate, quarantine, separate. And give instructions after the healing. Jesus is the grace giver, and his grace can restore and give power for the healing. So such amazing grace is heard by many, and we see what happens next. In verse 15, we read the report went around concerning him all the more. And great multitudes came together to hear and to be healed by him of their infirmities. At this point, we learn something about Jesus that Luke repeatedly stresses throughout his gospel. Jesus is a man of prayer. Just when ministry becomes busier than ever, we see that he himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed. Now it's easy to let our pace be dictated by the pace at our workplace, our culture, and I would say as a confession, even our ministries. Jesus could have compromised and made excuses saying, I'm too busy to pray. Besides, I'm the Son of God and I walk in fellowship with the Father and the Spirit daily. I don't have sins to confess. Thank God Jesus didn't say that. He sets the perfect example for us. And what happens when we fail to pray? R. A. Tori, the great evangelist, pastor, and writer, said once. We are too busy to pray. And so we are too busy to have power. We have a great deal of activity, but we accomplish little. Many services, but few conversions. Much machinery, but few results. A more recent insight from a small book on prayer from Pastor John Anuchekka, John O for short, goes like this. Quote, prayer is oxygen for the Christian. It sustains us. So it follows that prayer must be a source of light for any community of Christians. It is to the church what it is to individuals. Reading. Yet many of our gatherings could be likened to people coming together merely to hold their collective breath. This would explain why people seem to have so little energy for actually living out the Christian life. No, that's why we make conscious efforts to pray during our regular gatherings. We pray to praise God, to confess sins, to give thanks. To petition him. From the first prayer of praise to the prayer of confession at the Lord's Supper, we are demonstrating that we are needy people, that we need God. That we do not submit to the tyranny of the urgent. We also need individual prayer times, away from chores, away from social events, away from our computers, away from our offices. Perhaps withdrawing to the wilderness means going to a park, a retreat center, your study room. Whatever it takes to breathe in God's promises and breathe out our burdens in our hearts. For our Savior Jesus, this discipline of prayer would give him the strength to finish his task on earth. Practice makes perfect even the perfect Son of God who practiced prayer. Because Jesus often prayed in the wilderness, he could pray in the Garden of Gethsemane. Your will be done, our Lord said. And then he went to the prophecy. But that wasn't the first time he prayed. He lived a life, a pattern of prayer. And we also see in Gethsemane how his disciples in that hour failed. The aforementioned Pastor John O as this insight, quote, The story of Gethsemane is as much about the power of prayer as it is about the inevitable failure that comes from prayerlessness. Jesus' faithfulness to do God's task is directly tied to his prayer. The disciples' faithlessness is directly tied to their prayerlessness. We see the disciples dozing off without prayer and soon fleeing and failing in their devotion to Christ. But see Jesus, how because he was a man of prayer, he was truly a servant, preacher. We know he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even death of the cross. He was truly a servant preacher. He was truly divine master. Because not only did he do many miracles, he was declared to be the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. We also know Jesus as the grace giver. For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. As we transition into the Lord's Supper, we behold Jesus' amazing humility, divinity. Grace and devotion to the mission to die on the cross for our sins and rise from the dead, so that we may have eternal life. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your son, for sending him to us. We thank you for all the evidence and proofs of who he is. But we thank you for that He did not come in a domineering way as a tyrant, but he came as a servant. And Lord, he preached the good news And Lord, we thank you that He is who He is, the Divine Master, who shows us who we are. That we are sinners. But Lord, you show us grace. You give us grace to the worst sinners. How we in our sin are so similar to the left leper, isolated, in shame. That is a picture of us in our simple state. But we thank you for your grace that overcomes. Lord, we just uh thank you that you showed us the example of prayer. Through your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, we pray that we would pray more. That we would in the bus in the midst of our busy schedule take time to withdraw and We ask for forgiveness for all those times that we have we were too busy to pray. And we wonder why we are so depress depressed and defeated. Lord, may we repent and seek you and become more and more like your Son, Jesus Christ. Prepare all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.