Well thank you again for uh inviting me back. And um I literally feel closer to you today because last time I was here I was up there. But uh it's great to be back and to speak to you God's word. And before we read, um just want to ask you guys a question to consider. Do you consider yourself an optimist or a pessimist? According to one academic, quote, an optimist is a person who sees green light everywhere. While a pessimist sees only the red stuff like the truly wise person is colorblind. The famous philosopher G. K. Chesterton cites a little girl who once said, quote, An optimist is a man who looks after your eyes, and a pessimist is a man who looks after your feet. And he continues, I'm not sure that this is not the best definition of all. There's even a sort of allegorical truth in it For there might perhaps be a profitable distinction drawn between that more dreary thinker who thinks merely of our contact with the earth from moment to moment, and that happier thinker who considers Rather, our primary power of vision and of choice of road. Are you an optimist? Are you a pessimist? And what makes an optimist or a pessimist? What causes an individual to march forward with competent strides, chest out, eyes beaming at the unknown to come? And what causes another person to look down, mince every step, test every footing, and proceed, missing out on the beauties of the trail It could be personality. Some people like to plan vacation trips a year in advance down to every single minute. Others like to book their flights, pack their bags, depart all in the same day. I'm not like that. It might be that our past have determined our outlook on the future. It's not unreasonable to think that someone, an adolescent who was had a tough childhood, may have a hard time trusting people as he goes older. But onward we must go, impelled by the flow of time. I don't have any pop psychology or quick fixes for anyone here today. Um I don't know whether you fear the future or don't fear it enough. I could offer some personal advice, but I'm willing to bet that many of you here have a lot more life experience than I do, right? But I would like to point to someone in the Bible who was in a critical journey himself, and his name is Jacob. And we sang a little bit about him in our hymns. And I'm not sure whether he looked after his eyes with optimism. Or looked after his feet with pessimism. But we can look at his background and we can look at his situation in Genesis chapter 28 and we can try to see. What we can learn from his life as he's about to make this five hundred-mile-long trek from Yershiva to Haran. And what I discovered in meditating in his life is this, that Jacob may not have liked what he left behind and didn't know what was ahead, but he learned to look at what is above. And I hope that's gonna be our testimony for us too. But let's read the uh text for today, Genesis 28. And I'm reading from the New King James Version Genesis 28, verse 10 to the end of that chapter. Now Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran So he came to a certain place and stayed there all night, because the sun had set. And he took one of the stones of that place and put it at his head. And he lay down in that place to sleep Then he dreamed, and behold, a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven. And there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I'm the Lord God of Abraham, your father, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and your descendants. Also your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth. You shall spread abroad to the west and the east, to the north and And the cell. And in you and in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Behold, I am with you, and will keep you wherever you go, and I'll and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have spoken to you. Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, how awesome is this place? This is none other than the house of God. And this is the gate of heaven. Then Jacob rose early in the morning and took a stone that he had put on put at his head, set it up as a pillar, and poured oil on top of it. And he called the name of that place Bethel. But the name of that city had been loos previously. Then Jacob made a vow, saying, A God will be with me. And keep me in this way that I am going, and give me bread to eat and clothing to put on, so that I come back to my father's house in peace. Then the Lord shall be my God. And the stone which I have set as a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that you give me, I will surely give a ten to you. So like I said, we're situated here in this journey of Jacob And we're going to take a look at what he has left behind and very quickly look at what he has to look forward to before we focus on the main subject of this passage, what he looked up into heaven for. So, what did Jacob leave behind? We know that Jacob was not only leaving behind the land, but he was leaving behind some deep, unresolved family problems. The main reason he had to depart was his twin brothers intention to kill him. Like, how did it get to that? Right. I wonder if Jacob was looking over his shoulder as he hurried out of Beersheba. I wonder if he was lying awake at night, wondering whether his big athletic brother is gonna catch up to him. And just you know, beat him up or drive a knife into his heart in the dark. I mean, it's must have been terrifying. And how did he get there Well, as family problems go, it's complicated. We'll have to go all the way back to the birth of Esau and Jacob. Let's turn back to Genesis 25, verses 19 to 28. And we'll see how it all began. So Genesis Genesis 25, verses 19 to 28. This is the genealogy of Isaac Abraham's son. Abraham begot Isaac. Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah as wife, the daughter of Bethu, the Syrian of Hedon Aram, the sister of Laban, the Syrian. Now Isaac pleaded with the Lord for his wife, because she was barren, and the Lord granted his plea, and Rebekah his wife conceived. But the children struggled together within her, and she said, If all is well, why am I like this? So she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb. Two peoples shall be separated from your body. One people shall be stronger than the other. The older shall serve the younger. When her days were fulfilled for her to give birth. Indeed there were twins in her womb, and the first came out red. He was like a hairy garment all over, so they called his name Esau. Afterward, his brother came out, and his hand took hold of Esau's heel. So his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them. So the boys grew, and Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field, but Jacob was a mild man, dwelling in tents. And Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his king, but Rebekah loved Jacob. So this starts out as a good story. Isaac and Rebecca through prayer and faith and perseverance, overcoming barreness and having twin boys. And God reveals to Rachel, I'm sorry, Rebecca, that there are two sons in her womb destined to be progenitors of two nations But nonetheless, the older will serve the younger. And the question here is, did Isaac know about this? I find no reason to doubt that Isaac knew this prophecy, that the older son Esau would serve the younger Jacob. Yet we see here parents not being on the same page. Isaac favored Esau and Rebekah favored Jacob. Now there's good things to learn from Isaac's life. He was a man of prayer, as you can see. But he seems to have forgotten or ignored God's prediction Why? Because he likes meat. We all can um lose sight of God's promises at times. Next we see justified. Let's continue with verses twenty-nine to thirty-four. Now Jacob cooked the stew, and Esau came in from the field, and he was weary. And Esau said to Jacob, Please feed me with that same red stew, for I am weary. Therefore his name was called Edom. But Jacob said, Sell me your birthright as of this day. And Esau said, Look, I'm about to die. So what is this birthright to me? Then Jacob said, Swear to me as of this day. So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob. And Jacob gave Esau bread and stew of lentils. Then he ate and drank, arose, and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. Like his father, the firstborn Esau was severely short-sighted because of food. The hunter was living for the moment and did not consider the consequences of the choice he was about to make. See, birth pride wasn't just getting the double portion of the inheritance. The firstborn had the responsibility To become the head of the family, the spiritual leader, the protector of the heritage. But all that didn't matter. The voices of conscience were drowned out by the sound of his growling stomach. But let's not think that Jacob was innocent here either. He coveted the rights of the firstborn and took advantage of his older brother's weakness. Martin Luther points out this transaction between the twins was invalid to begin with. God had already promised to uh promised to to Isaac and Rebecca that Jacob would be the recipient. of the patriarchal blessings. But what is Jacob trying to do here? He's trying to secure God's blessing with his own efforts. With the bowl of stew and an oat. Esau tried to sell something that didn't even belong to him in the first place. All that this exchange does is reveal Jacob's conniving character and Esau's carnal nonchalance for the spiritual things. And Esau's pattern of canality would continue later in life. Turn with me to chapter 26 and near the end of it, verse 34 to 35. When Esau was forty years old, he took as wives. Judith the daughter of Biri the Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite. And they were a grief of mind to Isaac and Rebekah. Just two verses here, but it reveals something very important about Esau. Through marriage he covenanted with the people of Canaan who worshiped false gods and idols. He now has spouses and in-laws that are under God's condemnation. This act went completely against the custom that Abraham set back in chapter 24 for Isaac. He sent his servant hundreds of miles to find a wife for Isaac, Rebecca from his home country. So Esau couldn't control his hunger, and he can't control his lust. So Moses here in his this narrative of Genesis confirms what the writer of Hebrews says in chapter 12, verse 16. Esau was a fornicator and a profane person who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. So at this point, Isaac and Rebecca had enough body of evidence to forego the formal custom, the normal custom of blessing the older. But again, Isaac showed signs of short-sightedness. Both literally and spiritually. Let's see what happens in chapter 27. We'll just read the first ten verses and summarize the rest. So chapter 27. Chapter twenty seven, verses one through ten. Now it came to pass when Isaac was old and his eyes were so dim that he could not see, that he called Esau his older son and said to him, My son, he answered him. Here I am. Then he said, Behold now I am old. I do not know the day of my death. Now therefore, please take your weapons, your quiver, and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me. And make me savory food, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat, that my soul may bless you before I die. Now Rebecca was listening when Isaac spoke to Esau, his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt game and bring it. So Rebecca spoke to Jacob, her son, saying, Indeed, I heard your father speak to Esau, your brother, saying, Bring me game and make savory food for me. That I may eat it and bless you in the presence of the Lord before my death. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to what I command you. Go now to the plot and bring me from there two choice kits of the goats, and I will make savory food for from them for your father, such as he loves. Then you shall take it to your father, that he may eat it, and that he may bless you before his death Again, as I said before, Isaac and Rebekah are not on the same page. And Isaac acts irrationally, first by ignoring or forgetting what God had promised to his wife, namely that the older will serve the younger. Secondly We just read in chapter 26 that Esau's marriages grieved Isaac and Rebekah. Why not bless Jacob instead? Thirdly, he thinks his failing eyesight indicates that death is just around the corner. Isaac was indeed old, at least by our standards, at the age of 137, but he would actually live up to 180. So remember the patriarchs lived much longer than we did. So forty-three more years from this moment. He did not need to pass on the firstborn blessings right now. And we as you may know, this story is very famous. Rebecca's plan to have her favorite Jacob masquerade as Esau, deceive Isaac, and receive the blessings instead. Jacob executes the rules. And he's not some teenage boy just following along with his mother's plan. Jacob was a fully grown adult at this time. He knew exactly what he was doing. He was a willing and able accomplice in the plot. And he f performed well. Esau comes back, he's left without a blessing, and planned to kill Jacob after his father's death. Rebekah hears of the product and then instructs Jacob to pack his bags and leave for Haran, where his uh uncle, uh Laban, lives, until Esau's anger subsides. And Rebecca intended this to be a short getaway, just to and to buy time to pacify Esau. But it turned into decades of separation. And Rebecca will never see Jacob again on this side of eternity. Isaac sends him away telling him to find a wife from Laban's family. Esau hears about this, and finally he takes a non-Canaanite woman as a wife, but he did not give up his former ones. What does this all amount to? All this scheming, striving, conniving demonstrate how damaging human wisdom can be. When we do not rely on God and His revelation, His promises, and we try to secure for ourselves the good things of life. Only if Isaac listened to God's revelation to his wife. Only if Rebekah communicated openly with her older son. Only if Esau didn't despise his family position. And Jacob, in the words of J. I. Packer, was a self-willed mother's boy, blessed or cursed, with all the opportunist instincts and a moral ruthlessness of a go-getting businessman. And now we see what lies ahead of him. Jacob must be weaned away from trust in his own cleverness, the dependence on God. And he must be made to abhor the unscrupulous double dealing which came so naturally to him. And what lay ahead of Jacob, what he had to look forward to, and we'll know this by just reading the next few chapters, were two decades under someone who was even a bigger swindler than him. His uncle Laban. He tricks the trickster into marrying Leah and working seven more years on top of the seven years he worked for Rachel. So we see him in this passage, back to this passage in Genesis 28, between these two family struggles, between the past problems of his immediate family. And upcoming problems with his extended family. And what he needed was a vision beyond his earthly troubles. He needed a vision of heaven. Same with us, when we can't bear to look back into our past, or our future looks bleak. We can by God's grace look up to heaven. So let's discuss the details of Jacob's strength. Back in Genesis twenty-eight. We know that Jacob's lodging place was previously called Luz, but more famously known as Bethel, which is going to play a very important role in the history of Israel later. But we're gonna talk about the individual Israel, not the nation at this time. And what he saw in this vision are two things This ladder and God. And the ladder is described in verse twelve. It's a ladder that stretches from earth to heaven with angels ascending and descending upon it. Not something you see every day. The original language suggests something like a staircase, like a stone staircase, but we know clearly that it's some sort of, the function is clear. God of heaven does not stand aloof from affairs of earth. We believe the God of the Bible. We don't we are not theists. We don't believe that God has just created the world and just Left it to his own workings. He is active and he is doing things in the world. He reigns over all. Spurgeon said this about this passage. Quote: The God of Bethel is a God who does concern himself with the things of earth, not a God who shuts himself up in heaven. But God who had the letter fixed between heaven and earth. That's the God that we serve So there's this closeness. But Jacob also sees the Lord, Yahweh, the self-existent God, the God who appeared to Abraham and Isaac, standing above the latter. Just when Jacob felt the most lonely and vulnerable, away from his family for the first time ever, he meets the one being in the universe he needs the most. And God doesn't bring gifts and blessings of physical nature. He brings himself. That's what Jacob needed. And God is not a foreign limited deity whose jurisdiction ends and begins over a single nation. He owns everything, every inch of the universe, and he has the right to give it to Jacob and his descendants. And he further promises that Jacob's progeny will be like the dust of the earth, spreading in every direction, and becoming a conduit of blessing for all peoples. And he concludes with the assurance that he will be with Jacob, protect him and bring him back to the promised land, fulfill all that he has predicted. Do you have this kind of vision of God? Do you have a high view of Him? Do you know the God of the Bible who does not need anything? He is eternal, unchanging, everywhere at once, all-powerful, sovereign, unique, holy, transcendent? We are anything but those things. We're mortal, fickle, limited, weak, without authority, and unholy. We have to learn to look up to God just as Jacob did. Let's think about Jacob here. It hitherto so no authority that he couldn't circumvent. By deception he could r uh rise above his older brother and father. And there's but there's no way to get around sneaking behind or climbing above this being. He didn't just meet his match, he met the matchless one. He could climb every ladder of success, but he dare not approach this ladder of heaven. This ladder is not a magic beanstalk to climb and defeat a giant. There's no defeating. This eternal God, this powerful God. So Jacob was amazed at this high view of God that he was receiving in this vision. But we also see how much God shows grace to sinners. The fact that it's a vision of a ladder to begin with, that God is near us. This eternal being who is wholly other, so far above us, is at the same time together, so close with us. This is kindness, mercy, and privilege that we all as believers have. Now, if we're truly honest with ourselves, we can relate with Jacob in many ways. I can look back at my own life and yes, there are family struggles. I have a painful breakup of my family. Missed opportunities with my father. All the ways that I grieving my mother. All the ways I'm probably grieving with my wife right now. The times I put my ambitions ahead of my morals. The list goes on. I'm not that different from Jacob. I wonder if you feel the same way. And in the same way that God met Jacob at Bethel, he meets us as the sovereign yet loving God. We as New Testament believers have something greater as this ladder to heaven. Actually, we have some one as the ladder to heaven. Between earth and heaven, between mortals and immortal God, between sinners and the holy God. Jacob saw a dream which he had to recall in reality. We as believings are living in a dream come true. Why? Because we know Jesus Christ. He came down on earth to be the way, the truth, and the light. And no one comes to the Father except through Him. He is our personal Savior connecting us to eternal life. And what did he accomplish on earth? He endured God's wrath. He was severed from his heavenly Father, dying on the cross, rising from the dead on the third day, and ascending to heaven. Now he calls all sinners to repent, turn away from their sins, and trust in him. as the access to eternal life. And I pray and hope that everyone in this room has received that gracious invitation from Jesus. And this is not just a fanciful reading where I'm connecting Genesis twenty-eight with the New Testament. It's straight from Jesus' mouth. In John chapter one, when Jesus began his ministry. One of his first disciples was a man named Philip. Philip had a close friend named Nathaniel. So Philip naturally went to Nathaniel and said, hey, you gotta check off this guy. Jesus supernaturally knew the exact location where Nathaniel was before they met under a fig tree. And Nathaniel is amazed and he is He is convinced that this is the Messiah. Okay, I need to follow this guy. But Jesus tells him this in verses 50 and 51 in John chapter 1. Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Most assuredly, I say to you, hereafter you shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. The language Jesus uses there is very deliberate. You shall see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Jesus is the ladder to heaven. That's what Nathaniel learned, and that's what we have learned. And that's why our eyes should be fixed upward, full of faith and hope in heaven, not optimistic or pessimistic about things of life on earth. Consider the words of Apostle Paul in Philippians chapter 3, verse 12-14. Let these words speak to you and give you comfort. Not that I've already obtained or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. But one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Also consider Colossians chapter 3, verse 1 to 3. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. I hope that your life is changed by this experience of Christ. So we can ask you how is Jacob transformed by this theotypic revelation? But commentators have noted that this patriarch was far from perfect in his response. Verses 16 and 17 suggests that he was more impressed with the location. And the setting of the vision than the contents of the vision itself. It is human nature for us to revere specific spots in the world that holds significance to us personally. But we saw in verse 15 that God's promise was to be with Jacob wherever he goes, that he will not be abandoned. But how does Jacob respond? Well he has to see that God was with him first before he would believe. You see the vow in verse 20? He puts a big if in front of the promise. The conditions that are are uh stipulated there by Jacob is that God must provide for him and bring him back to the back home before God will be his God. The pillowstone will be a pillar, and he will give a tent. of all that he has. I think he still has a bit of this business bargaining tendencies that are very much second nature to him Now I'm not doubting Jacob's faith is there. It's there, but it's in his formative stages. And it would have been so much better though if he prayed in faith. Thankfully owning the promises and competently moving forward. It would be great if Jacob didn't worry about what to eat or what to wear, but saw first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness. It would have been better if he dedicated hundred percent of his life, time, identity, money, instead of just ten percent To the Lord who already owns it all. And there's much learning that he has to do. And as we if you were to go on with Genesis, you'll learn that he does learn these lessons. God is so patient and careful with his weak faith and cultivates it. Many years later later, Jacob would indeed realize that God didn't abandon him during his sojourning in Haran. In chapter thirty-one, God appears to Jacob again in a dream and reveals himself to be the God of Bethel. And the reason that God is the God of Bethel is because God is the God in Haran, God is God in Egypt, God is God everywhere. And we see him even finding the courage to go in later in his life to Egypt to rejoin his uh son Joseph. A land full of idols, but he knows that God is with him. So we shouldn't be so quick to judge Jacob here. Jesus had to rebuke his own disciples, repeatedly calling them, Oh you of little faith. Let's look at our own fate, okay? Back when we first started to believe. I have nothing to be proud of there. The moments of sin. Where I would not believe God was there with me. There were seasons of doubt. But thankfully, God not only grants us faith, but grows it. Praise the Lord that He doesn't have unfinished projects. amongst his saints. Again, let's we can turn to Philippians chapter 1, 3 to 6, where Paul is confident of the success Of the Philippians spiritual journey. And why is he so confident? Philippians chapter 1, 3 to 6, it says I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Jacob's journey is not the end of anything, it's the beginning because he saw this vision of God. The ladder, and this God who stands above it. And we have that same vision of Jesus connecting us to the Father in heaven. And what would a life that's transformed by a glorious vision like this look like, other than Jacob? Perhaps someone who's closer to our time. Maybe it might look like the life of Isabella Trotter. She was a supporter, she was a British Protestant, a supporter of Dwight L. Moody, the great American evangelist. She had an exceptional skill as a self-taught artist, but she decided to give herself fully to ministry. She fearlessly canvassed the streets near the Victoria Station in central London, and she would go there alone at night to look for prostitutes and persuade them. to learn in employable skills or at least spend the night at a hospital. By the time she reached 31, she exhausted herself so much that she had this heart damage. For the rest of her life. But that did not slow her down. On her thirty-fourth birthday, Trotter applied as a candidate to North Africa mission. But due to her faily, um she failed. So she could not become a formal missionary, but The agency allowed her to still go and use her own resources for support and she left for Algeria with two other women. Chatter recalls the moment they arrived at Algiers, quote, three of us stood there, looking at our battlefield. None of us fit to pass a doctor for any society, not knowing a soul in the place, or a sentence of Arabic, or a clue for beginning work on untouched ground. We only knew we had to come. Surely if God needed weakness, he had it. The woman diligently studied the language and the customs and learned to take care of themselves with our servants which they were they grew up with. They had some good initial outreach with children and women there, and they became the early converts, though they faced severe persecution in their Muslim culture. The ministry eventually grew and Trata was able to capitalize on the growing number of males and refine the organizational system under their leadership. During her time in Algeria, Charter was very productive with her pen, with her pencil, and paintbrush. One of our written works was a gospel tract entitled Focused, A Story and a Song. That tract contained the following words, which later a hymn writer has adopted. So then turn your eyes upon him, look full into his face, and you will find that the things of earth will acquire a strange new dimness. Let's listen to that exhortation through the Holy Spirit, turning our eyes from what's behind us, what's ahead of us, to look above to our Savior Jesus and our Father in heaven. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you meet us here. You meet us not because we got our life together or or so well to do. Or because we are great fathers or mothers or wives or husbands or We're doing doing so well in our careers. No, that's not the reason you meet us. You meet us in spite of our weakness, in spite of our troubles, in spite of the ways that we have Fail to live a holy life. And you extend your grace to us as the latter was extended from heaven to earth. You send your son Jesus, your only son Jesus. So that we could reach you and have this loving fellowship with you. We thank you for that and we ask that In our times of trouble, that we would approach the throne of grace. Claim the promises that you've already given to us through your Son Jesus Christ. And live confidently. Not in ourselves, not in the circumstances that we face, but in your Son Jesus Christ by faith. Thank you, and we pray us in Jesus Christ's name.