Yes, no, wait. So I was taught as a young Christian that those are the answers to every prayer from to God And praise God for all the yeses to the promises of the gospel in Jesus. Second Corinthians one twenty says For all the promises of God in him are yes, and in him, amen, to the glory of God through us. So we have these guaranteed yes when it comes to the promises of the gospel. You know, I'm even thankful for the nose, as God has not granted selfish desires of my heart. What kind of father gives everything the child wants? Not a loving one. But really it's weight that I have trouble accepting. Yeah. I bet my puppy has trouble with it too. Um Um if I tell her to perform any other trick, she will eagerly do it, sometimes faster than I can finish saying the the command. But wait can go on for many Many moments, I'm imagining agonizing moments for the dog. Yet God makes us wait The Bible is filled with waiting. We're waiting. Even pop psychology tells us instant gratification is bad. But as much as we know, we're not convinced in our hearts. We don't like waiting. Today we'll encounter various people who have to trust in Jesus and his timing, whether it's deliverance from disease, restoration of a family member, or just the very fact that we have to wait for the coming of God. But so often our faith grows as we patiently wait on God. Do we have the right kind of faith as we wait? For Jesus' second coming, for the prayers that we utter before him. Let's look at today's passage together. You'll find the passage in the Insert in the bulletin or turn with me to Luke chapter eight in your Bibles and we're going to To read from verse forty all the way into chapter nine, verse six. So Luke eight forty to chapter nine, verse six So it was when Jesus returned that the multitude welcomed him, for they were all his And behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue. years of age and she was dying. But as he went, the multitudes stronged him. Now a woman having a flow of blood for twelve years who had spent all her liveliho livelihood on physicians and could not be healed by any, came from behind and touched the border of his garments, and immediately her flow of And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, Master, the multitudes throng and press you and you say Say, who touched me? But Jesus said, Somebody touch me, for I perceived power going out from me. Now when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling. And falling down before him, she declared to him in the presence of all the people the reason she had touched him, and now she was healed immediately, and how she was healed immediately Immediately. And he said to her, Daughter, be of good cheer. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace. While he was still speaking, someone came from From the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Your daughter is dead. Do not trouble the teacher. But when Jesus heard it, he answered them, saying, Do not be afraid, only believe. And she will be made well. When he came into the house, he permitted no one to go in except Peter, James, and John, and the father and mother. Now all wept and mourned for her, and for he said, Do not weep, she is not dead but sleeping. And they ridiculed him, knowing that she was dead. But he put them all outside, took her by the hand, and called, saying, Little girl, arise. Then her spirit returned, and she arose immediately, and he covered her Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over the early. For all demons and to cure diseases, he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. And he said to them, Take nothing for the journey, neither staffs nor bag No bread, no money, and do not have two tunics apiece. Whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And whoever will not receive you, when you go out of that city, shake off the very dumb. So they departed and went through the towns preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. So as the sermon title suggests, Jesus deals with three twelves in today's passage in this order. A woman with the flow of blood for twelve years, a twelve-year-old girl who died, and twelve disciples who are commissioned. The common thread that runs through all three has to do with Jesus' authority and our faith in him. So here are the three points. You'll find them in the bulletin or in the insert in the bulletin. One, Jesus recognizes faith in his power for the benefit of others. That's verses forty to forty eight of chapter Chapter eight. Two, Jesus rewards faith in his authority over death, verses forty-nine to fifty-six of chapter eight, now going into chapter nine. Number three, Jesus requires faith in his gospel proclaimed everywhere. Verses one to six. So we understand that Jesus as Lord recognizes, rewards, and requires the right kind of faith from all of us. First, Jesus recognizes faith in his power for the benefit of others. Now I'm feeding the hemorrhaging woman and Jairus' daughter Satan. Separately in two different sermon points, but Matthew, Mark, and Luke consistently narrate the plights of both in one passage. There are commonalities between the two like Like the the fact that we don't know the names of these ladies, gender, the city they meet Jesus, like likely Capernaum. Here's a key difference though. The woman was not well known like the girl because the girl was the daughter of the local synagogue ruler. According to the commentator William Lane, a synagogue ruler quote was a lay official responsible for supervision of the building and arrangement. We can piece together why this woman was shrouded in obscurity. Leviticus 15 contents Instructions on bodily discharges for both men and women. The portion relevant for the menstrual cycle begins in verse 19. The woman must be separated as ceremonially unclean for seven days, and who or whatever she touches will also be unclean. The most relevant part is verses twenty five to twenty seven of Leviticus fifteen, which applies to cases of blood disease. The woman would be perpetually unclean, so she She would need to be separate at all times. Now let's say if we're not sure, but if this condition began from her first period, say around early teens She would have been in her mid-twenties in this encounter with Jesus. I highly, highly doubt that she was married since A Jewish man could not touch her or touch anything she touches without becoming ceremonially unclean himself. She must have felt great loneliness as her peace. Peers were married off and became mothers, while she had to remain with her parents or her siblings. Verse 43. Second Luke says that she spent all that she had to find a cure. Adam Clark records some elaborate teachings given by rabbis to help women like her. Here's a sample. This is gonna sound very strange. Rabbi Jochannan says, Take a gum Alexandria, a balloon, and a corpus cortensis The weight of a Zuzi each, let them be bruised together and given in wine to the woman that hath an issue of blood. If this fail, Take up Persian onions, nine logs, boil them in wine, and give it to her to drink, and say, Arise from thy flux. But should this fail, set her in a place where two ways meet, and let her hold a cup of wine in her hand. And let somebody come behind her and affright her and say, Arise from thy flux. I don't even know what like half of these things are, but I'm Willing to guess that she tried all these approaches. But instead of getting better, Mark 5. 26 says she grew worse. So she turned to Jesus. Matthew and Mark record for us what she said to herself. If only I may touch his garment or clothes. Being so accustomed to isolation, she did she did not want to cause a scene by approaching Jesus in the open She saw an opportunity with the crowds pressing in to sneak up behind Jesus to touch him. Moment she was healed. Mark five twenty-nine is more detailed. Immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of So her plan worked. Now all she had to do was go her way, wait seven days, and on the eighth day offer the required sacrifice before the priest just as Leviticus fifteen says. She would live happily ever after, maybe meet a guy, get married, have kids, TN. Except Jesus will not allow that. See the sermon point is not Jesus allows faith in his power to remain secret. It's not Jesus is okay with his power for the individual's benefit. It's Jesus recognizes faith in his power for the benefit of of others. Our Lord stops the procession to Jairus' house while pressed in on every side he asks Who touched me to the puzzlement of His disciples. Notice how Jesus didn't say in verse 46 that he became unclean. No, he said, I perceived power going out from me. Whereas normal humans would become impure by touching this woman, Jesus remains pure because he is sinless. He does not suffer loss, but channels bless Mark five thirty two says he and he looked around to see her who had done this thing. He probably looked straight into her eyes as he asked. Who touched me. Because he knew. He's not going to let this woman get away without a meeting. So she comes forward to confess Her shameful past and her secret plans were now in the open, and she told everyone the reason she had touched him and how she was healed immediately. Verse 4 forty seven. But Jesus wasn't there to shame her. He didn't respond with harsh criticism, though he had the right to. He didn't say, why didn't you just just asked me to help directly. He could have humiliated her for wanting a benefit without a relationship. Consider how you would feel if someone wanted to use your resources without ever even acknowledging you. Come to think of it, that's how so many so called Christians treat Jesus as a Like that, right? But Jesus recognized her sincere faith, though it was mixed with some empty superstition, but she did have genuine faith. He dismisses her with a blessing in verse 48. Daughter, be of good cheer. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace. You know, if Jesus did not stop to talk with her, the woman would have gone away healed, but she would have lived in obscurity and probably guilt. Instead of some unknown woman in the crowd, she is now known as a daughter of faith. She is part of crowd Christ's family. Instead of regret, now she will remember his words. Be of good cheer. Go in peace. Touching the garment. This experience was a needed corrective to this woman's faith. We may need a similar correction. As a Christian, you want to avoid being an AA member. Now, what does AA stand for? If you said something anonymous, anonymous would be correct. AA Christian is an anonymous and an autonomous member. Anonymous as in you are unknown to a local congregation and unknown. to the neighbors. You don't talk about your faith with Christians, let alone non-Christians. You have completely privatized your belief system. Are you an anonymous Christian? You shouldn't be. You also want to avoid being an autonomous Christian. If you don't seek accountability under a local church's authority, you are by default autonomous and in spiritual danger of despair and or pride. One of my favorite maxims is that everyone needs a Jonathan and a Nathan. Like David. You need a Jonathan and a Nathan. A Jonathan to encourage you when you're humbled, and a Nathan to rebuke you when you're prideful. Join a church and find someone or few people that can fill these roles. That's the kind of community that Jesus invited invites us to and invites Jesus ultimately wants us to declare the truth of our testimony to the world and to the church. That way others can benefit from your faith. So in the faith community, we learn quickly that not everyone's testimony is the same. same some believed as adults, others as teens, others as children. There are those who were saved from disgrace, then there are others rescued from death. One may meet Jesus in a public building while another on her deathbed. And that leads to the next point. Jesus rewards faith in his authority. over death. So while Jesus was finishing up the conversation with the woman, a messenger arrives to inform Jairus that his daughter has died. Now consider how that news must have been received. You know, in in life we all suffer losses, but not all losses are the same. Now concerning certain deaths, we might accept and say it was his or her time. Other instances seem cruel and untimely. But in verse 50, Jesus commands the man to have faith in a future miracle. Jairus renews his faith as we see in Matthew nine eighteen. Look at that later. But he believed Jesus was like Elijah and Elisha, who also restored children to their parents. There's much commotion at the house as Jesus arrives. Matthew 9 23 adds that there were flute players that accompany the wailing. He enters with his parent with her parents and his inner circle. of three, Peter, James, and John. I believe our Lord was training these men, anticipating their future leadership in the early church, and their proclamation of his resurrection. He assures the people at the scene that she is not dead but sleeping, but they ridicule him at these words Now before I go on, I should stop to discuss the word sleep, which is used three main ways in the Bible. I talked about this in our Sunday evening studies of first Thessalonians when I went over chapter four and five. But you can go back and listen to that. But first we can talk about sleep in the most common way Yeah, as when we go home, get in our beds and slumber through the night. Secondly, we talk about sleep as an expression of complacency, apathy, insensibility or inertness. The third type of sleep in the Bible is the sleep of death. Upon death, the immaterial consisting of the spirit and soul continues on while the material ceases operations and rapidly decays. And then where do we go exactly in our immaterial form? Ecclesiastes 12 7 says, then the dust will return to the earth as it was, and the spirit will return to God who gave it. We will meet our Maker, and I pray all of us are ready for that judgment. Praise God that those who trust in Christ do not face the judgment of sinners. As Christians, our sins were judged on Calvary two thousand years ago, so there's nothing to fear, no condemnation. Our spirit, our soul, love wholesome. Straight to God at death, as Paul writes in Second Corinthians five, six to eight. But God never intended that humanity Final state should be disembodied spirits. The final sentence at the end of our statement of faith goes like this. We believe in the bodily resurrection of the dead, both of the just The proof passages listed there are Revelation from Revelation. Corinthians fifteen. We could also turn to Daniel twelve, one to three. Another key text is John five, twenty-five-twenty-nine, and especially relevant to today's passage. I'll read it for you. John 5, 25 to 29. Most assuredly I say to you, the hour is coming and now is when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. And those who hear will live. Whereas the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself, and has given him authority to execute judgment also. Putting it all together. During his ministry Jesus gave us small individual signs of this future resurrection so that we will trust in him for eternal life. Later in the Gospel of John in chapter 11, Jesus wakes up Lazarus, who died, right? In other Gospels we have this account. While we are helpless to reverse that, Jesus can bring back the dead as easy as waking up a baby. So back to the story, Jesus sent away those who ridiculed him and simply commanded, little girl arise. The result was that her spirit returned and she arose immediately. Mark 542 adds that she walked around at once. Like I don't know if we've got to think about that for a second. She was dead and now she's walking around In a matter of moments. Though clearly reinvigorated, Jesus makes sure she eats. Her parents were amazed, but told to remain silent. about this miracle. One reason for this um for this command was so that Jesus could keep the focus of his ministry on his message, not his miracles as he continued to go town to town. He knew there will be a time later when these miracles can be openly spoken of. But Mark uh Matthew nine twenty six, however, tells us that The reports spread anyways. Jesus' authority, his authority over death, is not only proven by this miracle, but his own resurrection from the dead. That's why he can tell us, do not be afraid, only believe. And the exact reason we do not fear death is because second death cannot hurt those who trust in Jesus. And the book of Revelation talks about this. Second death. Second death is eternal torment from God's wrath in the lake of fire. But it has no power over those Jesus will awake first for eternal life. Jesus has satisfied God's wrath against sin at the cross, and now he offers you a way to avoid it, through repentance and If you're not sure whether you escape second death and you are afraid of the first death that leads to the second death, leads you to uh judgment. of sinners, please talk with me or talk with one of the members here. If you're more of a reader than a talker, take all the tracks you want from the lobby And I hope and pray that all of us can face death with courage and faith in Jesus. As Jesus continues And that leads to the third point. Jesus requires faith in his gospel proclaimed everywhere. As we see in verses one and two of chapter nine, the twelve disciples, known as apostles, are given the same authority to exercise demons and heal diseases while protecting The message of the kingdom. Mark six seven notes that the twelve were sent out two by two. So as they went out to preach, the hearers must respond in faith. But you can see how the apostles themselves, the preachers, must have faith too. They are stretched and tested in their faith as Jesus instructs in verse three, take nothing for the journey, neither staffs nor bag, nor bread nor money, and do not have two tunics apiece. According to Jewish tradition, rabbis would carry nothing to the temple, not even a staff or money bag, to avoid the appearance that they were preoccupied with affairs of the They were wholly devoted to the work of holy service, and such is the calling of the In addition, they are to trust completely in the Lord to provide during their mission. As verse 4 states, that provision comes through the hospitality. of fellow believers. You see how faith is required of everyone. Those hearing and those preaching. But Jesus knew in advance that not everyone would respond well. Verse five is interesting in light of another tradition that says Jews must shake off dust from their feet as But we know that Jesus did not want the twelve to go to the Gentiles or Samaritans, or at least at least not yet. Rather he wanted them to go to the Jews, to the house of Israel. And and if they did not believe, Jesus is telling his disciples disciples to treat them like Gentiles. The Jews were certainly privileged to be invited first to God's kingdom. But if they reject Jesus, they will face the same Now if you find it surprising that Jews who saw their miracles, the disciples' miracles rejected Jesus. There's even a bigger surprise. There's one among the twelve who actually cast out demons, cured diseases, and preached the gospel, yet in the end went to hell. I'm talk I'm of course talking about Judas Iscariot. He is the prototype of an apostate, someone who once Now Faith Bible Church not only promotes the true gospel but also true faith in the gospel. We're not only concerned to get the Bible right, but also faith right. That's because there are those in churches today who are deceived about They sincerely believe they are saved and they point to involvement in various church activities and functions in the past. They point to a moment in their past when they initially follow Jesus, but there's nothing to show for after that. No changed lives, nothing. Don't be deceived. Look at Judas' ministry. He rubbed shoulders with Jesus for years and performed miracles, yet the kind of faith that he had wasn't a saving. It's the kind of faith that the writer of Hebrews warns against throughout his book. I hope that you do not possess this kind of false faith It's the sort of defective faith that says, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? We know Jesus' response to such fake professions. I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Having the right kind of faith is the difference between heaven and hell. We need the kind of faith that is required, rewarded And recognized by Jesus. I hope you have such genuine faith as you wait on the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your love and kindness. How you invite us Lord to your grace through your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, how we are like this woman who just suffer privately because of just pains in life or our poor choices or and Lord um we live in isolation, we live we live In secret, hoping that no one will find out our shame. But Lord, you bring us to the light and not to shame us, not to expose us to humiliate us, but to to invite us to your community, to the church, to fellowship, first and foremost with your Son, with you, you and the Spirit. And secondly, through fellow saints, brothers and sisters in Christ. And we pray that we would consider how we can just proclaim our testimonies. what you have done for us to the benefit of others. Lord, we pray that when we face death in life, when we face struggles in life, when we see suffering or that cannot be explained. Or help us to be courageous. Help us not to be afraid. But but believe in your Son Jesus Christ, who has authority over death. Through the resurrection. And we thank you for those who trust in your Son Jesus Christ, who believe in the gospel, that we will be partake in the And Lord, we pray that as we take the gospel to our homes, to our neighborhood, to our school, to our workplace. Lord, give us opportunity to display our faith, to show our faith, and to proclaim it. Lord, give us open doors, Lord, in relationships. Give us conversations where there will be opportunities to share the gospel. Lord, we pray that all those who hear the gospel will realize how important it is. It is to believe that we will remember how important it is, how you require faith in us initially to come to salvation, but Continually as we grow in grace. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.