If you could turn to Hebrews chapter 7, I'll be reading from that in a few moments. Today I want to consider the fact that Christ is our Jesus Christ is our great high priest. We often think of Jesus as our Savior and as our Lord, but there's so much more to Christ that we have to consider and to contemplate, and that we don't truly appreciate him or give him the glory he is due if we don't consider every aspect of his person and of his work. And so I want to consider a perhaps a less thought of or less frequently considered point of who Jesus is and what he does and the fact that he is our great high priest. But before we do that, we need to have a little background. And before I give the background, I want to read a collection of verses from the Old Testament. Somewhat of a stark contrast that Jesus is our high priest. These are collected from Exodus and Leviticus. So they're not next, these aren't verses next to each other, but they are, they tell a story. and a contrast with our great high priest. Aaron took to himself Elishheba, daughter of Aminadab, sister of Nashon, as wife, and she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eliezar, and Ithamar. And God said to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar. Now take Aaron your brother and his sons with him from among the children of Israel, that he may minister to me as priest, Aaron and Aaron's sons, Nadab, Abihu, Eliezer, and Ithamar. You shall anoint them, consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me as priests. And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of meeting and came out and blessed the people. Then the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people, and fire came out from before the Lord and consumed the burnt offering and the fat on the altar When all the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces. Then Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it Put incense on it, and offered profane fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. So fire went out from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord spoke, saying, By those who come near me, I must be regarded as holy, and before all the people, I must be glorified. Now consider what we have here. We have Aaron, a godly man, who had his faults and his failures, but who had four sons, four sons that we're told about at least. And these four sons were supposed to follow Aaron into the ministry of the priesthood. Aaron was the high priest. He had four sons who would be his helpers. And one day when Aaron died, the oldest, Nadab, would become the high priest in his place. But unfortunately, as we see, Nadab didn't follow God's command and was struck down and struck dead by God. And one day later on, his brother Eliezer would become the high priest. In his place, because he had died before the Lord for offering what the Bible refers to as strange fire. So consider and contrast that with these words from Hebrews chapter 7, verse 20 through 28. And inasmuch as he was not made priest without an oath, for they have become priests without an oath, but he with an oath. By him who said to him, The Lord has sworn and will not relent. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. By so much more, Jesus has become a surety of a better covenant. Also, there were many priests because they were prevented by death from continuing. But he, because he continues forever, has an unchangeable priesthood. Therefore, he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. For such a high priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens. Who does not need daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins and then for the peoples? For this he did once for all, when he offered up himself. For the law appoints as high priests men who have weakness, but the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints the Son who has been perfected forever. So we have the contrast of Nadab, a less than desirable priest, who died because he offered strange fire before the Lord, and we have Christ as our high priest who is able to save us to the uttermost because he always lives to make intercession for us. And he's a fitting priest, as we will consider in a few moments. The problem we have as we think about the idea of a priest is that we're not really familiar with priests. We often don't meet a priest on the street. If we hear about a priest in the newspaper or on the television, it's because another priest has fallen into a scandal, usually in the Catholic Church. Maybe if we grew up with a Catholic background, we would be familiar with the idea of a priest. But by and large, a priest is not a person that we often think about. We don't consider the idea of a priest very often in our day-to-day life. It's not something that's talked about much. And so we tend to think that priests aren't very relevant to us. But as we'll see from the book of Hebrews and from the rest of Scripture, Man never approached God after sin without a priest. God instituted a priesthood with the beginning of, with with Aaron and the Aaronic priesthood. When God instituted that. And then there was a go-between between fallen man and God. But the ironic priesthood, as the book of Hebrews says, is a type and a shadow of the heavenly reality. Jesus Christ is the true priest. And God has promised, as we will see here in a minute, that God has sworn by an oath that Jesus Christ would be our high priest. He would be the go-between between us and the Father. And that priesthood didn't just happen when Jesus died on the cross and took away our sins, but it's an ongoing priesthood. It's an eternal priesthood. Jesus will always be our representative to the Father We can call God Father, but we cannot approach God without Christ. That is the way God has designed the world to function. And so We have to realize that we're not going to appreciate Jesus as the high priest if we don't see our need for a priest. One of the problems we have in our society today is that we have this egalitarian or everybody's equal. Your thoughts as good as my thought, your opinion is as good as my opinion, and if you oppose my opinion, you're wrong, you hate me, and you have no right to say that something is right or wrong because in our world, whatever my opinion is Is okay and I can believe that. The problem is that we bring God down to our level and we say, God, who are you to tell us what reality is all about? Who are you to say that I can't just come to God in any way I want to? And if we, because our culture has that viewpoint, has that mentality, often as Christians we slip into that too. We've been taught a lot. If I ask anybody on the streets, this they fill in the blank, God is blank. What are most people going to say? God is God is love, right? Everybody, even if they don't believe in God, know that that's what's supposed to be in the blank there. But the problem is that we have this over-emphasis sometimes on the love of God and we to the neglect, almost to the heresy, that God is only love. And so when we have this idea that God is love and that God is merciful, but we neglect the fact that God is a holy God, He's the just God, and He cannot be approached just in any any way we want to, or just through any means we want to. We will not have an appreciation for Christ as our high priest. Because we cannot approach God without a mediator. We cannot approach God without a high priest. And so some of these, the cultural aspect that we have, the fact that we don't think about priests very often, and the fact that we have this idea that God is an approachable God. Can tend to diminish the importance that Christ is as a high priest. But we want to give Christ the glory, we want to give him the praise for being our high priest, and to do that, we have to have some of this background in place. So, what do these things have to do with us? We need to remember that God is a God of justice. God is a God of holiness. He does not come. Uh and it's not just an Old Testament concept. You know, we know that Nadab was struck down for offering strange fire. We know that Uzah was struck down because he was trying to do a good thing, but doing something that God had said not to do, which is touched the Ark of the Covenant. He was trying to catch it from falling off the cart and God struck him dead. But it isn't just an old con Old Testament concept that God is a God of wrath. God is a God of holiness. He cannot be approached in any certain way. Even in the New Testament, when we see Peter on the Mount of Transfiguration, when we see him encountering Jesus Christ that he had walked with and whose glory had been veiled to that point For that brief moment, the glory of Christ was unveiled, and Peter saw Christ in all his glory. And Peter, as usual, began to speak, and it said he didn't know what else to say because he was afraid, so he just said something totally foolish. We think of John in the book of Revelation, John who had laid his head on the breast of Jesus at the Last Supper. It was the beloved disciple. John, when he saw Jesus in Revelation chapter 1, with his glory unveiled as Jesus truly is, John fell at his feet as a dead man. So this fear-producing God is not just the God of the Old Testament. This is the God that we worship. And I don't want to say that God is only a God of fear that we should be afraid of. But we often have an imbalance. We have this idea that God is a God of love, which is true, but that he is easily approachable. Yes, that is true, but only because we have Christ as a high priest who intercedes for us, who has broken down the wall of division between us. So let's look at a few minutes then at this book of Hebrews and see what it has to say about Jesus as our high priest. The first, I'm going to consider about three verses at a time. The first part I want to think about is verses 20 through 22, and that is the certainty of the priesthood of Christ. It says in verse 20, inasmuch as he was not made priest without an oath, for they have become priests without an oath, but he with an oath. By him who said to him, The Lord has sworn and will not relent. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. By so much more, Jesus has become a surety of a better covenant. So the emphasis in these three four verses here is that God has sworn that the priesthood of Christ will continue forever. There will never be a change in the priesthood. The priesthood of Aaron, Aaron and his sons who followed after him, there was a lot that went into that priesthood Sometimes if you're trying to do the daily Bible reading plan, you ever get bogged down in Exodus and Leviticus and Numbers? Did you ever have a problem? You kind of you like Genesis, it's got lots of neat stories. You see God intervening, but then you hit a brick wall when you hit Exodus. And the tabernacle and how it's supposed to be built, and the priesthood, and the sacrifices, and the laws of purification. Those are some difficult things to get through. The problem is, if we don't take some time, if we don't read them with Hebrews in mind, then we don't appreciate them for what they really are. When the Old Testament priests were consecrated, just turn back for some context here to Exodus chapter 29. I have to confess that as I've struggled through these books before, I've had troubles too. Sometimes I I check the box because my eyes went across the page, but I didn't really process what I read. But as I was working through Hebrews and trying to understand what is it that we have to a glory in with Christ as our high priest, it made me read Exodus with new eyes. Because I'm reminded in Hebrews that Exodus is just a shadow and a foretaste of the reality that's in heaven. So whatever Exodus is saying, it's saying something. We're not really sure exactly what it's saying. for every specific item, but it's saying something significant about what Christ's priesthood is all about. So Exodus 28. You didn't just become a priest because you got elected to the priesthood. You didn't just walk in and say, I want to be a priest. That's what I aspire to. Sadly, by the time of the New Testament, that's what it had turned into. It was a political appointment. But as God instituted the Iranic priesthood, There was a specific way in which he became a priest. You couldn't just be anybody, you had to be an Israelite. You couldn't just be an Israelite, you had to be descended from Aaron You couldn't just be descended from Aaron to be high priest. You had to be the firstborn son of Aaron, or the successor to the firstborn son, if the firstborn had died. And even if you met all his qualifications, if you had any physical blemishes, you couldn't be a priest. So God was setting up the fact that if there's going to be a priest who represents God to the people and the people to God, He had to be holy and perfect. And we see that exemplified in Christ. God was setting the stage for a priest to be perfect. It was no effect. God had nothing personal against a priest having a physical defect or being from the wrong tribe. But God was trying to show that the qualifications for the perfect priest are precise. No one can meet these qualifications, but only a few people in the Old Testament. And these were only shadows because what God was really trying to say was someday there's a priest coming who will be the kind of priest that you really need. And I'm going to give you an Old Testament foreshadowing, but ultimately we're going to be looking at Christ when we see this. So in Exodus 29, we'll see how these priests were appointed. I'm not going to read all these, there's a lot to consider. But We'll just consider what it took for these priests to become priests. I've already mentioned some of the qualifications, but then how were these priests appointed? How do they how were they inaugurated into their into their office? So this is how they were consecrated. This is how they were set apart of the priesthood, Exodus 29. This is what you shall do, verse 1. To them, to hallow them for ministering to me as priests. And I will kind of dip in and dip out because there's a lot to consider. In verse 4. Aaron and his priests you shall bring to the door of the tabernacle of meeting, and you shall wash them with water, symbolizing that they were pure. It didn't wash away their sins, but it's it was a symbolic measure to show that the priests needed to be pure. Then you shall take the garments, put the tunic on Aaron, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, the breastplate, gird him with the woven band of the ephod. And then verse 7, these precious garments of Aaron were to be consecrated by having oil poured on them, and he was anointed with oil, separated. His sons were brought in, verse 8, and they were dressed in their clothing. And then verse 10, we find something unusual. They've got these beautiful, verse chapter 28 has described these beautiful clothes that they wore. Just spotless white garments with beautiful jewels and everything else that gold bands and breastplates and and precious stones all over their their jewels, all over their clothing. And then what happens to these cloth this clothing? Verse 10, you shall have the bull brought before the tabernacle of the meeting, and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands on the head of the bull. Then you shall kill the bull before the Lord by the door of the tabernacle of meeting. And you shall take some of the blood of the bull and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger. Put the blood beside the base of the altar. But the flesh of the bull, bull verse 14, and it's off awful, you shall burn with fire outside the camp. So a bull is sacrificed to consecrate. Then we'll find two rams are sacrificed, and then we'll we'll read later. that some of this blood is sprinkled on these white garments of the priests to symbolize the importance of blood, to set these priests apart. That as Hebrews will say later, that without without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. Even in the Old Testament, the symbolic measure was that the blood of animals could, in some measure, consecrate the priests and set them apart from the priesthood. But we'll see that in spite of all the specific requirements to be a priest and the measures that were taken to consecrate these priests, the washing, the anointing with oil, the sacrifices. You'll see there was nothing about an oath given to these ironic priests. God never swore to them or swore that their priesthood would continue forever. And that sets Jesus' priesthood apart. Because unlike the Iranic priests, Jesus got an extra measure of God's blessing when his priesthood was instituted. And that was the fact that there would be, God would swear that his priesthood would continue forever. Now why would God swear? Why would God swear? Not mean a swear word, but why would God take an oath that something was going to happen for sure? We don't see this often in the scriptures, just a few times. That God swears that something will come to pass. We know that when God speaks, he keeps his promises. But because of our human tendency to doubt God. Our human tendency to think that things won't happen even though God has said they will happen. There are occasions when God does take an oath and swears by himself that something will happen. We see this in the story of Abraham, when God reconfirmed the Abrahamic covenant that there would be a land and there would be a seed and there would be a blessing. God swore by himself that this would come to pass. When the Israelites are walking through the wilderness and they had sinned against God, God swore, he said, As I live, they will not enter the promised land. And another time we see this swearing is when God says, he will be a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. And that's a quote from Psalm 110. God wants us to know that the priesthood of Christ will continue forever. There will never be a replacement, there will never be a substitute, or will never be superseded. The priesthood that exists now, Jesus Christ, who died on the cross for our sins and now intercedes for us, that will never be taken away. That will never be replaced. And we have the confidence of that because God has promised that it will continue forever. But what benefit is that to us? Why does it matter that the priesthood of Christ continues forever? See, we have this tendency to think that Jesus died on the cross for our sins, our sins are forgiven. Then he went up to heaven. He's preparing a place for us and he'll come again. But Hebrews teaches us that Jesus is doing more than preparing a place for us. His priesthood continues now and it will continue into eternity. Our salvation sometimes, I think, we view as a deistic salvation. I use that phrase because a lot of us that were brought up. In Christian homes or Christian schools, we hear that the founding fathers were deists. How was that defined to us? The deist The view of the deist was that God was the clockmaker God. He got the clock, he wound up the universe, he created the world, he wound up the clock and he just set it aside and let it let it go on its business. And sometimes I think that's the way we view our salvation. That God saved us, got our salvation going, and then set it on the side and let it go. But Hebrews teaches us that our salvation continues because God is active in our salvation. I'm saved today because Jesus and God is keeping me saved, because Jesus is interceding for me right now. If Jesus stopped interceding for me, I wouldn't be a Christian anymore. But the promise is that Jesus is interceding and will continue to intercede for me, and that's why my salvation continues. That's why I have the assurance that my salvation will never stop, because I have a priest in heaven who prays that my faith will continue. So the benefit to us back in back in Hebrews chapter seven now The Lord has sworn and will not relent, you are a high priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. The priesthood of Jesus will never cease. Verse 22 says the benefit of this, by so much more, Jesus has become the surety of a better covenant. Now we can ask, what is a surety? That's not a phrase we use often. Another word for that, some versions translate the word a guarantee or a guarantor. And that idea of a surety or a guarantee or a guarantor, it's a pledge to pay something that someone else owes. So, if I say I want to buy a house and don't have the money to buy it, and I've got a friend who's got a million dollars, and they say I'll be the surety for you. If you sign that you'll pay this and you can't pay it because you don't have the money eventually, then I will pay all the money that you owe for the house The surety is putting himself under the obligation of the debt that's not his debt, but he's putting himself under the obligation of that debt. For the person who can't pay, or may prove to be not able to pay. And that is what Jesus has done for us. He is the surety of a better covenant. And do you see how that works out in our own salvation? That Jesus has promised to pay the debt that we cannot pay. What debt do we owe God? We owe the debt of our sin, the punishment for our sin that we cannot pay. But Jesus has stepped in and volunteered to take that penalty, that penalty that was not his debt to pay. And yet he has volunteered to take that penalty for us. And he is the surety for our salvation. But that reflects back a little bit too on the deficiency in our understanding often of God, and that we don't owe God anything. Too many people today think, well, I'm going to heaven because everybody goes to heaven. If they believe in a heaven, they figure heaven's not too hard to get into. I once heard the uh James Montgomery voice, a pastor up in Philadelphia, who died a number of years ago. He said, Our view today isn't justification by faith, and the idea that I'm accepted by God because God accepts my faith in what Christ has done, and that's why I'm justified. That's why I'm accepted by God. He said, today our society believes in justification by death. All I need to do to get to heaven is to die. And isn't that the way that most people can think of? Are you going to go to heaven? Well, I guess so. I mean, I'm not a murderer. I haven't done all these other things. And so the view that they have is that they don't owe God very much. They have a debt that they figure they can pay through a few good works, through going to church periodically. But the problem is, none of us realizes the debt that we truly owe to God. What did Jesus say to the Pharisee? You know, he had lunch in the Pharisee's house, and the lady comes and she anoints Jesus' feet. She weeps over him. She anoints. She wipes his feet with her hair. Jesus and the Pharisees says, what is this? This is disgusting. This is a prostitute. She's touching his feet. This is horrible. And Jesus says, those who are forgiven much will love much. Those who are forgiven little will love little. If you don't see your, if you if you see a deficiency in your love for God, it's because you don't see how much you've been forgiven by God. If you see a That you don't appreciate that we need that you need a high priest who has borne your penalty and who has promised to stand in and pay your debt. It's because you don't really think you've got that much of a debt. And so this is the problem that we as Christians tend to have, especially those who've been saved for a while. Because after a while. You can quote the verses. Yeah, I'm a sinner. Yeah, there's no one that does good, no, not one. Yep, I understand that. I know how to answer that question. But at the gut level, do you really feel that? Do you really feel that you owe God a penalty a debt that you can never pay? Because if you don't, you're not going to value Jesus the way that you should. But the glory of that is, is that we do have a surety. We do have someone who has step volunteered to step in and pay our debt. So on a practical level, what do you do with your guilt? How do you handle your guilt? Do you hide it? Do you pretend it's not there? It may be false kids. It may be Satan making accusations against you that aren't valid. Kids, if you go and take something from your mom and dad or do something wrong. What do you do with your guilt? Do you hide it or do you go to Jesus, who has borne the penalty for your sin? But that isn't the only benefit of Christ as our high priest. Let's look at the next few verses. Chapter 7, verses 23 to 25. We've seen that his that God has sworn that his priesthood will continue. But now we will see the permanence of his priesthood as proven by the fact that he will live forever. Also, there were many priests because they were prevented by death from continuing. But he, because he continues forever, has an unchangeable priesthood. Therefore he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Jesus never dies. We know that. But the glory of that is the fact that because he never dies, his priesthood never stops. Consider the Old Testament. God built into the very foundation of the Old Testament priesthood the fact that the priest was going to die. Because the priests were sinful people, and they were going to die because of their sins eventually. And so there was no confidence that the high priest you had today would be your high priest tomorrow. Because he may die, he may go in on the Day of Atonement, God may reject his his offering for whatever reason. He didn't bring it properly, or he had sin that he hadn't dealt with. And he may he may not never come out of the the holy of holies. God may strike him dead. Because just as there were godly kings and wicked kings in the Old Testament, so there were godly priests and ungodly priests in the Old Testament. Consider if you were Samuel's parents and you had Eli for your high priest. Again, Eli as Aaron was not a perfect priest. He had his faults, and we know he didn't raise his sons the best way. But can you imagine going And knowing that Eli was your high priest, and considering that when he died, Hafni and Phineas, these two wicked, abusive, horrible sons, would one of those men would replace their father as high priest? You know, we we kind of have that experience a little bit in our political landscape. You know, we think we well, we at some point in time we may have a good president, and then we fear, well, who's the next one going to be? And so there's this uncertainty, there's this anxiety that we have because of the leadership, the spiritual leadership specifically here. But the confidence that we have that Jesus is our high priest is the fact that he will never stop being our high priest because he lives forever. There's not going to be a better one. There's not going to be a different one or a worse one. Jesus will always be the one who will be our high priest, who will intercede to God for us. And that should give us great comfort and great encouragement. Because Jesus is truly the Son of God, and as we will look at briefly in a few minutes, just because he's the Son of God doesn't mean that he has no idea what it's like to be human. Turn back to the beginning of Hebrews a minute. Hebrews chapter chapter two In verse seventeen, Because we have to walk a fine line when we're talking about anything to do with God or with Christ, because we can err on one side or the other. God is inapproachable apart from Christ. And Christ is the Son of God, he is divine, and yet he is human. Hebrews 2, verse 17. Therefore in all things he had to be made like his brothers. that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted, he is also able to help those who are tempted. So we have a compassionate high priest Look at chapter 4, verse 15, verse 14. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. So we have an approachable high priest. We have A high priest who represents us to the Father, and one who understands our weaknesses. And back to chapter 7. He continues forever as an unchangeable priesthood. He is approachable. But one of the benefits of the fact that he is As one of our kids' friends used to say when they were playing, they would play superhero or cowboys and Indians and say, you can't shoot me, I'm undiable. So Jesus is undiable. He can't die. He will not die. He will live forever. But the benefit of the fact that he lives forever Is verse 25. He is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. What does it mean to be saved to the uttermost? That sounds good. That sounds really neat. I'm saved to the uttermost. But what does that mean? Well, there's two different ways that the Greek can be translated based on the context. One could be the extent of the salvation, so completely safe. It's used in Luke when a lady who's bent over it says she couldn't stand up all the way. She couldn't completely stand up. And so the idea of completeness, our salvation is complete. That's one way that We could understand that. But the other way that we can understand that word, and I think that's the way that the writer of Hebrews intends it here, is that The idea of time, saved to the uttermost, saved to the fullest extent of time, saved to eternity and infinity and beyond Because he is living forever, so he is able to save us forever. Because he lives in that intervening time to intercede for us. So our salvation will never stop. Our salvation will go on through eternity. So if you feel discouraged right now because of a sin that you can't shake, because of the the battles you have with discouragement, with anxiety, remember that your salvation is guaranteed and it is eternal because you have a high priest. Who, when he ascended from earth in his body, and is now in heaven in his body, and will one day come back in his body, he is right there at the throne of God, interceding for you right now. And he's guaranteeing that eventually and eternally your salvation will be to the uttermost because he intercedes for you. So he is an active high priest who prays for us. Let's look then at the last few verses. Verses 26 through 28. For such a high priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens. Who does not need daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins and then for the peoples. For this he did once for all when he offered up himself For the law appoints as high priests men who have weakness. But the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints the Son who has been perfected forever. And here the writer is showing us the fittingness, the fitness that we have as Jesus is our high priest. God has given us just the high priest that we need. Some of the other versions translate it differently. The New King James that I have say it was it was he was fitting for us. But other ones say, we have the kind of high priest that we need, or the kind of high priest that is appropriate for us. We need a high priest who is holy, who is blameless. Who is undefiled and separate from sinners. And we could consider each one of those adjectives or adjectival phrases separately. But they sort of, for time's sake, they sort of say the same thing. Consider the fact that Jesus, who was known as the friend of sinners, and he was ridiculed by the Pharisees for being a friend of sinners, who was So well known as being a comp in in the company of sinners and going to their their dinners and spending time with prostitutes and tax collectors. So much so that the Pharisees thought that he was uh He was being tarnished by his reputation by spending time with them. But it says he is undefiled. Jesus is the kind of high priest who can spend time with sinners and yet walk away and not smell or look like a sinner. It reminds me of the time when in the fiery furnace you had Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego. And they were in there and the fire was heated seven times, and the guards outside the Outside the furnace fell back and died from the heat that just radiated out from the furnace. And yet when these three men, plus the fourth, as like as the Son of God, came out of the fire, it said they didn't even smell like smoke. And that's how Jesus is. He can engage with us. He can spend time with us. He can sympathize with us. He can, when he was on earth, he walked the dusty streets of Jerusalem. He was with sinners and yet he never came out smelling like a sinner or looking like a sinner. And that's the kind of high priest we need. Because if we had a high priest who could be affected by our sin, all the sin that we constantly brought to him. Would wear him down and would pollute him. But we can dump lifetimes of sin, universes of sin on Jesus. And he can represent that sin, bear the sin that we have to the Father. Intercede for us and yet never smell or look or have the characteristic of sinner. We can't go down To the inner city of Baltimore and walk some of the streets, the red leg districts, or the block, or some of these places that are not appropriate for Christians to be around. You can't go down there without after time starting to be affected by that. You can't watch certain things on the television without after time being affected by that. But Jesus can. He can be around sinners and not be affected by that, and not be in any way less God or less perfect than he is now. And that's the kind of high priest that we need. He doesn't need daily as those high priests did to offer up sacrifices. If you read back to Leviticus and Exodus again, you would just see just how bloody of a job these priests had. Their clothes have been soaked in blood, wringing the necks off of birds and washing out insides of animals and draining out blood. They had a very dirty, disgusting job. And so much of that was for their own sin, just to make them presentable to God so they could represent the people to God. But Jesus didn't have to do that. He never had for a sacrifice for himself. And the sacrifice of the offer for us was only one time. He only had to do it once. Look at that in Hebrews 9. At the end. His sacrifice was great enough, but it only had to be offered once. Verse 24 of chapter 9. For Christ has not entered the holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Not that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters the most holy place every year with the blood of another. He then would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end of the ages he has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as it is appointed for men to die once. But after this the judgment, so Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many. So we have a high priest who is fitting, who is fit for us. He didn't need to offer sacrifice for himself. He didn't need to stay away from sinners because he might be polluted by them. And God accepted that sacrifice and he continues to live and intercede for us. He has been perfected forever. So as you go out to this week, and someone might ask you, who is Jesus? Who is Jesus Christ? Remember, he is your savior, he is your Lord, but he is so much more than that. He is not less than a savior or Lord, but he is so much more. He didn't die 2,000 years ago and then go to heaven sort of phantomly disappear. And someday, any day he may come back. But he is active. And you are still a Christian if you are a Christian. Because he's praying for you every minute of the day. Let me read this quotation from Lewis Burkhoff, who was a theologian and wrote a systematic theology. He said, it is a consoling thought that Christ is praying for us, even when we are negligent in our prayer life. That He is presenting to the Father those spiritual needs which were not present to our minds and which we often forget to include in our prayers. And that he prays for our protection against the dangers that we're not even aware of, and against the enemies that threaten us, even though we don't even notice it He is praying that our faith may not cease, and that we may come out victoriously in the end