Have you ever broken something that someone else valued? Well, if you were ever a teenager learning how to drive. Perhaps the uh the chance of that happening went up a little bit. I won't ask you to raise your hand. It's a rhetorical question. But have you ever wrecked your dad's car or pushed over a a very valuable lamp by accident in your parents' house or just inadvertently broken something that belonged to someone else. And then found out about it later and realized that you needed to make restitution. And how do you do that? Well, if you're a teenager, you might have to Pay the deductible on the insurance so that the car can be fixed. If you are a friend who accidentally broke something at another friend's house, you would endeavor to buy them something to replace what you broke. It's just sort of common sense. If you break it, you buy it. If you destroy something by accident, you want to try to make it right for the people that you care about. But what about the people who break things on purpose? We usually call them vandals. When I was growing up, we had a number of vandals in our neighborhood who would spray paint houses. break windows, throw eggs onto rooftops. It was all malicious. It wasn't an accident that dozens of eggs flew from their fingertips up onto the roofs of houses. They wanted to destroy. Could they make it right? Well, they probably could by washing spray paint off the side of the house, by climbing up on the roof in a in an a state of repentance and washing the eggs that are now cooked into the shingles of the roof off, they could maybe maybe make restitution for what they did if they were serious. Well what about people who commit real, really serious crimes? What about murderers? Have you ever met one? I have. I've met at least two in my lifetime. I worked with one man who had just gotten out of jail after he murdered someone as a teenager. He was at that point in his 50s. I worked side by side with him, and he had served his time, and he was now trying to rebuild his life, but he was a murderer. How can a murderer make restitution for what he's done? I mean, he took a life. Can he give another one? Can he somehow say, here's a new one for you? I took. Your husband, your wife, your child, your grandchild, here, here's another. They can serve the time, but they really can't do restitution for the individual. A thief can pay back money, a murderer can't really pay back life for life. In all these examples, I've mentioned sort of vertical restitution. I mean it's sort of one individual and another individual and man to man, uh woman to woman or whatever, person to person. Restitution is being paid for an accident or for a crime if possible. But I've left somebody out. And that's God. Folks, do you realize that God is a God of justice, perfect, righteousness, supreme, holiness, 100% purity? And whenever a malicious act of violence occurs on this world, it offends him deeply. The author of life does not take kindly to those who take it. The one who designed relationships to be pure and holy does not take kindly to abuse and harm. The one who created all of this, the created intent was perfection, and so every murder, every rape, every Act of vandalism is not only a sin between two people or a person and a family, or it's also a sin against God. God is the one offended by sin. Now let me ask you, how do you make restitution to him? How can you satisfy his just anger at sin? Have you? Well, mankind tries to. They come up with religion and rituals. But do you know, according to the scriptures, no man can do it None of us, man, woman, or child, can satisfy the just anger of God. And so God did it God sent Jesus down here to deal with sin and the penalty of sin. In the Gospel of Luke, we have so far, we were only at chapter 5, okay? And we're sort of looking through the chapter sequentially, trying to just stick with what Luke has written without bringing in the other gospels. We're trying to just follow the emphasis that Dr. Luke had. And so far he has mentioned sin and the problem of sin a few times. He has wanted us to look here and see that sin is serious. If you turn to Luke chapter 1, verse 77, and we'll go through and look at these quickly and just Pick up on what Luke is bringing to our mind as he tells the story of Jesus, the one who would take away our sins. In Luke chapter 1, verse 77, we have Zacharias prophesying about John the Baptist and about Jesus as well. He says about John the Baptist in verse 77 that he's going to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. And then if you turn quickly to chapter 3, verse 3, we see how this works its way out, where we have the ministry of John the Baptist. And we have here that he went into all, this is this is Luke chapter 3, verse 3, and he went into all the region around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. And that word there for remission is speaking of forgiveness of sins. John the Baptist was born. He grew up in the wilderness, part of it when he went out there and just stayed with God. He came back in for baptizing. He had this Idea of repentance that he hammered on because it was necessary so that sins can be forgiven. Luke is writing this to us about the story. What is forgiveness? Well, when you think about forgiveness biblically, it has to do with real sin And the penalty of that sin being set aside, no longer held against the one who committed the real sin. I use the word real because You have to admit that there's a true sin before God. And John the Baptist is saying, look, someone is coming. And he will have something to do with God being willing to forgive sin. Your sins. And so John preaches repentance. And repentance. The basic idea here is Exhorting people to change their minds about their sin, their attitude, their outlook about sin, and getting them ready for the Lamb of God who would take away, who would be able to remit So we have Luke 177 and chapter 3, verse 3, and then in chapter 5, verse 8, which we just saw last week, and this will bring us up to speed, we have Peter, who, when Jesus causes him to catch the Miraculously, this huge amount of fish, he just falls down before Jesus and says, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. So we have John the Baptist who's preaching repentance, and there's this remission of sins, this forgiveness of sins possible because of the coming one. Who is going to enable God to forgive? And then we have this individual, Peter, who just says, look, Jesus leaves. I'm a sinful man. I am a sinful man. Are you willing to say the same thing Peter said this morning? Are you willing to agree and say, you know what? I'm a sinful woman. I'm a sinful man. If you are, you're only stating the truth. And you know, I say it as the pastor of Faith Bible Church. I'm a sinful man. I need help that I don't find in myself. Where we're led today in Luke chapter 5 are two separate incidents in the life of Jesus that I think are closely connected You look at Luke chapter 5, verse 12, and Luke writes, and it happened when he was in a certain city. So here we have probably something that's happening during the days of his Galilean ministry. He doesn't tell exactly where it happens, but it involves a leper, and it happened in a certain city. Then we have Luke in chapter 17 saying now, I'm sorry, in verse 17, now it happened on a certain day as he was teaching that this happened. And what happened was a paralytic was lowered down into the room where he was. So on the one hand, you have on a certain, in a certain city, there was this. This encounter with a leper, and Jesus did certain things with this leper. And on a certain day as he went about his teaching ministry, this happened with this paralytic man coming down through. The ceiling, and there was some discussion, things that he said. In a certain city, on a certain day What else does it involve? Well, if you look at your Bibles at verse 12 again, and you see what this man said, he said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me will. Clean. And then we have Jesus healing the man. Immediately the leprosy left him. That's verse 13 And he tells them in verse 14 to go and obey the law of Moses, who will make an offering for your cleansing. And then we have down in on a certain day, we have this issue of sin in verse 20. Another kind of cleansing. Man, he says to this guy lowered down through the roof, your sins are forgiven you. So both of these incidents offer a connection when it comes to leprosy, a dread disease. And sin and cleansing needs to happen in both cases. There's this object lesson. The Son of God can cleanse leprosy. And you know what else he can do? He can forgive sin. So first let's look at this first part here with the man with leprosy. What's happening here? Look at your Bible at verse 12, and we'll just read it first, okay? It says, And it happened when he was in a certain city, that behold, a man who was full of leprosy saw Jesus And he fell on his face and implored him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Then he put out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing, be cleansed. Immediately the leprosy left him, and he charged him to tell no one. But go and show yourself to the priests and make an offering for your cleansing as a testimony to them, just as Moses commanded. However, the report went around concerning him all the more, and great multitudes came together to hear and to be healed by him of their infirmities. Verse 16, so he himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed. All right, first let's talk about this man with leprosy. In the Old Testament, there are rules about leprosy and what to do in Leviticus 13 and Leviticus 14. We have different characters in the Old Testament having leprosy, like Miriam and Gehaza and Uzziah and even Moses for a time. had a leprous hand, if you remember. Now there's some analysis that's been going on on those Old Testament rules and regulations, and it appears from the descriptions of the disease given in the Old Testament that it's more than just leprosy in mind. For example, there was mold that grew in the interior of walls of houses. There was things that could grow on your clothing. And so in the Old Testament, when it used, when we have our English translators translate as leprosy, it's probably Includes more than just what we would consider modern leprosy today. It's a variety of skin diseases. However, When it came to what was happening on the skin of an individual, there were definite rules they had to follow. They were supposed to shout out, and you know, unclean. They had to live all away from the people in an isolated region. They were actually supposed to not comb their hair, brush their hair, just be messy. They could walk around with their clothes partially torn so that when people saw them, They would look unkept, and they would know, whoa, here's something that's different, and there would just be this immediate kind of stepping back from the people. Also, in the Old Testament, leprosy is connected to sin. You had individuals who sinned and their judgment was You think of Naaman, the story there where the servant of Elijah goes out and takes what she should not have taken and the servant skin disease that was on Naaman. The leprosy went on to this individual and his descendants forever. Now having leprosy or a skin disease did not mean you had sinned and it was the result of that sin. But frequently in the Old Testament, the punishment for sin was leprosy. This man broke all the rules. He's approaching Jesus. Now, if you remember, Jesus is not alone. At this time, probably Simon and James and John are with him. Often he's surrounded by a crowd of people. And so you have this solitary figure, and if he is obeying the rules of the Old Testament, which he probably did, he looks awful. Now, if this was real leprosy, there would be these white hairs on his head and this scabbing and this This deformity on his fingers and limbs if it was what we know the modern disease to be, he would look terrible. And the last thing you would want to do is to touch him. Even if it was not modern leprosy, still, it was a horrible skin disease, and you wouldn't want to touch him. But he's breaking the social taboo. If you look at your Bible, it describes him as full of leprosy. He falls on his face before Christ, no doubt in front of everyone else that was there. Note first that the man is taking a huge risk. Would you have done this? He's walking up to a Hebrew teacher, a rabbi who knows the Old Testament well. Who would know immediately that here's a man who's coming into society in a way that he is not permitted to do according to the law of Moses? Here comes this lawbreaker right into our midst. And he's throwing himself down in abst in utter humility that you and I can have a hard time relating to. You try to come up with a modern parallel. Imagine for a moment that you owe the IRS. Two million dollars. I don't know what for. And you can't pay it. So they knock on your door and they take your house. They take your cars. They take everything And you have nothing but the clothes on your back, and you hitchhike down to the IRS building, and you knock on the door of the person who's in charge, and you throw yourself at their feet and say, please. I need help. Of course, we would be quick to say they're not going to receive any mercy from that door, but this is Jesus. But that is the sentiment here. There's this utter humility. He throws himself down. And he doesn't, the emphasis on what he says, look at it in verse 12, Lord. If you are willing, you can make me clean. There's no demand here. Lord, heal me. There's no imperative here. There's this, Lord. If you want, I know you can do this. Now the Lord knows the Old Testament. And he knows that he's broken these rules, but he he the response here in verse 13 is invitation. He's on the ground. We don't know how close to the feet of Jesus he is, but there's the extension of Jesus' hand and this touch of the master on the hand, or perhaps the head of the leper. He put his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing to be cleansed. Now you're not supposed to touch a leper. That's the tradition. He's breaking with the tradition. The man is healed immediately. And Luke wants us to know in verse 13 that this wasn't a, there was no elapse of time here. This was an instantaneous cleansing of leprosy. And verse 14, so we see we see the leper, the risk he was taking, we see Christ and the invitation to come forward and touching him, breaking that taboo. We see the cleansing, and then we see what Jesus says. He charges him, don't tell anyone. Now, what Luke is going to begin to share with us is that the, and we already know this, Jesus, if you look back at your Bible again, at chapter 4, verse 43. Remember, I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this purpose I have been sent. The primary priority of Jesus' ministry was the preaching, and the miraculous was what stirred up interest and verified that he was indeed the Son of God because he was able to do the miraculous. But there were problems to that, and we see these problems were by the amount of people that followed him just to be healed. And so he had to at times push forward with his priority in this example. Rather than sending him back to tell everyone else in the population, he says, look at your Bible here, show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing as a testimony. to them just as Moses commanded. Now this is what's probably happening here. He is sending this cleansed leper To go be a testimony to the priests and to the religious establishment. And that is why in the very next story here with the paralytic, You look down at verse 17, and it says that there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by who had come out of every town of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. It's very possible that there's a connection here between this leper who goes back to the priests and the word gets around to sort of organized religious authority there and this The point that they all came out to hear Jesus sort of in a concerted way. Probably so. But it's definite, I think, that they this man was supposed to show the priest that he was healed. And that something was happening. Luke, now you've got to remember something. Luke, the Gospel of Luke is not the Gospel of John. In the Gospel of John, we have signs that prove the deity of Christ. It is, out of all the Gospels, the most obvious in proving the deity of Christ. Luke will also bring up the deity of Christ, but not in the same way John did. Luke begins with. Jesus standing up and saying, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. And then you have these scenes where Jesus has authority, authority, authority, authority over demons, authority over disease. And now. Leprosy, cleansing, and authority to forgive sins. Luke is building his case in a way that's a little different than John. So we don't want to import John into Luke. But we transition now to verse 16, which should really be, in my Bible there's a there's a division here where they put verse 16 down with the next story. It probably should be back with verse 15. But he had to take time out. And it was part of his daily routine, or his frequent routine, to withdraw himself into the wilderness and pray, because there were just so many people following him that wanted to hear and be healed. And so that kind of fades into the distance. On a certain day, verse 17, it might have been a Sabbath day and it might not have been. Most likely it was not. It was just part of his teaching routine during the week to meet with people and teach them. And as he was teaching, there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by who would come out. out of the town of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was present to heal them. And that them refers to everyone, not just the religious leaders that were there. So here's Jesus. He's going about his normal ministry of teaching. There's this rule. Well, yeah, it's kind of a rule. It's called the rule of first mention when it comes to interpreting the Bible. In the Gospel of Luke, this is the first mention of the Pharisees and these men opposing the work of Luke. Here they are, all of them watching. And it must have been quite a scene to have so many PhDs in the room, so much religious authority sitting there listening to this carpenter's son But before you know it, there's this movement on the roof. Verse 18. Then behold. men brought on a bed a man who was paralyzed, whom they sought to bring in and lay before him. And when they could not find how they might bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the house top and let him down with his bed through the tiling into the midst before Jesus. Now, if you grew up in church, you probably saw this scene on Flannel Graph Many times. It's one of these memorable scenes that you just wish you could have been there and seen it. But you've you've got scraping on the roof You've got stomping on the roof. You've got pieces of roof falling down into the midst of the people. You've got the crowd moving away, and here is this man, and he's lowered down in, and Jesus sees their faith Faith without works is dead. Faith produces action. Their action was the evidence of their belief. But he doesn't say you're healed. The first thing he says in verse 20 is, man, your sins are forgiven you. So what's the first sin they committed? Well, they broke the roof open. Was that a sin? It wasn't their house. It's going to cost money to break that, to fix that roof. So that could have been part of what he was saying, the sin of breaking the roof. But there was more to this. There's the sins that that they've committed always, day after day, and he's addressing the man, your sins, your sins. I mean at what point did he say that? Was the man finally on the ground before them? And he looks him in the eye and says, Man, your sins are forgiven you. Or was it as he was being lowered? I don't know. But Jesus says, Man, your sins are forgiven you. Now, this is key for for all of us, alright? If you robbed me You could come to me and you could say, Dan, will you forgive me? I stole 10 bucks out of your wallet. And I could say, I forgive you for stealing from me. But I can't say, you know what, on behalf of God, God forgives you. God forgives you. I can't say that. Because I'm not God and I can't pay God back for the money that you stole from me. What exactly is Jesus saying here? Man, your sins are forgiven you. I mean, did the man sin against Jesus? Jesus doesn't even know the guy. So it's not like he's saying, paralyzed man, I know you stole a camel from me. I forgive you. Your sins are forgiven. There's something else going on here, and we see that because of verse 21. The scribes and the Pharisees, they reason to themselves and they say, Who is this? He's speaking blasphemy. Who can forgive sins but God alone? I mean, in their Hebrew ears, they're hearing Jesus Put himself in the place of God, capital G, and say, I on behalf of God am saying Your sins, all your sins, including the sin of you breaking through the roof, are forgiven. That's what their Hebrew ears are hearing And they consider it blasphemy. Who can forgive sins but God alone? Now, if you or I were in that situation, And we heard somebody say that about us, we would immediately say, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm not God. And I'm just saying he stole ten bucks from me and I'm forgiving him because he's paying me the ten bucks, or I'm letting it go. I'm not even going to make him pay the ten bucks. But Jesus does not do that. Jesus does not say, whoa, stop, I'm not God. He accepts what they're saying. Verse 22, he perceives their thoughts, and he answers and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your hearts? Which is easier to say. Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, rise up and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins He said to the man who was paralyzed, I say to you, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. Immediately he rose up before them, took up what he had been lying on, and departed to his own house, glorifying God. Jesus' response is not to back away from the Pharisees and to say, oh, you got it all wrong. I met something entirely different. Jesus' response is to is to actually infuriate them, to affirm their thought That he is God. Because he says, what is easier? Your sins be forgiven you or rise up and walk. And he, by virtue of causing the man to rise up and walk, Is saying that he does have the authority on the earth to forgive sins. That he indeed is. Here's what Luke is beginning to hint at here: that he is God that he is the Messiah who is God. And they were all amazed, verse 26. And they glorified God and they were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today. This whole event left all the people with something to talk about, something to debate about, something to think about. Who is this man that he can forgive? Sins. He's different than other prophets. Did Elijah ever say, I forgive your sins? Did Moses ever say that? I mean, I don't remember Abraham. Remember saying that. This guy is saying something that's so different from the prophets we know in the Old Testament. He must he's different than that. He's more than that. Is he Is he saying that he's God? What do the Pharisees think about this man? We have seen strange things today. So what can we take away from this? Alright, here's an application. Number one. Jesus, the name Jesus. It means Savior, because he will save his people from their sin. Jesus' mission was to deal with sin The problems of our earth are not primarily educational, economic, governmental, or religious, or cultural. Jesus did not come to redeem those things. He came to redeem people by virtue of offering himself as a sacrifice on the cross to pay the penalty of sin. Cultures are redeemed when people within the culture are born again, one by one by one. And so the sin problem is the primary work of Jesus Christ, the Messiah. And something has to be done for you and me because we cannot pay our sin debt. We owe God so much that we can't pay. It's impossible. How many sins have you committed in your lifetime? Well, if you're only a day old, probably not. But at your age and my age, probably thousands. We've heard the illustration of the book, and if the front is your life certi is your birth certificate and the back would be your death certificate and every page was a day and you committed only three sins a day, how many sins would that be in a year? Well, multiply three times 365. How many in the lifetime? Well take 3 times 365, whatever that equals, and multiply that by 70. Thousands and thousands and thousands of sins. Can you take back the harmful words you just said last week to your friend or your spouse? Can you right all the wrongs of your life that you committed through the years? Is there some way that you can make true restitution for all those sins to God? What can you do? The Bible says that there is a sense in which even the ordinary things we do, because we do them with the wrong motives, is sin. Jesus came. to solve that problem once and for all. And that means that you should be glad. Because it's not what we have done, but what he has done. The Messiah came to deal with sin. Application number two: Jesus moved towards sinners. And this is where it gets really personal. When someone sins against me, I get mad at them, and they usually want to run the other direction. And I don't want to go after them. Like, hey man, I can't believe you did that. Just get out of my face. But God So loved the world that he sent Christ, the incarnate Son of God. God moved toward the sinner And in the story of the leper, we have this object lesson of how God moves toward people in need. He's willing to touch a dirty, yucky leper. He's willing to deal with this paralytic man who is doing all this stuff, and it's really annoying, but Your sins are forgiven. He's a man who moves toward you in your need, not away from you. And this is why the Bible tells us God is love He's the God who will move toward the need. He has decided to do to redeem us through Christ and to take the first step. All of us as sinners, we have a tendency to run from God, but God at times chases us down. He knows your life is a mess. He knows that you've got problems. Maybe you're here today and you're an alcoholic and you just can't stop putting the bottle down. Maybe you're addicted to something you're watching on TV or the internet. Maybe you don't know how to have a marriage and your life's falling apart. And in your mind, you're thinking, God does not want me. And that is so wrong. Because God is looking to save sinners. He seeks what is lost. And this is what he did with the leper. The leopard was there and you moved toward him. He didn't go, whoa, dude, that is disgusting. And yet that's exactly what we think God does for our sin. We think that he just goes, whoa, that is disgusting. And he just backs away and backs away from the mess that we are. The reality is, Jesus came to seek and to save people who admit that they are lepers. And here's where the object blessing of cleansing comes in. The leper needed cleansing. You need cleansing through the work of Christ. So the first application is that Jesus deals with sin. The second is that Jesus moves toward the sinner. He's willing to get close to us, and that's why he died on the cross. for us. But there is a third application here. If you look at your Bible again and you see the reaction in verse 21 Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? But they would be like this. Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Look at this guy. What do you think? Put their hands up to their big beards. You just see them wagging their heads. Organized religion doesn't like Jesus. It really doesn't. Because, and let me define organized religion. A Muslim must follow the five pillars of Islam to deal with his sin. A Roman Catholic must obey certain rules regarding the Mass if he is to get into heaven and avoid purgatory. A Buddhist and a Hindu have a certain philosophy of life which will gain them entrance into a better life and avoid the problems of a bad life and sin. Jesus just says, your sins are forgiven. That's a lot different. It's really offensive to the to meet You have a religious leader in all his life he's been teaching, work your way to eternal bliss. And that's how you can avoid the penalty of your sin. And you have Jesus walk up and say, No, no, no, no, your sins are forgiven. That really offends organized religion. Because it's all about rite and ritual. And even these Hebrew Pharisees, that's what they were about. They had shellacked so many traditions and rules on top of the Ten Commandments that they created a whole separate body of revelation written by men. And in order to get to heaven, in order to be right before God, there was this huge body of tradition you had to follow. They were experts at straining at gnats and swallowing camels. And that was offensive. It was so offensive for Jesus just to say, your sins are forgiven. But that really is all it takes. If you're here today and you're not a Christian, you don't have to do anything to become a Christian, but repent. Change your mind about your sinful lifestyle. Admit that you are a sinner and that it's right for God to punish sinners. That you stand guilty before God. That's repentance. And then put your faith in Christ and the work of the cross. Believe that when he died, he died in your place. And that when he rose, he rose so that you could have new life. Faith, repentance, and God will forgive you all the bad things you've ever done, all the bad things you're currently doing, and ever will do. The penalty of that set aside. The just wrath of God taken away. And you are brought like that leper to be beside Jesus A new relationship with Him. It's amazing the simplicity that is in Jesus. Your sins are forgiven you