So during my doctoral studies, uh I picked up some freelance jobs. Um perhaps One of the most memorable gig I had was editing a politician's page on Wikipedia, a free online collaborative encyclopedia. This politician hired me to gather up newspaper articles, other records on him, and pertinent information related to him. and rewrite the narrative on this particular webpage with his name on it. He said he simply wanted a fair and balanced testimony of his character and career. So I did my best to provide an objective account of his life. It was a bit weird to be chatting and working with the person I heard about on TV. I also felt some compassion because he was featured in some comical satires as well. Behind all the debates, smearing, and nasty fallout is a real human being made in God's image. Um it has to be tough. Often when someone becomes a public figure, um controversy ensues. Back in 2016, someone counted the number of edits on individual pages at Wikipedia in order to rank the ten most controversial people. Top ten included Jesus, two recent US presidents, two wrestlers Three pop stars, a tennis player, and a dictator. I'm not gonna tell you the names, I'm just interested in Jesus, right? Now, if there was Wikipedia back in first century, who would be the one to write the page for Jesus? I say Luke would gather up the sources and write a pretty good historical account. But then, who would visit the page and try to discredit and attack Jesus? Probably the Pharisees and teachers of the law, also known as scribes, in this in today's passage. Just to give you a little background, Pharisees were members of a non-priestly lay separatist movement. And they aim to keep the nation of Israel devoted to God through faithful interpretations of the Torah, the first five books of the Bible. The term Pharisee is etymologically related to the Aramaic word for separated, and it's a very good description of the way they lived. To avoid transgressions of the law of Moses, they developed elaborate systems and traditions to codify practice to effectively build a fence around the law. While we do not look favorably towards Pharisees today, they were highly influential in their local villages and towns in their time. Because frankly they were more approachable than the the priests and the ones, the elites uh the elites in the Jerusalem city Their ideas were focused on everyday holiness before God, very practical matters. Emphasis on practical matters such as table fellowship and how to keep the Sabbath. And those who were with them in today's passage, teachers of the law, also described as scribes, were a special subset of educated Pharisees. Let's see how these men and Jesus clashed in controversy in today's passage. So we are at Luke chapter 5. Verse 17, and we're going to go all the way to the end of that chapter, to verse 39. So Luke chapter 5, verse 17 to 39, and I will be reading from the New King James version. Now it happened on a certain day as he was teaching that there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come out of every town of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Then, behold, men brought on a bed a man who was paralyzed, whom they sought to bring in and lay before him. And when they could not find how they might bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the housetop and let him down with his bed through the tiling into the mist before Jesus. When he saw their faith, he said to him, Man, your sins are forgiven you. And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your heart? Which is easier to say, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Rise up and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said to the man who was paralyzed, I say to you, arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. Immediately he rose up before them, took up what he had been lying on, and departed to his own house, glorifying God. And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today. After these things, he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, Follow me. So he left off, rose up, and followed him. Then Levi gave him a great feast in his own house, and there were a great number of tax collectors and others who sat down with them. And their scribes and the Pharisees complained against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Jesus answered and said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Then they said to him, Why do the disciples of John fast often and make prayers, and likewise those of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink? And he said to them, Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, then they will fast in those days. Then he spoke a parable to them. No one puts a piece from a new garment on an old one, otherwise the new makes a tear, and also the piece that was taken out of the new does not match the old. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine will burst the wineskins and be spilled, and the wineskins will be ruined. But new wine must be put into new wineskins, and both are preserved. And no one having drunk old wine immediately desires new, for he says the old is better. From this passage, we observe three instances where Jesus clashes with scribes or teachers of the law and Pharisees. You can see in verse 17, these religious leaders have traveled to see Jesus from cities of surrounding regions of Galilee and Judea And some have even arrived from the prominent city of Jerusalem. They arrive in Capernaum, as Mark 2:1 tells us, and three times we hear them questioning Jesus. In verse 21, they ask among themselves, who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone? We read in Matthew 9. 3, Mark and Mark 2. 6, the parallel accounts in other Gospels, they ask these questions among themselves and in their hearts. respectively. Then, now back in Luke 5, verse 30, they complained to Jesus' disciples, why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Then, next, in verse 33, they straightforwardly challenge Jesus. Why do the disciples of John fast often and make prayers? and likewise those of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink. Each time these religious elites inquire, we sense that they're more and more defiant. Progressing from speaking among themselves to speaking to Jesus' disciples, and then finally to speaking to Jesus directly. Now, Jesus does not avoid, but rather addresses these three piercing questions with three revealing answers. That allows us to divide up this passage into three assertions about Jesus. And there are three points of the sermon. You'll find them in the bulletin. One, Jesus can forgive sins because he is the Son of God. Verses 17 to 26. Two Jesus calls sinners to repentance because he is the sole physician. Verses 27 to 32. And three Jesus invites us to celebrate because he begins a better ministry. Verses 33 to 39 Forgiveness, repentance, and celebration. These are blessings enjoyed by the followers of Christ. But to the enemies of Christ, their controversies and stumbling blocks. First, Jesus can forgive sins because he is the Son of God You recall from last time that he even as multitudes gathered to Jesus to meet their needs, Jesus would often withdraw into the wilderness to pray. As you see in the second part of verse 17, the consequence of such godly discipline, godly habit, is that the power of the Lord was present to heal them. But in this instance, a great crowd stood between the healer and the one who needed the healing. We see in verses 18 and 19 that the men carrying the paralytic took drastic action. Mark in his gospel tells us that there were four of them carrying the man and opening up the roof. So these four men not only exerted much physical energy, they incurred the monetary cost of patching up the spot they opened up and broke through What motivated all this activity was the faith of these five men. I find it interesting that faith is singular, possessed by the plural. The five men. All in the caravan, each one touching the portable bed, they share this faith. So in verse 20, Jesus saw their collective faith and gets to the heart of the problem. Not all physical ailments are from directly connected to personal sin, but in this case it was. This man in particular was paralyzed because of a Undisclosed sin. We don't know exactly what it was. So even more urgent than the prospect of walking again is the forgiveness of sins. And this is a beautiful picture of the church and our intercessory prayer. We don't come here looking like we're all well put together. We are like this Karabakh. We are like these people who need Jesus, who need Jesus to forgive us. So the question for us as a church, are we plural, united, in faith, singular, in Jesus' power to forgive our sins? Do you know someone or are you someone who is so discouraged by the consequences of sin, at a state as if practically bedridden, and do not even know how to go to Jesus? If you know someone like that, maybe you can start helping, get the process started by finding three others who will join you by grabbing the four corners together, figuratively speaking. and lifting him or her up in prayer to Jesus. If you yourself have become crippled by the effects of sin You feel stuck. But let's say you have even just a little modicum of waning faith left. Ask for friends here to take you to the Lord in prayer. Whatever situation you are in, God does not want you to take on such a task alone. Now this is a wonderful application for believers, but what about those who do not believe? How do they react to this? Being theologically astute, the religious leaders ask the right questions here, because the prerogative to forgive sins belongs to God alone. Jesus answers their questions with a question as he prophetically perceives their doubts and unbelief in verse 22. He then spells out for them what he's about to do. It is easier to say your sins are forgiven you. Because no one can verify the completed spiritual transaction. There's no way to verify. But Jesus takes the harder route of saying, rise up and walk. The miracle with its visible effects will immediately prove Or disprove that Jesus indeed has the power to forgive sins. Per usual, Jesus' words carry authority, and at his word The man rises, takes up his bed, and goes to his house, glorifying God. The witnesses join in, glorifying God, in fear and amazement. We have seen strange things today, they exclaim. The word strange things is from one word in the original language. And I don't like to talk about Greek too much, but this one you'll like it, I think. Paradoxa. Paradoxa. How appropriate is that? Jesus' miracles and his very identity is a beautiful paradox. He referred to himself as the Son of Man But he has shown to others that he is the Son of God. He spoke words as a man on earth, but granted forgiveness as God of heaven. The healed man is walking proof that Jesus is divine. Now I urge you, if you have not received Jesus or if you have not received forgiveness for sins. Look to Jesus. Now you might go to Jesus because you have some physical ailment, right? Because you think the gospel brings you prosperity. But let's think about that for a moment. This healed man, we don't know his name, he will someday be bedridden again. This man who once went up on a roof will someday go down into a grave. Remission of diseases that medicine offers, that hospitals offer, is temporary. Remiss of sins that Jesus offers is eternal. Don't you want that? Jesus has a spiritual cure for sin. And he has obtained it by taking our sins to the cross, dying in our place, and rising from the dead. He offers it to you, and we can accept it by faith. We don't have to earn it or pay for it. He invites all of us. I hope that you accept it That leads to the next episode where we see that Jesus calls sinners to repentance because he is the sole physician. Verses 27 to 29 narrate in rapid succession the calling of Levi And Levi is another name for Matthew, the tax collector, the one who wrote the first gospel, the first book in the New Testament. We should not miss the significance of what just happened. What Matthew gave up. There was no turning back for him. It would be hard for him to return to tax collecting because it was a highly sought-after job with much financial gain. And he had a really nice spot in Capernaum. a very important city around the lake. And he also gave up um just social status too. The fact is, it wasn't like he was welcomed by the rest of Jesus' disciples with open arms. There are some who think that fish caught in the lake would have been taxed. So that means fishermen like Peter, Andrew, James, and John, they weren't exactly eager to have Matthew join their club. But yet just like them, Jesus went to Matthew's workplace to call him. Just like the fishermen, the tax collector, left all things behind and followed Jesus. Privileged and honored by his calling, Matthew threw a big party at his home. Matthew naturally invites his co-workers and colleagues. Jesus must have thought this was a golden opportunity to preach the gospel. The scribes and the Pharisees, however, were not very excited about this feast. Tax collectors were considered the greatest of sinners in Jesus' time. There were there are at least four reasons why. Yeah. And I don't think these are something that's out of the ordinary. You would understand why. First, no one wants to pay taxes. Secondly, they were Jews working for the enemy, the Romans. So they were seen as traitors. Three, most tax collectors took more than required. Right. They were fleecing their own countrymen. And four, most were richer than others as a consequence. Yet Jesus was willing to share tables with tax collectors and even recruited one to be part of the twelve. That obviously bothered the Pharisees and teachers of the law. They complain against Jesus' disciples, but Jesus replies in verses 31 and 32 Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. See, Jesus was not among the tax collectors or sinners as a tax collector or a sinner. He was among them as a physician. And the religious leaders were wrong to criticize Jesus for two reasons. First, they thought they were well and righteous in their own moral living, so they believed they didn't need Jesus. Second, even if they were somehow better than others, which they're not, they were like paranoid hypochondriac physicians. Pick the wrong profession. Shouldn't you be helping people who are sinners then? What kind of doctor doesn't spend time with the sick? What kind of savior doesn't hang out with sinners? Thankfully, Jesus is the friend of sinners. But keep in mind, he's not just a friend. We should pay close attention to the fact that Jesus calls them to repentance, to change. There's a difference between helping and enabling. He's not only calling them, but calling them to change. If Jesus has called you, he is also calling you to change. Is there evidence of change in your life? A popular Christian author once wrote, quote, God loves you just the way you are, but he refuses to leave you that way. He wants you to be just like Jesus. And we'll spend eternity going after that. Praise God that each of us were called to be saved and repent. Have you responded to that call And this effort to change does not come from our strength, does not come from our moral resolve. Before conversion, before we were saved, we have nothing to offer Jesus. Our greatest result to change and our best accomplishments in life would add nothing to our salvation. Isaiah 64, verse 6 says, We are all like an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags. We all fade as a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away. But after we were saved by grace, not by works, we read in 2 Peter 1, verse 3. That his divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. That means we have all that we need to continue in repentance, grow in godliness. We have the model of our Lord Jesus Christ to imitate. God has predestined us, believers, to be conformed to the image of His Son, Romans 8. 29. That means we should not only be with Jesus, but be like Jesus. That is the essence of repentance and progression in holiness. If you attended Matthew's party, would you sit with the tax collectors and sinners in one room, or would you sit with the Pharisees and scribes in another corner? I want you to know that by following Jesus, there is a social cost. You are admitting that you're a sinner. You'll be lumped up with the worst of sinners. We're all under grace. You're not only brothers and sisters, with people from Christian families, Bible colleges, and good backgrounds. But also with sinners from broken families, liberal education, and shady past. But do not think that this social cost outweighs the price of not coming to Christ. If you do not come to Christ, as these Pharisees and scribes refuse to do because of their self-righteousness, You will sink to the depths of hell. By coming to Christ, you do admit that you are in the same sinking boat as the worst sinners in the world But you will be saved because you met your soul position. And that is a cause for celebration That leads to the next point. Jesus invites us to celebrate because he begins a better ministry. In verse 33, the religious leaders now directly ask Jesus about his manner of life, how his disciples do not appear to be fasting and praying often as the disciples of John the Baptist. or the Pharisees. We find out from other gospels that both groups were there actually and they wanted to know In response, Jesus provides three illustrations to demonstrate that praying and fasting do not accord with Jesus' advent. Jesus begins with the first illustration in verses 34 and 35. Like most wedding celebrations across generations and cultures. The Jewish wedding was a festive occasion. We understand easily that fasting and penitential prayers are not compatible with feasting and exaltation. But Jesus does not prohibit fasts forever. There will be a time when they will be appropriate when Jesus is taken away from them to be killed on the cross and buried. The second illustration is found in verse 36. If you have ever thrown new clothes into your washer and dryer only to take them out shrunk, you understand the logic of this simple parable. Natural fibers like cotton, wool, and mohair, I don't even know what mohair is, but they will lose their tension with heat and shrink on their first wash. But imagine if you mix these up. The new piece of garment used to patch up the old one will not only tear the clothing, it will not match aesthetically. The third illustration is in verses 37 to 39. This one is similar to the previous one New wine stored in wineskins will undergo fermentation and stretch out the fabric. But the fabric of older wineskins Have been stretched already to the limit. And it lost its elasticity over time. And then the disastrous result Is that the old wineskin is destroyed and the new wine is lost. Again, we have a stress on incompatibility These three illustrations all together communicate one message. Jesus' ministry is new, and the old systems of the Pharisees and the John the Baptist cannot contain it. Consider how in the present we have discontinued in the ways of the Old Testament because the New Testament church does not fit in them. I'm not saying the Old Testament is Irrelevant. I'm just saying the practices of the Old Testament does not fit the New Testament era. For example, I'll just give one Israelites had a center for worship at Jerusalem Temple, and they would have to go there at least three times a year But such a specific location does not accommodate disciples from all nations. Matthew 28, 19. And true worshippers who worship the Father in spirit and truth. I invite you to meditate on John 4. Instead, Jews and Gentiles are built together as a holy temple in the Lord. Ephesians 2, 1 Peter 2. So the physical temple in Jerusalem is not appropriate. For the church age, as we are fulfilling the great commission to make disciples from all nations. Now back to this passage. It follows that the strict separation from Gentiles and tax collectors, which Pharisees demanded, does not work either. Galatians 3. 28 says, There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. We're all able to celebrate at the Lord's table, regardless of race, status, or gender. As I say every month, we can have table fellowship at the Holy Communion as long as we consider ourselves sinners who repent of sins and trust in Jesus Christ for forgiveness. Now, what about the ministry of John the Baptist? John the Baptist's ministry was the culmination of the Old Testament ministry that directly prepared Israel for the coming of the Messiah. John's baptism for repentance reminds them of their need for the upcoming baptism of the Holy Spirit. John's fasting ministry gave way to Jesus' feasting ministry. And if you ask John the Baptist himself, he himself was happy to make that transition away from himself, to fade away into background, so that Jesus would take the stage. Note how the Baptist humbles himself and rejoices in the Gospel of John chapter 3 verse 28 to 30. I'll just read it for you. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. He who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is fulfilled. He must increase, but I must decrease. The same joy of John, the celebration, is readily available for us. Now what is it that keeps us from celebrating Jesus' ministry, his life, his sacrifice, the gospel that he brings? Well, we turn to the last verse in today's passage, the last verse of chapter 5. Verse 39, it says And no one having drunk old wine immediately desires new. For he says, the old is better. The religious elite and the fervent traditionalist We can be so drunk in our old ways that we say the old is better. You don't have to be a Pharisee or a disciple of John the Baptist to get stuck. in former ways. What are some old tendencies that you have trouble letting go? Perhaps you are so used to finding significance in work, in relationships, or study. That you can't find significance in Christ. You like the old ways, the way you found significance in the past Perhaps you are so used to attending a pity party for yourself that you can't go to the celebration feast with Jesus and fellow believers The gravest mistake would be this: that you have convinced yourself, like the Pharisees and the scribes, that your old way of living, moral life, is good enough for heaven. Jesus calls us to forgiveness of sins, repentance and celebration, our stubbornness and false notion that we don't need Jesus The Son of God, the Soul Physician, the groom of heaven, will be our downfall. Do not ignore his call to you. He has proven his love for you by dying on the cross and rising from the dead for your sins. Do not side with the scribes and the Pharisees. Come to Jesus as the paralytic, his friends, the tax collectors, and the sinners did. Let's pray.