We serve a God who employs a great deal of variety in the things that He does, the things that He's created, and the works that He continues to do. He is the God who made a great number of different kinds of, for example, trees, bugs. Mammals, clouds, stars, everywhere we see variety in the creation that God has made. And he is a God who sometimes surprises. I don't know if you remember years ago when we were able to take a sub down beyond, either it was the San Andreas fault or another one. It might have been the San Andreas. But they found the fissures in the bottom of those places that were spewing out gas, but on that gas were organisms that were alive. So many thousands of feet below surface, sometimes the lowest points on earth, there was life, and no one had ever seen that life before. Tube worms. And crabs that could withstand immense pressure. And there it had been this whole time. And we had finally discovered what God put there a long time ago. So God is full of surprises if we could just begin this sermon by illustrating it from nature. But we also see surprises in the Word of God. We see people who are surprised by the way God is working, and they have questions as a result of the way God is working. In Luke chapter 7, we see John the Baptist send messengers to Jesus because he has questions about Jesus' identity. Could you have anticipated with your Bible knowledge that someone as close to Jesus as John, the forerunner of Jesus, would actually wonder if Jesus was the one who was to come? But John was surprised by some of the ways that Jesus acted, by his ministry methodology. And so John sent messengers to talk to Jesus and find out what was going on. Folks, what we see today in today's passage is A great difference between John the Baptist and the way he did his ministry as the forerunner of Christ, the messenger coming before the face of Christ, and Jesus himself. There was a variety there. And Jesus described it in this term. Look down at chapter 7, verse 35. But wisdom is justified by all her children. When it comes to the end of the passage that we're looking at, and we are going to have to look at verses 11 all the way to verse 35. What we see here is Jesus calling out the differences between his ministry and John the Baptist ministry and speaking in terms of wisdom. When we look at this passage, we'll also notice that God is always doing more than we could ever imagine. God is always doing more than we can ever imagine. Because we see in this passage, John Who is expecting Jesus to have a certain kind of ministry because he prophesied, for example, that Jesus would have a fiery ministry and that he would use fire. And yet John didn't understand that there was the incarnation, the death and resurrection of Christ, and then the return of Christ. Turn to 2 Thessalonians quickly. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, and try to hang in there with all of this. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, we have Paul writing to these Christians about the return of Christ. And in verse 6, he says, and he's relating this to their own suffering. This is 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 6 It is a righteous thing with God to repay with tribulation those who trouble you, and to give you who are troubled rest with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Here we have this passage on the return of Christ. Turn back to Luke chapter 7. We have John the Baptist, and we've already read this, predicting the coming of Christ and what he would be like. And he says, if you look at Luke chapter 3, verse 15. Luke chapter 3, verse 15. Now as the people were in expectation and all reasoned in their hearts about John, whether he was the Christ or not, John answered, saying to all, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I is coming. whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. Does that sound like the first coming of Christ or the second? And could John have known? No, he didn't understand that God is always doing more Than we realize. And so he had questions. Folks, have you ever in your life wondered what God was doing? Have you ever had questions for Jesus? Have there ever been moments in your life when if you could have had some messengers run from you and take your questions right to Jesus? that you would have taken that opportunity. How about today? Do you wonder what God is doing in your life? Sometimes that happens. And you know what? I'm going to tell you this morning, on the basis of the authority of Scripture, that it's okay to ask Jesus questions. to find out answers from the Bible for the questions that you have. We live in a world that is broken. And we need to go to Christ. So what's happening here? Well, in Luke chapter 7, verses 11 to 17, we have this amazing incident that reveals the extent of the power of Jesus. How powerful is this man? Well, we've already looked through the Gospel of Luke and seen that he is someone who is indiscriminate in his use, almost careless in his use of power. He is not an individual who has to work himself into a frenzy and then heal someone. He can just tell someone, rise up and walk, and the person rises up and walks. He is someone also we've seen in the Gospel of Luke who doesn't only heal a certain group of people. He heals whoever he wills We've also seen in the Gospel of Luke that he has the kind of power that entire villages can end up on his doorstep and he just heals and heals and heals, and it's not like he has a power gas tank. Where he gets to the bottom of it and he runs out of power. He could just continue to do it forever. And here in this example, we have resurrection power flowing through Christ in such a The way this is described, this is not a Hollywood production. The way this is written, it's almost like another day in the life of Jesus. Oh, he did this. Let's read it together. Luke 7, verse 11. Now it happened the day after that he went into a city called Nain. And many of his disciples went with him and a large crowd. And when he came near the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And what does that mean? She was a widow, and her only son is dead. It means a life of poverty. She had no one to support her anymore. As a widow, she could have counted on her son, but now her son is dead. The woman is in a great deal of trouble and sorrow. So, verse 12. When he came near the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a large crowd from the city was with her. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, Do not weep. Then he came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. So he who was dead sat up and began to speak, and he presented him to his mother. Then fear came upon all. Fear seized them, folks. And they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has risen up among us. And God has visited his people. And this report about him went throughout all Judea and all the surrounding countryside. We saw the last time I was here in Luke chapter 7, the first section there, verses 1 to 10, the healing of the centurion servant. The kind of authority that Jesus had over disease. Even if that person was dying in another location. All Jesus had to do was nothing was just will the person to be healed, and even at a distance a person could be healed And here we have Jesus, who's been given authority over life and death itself. He just Walks up to this funeral procession, touches the dead body or the pyre, or whatever it was lying on. It's translated here as open coffin, but here's the body Here's the procession, and here's Jesus saying, wait. And talking, folks, to a dead person. Do dead people hear? I don't think so. But when he says this, the man gets up and starts talking. What kind of power is this that Jesus had when he can talk to the dead and they rise? There's no kind of intermediary. There's nothing between Jesus and the miraculous. Folks, there's no medicine involved. There's no plan involved. There's simply the words of Jesus. It ought to remind us of Genesis chapter 1, where God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And he didn't have to go make a fire and he didn't have to go create something in order to create something else. He simply spoke ex nilo and it came and it happened. That's what happened here. Jesus spoke and the man was raised. Now, in the Gospel of Luke, so far we've seen a great number of miracles. We've seen the miracles among crowds. We've had these little incidents called out and seen the power of God. Then we have verse 18 of chapter 7. It says, then the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things. So here we have John in the background. Now you remember already from the Gospel of Luke what kind of man he was. He was very different from Jesus. He was the kind of guy that would not eat as much. who practiced the form of asceticism even, who for many years was where? The wilderness. And his diet was rather strange while there. Locusts. and wild honey. And as a man, he was similar to Elijah of the Old Testament. So we already have John the Baptist preaching a baptism of repentance. And here is Christ, and he says, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And Jesus is baptized. And now Jesus is. baptized, tempted in the wilderness, and he's on his way in ministry, and now John's attitude we read elsewhere is, he must increase, I must decrease. And so he's looking at the growing ministry of Jesus, this popular healer, but also this the growing resistance of the Pharisees. And he's watching all of this happen. Now in the Gospel of Luke, we have little statements that Dr. Luke gives us of sort of what happens after Jesus does a miracle. One of those statements is in verse 17. We just read it. And this report about him went throughout all Judea and all the surrounding region. We have another statement, and there are more than just two in Luke, for sure. In chapter five, verse twenty six, when the people see Jesus. heal the lame man in the synagogue and they say, wow, we've seen strange things here today. We've really seen some unusual things. So you know that everything that's happening in the life of Jesus is being watched. We know that as a reader of the Gospel of Luke, but this is the first time when we are introduced to the fact that John John is receiving reports of what's happening. Now, this is only one time it's mentioned here, but It's probably safe to think that this in verse 18. It's not the only time that he found out what Jesus was doing. And so he thinks this over. He thinks it over. And something bothers him. Now you look at your Bible at verses 18 and 19, and that is the conclusion we reach. Let's read verses 18 and 19. Then the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things, and John calling two of his disciples to him sent them to Jesus saying, are you the coming one, or do we look for another? What is it that John saw that would cause him to question Jesus? What is it that bothered him? Now, folks, you and I, at points in our Christian life, we have these moments when we don't understand what's happening. John saw, he received these reports. He was the one who baptized Jesus. He said, I'm not worthy to do this, but Jesus said, Let's fulfill all righteousness. He was there, he saw what happened. He knew who the Lamb of God was. He was related to him. And yet here is this moment. Are you the coming one? Or do we look for another? Does it surprise you that John would say that? Well, when the men come, look at verse 20. When the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the coming one, or do we look for another? And that very hour he cured many of infirmities, afflictions, and evil spirits, and to many blind he gave sight. Now, pause there for a moment, just for a moment and think this through. Was there enough evidence present for the disciples of John to tell John what they had seen? Well, we have Luke letting us know in verse 29, that very hour, I mean, when the dis when these people came back from John the Baptist. They came back into a context of ministry, miraculous ministry. And he lays on, if you look at verse 29, the descriptive words here, infirmities, afflictions, evil spirits. and blind. He gives a long list of what's happening here. So they walk back right into this. And then Jesus answers them, verse 22, and he says to them, Go and tell John the things that you have seen and heard. That the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he who is not offended because of me. Now, this is interesting. Do you think John the Baptist knew the Old Testament? Do you think he knew it pretty well? I'm looking at a lot of people right now who know the Bible. I won't ask you to raise your hands to tell me how many Bible verses you've memorized, but how many of you have been in the Iwana program growing up? All right, that's a lot, a fair amount of people. So I would imagine you've memorized more than just John 3. 16. Is that safe to assume if you're in the Iwana program? Not just people in the Iwana program, but a lot of people, I would say the majority of people in here know the scriptures. But do you remember When Jesus quoted the Scripture to identify himself in the Gospel of Luke, what he quoted Do you remember that from the Gospel of Luke? It was a while ago when we looked at it. Open your the Gospel of Luke and turn back all the way to chapter 4. What, two pages? And look at what he said to the people in Nazareth, which is what he said in all the synagogues when he identified himself. Who are you? He quoted the Bible. And the people knew the Bible fairly well who came to synagogue. Look at Luke 4, verse 17. And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach The gospel to the poor, he has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind. To set at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. Now, you flip back to Luke chapter 7. Here are the followers of John, or Probably in transition between John and Jesus. And Jesus says, here's what's happening, and he uses these statements Statements that really are a fulfillment of what Jesus was telling everyone in the synagogues about himself. So, in essence, Jesus is reminding these messengers of fulfillment of prophecy. And Jesus is really pushing them back to how he had defined himself Jesus, the answer that he gave would make no sense if those men did not already know the coming one and the nature of it. His ministry, folks. They knew the Bible. They knew the book of Isaiah, the most major of the major prophets. They knew what was going on. And so Jesus is pushing them back. Look at what's happening. Look at what's happening. The blind are receiving their sight. The poor have the good news preached to them. What does that sound like, guys? And so they're supposed to go back to John the Baptist and tell them what they've seen. And John is supposed to make that connection between the miraculous ministry of Christ and what he said about himself. So there's that. There's that connection. Go back to the scriptures. Take what you see. Remember what I've said. Although he doesn't explicitly say the remember what I said part. Now, folks, what about you? When you're confused and you're seeing things happen in your life that you don't understand. Now, these men were seeing miracles. It's hard to understand why when miracles happen, why they're happening, and if all this. Can you imagine if we saw a series of miracles, how confused we would be to try to figure out where this fits in? Where would we want to go back to? We'd want to go back to the scriptures. We want to remember what Jesus said about himself. When you are confused about your Christian life, when you don't know what Jesus is doing in your life, when you're not sure how What God wants, the answer is always to go back to what is clear in the Word of God. Start there. That's as simple as Jesus made it with the followers of John. Here's what's happening. Go back and tell John what you're seeing. So that is something that we should do as well, folks. What do the scriptures say about trials and tribulations? Do you know? What do the scriptures say is the source of suffering in our lives? What about death itself? What about the death of your loved one? What about the situation in our country and the mess that we're in? Does the Bible have anything to say about that? Or maybe you're tempted to do what I am sometimes tempted to do, to read a pundit on it, or a book that somebody wrote It might have a few Bible verses slipped in here and there. But to do the actual legwork of going back and remembering what the Word of God says, that's what we need to do. You see folks, when you go back to the scriptures, you kind of put yourself back on the right foundation. For example, did you you know? You know, I'm looking at people and probably there are a number of people in here who have some pretty serious health issues. Why do we have health problems in this life? Well, you go all the way back to Genesis, it's because of sin. There's suffering in this world because of sin. There's death in this world because of sin. And so you know that the outward man perishes It's true. It's happening to all of us. I'm only 45, but it's definitely happening to me. You say, well, that's pretty basic, but that's a good place to start Now, does God love you even though you're suffering with a physical malady of some kind? Does that erase the love of God because we're living in a world of sin? No, because Jesus came into this world of sin. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him will not perish, but have everlasting life And so the proof and the evidence that God loves you no matter what is that he sent Christ to die for you while you were yet a sinner. You say, wow, that's really basic too. Yeah, but isn't it good to remind yourself of that when you're going through something, to go back to the book Because there is confusion. Look at your Bible again. And look down where we left off And I read verse 23. Let's read it again. And blessed is he who is not offended because of me. Here's the danger. And John the Baptist was truly in danger of this. He looked at his ministry and he remembered what he had said about Jesus. Jesus was going to be a ministry of spirit and fire. And fire in the Old Testament is a symbol of purifying and judgment. And we just read from 2 Thessalonians that Jesus is going to judge the world in flaming fire, taking vengeance on his enemies. But here comes Jesus and his associations don't make sense. I mean, he spends so much time with sinners and their tax collectors and prostitutes. And Jesus is he's moving in and he eats and drinks with these people. He doesn't fast. His followers don't fast. He's very different from what I myself, as you're thinking at John might think, prophesied and spoke about him. And this word here, offense See, the real problem was not that John the Baptist didn't know who Jesus was. But that he wasn't quite sure he liked what Jesus was doing. Have you ever been there? Have you ever been in a life moving along and Jesus has allowed something to happen in your life and you don't know if you really like that very much? And you're ready to just cast off everything because you don't like what he's doing? There's a stumbling, there's an offense that can take place, and it was apparently John the Baptist. was in danger of it. And so Jesus warns him, blessed. Blessed is the one who is not offended because of me. Well, this happened publicly, this interchange, this dialogue here. And so, verse 24, when the messengers of John had departed. Jesus starts speaking to the multitudes, and he calls forth the differences between his ministry and the ministry of John the Baptist for the multitudes to hear. And he gives explanation. In order to clear this up, because indeed Jesus in many ways was different than John. Look what he says. First he speaks to John's character, what kind of a man he was. Look at verse 24. He began to speak to the multitudes concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Indeed, those who are gorgeously appareled and live in luxury are in king's courts. But what did you go out to see? Now, John the Baptist and his style of ministry was an intentional, folks, it was an intentional curiosity. He didn't dress normally. He was, and I'm not saying this disrespectfully or in any way mocking John the Baptist, but it was odd the way he looked, what he ate, and where he lived. He had the marks of a different fellow on him And he had the lifestyle of a prophet on him. And this is what attracted them to go out and listen to him. If he had had the fine apparel and blah, blah, blah, he would have been just like everyone else. There wouldn't have been that element of curiosity that drew people to him. Part of the wisdom of John the Baptist was the way he did ministry, what he wore, who he was. Not a reed shaken in the wind, but a strong man with an iron constitution who looked that way. And so the people saw the marks of a prophet. And you see, look down at your Bible again. But verse 26, but what did you go out to see? A prophet. Yes, I say to you, and more than a prophet. They went out to see and hear the message of this strong individual because of who he was. And he was that way, a strong. Verse 27, this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. For I say to you, among those born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. Now, Jesus is affirming the characteristics of John. His strong personality, not a reed shaken in the wind, the way he dressed, not fine apparel. The nature of his words, a prophet. And the purpose of his ministry, my messenger. Prepare your way before you, the herald for the Messiah. So Jesus is essentially when he's describing John, he's just affirming exactly what they saw. what his identity was and why he had come. And then he makes this statement in verse 28. He says, For I say to you, among those born of women, there's not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. And in the sense that there's about to be a great change in the covenants. Where the old covenant is going to be put away, and this New Testament, written in the blood of Christ, is going to come forward. John the Baptist is the greatest because he is, in that sense, the last. Old Testament prophet that there was. Because he goes on to say, he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. So there is this the old that's passing away, and now there's this new thing in the kingdom of God. And the church will be here soon, and he who is least and a part of that Is better than he who is like John in the part of what is passing away. So verse 29, all the people heard him, even the tax collectors. They justified God, having been baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the will of God for themselves, not having been baptized by John. And so here we have Dr. Luke letting us know that there was a division in the response to John. There was those who were despised tax collectors who accepted him. and justified God in their acceptance of this baptism of repentance. But the self-righteous, verse 30, the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the will of God. For themselves, not having been baptized by him. So we have here a combination of the words of Jesus, how he described John, and then Dr. Luke kind of pulling back the curtain and letting us know Generally speaking, he was accepted by some, rejected by others, but he is for real. Now, why do you think that happened? Well, among other things, there's this. John the Baptist is questioning Jesus, but that doesn't disannul his whole ministry. Just because John had questions about Jesus and he sent these messengers, Jesus is saying, don't let that throw you. He is still God's prophet that you went to see, greatest among born of women, and so on. My stamp of approval on John the Baptist. Now what about when you and I question? What about when you and I don't know what God is doing? Does God reject us because we do that? He didn't reject John. He didn't reject John's ministries. Now, I want to be careful. I'm not saying doubting in the sense of maybe you're not a Christian and you need to be born again. And you need to have faith for the first time and put your trust in Christ. But I'm talking about Christians who are in the dark. Christians who are wondering what's happening. What's God's attitude toward you? There's this. Romans makes it very clear that you are a justified sinner, that you have a position before God that was bought with the blood of Christ. And even at those moments when you struggle with your faith and trying to understand and apply the scriptures, at those moments of your weakness, That does not disannul the justification you've received in Christ. Once saved, always saved, because it was the work of Calvary that bought it for you. Your struggle does not undo the cross. When you're lying in a hospital bed, when you're trying to minister to a neighbor who started to hate you for no reason, when you're living in a country like we are now, and we struggle with it. That does not stop God and the work that he did in Christ. So now we move on to this next section here, verses 31 to 35. Now, John the Baptist got it right. You know what happened to him. He went on and he was martyred for what he said about Herod's wife and all that. And so he's in heaven today. But Jesus kind of rolls back in verses 31 to 35 the nature of people and why they don't accept one man or another. And he speaks in terms of children. Look at this in verse 31. And the Lord said, To what then shall I liken the men of this generation? And what are they like? They're like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, saying, We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We mourned to you and you did not weep. Notice, children. Demanding their own way, expecting others to join their program That is what children do. Verse 33. For John the Baptist came, neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say he has a demon The Son of Man has come, eating and drinking, and you say, Look, a glutton and a wine bibber, a friend of tax collectors and sinners, but wisdom is justified by all her children. What is he saying in essence? What is he saying the problem is with many who rejected John and reject him? A lack of maturity, their children, fickleness, shallowness Apathy of a sort. People who want to have it their way, who want God to enter into their plans. Rather than entering into his salvation plan and finding out what he wants. John the Baptist was a curiosity, and they went out to see him and hear the words of the prophet. Jesus' ministry is different. It requires a different kind of wisdom. He wasn't in the wilderness asking people to come to him. He went to the people. That's one of the essential differences between the two ministries. John prepared the way for Jesus so he could be with the people, and now Jesus is in their homes. He's talking to them by the street. He's interacting with all the socioeconomic groups. Lepers, lowest of the low, the prostitutes and tax collectors. Everybody hates them as being sinners. And then he also interacts with the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Centurion that he talked to through the messengers that the centurion sent. John was the light on the hill. Shining out and crying out, look, the Lamb of God. Jesus was the one who came The incarnation of God Himself, so that He could come and be with us. Emmanuel, God with us. And so Jesus in the wisdom of his ministry was with the people And wisdom is justified of her children. The idea here being that you look at the result of the two ministries before you judge the wisdom or throw out the message. Folks, what we have in Luke chapter 7, verses 11 to 35 is two men. John the Baptist, the prophet, Jesus, the God man. The different kinds of ministries they have, and a warning for you and me not to be offended by the choices God makes with his servants. Blessed is he who is not offended by me. And then we have in verses 31 to 35 this warning really. Don't be like these kids and reject Jesus based on your own immaturity. And that leads me to the end of this. In a second, we're going to do the Lord's table. In a few minutes here, just a moment. So when we do this, our goal is to remember Christ, what he did for us. So you can put your Bible away for a second, or you can keep it out, that's fine. Whatever you might prefer to do. I want to hone it down. Are you okay with the choices God makes? Are you okay that John the Baptist was the ascetic and Jesus was the one who was with the people? Are you willing to submit? To the one who does not want to dance, if he wants to do something else. You see what I'm saying? I'm not talking about dancing and opening up that whole topic. I'm just talking about Are you willing to submit to God's choices? Or are you at this very moment, you really need to search your heart, and I need to search mine. Are you demanding that God do things your way? In a particular area of your life, when you in fact know that if you went back to the book You're the one who's stumbling and being offended at the spotless Lamb of God who died to take your sins away. Folks, it doesn't matter what you think if it disagrees with the Bible. It doesn't matter. You're wrong You're dead wrong. If the scriptures say one thing and you're making a choice as a Christian that you know is exactly opposite to the Word of God. You're wrong. It doesn't matter what anyone else else has written about it. It doesn't matter what your best friends are telling you. It doesn't matter what the world is saying on talk radio. It doesn't matter if the devil himself came in as an angel of light and sat down and told you. If the Bible is saying something different, you have to go with what this book says.