Happy New Year. So have you said these words to each other and to your family, friends, and neighbors? I hope you said them many times. No, those words sound like they would be welcome anywhere in the world. But why would they be welcome? David Ropeck, author, consultant, and instructor at Harvard, thinks that the ubiquitous celebration of the New Year is rooted in quote, something intrinsic in the human animal. Something profoundly meaningful and important. Given all the energy and resources we invest, not just in the celebration but also in our efforts to make good on a fresh set of resolutions, even though we mostly fail to keep them. End quote Ropec identifies the source as our motivation to survive. We accumulate another year under our belt. And breathe a sigh of relief and party as if to say, we survive another twelve months. We make resolutions, ropa things, in attempts to control the unknown lying ahead. ahead of us in the future to continue to survive. Now we just read some books like Ecclesiastes and we see how futile are such attempts for survival. Yet also how revealing they are of the fallen human condition As a pastor, I urge you not to celebrate this new year or decade just because you survived the last year or the last decade. Rather, I hope that your peace and security in the twenty-first century Is grounded in what happened in the first century. I hope your celebration on January 1st was deeply rooted in what you celebrated on December 25th. I hope that your resolutions in 2020 are motivated by the promises of Jesus, what God has resolved for you. Now, please allow me to suggest some spiritual resolutions from our passage today. Luke chapter 2, verse 21 to 40. Luke 2, 21 to 40. You'll find the passage in the bulletin, insert, or please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 2, 21 to 40. And when eight days were completed for the circumcision of the child His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Now, when the days of our purification according to the law of Moses were completed, They brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord: every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he will not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child, Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took them up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your de servant depart in peace. According to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples. I like to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which were spoken of him. Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel. Israel, and for a sign which will be spoken against. Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Now there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Fanuel of the tribe of Asher. She was of a great age and had lived with the husband. Husband, seven years from her virginity, and this woman was a widow of about eighty-four years, who did not depart from the temple, but served God with fastings and Prayers night and day. And coming in that instant, she gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of him to all those who locked looked for a redemption in Jerusalem. So when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee to their own city, Nazareth. And the child grew and became strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. I believe there are four resolutions here. One, study the laws Jesus has fulfilled for us. Verses 21 to 24. 2. Embrace Jesus who brings both salvation and judgment. Verses 25 to 35. 3. Speak to God and others about Jesus. Verses 36 to 38. And four, observe the growth of Jesus as human. Verses 39 to 40. You'll find these points in your bulletin insert. First, study the laws Jesus has fulfilled for us. In 2019 and now entering into 2020, we've spent a lot of time in the Gospel of Luke. Some of you attend Tim Burks' Sunday School class and have studied the second volume of Luke, the book of Acts, as we look at passages from these two books, verse by verse. Phrase by phrase, word by word, we must always keep the big picture in mind. Remember that the recipient of both Luke and Acts was Theophilus. A high public official of some kind, yet with regard to his faith, Theophilus was a young Christian, maybe even a baby Christian In the process of training his growing faith, so that he may know the certainty of those things in which he was instructed. In verses 21 to 24, we are given what may first appear as mundane details of the law from the Old Testament But th these are all lessons for Theophilus. We're told in verse twenty one that like John, his forerunner, in one fifty nine, Jesus was circumcised on the eighth day and named according to the angelic revelations. To the parents, given months in advance. But the fulfillment reaches back further than forty weeks. This practice was in conformity with the covenants and law of Moses Recorded 1500 years prior in Leviticus 12. Now let's turn there real quick and see the type of lesson that Theophilus would learn. What Joseph and Mary had to do with their newborn son is Leviticus, third book of the Bible, chapter 12. Leviticus. The book where many Bible reading plants die. But well at least you'll have one chapter down. Um Leviticus chapter twelve, verses one to eight Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, saying, If a woman has conceived and born a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days, as in the days of her customary impurity she shall be unclean. And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised She shall then continue in the blood of her purification thirty-three days. She shall not touch any hallow thing, nor come into the sanctuary until the days of her purification are fulfilled. Still. But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her customary impurity, and she shall continue in the blood of her purification sixty six days When the blood of uh when the days of her purification are fulfilled, whether for a son or a daughter, she shall bring to the priest a lamb of the first year as a burnt offering, and a young pigeon or a turtle dove. as a sin offering to the door of the tabernacle of meeting. Then he shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her. And she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who has born a male or a female. And if she is not able to bring a lamb, then she may bring two turtle doves or two young pigeons. One as a burnt offering and the other as a sin offering. So the priest shall make atonement for her, and she will be clean Two quick observations before connecting this chapter to today's passage. First, verse 5 should not be understood as a sex system. Message as if to say the female gender is inferior to the male. The simple explanation is that the rite of circumcision necessarily shortened the time of bonding between the mother and the male child. Secondly, all talks of sacrifice and purification here, and cleanness, should not be understood to mean that sexual intercourse and reproduction are sinful Rather, the law reminds us at every moment in life, from the first moments to the waning days, we are given reminders here that sin pervades everywhere, even in God's good gifts. So now back in Luke two, in verse twenty-two, Mary and Joseph had a chance to reflect on these biblical lessons of life for another thirty-three days while recovering and adjusting to parenthood. Perhaps one question that we might ask, and they might have asked too, why would the child Jesus, who we believe to be sinless, undergo these rituals and sacrifices? The same reason Jesus would be baptized by John for repentance and hang on the cross with robbers to identify with the poor sinners he came to save, even though he himself is sinless. In verse twenty-three, Jesus was presented as the firstborn of Mary, holy to the Lord, according to the customer. in Exodus 13, 1 and 2. He was presented this way to represent Israel, God's imperfect firstborn. Though not recorded here in Luke, we should safely assume that Joseph and Mary paid the five shekels of silver required to redeem the firstborn, according to Numbers 18:16. Just by studying these Old Testament passages, we learn more about Jesus. He liked Paul was circumcised the eighth day. He was the firstborn son, as we just saw. In verse 24, we learn about Jesus' family background. Remember that in the last verse of Leviticus 12, verse 8, there's an exception clause for a mother if she is not able to bring a lamb. It continues, then she may bring two turtle doves or two young pigeons. A provision is made in the law for those who cannot afford a livestock due to low income. So I think what's going on here is that the magi from the east did not arrive yet to give Jesus their expensive gifts. If they did, Mary could have offered a lamb. So at this point Joseph and Mary could only offer the verbs. So our study of verses twenty-one to twenty-four may appear pedantic with all the flipping back and forth and cross-referencing. But wouldn't you want to know the background, the culture, the history of your friends and loved ones? Why wouldn't we study the laws under which Jesus lived? Please understand that Jesus doesn't appear in a vacuum, but in an intimate relationship with divine revelation of the past. You could say that all of these laws are build-up, and Jesus himself is the climax of revelation. As the writer of Hebrews says In the opening verses, God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his son. Hebrews 1 1 to 2. Jesus Himself told his disciples in Matthew 5, 17. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill Jesus fulfilled the scriptures in their predictions and their prescriptions. Apostle Paul knew this about Jesus and said this in Galatians 4, verses 4 to 5. When the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. To redeem those under the law, Jesus had to be born under the law. For redemptive purposes, Jesus came to Jerusalem at the beginning of his life on earth, and he will come at the end as well. For redemption's sake, Jesus had to be here at the 40th day of age and again here just around the last 40 days before ascension. And here's why we need redemption. Every sin that we have committed, and every command of God we have failed to obey Has a heavy price tag. Eternal condemnation in hell. We have failed to obtain God's perfect standard We did not and could not please God in our own efforts and good intentions. But the good news is that Jesus lived a perfect life and gave up that perfect life. On the cross, died for our sins in our place as the substitute, and rose from the dead. Now Jesus offers you this gift of eternal Eternal life, his perfect life. If we would repent of our sins and trust in him alone for salvation, will you come to Jesus? If you want a picture of trusting in Jesus for salvation, look no further than Simeon. That leads to the second resolution: embrace Jesus who brings both salvation and judgment. In verse 25, we are introduced to a man shrouded in mystery. We know his name to be Simeon, a common Jewish name at that time, and his character to be just and devout. Righteous, he was uh this man was righteous like John's parents, and Joseph, the husband of Mary. He was pious like the Jews converted at Pentecost and Ananias who baptized Paul. But his innate character is not what leads him to embrace Jesus. He was just and devout because the focus of his faith was outward towards God, not inwards toward himself. He was waiting for the one who would bring the consolation of Israel. Back in October and last week, Dr. Beale showed you from Isaiah that God brings the message of comfort, consolation. through the message uh to to um to Messiah his servant so that we do not need to fear anything coming into this year Simeon knew that message as well. He trusted in the promises of God revealed in the Bible, which is inspired by the Holy Spirit. And we see how that same Holy Spirit was operating in Simeon's life as well. In verse 25, the Holy Spirit was upon him In verse 26, we learned that it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. The same Spirit impelled him to go find Jesus in verse 27. So he came by the Spirit into the temple. The same spirit that inspired the words of prophecy, the same spirit that was upon Simeon, the same spirit that predicted that he would not die until he sees Christ That same spirit led him to embrace Jesus. There's a very important lesson for us here: the priority of the spirit in the gospel. Friends, know that without the operation of the Holy Spirit, there cannot be eyes that see Christ in heaven. As Jesus told a man named Nicodemus in John 3, unless one is born again by the Spirit, he or she cannot see the kingdom of God. The Holy Spirit inspires the promises we read and claim for ourselves. It comes upon us and leads us to Christ. Ultimately, that same spirit leads us to worship Christ And if we truly understand Christ, we will embrace him as he is, not what we want him to be. Here's what I mean. I said that like Simeon, we must embrace Jesus who brings both salvation and judgment. I think that Simeon's words in verses 29 to 32 emphasize the salvation aspect. Of Jesus' mission. While verses 34 to 35 emphasize the judgment aspect. As we juxtapose these concepts together, we must remember that we can't have one without the other. Yes, it's true that Jesus is our peace and salvation and brings our family together as long as we all believe in Christ. But this same Jesus disrupts and divides our families like a sword, as he come, as he has come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. It's Matthew 10. That's the cutting pain that Simeon predicts for Mary in verse 35. A personal crisis of her faith, I don't think it's talking about the suffering of her son at the cross. The same Jesus, who is the glory of Israel, will cause the fall of many in Israel, and be a sign which will be spoken against. The same Jesus, who is the light to bring revelation to the Gentiles, will reveal the thoughts of many hearts. Every time this word for thoughts appear in Luke, Luke, it is used to express a negative mindset, whether it's unbelief, arrogance, or doubt. See that in Luke 5. 22, 6. 8, 946-47, 24-38. That's what Simeon understood, and what Joseph and Mary had to understand. We too must pay attention. Not everyone will embrace Jesus in the right biblical way. Some will want to accept that Jesus saves, but refuse to believe that he condemns. But remember that this gentle one-month-old baby in the arms of Simeon will return someday in wrath. John, one of the twelve uh apostles, saw in a vision in Revelation 19, 11. Now I saw heaven open and behold a white horse, and he who sat on him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. Surrender and bow to Jesus now and accept Him as your salvation so that you won't meet Him for judgment. We as followers of Christ wait for that glorious day when we will be delivered from this fallen world. Until then, we have a mission on earth. Just as we imitate Simeon who embraced Jesus, we also imitate Anna, who proclaimed Jesus. That leads to the third resolution. Speak to God and others about Jesus. Unlike Simeon, we don't have any record of what Anna actually said. But in verse 36, Luke confirms that she was a prophetess, someone who reveals God's word. So she confirmed the words of Simeon as trustworthy. We have virtually no information on Fanuel, her father, except uh his tribal origins and Asher, though maybe Christians in uh Jerusalem knew him. While we assume that Simeon is old, we are told uh clearly Anna is very old. She had been married for seven years, but lived many decades as a widow. Instead of remarriage, she chose to serve God in the temple with continual fastings and prayers. In verse 38, we read that she enters the temple just as Simeon concludes his words in verse 35. She gives thanks to the Lord so that worship does not pause from the lips of his saints. Simeon's blessings give way to Anna's thanksgivings. Then those thanksgivings turn into gospel sharings to all those who look for redemption in Jerusalem. What Anna saw with her eyes, she proclaimed with her mouth. May I challenge you to do the same. Look at Jesus in the scriptures with eyes of faith, and then bear witness with your lips. Believe in your heart, believe with your heart, and confess with your mouth. The two acts go together like inhaling and exhaling. And as long as you have breath on earth, let us live to thank God and spread the fame of Jesus. It doesn't matter whether you are in your youth like Joseph and Mary, or in your latter years, like Simeon and Anna. We have all that we need. We have Jesus as the object of our proclamation. We preach Jesus as the pre-existent Son of God, who existed as the Son of Mary. And to help understand Jesus better as a man, Luke has written this story of Jesus for us. And that leads to the fourth resolution: observe the growth of Jesus as human. This final resolution, based on verses 39 and 40, is sort of serves as a book end. And similar to the first resolution, study the laws Jesus has fulfilled for us. That was based on verses 21 to 24. I think the major difference is the starting point or the entry point. On one hand, we can understand Jesus by beginning with the Old Testament passages that predict his future before he came to earth. On the other hand, we can understand Jesus by studying the New Testament passages that review his past after he came to earth, and of course, records his future coming as well. Both testaments are important as they reveal many facets of Jesus' character, with full disclosure to come when he returns. We have all that we need in the New Testament to understand Jesus' earthly ministry. Verse 39 tells us that Joseph and Mary returned with Jesus from Jerusalem to their hometown of Nazareth in the region of Galilee. This verse is a quick summary of what happened over the next months and probably few years. I do not think this return home was immediate. I think Joseph tried as much as possible to stay in Bethlehem. It was only because of the events of Matthew 2 that Joseph had to leave Bethlehem, run away to Egypt. Returned to Israel, tried to return to Judea, but eventually settled back in Nazareth. Verse 40 goes on to summarize the next 12 years of Jesus' life And the child grew and became strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Now there have been many attempts to fill in the details in non canonical apocryphal accounts and so called Infancy gospels. But we have no need to add to the testimony of Matthew and Luke. That's all we need. We need no less and no more. As much as our curiosity and speculative minds would love to fill the narrative gaps here, we should show some restraint. God has determined these words and these words alone to be scripture. So be it. Besides, there's enough mystery and plenty of wonder in verse 40 to occupy our hearts for a long time. God, who is unchanging, became a child who grew. The omnipotent divinity became strong in spirit. Jesus, the wisdom from God, is filled with wisdom. The grace of God was upon the God of grace. Now it would take time for Mary to fully grasp these truths. Even Apostle Paul called it a mystery in 1 Timothy 3. Theologians throughout centuries have struggled expressing the union of the human and divine natures of Christ. Even the most famous summary in the Chalcedonian Creed would scarcely describe this mystery and what my the uh theology professor called Negative theology in the sense that all we could do is describe what it is not. Concluding that the union of two natures is in one person inconfusibly Unchangeably, indivisibly, inseparably. So these resolutions should keep you busy for a while. We can't leave behind the mystery of Christmas in twenty nineteen, even if we try to leave behind everything else. And if understanding God in flesh requires devotion, so will the concept of God in flesh dying for us on the cross. His body broken, his blood shed. In a few moments, we'll get a chance to reflect upon what Jesus has done for us. What resolutions He has made to save us from our sins. Let us be uh thankful. Let's make our own resolutions, knowing we can never pay him back, but doing uh being resolute to serve him with praise and honor. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for Your word to show us just more glimpses into your Son, how you have sent him to die on the cross for our sins. No, how he lived a life that we should have lived, but we didn't. Lord. He was in the womb just like all of us were. He was born just like us. Lord he lived as an infant, a toddler, or an adolescent, an adult. He is able to sympathize with us, yet he is without sin. Lord, we thank you that we are able to study your word And see all the laws that he has fulfilled. Lord, may we embrace him, your son. Lord, just as Simeon did. Lord, we know that he is here to bring salvation to us. Lord, this is the day of salvation. But Lord, someday he will come back. To bring judgment. And we're thankful that for those who have trusted in Him alone, we are saved. May we spread the good news that you offer to your sons Son Jesus Christ, to our neighbors, to our friends, wherever we go. And may we come back to your word. May we be in awe of who you are, who your son is, how your spirit empowers us. So that we can continue the cycle of studying and preaching your word. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.