So I s I heard a story once, um There was a pastor who was voted the most humble pastor in America. And the congregation gave him a medal that said, quote, to the most humble pastor in America. End quote. Then they took it away from him on Sunday because he wore it. So elusive is this humility The moment we think we have it, it slips through our fingers. That's why we constantly read the scriptures to see Christ in his ultimate humility. That's one of the reasons we're starting a series on the life and ministry of Jesus. The Bible also tells us stories of fellow servants who struggle with humility. And at times exemplify it well. So we're going to learn about that one such man, John the Baptist. More than any other book, in the Gospel of Luke, we see how prominent John's role is in relation to Jesus. I do hope to come back to the first two chapters of Luke to show you why John is so prominent there But when we actually get to see him in the Gospels, the impression we get is that he's not overly concerned about his reputation or status. I see him as a great model of humility. So let's take a look at Luke chapter 3, verses 1 through 20 together. Luke chapter three, verses one through twenty. Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar. Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, Herod being patriarch of Galilee, his brother Philip, patriarch of Iteria, and the region of Chaconidus, And Lysinaeus, Patriarch of Abilene, while Annas and Caiaphas were high priests, The word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness. And he went into all the region around the Jordan. Preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, saying The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight. Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill brought low. The crooked places shall be made straight, and the rough ways smooth. And all flesh shall see the salvation of God. Then he said to the multitudes that came out to be baptized by him, Brute of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come, therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. And even now, the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? He answered and said to them, He who has two tunics Let him give to him who has none, and he who has food, let him do likewise. Then tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, collect no more than what is appointed for you. Likewise the soldiers asked him, saying, And what shall we do? So he said to them, Do not intimidate anyone or accuse falsely. And be content with your wages. Now, as the people were in expectation And all reasoned in their hearts about John, whether he was the Christ or not. John answered, saying to all, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor. And gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. And with many other exhortations, he preached to the people But Herod the Tatriarch, being rebuked by him concerning Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done, also added this, above all, that he shut John up in prison. So I believe there are three lessons from this narrative passage we just read. Three things about John the Baptist we can learn here. First, John the Baptist is an important but transitional figure in redemption history. John the Baptist is an important but transitional Figure in redemption history. That's verses 1 to 6. John the Baptist is an important but transitional figure in redemption history. Secondly, John the Baptist is a prophetic but practical preacher of repentance in wilderness. That's verses 7 through 14. A lot of peace here. John the Baptist is a prophetic but practical preacher of repentance in wilderness. One more time. John the Baptist is a prophetic but practical preacher of repentance in wilderness. That's verses 7 through 14. Thirdly, John the Baptist is a humble but strict promoter of Christ in public. That's verses 15 to 20. John the Baptist is a humble but strict promoter of Christ in public. One more time. John the Baptist is a humble but strict promoter of Christ in public. I'll be sure to repeat those as I go. First point, John is an important but transitional figure in redemption history. I chose these words very carefully. John is an important figure, but you've got to think, not in secular history, but in redemption history. Now honestly, how would John's name add up to the names in verses 1 through 2? What is John's name compared to Tiberius, Pilate, Herod, Philip, Annas, and Caiaphas? What is John's occupation compared to Caesar, governor, patriarch, which means the ruler of a fourth of a kingdom, and high priest? John's not much in the eyes of the world, but to the eyes of faith, to eyes of our faith. Those who survey the redemption history throughout the Bible, John is important, not in political history, but in redemption history. Is John more important than Isaiah quoted here, Jeremiah, Elijah, or various other Old Testament prophets? We learned that he doesn't even do a single miracle. If you ask Jesus, he would say yes, John is the most important. Why don't you turn with me to chapter seven in the same book of Luke, where we see Jesus speaking to multitudes about his forerunner, John the Baptist. So seven twenty seven through twenty eight It says there This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. For I say to you, among those born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. So look again there in verse 28. Our Savior Himself says, Among those born of women, there's not a prophet greater than John the Baptist. John is better than all who came before him. That's a quite an honor for Jesus to say that about him. But as you continue there in verse 28, Jesus says, But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. What does this mean? Well, that means that even the best in the old covenant cannot compare to the least in the new covenant. We're all connected to the Old Testament figures like Abraham, Moses, Isaiah, and John the Baptist by faith. But we, the New Testament saints, are in a better position. We get to behold clearly Jesus, the object of our faith. And we see this throughout the New Testament in Luke chapter 10. If you want to follow with me in these verses. Luke chapter ten, twenty three to twenty four I'm just going to read uh the words of Jesus there in Luke ten twenty-three to twenty-four. Blessed are the eyes which see the things you see, for I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see what you see And have not seen it, and to hear what you hear, and have not heard it. So the disciples, the twelve disciples, are first to benefit in this new covenant. Let's also go to Acts nineteen. We find Paul in the city of Ephesus And we see him encountering about a dozen of John's disciples, John the Baptist, who we're talking about today. And I'm just gonna read the first few verses. And it happened while Apollos was at Corinth that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus and find some disciples, finding some disciples, he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? So they said to him, We have not so much as heard whether there is a Holy Spirit. And he said to them, Into what then were you baptized? So they said, into John's baptism Then Paul said, John indeed baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on him who would come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied. Now the men were about twelve in all. So you see, they were baptized by John already, but Paul had to re-baptize them because they were still under the old covenant. And as these men came under Christ in the new covenant, they were baptized into the Spirit and received spiritual gifts. The writer of Hebrews persuasively argues that the new covenant is better than the old. Jesus became our high priest, once and for all, cleansing us from our sins with his sacrifice. Now the Old Testament saints, like I said, were saved by the same Christ just as we are, but they didn't get to see the promises fulfilled in their lifetime. At the end of Hebrews chapter 11, the famous faith chapter, we see all these heroic acts of faith, all the amazing deliverances. All these martyrdoms that took place. But how does that chapter end? I'll just read it for you. You can turn there if you want. It says in verses 39 and 40, and all these, having obtained a good testimony through faith, did not receive the promise, God having provided something better for us. That they should not be made perfect apart from us. Something better for us, those who are in the new covenant. Certainly John got to see more than others, but he still did not get to see the entire whole picture. The death, resurrection, ascension of Jesus. And the coming of the Holy Spirit in the day of Pentecost. So John is transitional, but nonetheless important because of where he stood. in redemption history. He was a bridge between the old and the new covenants. I like to use this illustration of A wedding party. He was like the best man in a wedding. He gets to st stand beside the groom and get a closer look more than the other groomsmen. The other groomsmen who stand on the stage too include prophets like Isaiah, King David, and Father Abraham. But they stand farther and farther away just because of they're chronologically farther and farther away. They have not received fuller revelation as we have, as John has. And they have a so as a consequence they have a less clear view of the Messiah. John got to see Jesus face to face. And John understood who Jesus was. John was six months older than Jesus, but he understood Jesus as his Lord, the Son of God. If you didn't understand this, John 1, 15 and 30 does not make sense. It says there, this is what John says He who comes after me is preferred before me for he was before me. What does that mean John is older than Jesus. How can he say that he was before me? John understood that Jesus is not just a normal human being. He is the Son of God. He understood the promises made in Isaiah's time are about to be fulfilled. He is the Lord. That is prom that is coming. The prophecies in Isaiah are Isaiah forty are about to come to pass. Comfort for Jerusalem, the end of warfare, pardon for iniquity. The payment for sins. John gets the amazing privilege of announcing the Lord's coming as the voice in the wilderness. The wilderness is the proper setting for a new beginning as national Israel was formed in the wilderness wanderings at the time of Exodus. He also entered the promised land through the Jordan River. That's why John is baptizing there. New Israel was about to be formed. Now that leads to the second point. John is a prophetic but practical preacher of repentance in wilderness. Prophetic but practical preacher of repentance in wilderness. Let's reread verses 7 through 14 back in Luke. Then he said to the multitudes that came out to be baptized by him Brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come. Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, We have Abraham. as our father. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees Therefore, every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? He answered and said to them, He who has two tunics, let him give to him who has none, and he who has food, let him do likewise. Then tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, Collect no more than what is appointed for you. Likewise the soldiers asked him, saying, What shall we do? So he said to them, Do not intimidate anyone, or accuse falsely, and be content with your wages. Brut of vipers is basically saying snake spawn or serpent offspring. Quite a greeting there. John's not interested in tickling anyone's ear. Now why was John so harsh? Well, if we go to Matthew three, um I'll just summarize what's there. In verses 5 and 6 of Matthew 3, we learn that most people gathered were normal folks of the day from nearby cities and regions. But then when did this heated speech get started? Well, we see in Matthew 3 verse 7, it was when the religious leaders arrived. It says in Matthew 3 7, but when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming out to coming to his baptism, He said to them, Brood of vipers who warned you to flee from the wrath to come. You would think that most preachers, if they saw the spiritually elite The religious leaders of the day, they would adjust the sermon in the other direction. If I saw pastors in the pews Would you blame me by cool down the fire and brimstone preaching? John knew their hypocrisy and intensified his rhetoric. Now Luke is different from Matthew in that he does not want to point out the Pharisees and Sadducees from the crowd. He's actually more interested not in the clergy but in the layman application of his sermon. Both Matthew and Luke, however, record the prophetic and practical contents of the sermon. Sermon. That's why that relates to my point. He's prophetic and practical. Prophetic in that it looks forward in time. The question in verse seven goes, Who warned you to flee from the rat to come? Verse 9 compares the unrepentant as an unfruitful tree ready to be cut down at the roots. John definitely looked forward to the judgment. You don't have to be a pro prophet to be prophetic in your preaching, in your evangelism, in your sharing of the gospel. But John's message is very practical too. Verse 8 has a demand and a prohibition. The demand is that they bear fruits worthy of repentance. The prohibition is that they should not lean on their heritage. Just because the Israelites were recipients of covenant promises, that doesn't mean they don't need to repent and believe. Even after the sermon, John continues to stress the practical application of repentance. In verses ten to fourteen, Luke includes an interaction between John and different groups in the audience. And there are three of them. The very fact that John addresses commoners, tax collectors, and soldiers means that the multitudes must return to their homes, not camp out in the desert. John was not anti-establishment. He does not want to overturn social structures. Nothing is wrong with tax collecting and soldiering per se. I'm sorry to tell you that at this time of the year. He's generally speaking, he is promoting the second greatest command to love your neighbor. But as one commentator notes, each group receives different emphases in Africa. application. And there's three that I want to talk about. Assistance, honesty, and equity. Assistance, honesty, and equity First, assistance. Normal laymen are encouraged to share their abundance with those in need, whether it's clothing or food. Martin Luther once wrote, quote, there are three conversions necessary. The conversion of the heart The conversion of the mind and the conversion of the purse. The last conversion might be the toughest. Charles Spurgeon writes, quote, with some Christians, the last part of their nature that ever gets sanctified is their pockets. I don't know if you feel that way. And I'm not I did not plan this sermon out knowing what was gonna happen uh with our church family, but we have an opportunity, as Marilyn told us earlier, we have members in need, like the Murrays, who would benefit so much from our application of verse eleven. And I'm sure that there are others who could use our assistance. Secondly, there's an emphasis on honesty. That's the second group there, talking to tax collectors. Those who are in business, accountants, whatever it may be, could benefit from the practical principle in verses 12 to 13. Now, tax collectors were considered the greatest of sinners in Jesus' time and despised by most. You know, we know the feeling we get about IRS at this time of the year. No one wants to pay taxes. But add to that, the tax collectors here Are Jews working for the hated Romans? And often, most of them took more money than required to build their own wealth. John knows this, that's why he says there, collect no more than what is appointed for you. How do we apply this in our life? This doesn't mean that we don't charge for labor in our businesses. But it means we should be honest. Collect no more than what is appointed for you. If no one keeps tabs on your work hours in a salary position Supply costs in your inventory, web surfing at your desk. We will be tempted to violate this principle And as we return to study or work tomorrow, ask the Lord this week for integrity, honesty in your work. Thirdly, we see equity encouraged by John. Some of us are family members, friends with law enforcers. We read in verse 14, here's the practical lesson. Do not intimidate anyone or accuse falsely and be content with your wages. This should shape how we pray for our county officers, Maryland State Troopers, and Baltimore Police Department. Speaking of which, we saw what happened in 2015 in Baltimore when the public loses faith in their protectors. Now I know the issue is complicated, likely with faults on both sides. I would never promote rioting. And I don't have answers to systemic problems of today. But as a preacher of the coming kingdom of God, I can at least demand A repentant Christian law enforcer, be careful with your use of power and be motivated by more than the paycheck. So we see repentance preached in the wilderness, but practiced in the society is prophetic yet practical. At this point, we may be very impressed by John's ministry. He's got a grasp of the present needs without losing sight of the future. But he's not going to stand for any fawning or flattery. He does not want the spotlight. He wants Christ to be glorified. A simple verse that I try to keep in mind. These are words of John the Baptist. He must increase, but I must decrease. John 3. 30. And that leads to the third point. John is a humble but strict promoter of Christ in public. Verses fifteen to twenty. Let's reread those verses Now, as the people were in expectation, and all reasoned in their hearts about John, whether he was the Christ or not, John answered, saying to all, I indeed baptize you with water. But one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand And he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor, and gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. And with many other exhortations he preached to the But Herod the Tatrarch, being rebuked by him concerning Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done, also added this above all, that he shut down the floor. So in verse fifteen, we get an inside look into the hearts of the people who follow John the Baptist. They just have this gut feeling and hope that he is the Messiah they have been waiting for. But John would disappoint them. He will fulfill scriptures, but not their expectations. He won't even tolerate for a moment the private thought that he might be the Messiah. That's why he brings it out into the open in public. You know, like him, we if we are to be godly, mature men or women, we have to redirect people's fervor to Christ. I think my in-laws who are in mission uh ministry told me If you go to a church with fifty to sixty people, you'll have fifty to sixty people uh saying fifty to sixty opinions about how the church should go, right? Well, you gotta be like John the Baptist. You have to say we have to promote Christ first. It's his will that's the most important. But you know what? Crowds are powerful. We see it throughout the scriptures. Aaron fell to pressure when Moses was away. Their influence, what happened? They led him to make a golden calf. It was the problem of King Saul. He was given a clear order from God. But yielded to the people's demands and kept the spoils of war. Pilate was a capable governor But the Jewish mob beat down his resolve until Jesus was crucified. How do we overcome this? It's powerful. The way to overcome such pressures is to deeply appreciate the person and work of Jesus Christ. I encourage you to go listen to our Elder Carrie's presentation of Jesus' title and ministry on our website. When you see Christ for who he really is and what he has accomplished, it's impossible for us to dwell on ourselves or be impressed with our own works. John paints a fearful and awesome picture of Jesus for us in verses sixteen and seventeen. He's not worthy to stoop beneath Christ to even risk touching him. John works with water on earth The Messiah brings the Holy Spirit and fire from heaven. John takes individuals and immerses them in soft liquid. Jesus can take crowds and immerse them into unquenchable fire. During his ministry, Jesus would teach the same truth in a parable format. In the parable of the wheat and the tares in Matthew 13, if you you may recall, I preached on that. And I said, we are faced with two destinies. There's no escaping Jesus, the mighty one with the winnowing fan in his hand. Choose one. Be baptized with the Holy Spirit or be thrown into the unquenchable fire. All of us are headed toward that threshing floor. Are you going to be the wheat that goes into the barn? Or will you be the chaff that will be burned? Here's how to avoid the flames of judgment and receive the Spirit. Truth be told, every single human being except Jesus is a sinner and rightfully deserved just punishment in hell. If it wasn't for God's grace, we would be burning. All of us. But Jesus took that baptism of God's wrath for us. Now you may want to turn with me now to Luke twelve. Forty nine to fifty We hear Jesus saying this. I came to send fire on the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled. Baptism of fire. But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am till it is accomplished. What is this baptism that Jesus must accomplish? It is Jesus' substitutionary atonement. The baptism of God's fiery judgment. We rightfully deserve, not him. He was immersed in terrible agony. He quenched the fire of divine wrath when he died on the cross in our place for our sins. He rose from the dead and ascended to heaven for our salvation. And if you repent and trust in Jesus Christ, there is no longer fire to fear. You will be baptized by Christ into fellowship with the triune God, into Christ's body, the church. And the Spirit that we're baptized with abides with us forever, comforts us. He is the down payment, earnest or pledge of our full inheritance, full payment in heaven. That is the amazing offer Jesus gives. And if this is the news that you already hold, if we are to be like John, we have to present both aspects of Jesus' work to the world. You know, some will only preach the baptism of fire, neglecting grace. That's legalism. That's performance-based religion. How can we, if we only preach baptism of fire, we're not different than any other religion in the world. Others will only preach forgiveness, leaving out repentance. That's easy believism. Cheap grace. We must share both the bad news of sin and judgment along with the good news of forgiveness and mercy. We have to present the gospel in a way that shows that God is just and merciful. Josh McDowell once told a story of a woman taken to court for speeding. You can find this story, I believe, in More Than the Carpenter. More than a Carpenter. The judge read off the citation and asked, guilty or not guilty. The woman replied, guilty, and the judge brought down the gavel. Her punishment was a fine or jail time. Then the judge got up, took off his robe, walked down around in front, took out his wallet, and paid the fine. The judge was the guilty woman's father who loved her. That illustrates to a very limited degree what Jesus said He is both the judge who fined us for our sin and Savior who paid that same fine So John showed objectivity in preaching Christ in all of his works, baptism of fire and baptism of the Spirit. He was also objective to his audience. He was no respecter of persons when it comes to his teaching. The way he preached to the Pebyan, he preached to the aristocrat. He spoke about judgment, whether he was in the wilderness or in the palace. That's why we see John arrested at the end of this passage. He spoke against Herod, who took his brother's wife for himself, which is wrong on so many levels, with incest and Adultery and all of these things. All that to say there's a price to pay for being a faithful witness to Christ. But let us follow John's example in knowing our humble place before Christ. Let us preach God's judgment to come and repentance in the presence of the Present. Let us humbly but sternly promote Christ in public. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word and we thank you for the gospel. And Lord, we thank you for examples like John the Baptist. May we follow his example in humility, to know our place as your servant. Just as he Prepare the way just as he proclaimed before your son's first coming. Pray that we ourselves, as we anticipate Jesus Christ's second coming. Help us to preach repentance. Help us to promote Christ. Help us to do it boldly, even if it means that we will be persecuted. Lord, may we not look for significance in secular history, in the political field, in our careers. But Lord. Just know ourselves in light of your word. That we are to fulfill your great commission as the church. Lord, help us do that this week. And we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.