Well good evening. It's a pleasure to be back again. We uh had a little bit of a traffic jam in the beltway. We didn't figure out what it was because we got off and made our way around. Uh got over to one ninety-five through Catonsville and anyway, we're here. Um why don't we start with a brief word of prayer again? Father, again, as we open your word, we invite you to convict, encourage, rebuke, whatever the need of our heart is. Help us understand these things and how they apply to us. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn with me, if you would, to the Gospel of John, chapter one. When I was asked to speak today, I thought about doing this message in the morning because I had done John 1, 1 through 18 the last time I was here in the morning. But uh I kind of wanted to share those thoughts from Second Corinthians. It's a message that I've shared in other places. Seem to fit though with the general theme of what everybody was talking about this morning. John the Baptist is an interesting character in the Bible. Jesus said there wasn't a greater prophet born among men. And what I'd like to do is uh, you know, in John chapter 1, last time we looked at verses 6 through 8, I want to read those again There was a man sent from God whose name was John. This man came for a witness to bear witness of the light, that all through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. You might recall last time when we were looking at the Gospel of John, I pointed out how that Uh the Gospel of John doesn't, it contains a lot of different stories than the other Gospels, and I believe that that was because the other gospels were written first and John was trying to include things on purpose that that were not uh i you know, written by the other gospel writers. But some of the things that he does say the same are are kind of a clarification or of things that the main point I want you to see in these verses was John's mission was so that people would believe in Jesus. That's what it says in chapter 1, verse 7. But because the other gospel accounts were written first, I do want to take just a moment to go back to Matthew chapter 3 and look at a few things. That I believe John would have assumed that people already had heard. And let's look at those before we come back and look at what else John 1 says. Go to Matthew chapter 3. Matthew chapter three I wanted to read through this chapter. I'd like to read the whole thing and then just make a comment on several different points here. In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make his path straight. Now John himself was clothed in camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region of the Jordan went out to him, and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. For when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, bear fruits worthy of repentance, and do not think to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father, for I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees, therefore every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor. and gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. And John tried to prevent him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and are you coming to me? But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so for now. For thus it is fitting for us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he allowed him. When he had been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon him. And suddenly a voice came from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. I just want to make a couple of comments on that. Notice that John the Baptist he came in the wilderness and they describe him in verses four and five, clothed in camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey. Who else in the Bible is described that way? Elijah, yeah. And it's interesting that John the Baptist was Later, right after the transfiguration, the disciples asked Jesus, why do the scribes keep saying Elijah must come first? Jesus answered, Well, Elijah is coming. But he said in effect he already has and they did with him whatever they wanted and that's what's gonna happen to me. It was interesting because in that little exchange uh he he confirmed that there is a future coming of Elijah or possibly just a person like Elijah, because John the Baptist was not Elijah, but we'll find that out later. But But uh, you know, some people think it's actually Elijah come back from the dead, and we'll talk about that in a minute. But John the Baptist was what is it about Elijah that It's similar to John the Baptist and the end-time prophet. Well when you look at the ministry of Elijah, he was a prophet sent to Israel at a time when Israel didn't want to be God's chosen people anymore. It was at a time when they had already said, uh, you know, we don't want anything to do with the son of David. The kingdom had split. It was a northern kingdom. For a while they kind of kept up a pretense, you know, with the the temple there in Samaria, but at the time that Elijah came, uh There was you know Ahab and Jezebel bringing in Baal worship and you remember the contest on on uh the mountain? What was the question he said, Who is God, Baal or the Lord? And after the contest the people said, The Lord, He is God. And in a very similar way, in the time of Jesus, uh there was you know at least the the the Sadducee sect were kind of going compromising with the Romans uh The the the there was interest in the m prophecies of the Messiah still, at least among the Messiahs, uh the the Pharisaical sect. But they weren't real eager when they met him. Uh I believe in the end times it's going to be another time of apostasy, you know what it says that in Bible prophecy there'll be the the great apostasy. uh the Jews will no longer want to really be God's people anymore. In fact, many of them feel that way today. We had an elderly Jewish man who said, You know, God, enough. Why didn't you choose somebody else? You know, uh he's he did that to be funny, but uh Uh anyway, uh sometimes I cringe when I hear uh Jewish people say things like that. They don't understand their own history. But John the Baptist was sent, and while we're in Matthew here, key things about his ministry. His message, verse 2, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent simply means change of mind. And telling them that the kingdom of heaven is at hand uh that would be interpreted by the people of that time that the Messiah is about to appear. Because how else could the kingdom, if if you understand the Old Testament prophecies, they're all linked to the Messiah. You know, we looked at the prophecies of Christ's birth. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, his name will be wonderful counselor. And then the next verse says, upon the throne of David and over his kingdom. He'll reign to order it and establish it forever. Micah 5. 2, you know, you Bethlehem out of you will come to me, he who will be ruler in Israel. And just about every messianic prophecy somehow is linked to the Messiah. So when he's talking about the kingdom of heaven, when people read that today, A lot of times they're thinking, kingdom of heaven, you know, immaterial, where you go when you die, uh, but that's not what the Jewish people would have been thinking about when this message was being preached. Uh probably not at all what John the Baptist meant either. So uh let me back up and say one thing here, and this is probably obvious to all of you, but John the Baptist is not the same John that wrote the letter of John. Although that's probably obvious to you, it's not to a lot of people, at least a lot of the people that I have met recently. In fact, there was a Muslim going around the jail more than one time this happened, convincing that the Bible was full of errors. And you know what his proof was? John died while Jesus was still alive and then look here he's still alive. And he can thought that he would convince people the people didn't know that there was John the Baptist because some people think John the Baptist founded the Baptist Church and No, that happened after the Protestant Reformation, but anyway, people that believe that, uh, you know What would you say to someone? Well, actually, this is how I explained it. John the Baptist, his father was Zechariah. He was a priest. That's clear in Luke chapter 3. John the Apostle, his father was he was one of the sons of Zebedee, he was a fisherman. Two different fathers, two different occupations. Uh John the A Apostle apparently uh was a resident of Galilee and uh the the other one, well we don't know exactly where he's from, but he's a he's a priest, at least he served part of the time in Jerusalem. But so that's a little aside. But his message was repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And When the people came out to him, it says in verse 6, he was baptized that they were being baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. And along come some of the Pharisees and Sadducees, and when he sees them, he says, Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. Now, the baptism that John was baptizing, I'm trusting everybody here understands as well, that it was not The same as Christian baptism. Christian baptism is we're buried with Christ and raised with Christ. It couldn't possibly mean that because Christ hadn't died and rose again yet. So what did it mean? Well historically, uh around that time, the Jews had come up with their own thing. This is not a thing out of the Old Testament. uh about for people converting from being a gentile to a Jew, of course they had requirements, you know, circumcision and things. But they also did a ceremonial washing in the form of a baptism as kind of a way of saying, you know, I'm leaving behind my my gentile filth or whatever they thought it meant. And that might have been a stumbling block to some of the religious leaders. And when he came out to John the Baptist, uh, you know, and he sees them, he says, Bring forth fruit worthy of repentance. Well, what does that mean? Well, in the Gospel of Luke, when he records what John the Baptist was preaching, he mentions, he doesn't mention the Pharisees and the Sadducees the way that he does here, although he does later say that the religious leaders rejected God's purpose for them. Because they refuse John's baptism. That's in if you're writing down references and you want to look it up, uh that's in the Gospel of Luke, chapter seven. I know it's in my notes here. I'm not even looking at my notes. Chapter seven, I think it's verse thirty, but I'll I I'll have to look that up. Uh well see it here But in any case, when people asked him, what should we do, it was very interesting because Luke records that tax collectors said, what should we do? Now think about that time. Tax collectors were collecting taxes for who? For the Romans. And and they were looked down as not only as greedy, good for nothings, but for traitors to their country. And here John is saying, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and and uh the tax collector says, what shall we do? And he says Only collect as much as you're supposed to. And then the soldiers say, well, what should we do? Who were the soldiers? The soldiers, even if they were temple guards, they had to be subject to the Romans. Were they supposed to Take up arms to be ready to fight, you know, the battle for the Messiah. John says, you know, don't accuse people falsely. Don't extort money. Be content with your wages. Don't intimidate people, you know, it's something along those lines. And that's an amazing thing that to say, it's especially, you know, that the religious currents were were totally either towards zealot, you know, get ready, we're gonna fight the Romans someday, or or towards the the Sadducees and the tax collectors were, uh, just cooperate with the Romans, let 'em do what they want, you know, we'll just uh or you know, the Pharisees which were trying to be right about everything but not really doing much but to promoting their own self-righteousness. Um so it's a fascinating thing that he was coming here preaching all these things. And then he has them confess their sins when they're baptized. Well the word confess means to say the same thing. When you confess your sin, you're saying the same thing about it that God says. By the way, the word Confess also applies to, you know, confessing Christ, which means saying the same thing about him that that the Father said or that the Bible says. But that's what the people were doing. And and along in the middle of all this, uh people come out and and uh he tells them that there's one coming after me and I'm not even worthy to carry his sandals. He's going to baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. And then Jesus appears. And at first John says. No, I need to be baptized by you. There was some sort of spiritual discernment that he had. Now it's true in the book of Luke. Mary and and John the Baptist's mother Elizabeth knew each other before the babies were born. They were together. Uh they they might have it sounds like they were related, uh at least distantly. But uh apparently growing up if they met each other it was not like a close relationship. Um But in any case, John the Baptist somehow knows that that he he's not really worthy and and everybody else is confessing their sins when they're baptized, but instead of that When Jesus is baptized, you have the Holy Spirit from heaven and the voice from heaven. This is my son with whom I'm well pleased and uh Uh so instead of him confessing sins, there's another confession from heaven coming from God. So that's kind of what John assumes that they already know. And uh again, there's lots of interesting things in there. Let's go back to John chapter 1 and look at what he adds about this ministry of John the Baptist. By the way, backing up a little step here, I just realized something I forgot Confessing sins and producing fruits worthy of repentance, that is actually an Old Testament requirement when you were making an offering for sin. If you look at Leviticus 5 and 6, where it talks about the trespass offering and the sin offering, they had to confess their sin before they made their offering. Or they had to go and make restitution if they stole something, give it to the person and add a fifth to it, and then they brought and that was part of preparing to make a sin offering, preparing yourself to to have a sin offering. Um There's uh some other things I'll say about that, but let's let's go back to the Gospel of John. Uh Let me just make one application about today. It's still true today. You know, we don't, when we preach the gospel, we don't tell people, first you gotta confess all your sins. John was not a New Testament gospel preacher. We don't tell them first you have to make restitution. That's sort of a almost like a Roman Catholic idea of do penance so that then you know Christ will you come halfway and Christ will help you the rest of the way. No, we understand that salvation is all of God and and that Because out of love for God, out of obedience to Him, then we do want to, as much as possible, make things right with other people. But that's a powerful principle though of confessing, and uh let me just tell you a story to illustrate that. That idea of confession and repentance is connected. There's a man that used to volunteer to go into the jail with me, and he he basically went and shared his testimony. And it kinda went like this. I won't share in the detail that he did, but he started drinking at a very early age. His father used to take him to bars and he would sit there thinking, Oh man, these people are having fun. I want some of that and And of course he couldn't have it, so then one day he he was about eleven or twelve, he stole some liquor from his father's stash at home and went out and drank the whole thing and passed out in the snow. And that began what was a a a long downward spiral through his teenage years, in and out of trouble with the law, just all kinds of things. And then in his twenties, he met some people, this was back in the 70s. He's a little older than I am, this guy. And uh these this was, you know, the the Jesus people generation and and uh he met some people who got him into what was called the Jesus house I don't know if any of you are familiar with that, but I've met three different people that all tell me exactly the same thing. They were hopelessly hooked on drugs, probably going to kill themselves with by overdosing. And they met this people and they functioned like a cult, but they really did preach the gospel. They made everybody come into a commune uh you know, and the guys were all in this house and the women all in that house, and everybody would go out and get a job and work and give all their money to the leader of the thing. It had overtones of a cult, but they really did preach the gospel. All three people that I know that came out of that said the same thing. They got saved. The the people while they were there, it was just like this euphoria, you know, they were felt like Jesus was going to return any moment and they were going out when they weren't working, they were sharing the gospel with people. And all three of them at some point said, that's it, I've had enough, you know, there was that kind of control over people sooner or later blows up. And each person when they left relapsed into drugs. But knowing that they had been saved. And all three of them eventually came back to the Lord. But when when this individual, he when he relapsed, He went into a period that lasted for uh more than a dozen years, I forget the exact number, where he would He would kind of get off drugs and kind of get it, you know, right with God, and then he would relapse and he kind of kept going back and forth and and and he kept stumbling. I I've met people like that in a jail. You know what eventually changed him? He got drunk and had some ridiculous thing happen. I won't even tell you the story, but it's kind of humorous. Did something that was r really kind of embarrassing for him. But he um he went before a judge and the judge said, Do you have a problem with drinking? And this was not the trial phase. But the sentencing phase, because he had already been found guilty. And he didn't know that the judge had his record there because in the trial phase they're not allowed to bring up past history as evidence. You have to have evidence that he this crime, you know. But in the sentencing phase, the judge can look at the record to see is this the first time or is this As there have been other instances. And so the judge asked him, Do you have a drinking problem? He said, No, no, I don't I don't know I have a drinking problem. And the judge just started reading his record. Starting as a young teenager, uh had a had a police record, it was incredible. And I actually have seen this with some of the inmates I work with and and it's amazing. Some people start Every few months they're in and out of jail. Um and at the end of all that, he says, Well, yeah, maybe I do have a drinking problem. But that was the beginning. From that time on, he went into a recovery program. He was sentenced to a recovery program. That was his sentence because what he did was not that terrible. It was just kind of ridiculous. But That was the beginning that he's never relapsed since. And he's been clean for over twenty years now. I don't know exactly how many, but it's more than twenty years. Um and that power of just genuinely admitting the truth, which before it it was always somehow it was something else, or you know, the he was denying things. Uh That brought about true repentance. So confession and repentance, if you're really saying the same thing that God says about your sin, there has to be some kind of repentance. And repentance should bring fruit. Paul talks about Preaching that people should repent and do works fitting for repentance. He talked about that in two places of in Acts 20 and in Acts 26. But let's go back to John chapter 1 here. That was kind of an aside. John chapter 1, let's go to verse 19. Now this is a testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? He answered, No. Then they said to him, Who are you that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now those who were sent were from the Pharisees, and they asked him, saying, Why then do you baptize if you're not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet? John answered them, saying, I baptize with water, but there stands one among you whom you do not know. It is he who coming after me is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. These things were done in Bethabara beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. Let's stop and look at this. Well, the people that came to him asked him, If he's the Christ. Well, we can understand why he would do that, going around saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Well, does that mean you're the Christ? And he said, no, I'm not. And we understand today that he did not fulfill the prophecies of Christ. He wasn't of the line of David. He made no claim to that. And then they asked him, uh, what then are you Elijah? Why did they ask him that? The very last two verses of the Old Testament are where the prediction is made that Elijah will come. And notice the third thing then was, are you the prophet? And I want to go back to Malachi and look, because both of those are mentioned in the book of Malachi. Go to Malachi just before, the last book of the Old Testament, just before Matthew. One guy, Bible teacher I used to have, said that was the Italian prophet Malachi. All right, Malachi, chapter chapter four Verse 5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest they come and strike the earth with a curse. Notice there, this verse is why they were saying, well, Elijah must come first. So clearly it says that. I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Now again, we already mentioned this. John the Baptist wasn't Elijah. He denied that. Jesus said that he was kind of was if you accept him. And I took that to mean just the way John the Baptist died in the first coming that the you know, Jesus is going to die. Interestingly enough, the the second coming of Christ is preceded by Elijah. Jesus said that, uh uh whether it's the resurrected Elijah or or the coming back from heaven because he really didn't didn't die, he was caught up to heaven, or whether it's like John the Baptist, another prophet in the spirit and power of Elijah, I I'm not real confident to say one way or the other But it's kind of clear in Revelation there's these two prophets calling down fire from heaven and things, doing Elijah-like things, uh, as they announce all the different judgments God is doing on the earth. But what did they ask that after that? They said, well if you're not, are you the Christ? Are you Elijah? And then they said, are you the prophet? Well, what do they mean by that? Well, while you're in Malachi, go back to chapter 3, verse 1. Malachi chapter 3, verse 1. Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. Now interestingly enough, Jesus in Matthew chapter 11, verse 10 says that this verse, the first part of chapter 3, verse 1, is John the Baptist. Jesus himself said that he was the messenger that was preparing the way before him. And that means that the second part of this verse, the Lord whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple, is a prophecy of Jesus. If the first half is John the Baptist, then the second part of Malachi 3. 1 has to be Jesus, and he has to be the messenger of the covenant. And that's what they were asking John the Baptist, and he said, no, because he wasn't the messenger of the covenant. That would literally have been Jesus. But why do they call him the messenger of the covenant? Well, you remember in Deuteronomy 18 where Moses said, God is going to raise up a prophet like me from among your brethren? The Jewish people understood that to mean the prophet that would make a new covenant. And it wasn't just in Deuteronomy 18 that it was mentioned. It was mentioned by other prophets in You say, well, how do they know who the the prophet was? I mean they had a lot of prophets after Moses before the time of Jesus. Well, here you see in Malachi that there's still a messenger of the covenant coming. And uh in fact, let's look at a passage. Uh, go back to Jeremiah chapter 31 for a minute. Uh this is an example here Jeremiah chapter thirty one. And go to verse thirty one, Jeremiah thirty one, thirty-one. Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. says the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Now if Jesus was the messenger of the covenant, then His job was not just to write the commandments on stone, but this com this covenant would have to do with writing the commandments on people's hearts. Remember how when Jesus came preaching, he said, You've heard it said, don't commit adultery, but I say don't even look with lust on a woman. You've heard it said, don't commit murder, but I say don't even call your brother a fool. What was he doing there? He was quoting commandments out of the old covenant. But he was telling them it's not good enough. You're going to need a heart that's different. You're going to have to have your commandments written on your heart, not just on the tablets of stone. I really think this Sermon on the Mount is Jesus presenting the terms of the new covenant. And let's look at one other Old Testament passage, again, because John the Baptist said, Nope, I'm not the messenger of the covenant that shall come. Look at Ezekiel chapter 16. Ezekiel chapter 16 Ezekiel 16 is a uh story, it's really a parable that Ezekiel told, and he's comparing Israel to uh uh an adulterous uh somebody that was engaged but uh to be married uh in some ways like a daughter, in some ways like uh you know a a an engaged woman that runs off and commits uh fornication. Um And he says that, you know what, Israel, you're just like Samaria, you're just like Sodom. He compares those to he said, they're your sisters, and you're just like them. And and he rebukes them for all this. But when you get to the end of Ezekiel 16, go down to verse 60 He says, you know, you've despised the oath, you've broken the covenant. He's comparing this just like, you know, a covenant of marriage you've broken. Verse 60, he says, Nevertheless, I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an everlasting covenant with you. Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed when you receive your older and your younger sisters, for I will give them to you for daughters, but not because of my covenant with you. And I will establish my covenant with you, then you shall know that I am the Lord, that you may remember and be ashamed, and never open your mouth any more because of your shame when I provide you an atonement. For all you have done, says the Lord God. He mentions here, I will remember my covenant in the days of your youth. But I'm going to establish another covenant with you, and he calls it an everlasting covenant. And at the same time, he says, you're going to be ashamed of your sins. And you're gonna be never open your mouth anymore because of your shame when I provide an atonement for all you have done, says the Lord God. Remember at the Last Supper when Jesus was with the disciples, he said, This is the blood of the new covenant shed for you. And again, this is Old Testament overtones of Jesus was the messenger of the new covenant. He was not only the messenger, he was He I believe other places they said, I'll make you to be a covenant of the people. But anyway, let's go back to John chapter one. I like playing with these looking at all these things. Uh let's go back. I I got some more things I want to say about John the Baptist here So while John is baptizing with water And remember, we looked at that before, and people are confessing their sins. Remember that the baptism is for repentance. But the repentance is so that they'll receive Jesus. And he tells them the one coming after me just like he did in Matthew, I'm not I'm not worthy to lose his sandal. And uh talking about the grandeur of this person coming after him. Um the repentance was not just from specific sins. But it was coming back to God. It was repenting of specific sins. But let me illustrate what I mean by this You know how it says in the story of the prodigal son, there's rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents? Suppose the prodigal son story went this way. The son left father left home, took his father's inheritance, went off to the far country, and uh instead of squandering his money, he he he lived in a profligate life But he learned how to to make money and he came back to his father and said, Huh, father, you know what, uh I'll pay you back for the inheritance because I know my brother is angry at me anyhow, but I'm doing okay. Would there have been re rejoicing over that? No, not not even if he repaid everything. That wasn't the issue. The repentance was I've sinned against heaven in in your sight. And and a lot of times people think of, and this is this is, you know, that getting right repentance is this sin, that sin. Well, it is. But it the heart of it is really a repentance toward God and faith in Him. If you have that, then everything else falls in place. Everything else follows. If you don't have that, you can make a whole lot of things right in your life. You can, you know, when I talk to the jail guys, you can get off of drugs and repay what you stole and you can do all these kind of things. and still miss the thing that that God desires, the repentance uh that that comes to the point where you say, I need Jesus. You know, the it's the unrepentant heart that says, I'm gonna make it up on my own. Um so John the Baptist was trying to bring the people to that point. And even though he was dealing with specific things when people asked what should we do Uh the the idea of baptizing them, acknowledging I'm a sinner, I'm the just like a gentile I need uh to get right, to to be ready for the Messiah So then he baptizes Jesus. Well, in verse 29, let's pick it up in 1 John, or the book of John, not 1 John, the Gospel of John, verse 29, first chapter. The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Now, after just saying I'm not worthy to unloose his shoes, the one that's coming after me is somebody that you don't know yet, wouldn't you expect him to say something like, Behold, the King of Israel. Behold, the Christ. Behold, the Son of God. But no, instead he says, Behold, and this is the Spirit of God prompting him to say this, because apparently after he's thrown into prison, he still doesn't quite get what's going to happen. The disciples didn't either. Uh, in spite of all the prophecies and Jesus' own predictions, behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. That's what he was preparing people for. He was preparing them for for the Lamb of God that was going to come. And then he says this, verse 31 Verse 30. This is he of whom I said, after me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me. Well, remember last time we talked about first gospel of John chapter 1, we said the Word was with God, the Word was God, He was in the beginning with God. You know John the Baptist was born before Jesus. Humanly speaking, he was older and he was before Jesus. But here John the Baptist is saying, After me comes a man who's preferred before me, for he was before me. I believe acknowledging his pre-existence there before he was born. Verse 31, I did not know him, but that he should be revealed to Israel, therefore I came baptizing with water. And John bore witness, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and he remained upon him. I did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, Upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and testified that this is the Son of God. Notice he does introduce him as the Son of God, but he does it after introducing him as the Lamb of God. And this explains something, you know, when you read the account in Matthew and in Luke, it tells you what happened John didn't want to baptize him. Jesus said, do it because it'll fulfill all righteousness. I believe he was associating with his people in the baptism. But the real reason it had to be done was as as a sign for John, uh, and and I believe anybody else that wanted to know that this was the one John was preparing the way for. John's mission was to introduce him. And uh when he did, he introduced him and uh the sign happened. Uh he said, I didn't know him. But he who sent me to baptize with water said, Upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, this is he who baptized, baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And so that was the signal to John. Again the next day John stood with two of his disciples and looking at Jesus as he walked, he said, Behold the Lamb of God. Uh most scholars believe that one of those two disciples that's left unnamed was John the Apostle that went to follow Jesus and they became some of the first disciples. Um Let's go over now to John chapter 3. John chapter 3, after Jesus talks to Nicodemus and about the new birth, there's a passage about John the Baptist. Let's pick it up at chapter 3, verse 22. After these things Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and there he remained with them and baptized. It mentions in John chapter 4 that the disciples were baptizing, not Jesus. Now John also was baptizing in Aeneon near Salim because there was much water there, and they came there and were baptized. For John had not yet been thrown into prison. Then there arose a dispute between some of John's disciples and Jews about purification. You know what that's telling you? Some of the Jews were said, you know what, you're not doing it right, John. You you you're something you they were trying to correct what John was doing here according to their own traditions and their own understanding of ceremonial washings and Uh it doesn't say the details of this dispute. Maybe they thought that he should have only been baptizing converts to Judaism or or something. But whatever the dispute was, here's John's response. I just find that amusing that they tried to correct John the Baptist. Verse 26. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan to whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing, and all are coming to him. John Anselm and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. He who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is fulfilled He must increase, but I must decrease. He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is earthly and speaks of the earth He who comes from heaven is above all. And what he has seen and heard at that he testifies, and no one receives his testimony He who has received his testimony has certified that God is true. For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God does not give the Spirit by measure. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. He who believes in the Son has everlasting life. And he who does not believe the Son shall not see light But the wrath of God abides on him. One of the things that said in the passage uh back in Deuteronomy 18 about the prophet that would come, as anybody that didn't hear him would be cut off from his people. And John the Baptist is confirming that. Because while he's baptizing here and his disciples are kind of uh you know, some of the disciples left and followed Jesus and and now the crowds are getting bigger that are are coming to see Jesus and the crowds that are coming to John the Baptist and And John the Baptist's loyal followers say, man, everybody's going to him. And John says, you know what? That's the way it's supposed to be. Because he's the one that the Spirit descended on like a dove. He's the Son of God. And he says, My joy is just like somebody in a wedding to be there to You know, my d my the bride isn't mine, it's I'm happy that this man that I'm here with is is going to be married. And and he said, that's that's why everyone's going to him. And and I'm just give doing what I have received. He he doesn't even uh um um John's disciples may have disputed with the other people about purification, but John just said, you know what, I'm doing what God has me to do. He didn't get into that debate the way it sounds from the wording of it here. But John ends with this warning. He who believes in the Son has everlasting life. And he who does not believe the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him The same warning that the Old Testament gave about the prophet like Moses that would come. And uh those who would reject the new covenant don't have anything. uh to to stand on because Jesus was the Lamb of God that would take away the sin of the world Let me wrap it up with these thoughts. Again, the ministry of John the Baptist makes just a couple of applications here for us today. It is different than preaching the gospel. We're not out saying repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. We're talking about Christ died for our sins and rose again. Um but the ministry of calling people to repentance is important. Paul said that his in to in his farewell address to the Ephesian elders that he taught taught that people should should uh um um repent and and uh turn to Christ. Repentance towards God and faith in Christ is what he said to the Ephesian elders. Later in his trial. And in Acts 26, he talked about how the people should repent and show their repentance through their works. And uh that's still true today. And it's fascinating to me how John prepared the way for Jesus. the the the ministry that he did and in and leading people to repentance. Today, I mean we work with the Holy Spirit, but our message that's that last verse that John gave there, John three thirty six There's still a powerful gospel message today. He who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son, the wrath of God abides on him. Because there's only one Lamb of God that took away the sin of the world. Let's close with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for this record of fascinating things that uh John the Baptist ministry, what it was all about. Lord, your ways are higher than our ways, but we thank you for the truths that you've revealed to us. And hell that you prepared, and Lord, that you're going to have some way to prepare for your second coming as well. And Father, we thank you for the ministry that you've committed to us. Help us to be faithful in the preaching of the gospel. And help us, Lord, to be wise and in how that we lead people to repentance. We rebuke and exhort one another and and uh deal with young believers that come into the the faith. Help us to lead them and guide them and teach them in a way that they would walk with you, that they would turn to you as a whole heart and be clean from all their sins We pray these things so that you would be glorified through us, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen