When we grow up, we begin to form opinions about different groups of people. Many times this happens in high school or even before in middle school I remember growing up in a public middle school and high school in northern Harford County, and I remember when I was in high school looking at certain People who dressed all in black and had black tattoos and they dyed their hair black, they were the Goths. This was in the 80s, okay? This is a long time ago. I can't believe I'm saying that. I'm getting older. That was the 80s. They were the golfs. Then there was this other group, and they, you know, this was the guys, and then they they were real strong and they were good at sports, and they were the athletic types, and we call them the jocks. And then there were the cheerleaders that followed them around. And sadly, the cheerleaders had a reputation for being a little uh vague mentally sometimes And we know that is not true of all cheerleaders, and I am not currently prejudiced against cheerleaders per se, but that's what I thought when I was a teenager. In my school, we had those, and then we had sort of this artistic kind of group of people, and they were known as being very bad at sports, but they wrote and they they wrote poetry, which was very bad. And that became the high school poetry book. How many of you had poetry books in high school? Anybody? Just me? Wow, this is a bad illustration. Nobody. Well, we formed groups where I grew up. And is that that that's an evidence of maturity or immaturity? I mean, if I look at a group of people and I say that's who they are, and they have to sort of stay in this group. And then I look at another group and say, nah, they can't cross over. I mean, that's really immature, isn't it? And yet so often As a children, we might put people in groups and we want them to stay in that group. I mean, we can't have an artist who's good at football or a football player who who draws or we can't have this gothic person. you know, academically in a good class, I mean, that would just destroy my worldview. But that is childish. But don't we also sometimes do this as adults? We put people in groups and we want them to stay there and we kind of form almost a conviction and we're real emotional about it. You say, well, Dan, I don't think I would do that. And you know, folks, I'm not saying that you would necessarily do that, but we definitely have an example of that in today's passage. In the scriptures, we see people who, through preconceived ideas and prejudice, are just refusing to believe That God can operate a certain way because it does not fit their preconceived ideas and perceptions What we've seen so far in the Gospel of Luke is Dr. Luke writing to Theophilus and telling him that he is writing out an orderly account. This is the first few verses of chapter 1. He's telling Theophilus that he wants to write an orderly account so that Theophilus can know the certainty of the things that he's already been taught. This guy Theophilus, strange name, but that's what his name was. He had already been taught certain facts about Jesus and his life, and Luke was now going to lay it all out in a narrative. So that Theophilus could be assured that what he had been taught was true. Luke is the one who begins his gospel with words from the mouths of angels. He begins before the birth of John the Baptist and before the birth of Jesus. And he tells us what the angels said announcing these births. We read about the prophecies given about John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, and Jesus the Christ. And so we see that there was great anticipation that something unusual was going to happen. We read about the ministry of John the Baptist. We read about what he did by the river, and Luke introduces us to Jesus as the one who comes down into the waters of repentance. Unnecessary because he was in fact the sinless Son of God, and yet he did this. He identified with sinners from the very beginning of his ministry And then going out into the wilderness, he was tested before his public ministry began. And so what we have in our passage today is Jesus returning From his moment of temptation, his days in the wilderness, more than just a moment, and his ministry officially begins, and in Luke chapter 4, verse 14 Dr. Luke kind of gives us a summary statement of what response he received. Look at Luke chapter 4, verse 14. It says, Then Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and news of him went out through all the surrounding region, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. The response of his ministry, they glorified him because he went and he taught. He did this in the power of the Spirit Now this reference here in verse 14 is not that he miraculously transported to different regions in the power of the Spirit, but it is the Spirit of God that empowered his words and his ministry and it was the mark of his life. The Spirit of God coming down on him in his baptism. And so he was empowered by God. Spirit. Luke has already mentioned the Holy Spirit up to this point at least 15 times. And so the Holy Spirit is a key theological point in the Gospel of Luke, and he continues with that theme. Luke wants us also to know in this verse that it was something that he did habitually to teach in the synagogues. Now the synagogues are an interesting thing. Most scholars believe that the synagogue was developed in the life of Israel when it was carried away In captivity. The people took seriously the reason for their punishment, i. e. , idolatry And so while they were far away from home, they developed a system to habitually read the Word of God. They would usually read the law of Moses all the way through in a three-year plan. And then read portions of the prophets after that. Then, after that, they would have a time of prayer and then a short sermon. The synagogues came back with Ezra and Nehemiah, and usually most towns, cities, had synagogues in them unless they didn't have enough Jews present. To form one. And in that case, they would often look for some running water, someplace nearby that for some reason they like the water idea, and they would just meet there and name that a place of prayer. The synagogues usually had people who ran them according to the population of the city where they were. You could have up to ten elders who were running the synagogue and a chief of the synagogue who kind of ran them. In addition to that, you could have attendants who were kind of like deacons. They would open the doors, sweep the floor. And in today's passage, the attendant is the one who handed the Isaiah scroll to Jesus. They were the ones who took care of the buildings and grounds. A synagogue was sort of like the tabernacle inside. How many of you ever been to a modern synagogue? Anyone? All right, there are some nice ones down. Good. Downtown Baltimore. There used to be a Jewish section down there. It is largely uh not Hebrews there today, but there are two synagogues side by side and a Jewish museum in between them, and I encourage you to go down and look. They're a little different than the ancient ones, but in many ways similar. You would have a room, and in the front of the room would be a chest, and in that chest, a box of some kind would be the scrolls or the law of God. In front of that chest would be a candlestick that was not lit, only lit on special occasions, and then beside that a lamp that was always lit. The choice seats were up closest to the front where that box was, and in front of the box there was usually a raised platform that was Big enough for multiple people to stand, and there was often a pulpit, not as elaborate as this, probably at that time, but maybe, depending on the city where it was. The person would get the scriptures and read it standing. And then when he was done reading, he would sit to teach. And we also see that in today's scriptures. story. The choice seats are right down front. We don't believe that today, do we? Our choice seats are in the middle and back. And you know what? It doesn't seem like whatever culture you go to, there seems like the back seats are the choice seats today. But in the synagogue, those were the ones right up front. So Jesus would go into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he would read the scriptures He was so well known after a while that it became a habit. It was his custom, and people accepted that. They accepted him as a rabbi, as a remarkable teacher who demonstrated power and authority. He taught, as you're aware, as one who had authority. Prophets had authority in the Old Testament. That was to be expected. But Jesus had an additional level of authority. The things he said, it was as if He really, really, really knew what he was talking about as if he himself was an authority that was equal to Scripture. I mean, who is this man who had such authority? And so he taught in their synagogues. And verse 15, Luke lets us know that generally speaking, people really listened They glorified him. That's an interesting word there, but it simply means they're saying good things about him. They're amazed as they watch him. Their eyes are glued on the man. It's a positive response. But then Luke departs from the other gospel writers, and he tells us a story of rejection, which the other gospel writers do not tell us at the beginning here. He wants the reader to know, he wants Theophilus to know that even at the beginning of the ministry of Jesus Christ, there was a seed of destruction, if you were. Now you have to remember, Theophilus had already been taught about Jesus. He already knew that the man was crucified and rose again. And so here is Luke at the very beginning foreshadowing the rejection. We know, as John wrote in his gospel, he came to his own people, and his own people did not receive him. And so here we have him in Nazareth. If you look down now at Luke chapter 4, verse 16. It says, So he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. Nazareth. is a junky city about 55 miles north of Jerusalem. Synagogues would always put their opening facing Jerusalem And so here we have Jesus walking into this building, up front in front of everyone, and being getting ready to teach. And it looked, if you look down again, verse, let me pick it up again. He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah. Now we don't know if he requested that book. Okay, we don't know that, but that is what he was given. And I would think that that was the book he often read from because it spoke of him. Now, book. It's not a book like this book It is a scroll turning in it to Isaiah chapter 61, which is what he is doing. would have taken a significant amount of time. How long does it take you to turn to the Isaiah 61 in your book, your codex here? Not much. But for him, it would have involved turning and turning and turning. Now, we don't know if the attendant did that beside him on a table, turning, turning, turning Or whether he handed it to Jesus and Jesus is turning and turning and turning. Perhaps it was already at Isaiah 61. And so there he's just picking up Where they left off. But I find it more likely that Jesus got the scroll, turned it to where it needed to go, and he started reading in Isaiah 61. Look at verse 18. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach The gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind. To set at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. And he stops. Now, in an Old Testament scroll such as this, and when I say Old Testament, it probably was only Isaiah. Isaiah is a very long book And the Hebrew doesn't have any punctuation in there at this point. So when he stops, he's not technically stopping in the middle of a Hebrew sentence, but there is the very next phrase talking about. The wrath of the Lord. And he stops at the day of vengeance. He doesn't go that far. He stops at to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. He is speaking about himself. Look at verse 20. Then he closed the book and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your ear, in your hearing. So all bore witness to him, and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. So here he is reading Isaiah, handing the scroll back, sitting down in the place of teaching, and saying, today Today, you people, this is fulfilled in your ears. Now, you and I have Bibles on our laps. We've read many hundreds, perhaps thousands of times Different portions of uh well, the pages, okay. I don't know anyone here who's read the Bible through and through a hundred times. Maybe you have. That'd be wonderful. And so we read things like this, and they don't produce the kind of electricity. That must have been felt in that room. They heard that this man was not just a prophet. He was special. What was that that happened when John the Baptist was at a river? You remember? Oh, yeah, I remember. There was this there was this light, and this miraculous thing happened, and I think I heard a voice. What has he been doing in the synagogues all over the area? Well, he keeps talking about himself like he's the Messiah. I mean, we can't imagine. I mean, it would be like Jesus coming the second time. Standing here and saying, today is the day of my return. Let's get out of here. I'm going to just finish this. How would you feel in that moment? Now let's look specifically at what he said about himself. The first thing in verse 18 is he said, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Now these believers from the Old Testament, they would completely understand that. Because looking at the Old Testament scriptures, They were used to the idea that the Spirit of the Lord comes upon a prophet and empowers him for ministry. Remember Elijah. And Elisha. Remember the time when even King Saul was among the prophets, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon him. Remember the Psalms where David said, Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Remember Samson, who when the Spirit left him, he lost his strength. In the Old Testament, there is a theology of the Holy Spirit, and it is closely connected to God's anointed ones. Now that word is a reference to being chosen for a specific job or task. David was God's anointed to be a king, but he was also a prophet. Samson was anointed to be a Nazirite and a judge. We had Elijah and Elisha who were anointed to be prophets. It was something they would expect to hear. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me. I am, in effect, a chosen one for a specific task. They would expect that The task here that he is talking about himself, if you look at verse 18, is to preach. If you look at verse 18 again, to proclaim Wrote verse 19 to proclaim. By this, he's signifying that a large portion of his ministry is going to involve words, messages, something that he has to say. But there is, in addition to this, these other hints of another kind of ministry. He's going to heal the brokenhearted. He's going to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind. And so we have here hints of a miraculous Healing ministry as well as a verbal preaching ministry. And so Jesus is saying, today This is fulfilled in your ears. It's almost as if he's saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand, right in your presence, right now. And I'm telling you, they were riveted. The sum of it is verse 19, the proclamation of the acceptable year of the Lord. It's a moment of gospel grace. When people are healed, think of this. Those who are oppressed are set at liberty. Those who can't see are given sight. The poor people are going to receive good news. And this is the acceptable year of the Lord, not the year of vengeance, not the time of God's judgment, but a time when blind people can come. When poor people can come, when the oppressed can come and they get relief. Folks, it's an invitation. It's a year that it should bring great joy to all who hear it. And so we would call this sort of an age of grace, a time of grace, an acceptable year of the Lord. Now, I want to remind you that Isaiah has, the book of Isaiah has principally two sections, and in the first, there are many messages of judgment. The people are judged. You turn to Isaiah chapter 1. Just do this. Let me get you to turn. Try to wake you up a little bit. By that I'm not saying you're all sleeping, but Isaiah chapter 1. Here's the message, verse 4. Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who are corruptors. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked to anger the Holy One of Israel. They have turned away backward. This is a proclamation of judgment. This is not addressing the poor, the blind, and the oppressed. This is addressing rebellious, unrepentant sinners. And the answer, anger. Verse 5: Why should you be stricken again? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faints. That is one of the messages of Isaiah: judgment and repentance, a call to repentance. That is different than many of the messages at the end of Isaiah, in the second half of Isaiah, that calls for comfort. Comfort ye, my people. Entreaties to come to the Lord because He is the day of judgment is past. But there are also anticipations in Isaiah of the future judgment, the second return of Christ. But Jesus stops. There. Folks, the message that Jesus had, turn back to Luke chapter 4 that day, was a message of invitation To the people. This is what I do, Jesus is saying. I preach, I heal, because this is the acceptable year of the Lord. And how do they respond to this? Look at your Bibles again at verse 22. So they bore witness, their eyes are just riveted on him, and they're marveling at his gracious words, and they say, Is Is this not Joseph's son? Now we know by the way Jesus responded to that statement that that was not good What they were saying is not, I'm so proud of Joseph's son. What a good young man. That's not what they were saying. Nazareth. Nazareth. What a place. It's hard to understand why their attitude would be this way, or or or maybe maybe we can explain it. You know, in John 1. 46, we have one of the apostles saying, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? And in Acts 24:5, we have the accusers of the Apostle Paul referring to Paul derisively as someone who was of the sect of the Nazarenes. We know from this that Nazareth was a no it was no place. It was a place that other people put in a group of sort of Just people that are of no consequence, who didn't have the material means to do anything, the education to do anything. And they were sort of this immoral bunch, this sort of redneck bunch. I mean, can anything good come from then? And you know, I'm going to really get Paul now. I'm going to say he's of the sect of the Nazarenes. That'll get him. Then he'll really get in trouble that he's he's sort of this heretic, rebellious person politically who's going to be a rabble rousler and a troublemaker all across the empire. Could it be that the people of Nazareth had started to believe it themselves? That they had heard, they had had so much scorn heaped on them. That they themselves couldn't believe that anything good could come out of their town, their city. What isn't this Joseph's son? I mean, I saw him in Joseph's shop. And so we have, in effect, what this is in verse 22 is a statement of doubt, of unbelief. They're riveted on him, they're watching his every move, they're wondering at his words, and they it's a pushback. It's whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, wait a minute. Isn't this Joseph's son? That's what it was. And so Jesus, his whole ministry in this place comes to a screeching halt. Their preconceived ideas, their familiarity with the family, they couldn't align that to Isaiah 61. And so Jesus rebukes them in verses 23 down to verse 27. And the way he rebukes them is. It shows the great wisdom of Christ and his mastery of the Old Testament. Look at verse 23. He said to them, You will surely say this proverb to me: physician, heal yourself. Whatever we've heard done in Capernaum, do also here in your country. They knew that he had done miracles. They wanted the miracles. But he said in verse 24, Assuredly I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you truly, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah when the heaven was shut up three years and six months. And there was a great famine throughout all the land. But to none of them was Elijah sent except to Zarephath in the region of Sidon to a woman who was a widow. And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them were cleansed except Naaman the Syrian. He is pulling out of the Old Testament two people who were helped who weren't even Hebrews. They were Gentiles. And he is really driving the point home. Because did you hear what it? Let me put a little more emphasis on one point. He says, Many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, but to none of them, this is verse 26, was Elijah sent And look, listen again, the verse 27. Many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha, and none of them were cleansed, except the Gentile. He is pointing out to them their unbelief. Folks, do you think that Elijah could have had a more amazing ministry? among the people of the Hebrews. If there were more who had not bowed the knee to Baal, there were some. God told them. And remember when he was in the mountain, and God said, There are some who have not bowed the knee to Baal. And he believed that finally, but it wasn't many, was it? But there were so many who didn't believe, and so God sends Elijah to this widow who's not even an Israelite. And Naaman was an enemy of the people of God, not just a Gentile, but their enemy. And he comes getting help, and he almost didn't have faith. He almost said, I am not going in that dirty river. But the servant child came up and said, Master, if they asked you to do some great thing, wouldn't you have done it? And his mind was changed, and he went into the river, and he was healed. He believed. God has a right. God has a right to choose who He will bless and who He will not bless. And He blesses the people who believe in Him. And who accept his authority, he will reject even his own people, his glory, Israel, if they don't have faith in his word. Well, you would expect if you if you hadn't read verses 28 and down to 30, how would you have responded if you were there? Hmm. If you didn't, you know, pretend for a second you don't know what happens next. Most of us here in the room does. What if they had got that lesson? Okay, okay. Well, it was, these are true stories, they're part of our history. I believe that God did that. What is he trying to teach me? Me here. Ah, that I I just need to accept that he is who he said he is. But that's not how they responded. Folks, listen, their faithless predisposition This is Joseph's son, and their sinful prejudice, Gentiles. It formed a murderous intent in their heart. That's not an exaggeration. Because they now try to kill him. Look at what it says in verse 28. So all those in the synagogue, this now I'm assuming this would be a smaller synagogue because it's a It's a backward little town. Maybe they didn't have the ten elders, but they had an attendant, the guy who handed the scroll to Jesus. So it would include him, sort of the deacon, the Hebrew deacon of the day. They had at least one rabbi there, so it would have included him. It would have included all the people who had gathered in the synagogue. I would imagine it was packed. It would include the people who knew Jesus as a boy. Who watched him grow up, the neighbors of Mary and Joseph, all those in the synagogue when they heard these things were filled with wrath. This is an explosive kind of anger, not just a pot that's simmering on the stove. This is a boiling pot with a lid flying off of it. They rose up and thrust him out of the city, and they led him to the brow of a hill, the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw him down over the cliff. They just go out of there and they they all together as one one mob take him to the place where they want to kill him. But, verse 30, passing through the midst of them, he went his way. That's a miraculous escape. They couldn't do it because his time had not yet come. You know, it doesn't make sense that Jesus would go back to his own hometown. Get ready to sort of plant his stake in the ground and do the miraculous. Read the scriptures that refer to himself. And be so categorically rejected to the point of murder. When I think about this, I am warned. This is a warning. It can be applied this way. Folks, listen to this. Let me give you two, perhaps three applications to take home now. Here's the first application for you and me. Doubt. Doubt kept them from the truth. And doubt can keep you from the truth as well. Their lack of faith in him reading that scroll. Their inability to see past his humanity, which really is what Luke is pointing out here. It was Joseph's son. He was a man. But their inability to see how he could be the Messiah and Joseph's son, there was this doubt. Now, folks, they had enough facts. They had enough facts because we know, if you look at your Bible at verse 14, This is Luke 4 14. News of him went out throughout all the surrounding region. The people in Nazareth heard the wonderful things he was doing because. Jesus said, surely you're going to say, physician, heal thyself. Do the works in Capernaum. Here also in your own country. They had heard the miracles that he had done, and they wanted him to do the miracles that he had done elsewhere there. They had the facts because he read from Isaiah identifying himself as the Messiah. In effect, folks, Jesus was interpreting the contemporary news they heard. On the Hebrew internet, the things they read on cnnhebrew. com, he was saying, This is why I do that. I'm the one predicted in Isaiah. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. He was interpreting. The real-time news happening all around them. And they also, folks, think about this. They had lived with a boy who never sinned They had been witnesses to the upbringing of Jesus, the boy. What would that be like? Have you ever met a perfect boy? I haven't. I sure wasn't one. So here is a boy, and he has brothers and sisters, and he doesn't demean them. He never shouts at them or takes their toys. I mean, he plays with them nicely. He shares. He never lied to his parents. Don't you think that little town there that sometimes Mary leaned over the fence and said to her neighbor, You're not going to believe what just happened. Jesus did this. And that neighbor just shakes their head and goes, What? If my kid was in that situation, he would have done this. So they had the facts in the form of the contemporary news. They had the facts in the form of Jesus interpreting what was happening. And they had the facts because they lived with Jesus while he was growing up. They didn't need any more facts, folks. It wasn't like a scientist who demands that the final piece of data is in place, then his hypothesis will be proved correct. No, there was an abundance of facts. And yet they still doubted. And it was their doubt, it was their doubt that left them from finding the truth. Do you remember what Jesus said to Thomas? Thomas, blessed are the eyes that have not seen and the ears that have not heard, yet still believe. Thomas had to see his hands and his feet and touch them. He made a point of saying, unless I see it for myself. I'm not going to believe. And Jesus came and he showed himself to Thomas, but he pronounced a blessing on all of those who don't see and yet believe, that have faith Remember what the writer to Hebrews said. Without faith, it's impossible to please God, because he who comes to God must believe that he is and that he's a rewarder of those who diligently seek him God gives us a lot of facts. There's this immense universe: planets and solar systems and supernovas and grasshoppers And butterflies and lions, and there are fossils in the ground of giant Bronosauruses and Tyrannosaurus Rexes, and we have all these facts But I don't see God, so he must not be real. Do you realize that in the cells of your body, there are so many parts to a living human cell, it's almost like an entire galaxy in your cell. In miniature. But I don't see God, so he must not be real. Folks, God has given us enough facts from creation that we should believe that He is powerful, that He is divine, that He is real capital G God. But we demand more? The issue at that point is not that you don't have enough facts, it's that you doubt. The issue is not that you have to see one more film, read one more book, watch one more miniseries on the History Channel. The issue is look and believe. God has given us just enough facts to believe that He's real. And then Jesus, they had the same thing here in his hometown, but they just they just wanted a little bit more. Okay, this doesn't make sense, Joseph's son. Folks, you and I, you and I can do the same thing. What about a Christian who says, you know what, I'll do what's right when I finally have this all figured out? I'll actually take that step of faith after I understand Everything there is to know about this topic or that, or it's kind of a form of perfectionism, a sort of a form of a form of sinful perfectionism, where you're not saying, okay, first I'll believe what God said. And then I'll move out to figure this out biblically. But I believe what the scriptures say. I'm a man of faith, a woman of faith. Folks, doubt is your enemy. If you're here today as a Christian, Doubt is your enemy. It will destroy your Christian life. It could destroy your marriage. It'll destroy the way you raise your kids, help your grandkids, it'll destroy your testimony. If you just stop believing, Their faithless predisposition kept them from the truth. Application number one. Application number two. Cultural prejudice will keep you from the truth. Now, this is a difficult one to apply. In their situation, they hated the Gentiles. And they even hated God when he helped them, i. e. Naaman and the widow. That's what they were doing here. I don't accept the choice that God made with Naaman. And you know what? I'm going to kill you, Jesus, because I don't want to hear this. Folks, that it's almost incomprehensible to think this, but political prejudice, cultural hatred Sort of a sort of that's a group of people that God would never ever use. How can anything good come from those people? This is the kind of thing that caused them to resist the ministry of Jesus. Can anything good come out of Nazareth? They were saying the same thing. And they lived in Nazareth. Right now, you and I live in a country that continues to be a country of immigrants. Correct? My ancestors were immigrants decades and decades ago. Now, what I'm about to say is not a political statement I'll tell you who I am politically. I'll be completely transparent. That way you'll know. I'm a Republican. You got any rotten fruit? You can throw it now. I don't preach. I don't preach Republican doctrine from here. I try to preach this book, and you know what? Sometimes this book really cuts across Republican doctrine. That's another Story. So what I'm about to say though is not a Republican rant. We live in a nation of immigrants, illegal and legal immigrants. Okay? Biblically, Romans 13 teaches us that we should submit to the government that we are under If someone who is an illegal immigrant gets saved, I lead them to Christ, I will turn to Romans 13 and say, now here is your choice. You need to become an American citizen. Here's your opportunity. Let me help you do that. And if you can't become an American citizen, you won't be able to obey Romans 13, and you'll have to return to Your land, wherever that is, at the moment. Okay? We want to be law-abiding citizens. That's the Bible, that's not me. Okay? Rotten fruit can be thrown afterwards. But having said that, listen to this now. If God chooses to use someone from From the South Sudan, here in America, or from China or Japan, if God chooses to use someone from Mexico or San Salvador or It should not matter to us, right? It shouldn't, if God chooses to use someone from Nazareth, oh, he did. Oh It shouldn't matter. As Christians, we should not have any preconceived ideas. We should not take our brush and paint our prejudices onto God. Because he's not a respecter of persons. As a matter of fact, we learn from the letter to the Corinthians that he purposely Agitates us. Because he chooses the weak things of the world and the unwise things. Now, that is not to say that all immigrants are weak and unwise. Is only to say that God makes a habit of choosing in such a way that he receives the glory. So that someone can say, Can anything good come from Nazareth? And the other guy can say, God brought someone from Nazareth, and he gets the glory. Folks, this is God's choice. Inhabit the weak, the poor, the blind. There, of such are the kingdom of heaven. This is the way he does things. And you and I have to be careful. Because we are are is it not true that we are currently living in a politically volatile climate? Have there not been many things, many barrages of political statements being shot from both sides on all these issues? Do you think it's going to get any better as we approach November? I'm sure all kinds of ridiculous things will be said. Or let me use a better word. Unbiblical things will be said. The question is, don't let a politician put the devil's prejudice on you. Be a Christian. Love the lost. Who cares where they're from? Yeah, Romans 13 is in the Bible. We have to disciple those who come to Christ. But we have a mission to evangelize everyone who's in this nation wherever they're from. That's our goal: to love them, to evangelize them, whether they're legal or illegal immigrants. Am I too far out here now? Can you say I'm just trying to be biblical here? Our cultural prejudice will keep us from The truth. It kept these people from Jesus. Okay, how much ministry did he do here? He had to walk through their midst and leave because they were going to throw him off the cliff. That leads me then to this. Folks, the answer for you and me is to say to the Lord, I believe What your word says, that Jesus is the anointed holy prophet of God, but not just a prophet. He is the Son of God, God the Son. And Lord, I want his ministry at Faith, Bible, Church, and in my life. Any way he wants it. No limitations or restrictions. If he wants to save this group or that group, if he wants to go find a name in the Syrian, And make him the greatest preacher the world has ever known, then hallelujah, that's for me. Because what's important is the glory of God and the salvation of souls. Not that God does everything the way I think he should do it. That was their problem. So, God, do things the way you want to do them, and I'll surrender to that. That's what makes me happy: seeing God at work, and I'm your servant, Lord. That's the answer for you and me. That would have been the answer for them. He would have healed them. Who knows what Jesus would have done in his hometown? Who knows what could have happened? What could happen here if we truly surrender to that? Let's pray. Let's pray together. Thank you for your good attention. Let's talk to God for a moment as we close our service down. Father, we want Christ to work. We want his spirit to work here, the Word of God to have effect. Lord help us. Help me not to put you in a box, that you have to do things a certain way. We know that you will always do them according to your word, and we interpret everything according to your word. And so we know, Father, that some of the excesses that are called evangelism in this day are not true evangelism because your word reveals this. But nonetheless, Father, work. May we see preachers called who who are weak and know it and just call and just surrender to you. May we see people from Many, many people from other countries here to hear the gospel, and may we be able to go to them, which is really what we need to do, and love our neighbors, whether they're Muslim or whatever, to go to them and give them the Gospel. Help us not to be afraid. And Father, help us to be the light that we're supposed to be during this election cycle. Help us not to fall prey to what The neighbors that you lived with fell prey to when you were here. So I'll give you a moment now to keep your heads bowed and your eyes closed. If there's anything on your heart and mind that you'd like to pray to God about, talk to him in your mind. He hears Every thought, every desire. He can help you. If you're here today and you're not a Christian, you've never repented of your sins and put your faith in the work of Christ alone for salvation. Call out to him. Tell him you believe. Tell him you know you're a mess and you need help. He will help you. He came to seek and to save that which is lost. That's you, that's me.