As you look back at 2019 and look forward to 2020, perhaps you're considering another Bible reading plan. I was looking at tips for better reading, including reading entire books of the New Testament in one sitting. Did you know that on average, Matthew and Luke each take about two and a half hours to read from beginning to end? That's the length of a typical movie these days, I believe. I also saw a suggestion to read without any chapter or verse references. It's okay, those numbers are not inspired. Whatever plan you adopt for the New Testament, I'm sure you'll encounter today's passage relatively early if you follow a chronological method. But when you do, I would ask you to stop and ponder for a moment. The miracle of the Virgin Virt is a tone setter, a prelude of wonders to come. Here's how the Scottish theologian Donald MacLeod speaks of it. Quote, the Virgin Bert is posted on guard at the door of the mystery of Christmas. And none of us must think of hurrying past it. It stands on the threshold of the New Testament, blatantly supernatural, defying our rationalism. Informing us that all that follows belongs to the same order as itself, and that if we find that offensive, there is no point in proceeding further. Blatantly supernatural. Defying our rationalism. Before we get to the cross as the stumbling block. We have the stumbling block of the virgin birth. We can't get to the door for the sheep, Jesus the shepherd, if we can't get past the door of the virgin birth, Jesus the Emmanuel. If you find yourself standing at this gate, at this first gate, I hope you see what this miraculous sign means for you in this Christmas season. Last time we were to went to the first part of Matthew 1, and we saw in verse 16, which broke the pattern of the genealogy and looked peculiar. It said there, and Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Matthew grammatically foreshadowed the virgin birth of Jesus, and we get to learn more in today's passage. Matthew 1, 18 to 25. So let's read it together. You'll find a passage in the bulletin insert, or please turn with me in your Bibles. Matthew 1, verses 18 to 25, the end of that chapter. Matthew one eighteen to twenty five Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David. Do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth the Son, and you shall call his name Jesus For he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife. And did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Of course, the main attraction, the main star of this passage is the child Jesus. But I believe there are three principles for living taken from this journey of Joseph's faith. First, in times of distress, be righteous before God and others. Take that from verses 18 to 19 Second, in times of revelation, be courageous in your actions. Verses 20 to 23. Third, in times of waiting, be obedient to God's word. Verses 24. You'll find these points also in your bulletin insert. First, in times of distress, be righteous before God and others. See what stark contrast is this principle compared to the early passages of Luke, which we already went over. In the Gospel of Luke, we trace the course of the Virgin Mary's miraculous pregnancy through her eyes, from Gabriel's announcement to her, her visit to Elizabeth, and her extended stay there. And her return, there's a joyful tone throughout and an exciting mood during those months. I'll just go back and read some of the verses in chapter 1 of Luke. Consider, for example, how Gabriel greeted Mary in chapter 1, verse 28 of Luke. Rejoice, highly favored one. The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. Or how Elizabeth greeted her in verses 42 to 44. Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. For why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. Mary's response to Elizabeth's words began like this. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. Mary returned to Nazareth from the Judean home of Zacharias and Elizabeth about three months after the conception of Jesus. Perhaps at the close of the first trimester or the beginning of the second, it's hard to tell whether Mary is pregnant, but it was only a matter of time. The only conclusion Joseph in his limited perspective can arrive at is the following. Mary cheated on him. Now we should note, just to give a little background, the modern concept of engagement is not the same as betrothal in first century Jewish customs. Commentator Louis Barbieri is helpful in explaining the standard Hebrew practice. Quote, Marriages were arranged for individuals by parents, and contracts were negotiated. After this was accomplished, the individuals were considered married and were called husband and wife. They did not, however, begin to live together. Instead, the woman continued to live with her parents and the man with his for one year. The waiting period was to demonstrate the faithfulness of the pledge of purity given concerning the bride If she was found to be with child in this period, she obviously was not pure, but had been involved in an unfaithful sexual relationship. Therefore, the marriage could be annulled. If, however, the one-year waiting period demonstrated the purity of the bride, the husband would then go to the house of the bride's parents and in a grand processional march lead his bride back to his home. There they would begin to live together as husband and wife and consummate their marriage physically. Matthew's story should be read with this background in mind. Joseph and Mary were already recognized as a couple. Their pledges were public. Other commentators cite Jewish traditions that confirms this idea. For example, if a betrothed woman loses her fiance to sudden tragic death, she is considered a widow. Perhaps at this point the righteous Joseph felt so much anguish that he wished indeed he was dead. A friend told me that when his wife cheated on him, he suffered from bouts of panic attacks. Insomnia, suicidal thoughts. The consequence of sin isn't any less painful because Joseph was a just man He was looking forward to that grand processional march. The home and the life he envisioned with Mary suddenly gone. He genuinely loved his fiance, but could not in good conscience marry someone who violated his trust. You could imagine what the neighbors were saying during these times. Or how about Mary herself? The three months of mountaintop joy Mary had experienced Was now replaced by a lonely valley of despair. Would Joseph believe her if she told him everything We can't be sure, but I tend to think that Mary's parents didn't believe her story and prevented her from communicating with Joseph directly. But I'm sure she felt trapped. I'm sure her faith felt like it was placed under a severe test Adam Clark writes, quote, Her situation was the most distressing and humiliating that can be conceived Nothing but the fullest consciousness of her own integrity and the strongest confidence in God could have supported her in such trying circumstances. Where her reputation, her honor, and her life were at stake. Because Joseph's public reputation was at stake too, he decides to end the marriage contract. He was a just man after all. I think this rationale of Joseph was correct, and it explains why there's an exception clause in Jesus' prohibition of divorce later in chapter 5, verse 32, and chapter 19, verse 9. Joseph had legitimate biblical grounds for divorce and future remarriage. But at the same time, his righteous character was not devoid of compassion and love. Unless there was rape involved, the betrothed woman will be brought to the city gates to be stoned to death, according to the law in Deuteronomy 22, 23-27. He settles for less fanfare. Alfred Eddersheim thinks Joseph planned to gather up the bare minimum of two witnesses and present to Mary a certificate of divorce. His conscience would not allow him to stay with Mary. His heart would not allow him to humiliate Mary. No, while this story of Joseph is part of a grand Christmas story, like Stephen said, I like to turn to these verses when I counsel singles who are dating. Of course, dating and engagement today do not carry the same weight as Joseph and Mary's betrothal. But there are some universal principles here for every romantic relationship. If your righteousness before God does not extend beyond the church to your closest friendships, you know, your boyfriend and your girlfriend, something's defective in your spirituality. Mm. How much grace and compassion do you show when you break up? I've had to play peacemaker between a couple that broke up at my former church. One stayed, the other left. I've had to comfort a brother whose girlfriend cheated on him. In all those circumstances I've had to work with broken hearts. Insecurity, anger, jealousy, a myriad of other feelings. In the midst of these relational disorders There's a chance to order our lives according to the gospel. Perhaps Joseph meditated on his forefather's faith, expressed in Psalm 32, 1 to 2. This is a Psalm of David. Psalm thirty-two, one to two says Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. If we are forgiven by God, can we forgive others? When Joseph remembered forgiveness, covering of sin, and the imputation of righteousness, Through faith alone, by God's grace alone, he must have concluded that he too must forgive sins and cover it There's a righteousness imparted by grace apart from the law, which Joseph experienced and now has a chance to bestow Mary, albeit in a miniature way. But as you know, the plan doesn't get very far. God has been interrupting our best-laid plans all throughout human history. If he's working in your life, don't be surprised. He reveals himself and his plans and is up to us to adjust. And that leads to the second point. In times of revelation, be courageous in your actions. One night as Joseph was pondering and wondering, he must have dozed off. In a dream, the angel of the Lord appeared to impart divine revelation to him. The exact identity of the angel is not given. It could be Gabriel, it could be Michael. And though often in the Old Testament, the angel of the Lord is to be identified with the pre-incarnate Son of God. N now the Son of God is no longer pre incarnate, he's incarnate in Mary's womb, so we can't really lean on that either More important than the identity of the angel is what was said. As we analyze the technical details of the revelation, let's keep an eye on the main command. Just as Gabriel told Mary, do not be afraid, the angel of the Lord tells Joseph, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife. Just as one angel addressed the humble maiden as the highly favored one. Another angel addressed Joseph by name as the son of David. After the imperative, we see why Joseph should not be afraid to take to himself Mary as his wife. First, the most pressing question is, how did Mary get pregnant? That which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. This message is essentially the same as Luke 135. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also, that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. With this revelation, there is no longer a conflict between Joseph's conscience and his love for Mary. He can take God at his word that she didn't cheat on him. He can trust in this revelation, even if he doesn't understand scientifically how a virgin can become pregnant. We too can trust in the Lord in this miracle. Human language is too limited to explain adequately how God became man. And it's okay to admit that we are at the end of ourselves in knowledge. We can still worship him in mystery. That's why we sang earlier. Come behold the wondrous mystery. In the dawning of the king, he the theme of heaven's praises, robed in frail humanity. We encounter paradoxical statements like this in the Bible and in our hymns. We worship invisible God, made visible. The Lord of glory was crucified as man. Back to the passage. Verse 20 is about the present and the past from Joseph's perspective. Basically, don't be afraid to marry your fiance now because she was conceived through the Spirit months ago. Verse 21 is about the future. What will happen within a year? Very soon. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Again, there's some parallels with Gabriel's words to Mary in Luke 1:31. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth the Son, and shall call his name Jesus. But as you see here, Joseph is given a special insight into the name of the child. Jesus is the English rendering of Yesu in Greek. Which is in turn a rendering of the Hebrew Yahushua. Yehoshua means Yahweh is salvation. Though it was a common name in Joseph's day, It takes a special significance when given to the Son of God. It's no longer a prayer or a wish or just a statement applied to a normal human Jesus is himself Yahweh who gives salvation. He is God himself. And what does it mean to be saved from sin? Well, it is the most wonderful news. It is central to the gospel which we proclaim. I want you to know that salvation from God is everlasting. Jesus is the author of eternal salvation. It says that in Hebrews 5. 9. Long ago I learned what's called the three aspects of salvation. There's salvation past, salvation present, and salvation future. All based on the premise that we're all sinners who offended God and deserve hell and only Jesus can save us I'll talk about all three now. First, through salvation past, we have been saved from the penalty of sin through Jesus. Salvation passed, saved from penalty of sin. You can rest assured that all your sins that become part of your past are forgiven. As Paul says, He made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. That we might become the righteousness of God in Him. That is yours in Christ. This is the gift of justification by grace alone, through faith alone in Jesus Christ alone. So salvation passed and saved from the penalty of sin. Secondly, there's salvation present for the believer of Christ. At every moment, we are being saved from the power of sin. Salvation present, safe from power of sin. And that's called sanctification. You are given the Holy Spirit at the moment of salvation to wage war against your flesh. Remember, you were given the Holy Spirit, not the happy spirit. You are to live a holy life, not a happy life, though I would say that ultimate happiness is found in holiness. I think that's biblical. Here's the task found in Romans six, twelve to fourteen. Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in its lust. And do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness. to God. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. Under grace, you have power over sin. There's salvation present. Thirdly, there's a salvation future. Someday we will be saved from the presence of sin, right? When Jesus returns. We wait for what's called the glorification, the glorification of our bodies, when the when there will be no longer any trace of sin or is corruption in our members, in our bodies. Apostle John describes it like this in 1 John 3. 2. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be. But we know that when he is revealed, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. To be like him means to shed off our likeness of Adam. Our father who transgressed against God, and to bear the image of the heavenly man, Jesus. As the hymn writer William Cooper says, and we will sing in a few minutes, someday we'll be saved to sin no more. All these blessings of salvation from sins in the past, present, and future. Freedom from sin's penalty, power to resist sin Ultimate removal from the presence of sin are found in the name of Jesus. This was God's plan along, as ancient prophecies indicated. We see the fulfillment of Isaiah 7. 14 as seen in verses 22 to 23. Here's a quick overview of the original context. The prophecy was given during an 8th-century international crisis in the southern kingdom of Judah known as the Syro-Ephraimite War. The northern kingdom of Israel joined forces with Syria to revolt against the powerful nation of Assyria who ruled over them. They wanted Judah to join in their coalition and belligerently refused to take no for an answer. So they ganged up on Judah and want to make him make them join in this fight against Assyria. God sent the prophet Isaiah to Ahaz, the king of Judah, to assure him that these two angry imminent threats were nothing but smoking fire brands. It was an incredible message that seemed to defy all odds. In one of those once-in-a-lifetime moments, Ahaz was given a chance to ask for any miraculous confirmation sign. A miracle that would strengthen his faith in the prophecy. Ahaz pridefully refused to ask in a show of fake godliness And then God rebuked him and gave the entire house of David a sign anyways. The sign given matched the magnitude of the offer. A virgin will have a child. Since that prophetic sign was given to the house of David, not just to Ahaz, the fulfillment of it did not need to happen immediately. Now the child predicted by Isaiah is none other than Jesus. Emmanuel, God with us. It's interesting to see how this name parallels with the name of Jesus. Yahweh is salvation. But it's not contradictory. We can put the two together in one unified message. The wonderful news of Christmas and the gospel is not only that we are safe from sin, but we can be with God. Not only separation from sin, but fellowship with God. Not only save me, but be with me. Can't separate salvation from the presence of God. For that reason, Joseph need not fear. No need to fear marriage with Mary. No need to fear anything really, not even death. No need to covet or have the fear of missing out. Hebrews 13, 5 to 6, and we heard it several times this year, let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have, for he himself has said, I will never leave you, nor forsake you. So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? Because of Jesus, God with us, we are persuaded with Paul that God is for us. That neither death nor life, nor angels nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come. Nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Do not fear is the first command for Joseph, but there's more to follow. It's interesting to see that the divine revelation also reveals human response. I mean that when God reveals his plans to us, he also reveals our character. That is, will Joseph take what he has learned and live according to it or contrary to it? That leads to the third principle. In times of waiting, be obedient to God's word. The will of God will be done. God guarantees it, no problem. But what is amazing is that God uses lowly beings like us to fulfill his will. What a privilege that is Joseph did not take his calling lightly, even if he took himself lightly. His calling was to be the husband of Mary, as it was said in verse 16, and the legal father of Jesus. There are few earthly callings more important than to be a family man. He was immediately obedient to the angel, he overcame his fear of man, gossip, rumors, etc. And took Mary to his own home earlier than scheduled to fulfill verse 20. And then to fulfill verse 23, which is the citation of Isaiah 7. 14. Remember, Mary had to remain a virgin, so Joseph did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son. Know her is a euphemism for sexual intercourse. Finally, Joseph names the child Jesus just as he was told to. And all this, Joseph's actions are in accordance with God's word. This passage is not just a romance story. The story of Joseph confronts us and presents us with life-altering choices. Will you be righteous before God and others? Will you be courageous in your actions? Will you be obedient to God's word? Please know that you cannot be righteous, courageous, or obedient in your own strength, in your good works. We're gonna fail. All of us have sinned and fall short of God's glory. Righteousness, courage, and obedience can be yours only if you make this choice about the child and this account. Will you ask Jesus to be your eternal salvation from sin? Will you ask him to be with you as Emmanuel? He has proven his love by dying on the cross and rising from the dead. He did that for your sins. Will you accept them by faith? If you're thinking about this decision, know that Jesus can alter your destiny from hell to heaven. Now please pay careful attention to the last hymn. God came to earth as man so that his blood can save you when he shed that on the cross. It's like a fountain open for you. There's life freely offered. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners plunged with beneath that flood lose all their guilty things. This eternal salvation can be yours. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for Just being with us. We say that a lot. We make that in our prayers. We say that in our prayers and we hope that and we wish it for others. Well Lord, I pray that it will not be those words will not be accompanied with doubt, because you have shown us clearly that you are with us That you are not distant from us. You didn't just wind up the clock and just depart. You are a God who is involved in history. In providence and at times through miraculous intervention. And Lord, we know that you demand faith from us. And we pray that there will be faith in our hearts, each one in this room, that we will respond in faith to your revelation in your word. Pray that we will have faith in your Son Jesus Christ who came to be with us, Emmanuel, to prove As a sign that you are not distant from us. And we trust in this sign, this Son of God. Pray that we would live for Him and to share this good news with others. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.