Good morning all. I guess you can tell that uh we, my wife Mary, my son Jesus, and my daughter Tripp. No Yes. We were scheduled to be on a trip today. And we're on a trip, but we're going in the opposite direction. It's another indication of my education in how God works. I've learned all kinda things about the amazing artistry of God's work. or ten months. It was about a little more than five days ago when the angel said to me that I should take Mary as my wife Because she is bearing a child who will take away the sin of the world. I sort of thought that Being the father of the Son of God, of the Messiah of Israel, means that our lives would be in some way abnormal. I thought that circumstances special effects. Angels showing up to help us. Um be a voice in the night that says how much money do you need tomorrow or next week and those kind of things. I have found that in the last eight or nine months, ninety-nine percent of everything in our lives has been absolutely standard Normal, non-spectacular, non-supernatural And that has bothered me quite a bit, you know, by the fact that God has not intervened when I thought he should So this is day 41. Our baby is 41 days old. Now most people don't date their baby's age by days, and I wouldn't either, except that yesterday was day 40. And day 40 was just an unbelievable day, not only in terms of what happened, but in terms of what God taught me about Himself and how He operated. So let me bring you up to date. Let me say a little bit about Bethlehem, and then a little bit about day 40, and then a little bit about the wise men. Okay? We'll have a whole lot of time here. We gotta get on the road, but Bethlehem, how do you think I can go to Bethlehem? Standard all the way. Stand You know, I would walk, Mary would ride a donkey. Then I would walk and Mary would walk. And then we would sit down and rest. And then I would walk, and Mary would ride a donkey. And then we would sit down and rest. When you're eight and a half months pregnant, standard transportation is not very fast. I sort of expected that God would supply help. I mean, this woman is, you could tell, she was in trouble, eight and a half months pregnant. Making a 65 to 70 mile journey on foot or on donkey, wouldn't it be nice to have a little help? No, no means. No buses. No fast transportation. Trip that should have taken three days took us almost a week. And you just sang, O little town of Bethlehem, how still we see the lie. Such was not the case We arrived in Bethlehem just about the time that everybody else arrived. Everybody was supposed to go back to their roots and get registered because Caesar Augustus wanted more tax money. And the place was jammed with people. I was frustrated completely. Could not find a hotel room, I could not find anything. The people we thought that we could stay with were filled up. So it was a day of complete frustration. We did find an innkeeper who was very kind to allow us to to Stay in his stable. I wasn't that excited about it. And when Mary began What sounded like contractions, I got quite worried. You know, I thought, if we're not going to get any help here, if we're going to be in this stable, I might wind up being the midwife. Or the mid husband, however you say it, you know? Where is the help? If this is God's only begotten Son, if this is the Messiah being born, where is the help? Nothing. It was standard. All the way. And she did go into labor. She did deliver And it wasn't in a still town until maybe afterwards, you know, we may have been so exhausted or we may have been so relieved or it really may have quieted down. But I just kept asking this question. You know, if this is our Messiah, why is here in just standard conditions? Maybe not even standard conditions, substandard conditions I mean, if if this was your son, would you want something special to happen? But just standard conditions. And so we had the baby, things quieted down, and we were ready for the night. And of course, you know the story, Shepherd showed up. Did they live in the place up? They were so excited. They sang, they talked, and uh they couldn't get over the angels that they had seen. You know, apparently angels sing very loudly. Apparently, angels sing in amazing harmony. And they were talking about all these things. And apparently angels are blazingly bright, so that you can't even look at them without sunglasses. And so they talked and they laughed, and it was such a great time that we had. And I realized that God was there. That God had supplied an innkeeper who cared, and an innkeeper's wife who was there to serve as wife, so that I was not the mid husband. And God had angels. My problem was put in the way. You know? I thought the angels were good in the delivery, not be out there on the countryside scaring shepherds. What were they doing out there? You know? So we went to bed that night. I went to bed that night wondering how many angels we would see See, we would be in the future as this thing grew up. You know what happened? Next few days, nothing. Nothing There were neighbors who were worried about the noise the night before. They wanted to know what it was all about. And there were actually people who ask questions about whether our son was special. But once we would say this is our Messiah. But that didn't go over very well because his they knew he had been born in a stable, and his not so special birth was evidence to them that he was a not-so-special son. And I think the fact that I was a carpenter didn't help. Carpenter from Nazareth, up there in the north, that didn't help. You know, if I had been a rabbi or Pharisee or a member of the Sanhedrin, or if Jesus had been born in Jerusalem Or somewhere around the temple, that might have sparked more interest. But a carpenter from Nazareth as father of the Messiah of Israel? No. After a while we just didn't talk about it. We decided that we were going to stay in Bethlehem Until Mary had to be in the temple to offer sacrifices for her cleansing. The Old Testament talks about mother of a firstborn appearing in the temple to offer sacrifice And so it was on day forty that she was supposed to appear in the temple. And so we decided we would stay in Bethlehem. We had talked about going back to Nazareth And then coming down, I had even hoped we could go back to Nazareth and I could come down alone, but Mary had to be in the temple on day 40 to offer sacrifice for her purification. And then we also had to be there to redeem our son. So we chose to stay in Bethlehem even though it was extremely expensive. With everyone there to register, for some reason there was inflation, rapid inflation that took place. And everything was much more expensive. And so we hung around Bethlehem for 40 days, staying with relatives We had our son circumcised on day eight, and we named him Jesus, as the angel instructed me But it was standard. It was normal. It was regular. It was a regular 30-minute Jewish circumcision. Nothing happened. And then day 40 came. For 31 days after the circumcision, nothing happened. It was just basically sleepless nights, you know, busy days, registering, getting rid of all getting, you know, done with all the Deep into that. I was looking forward to day forty because day forty was the day I was going to be able to go and see the temple. The temple is a sight to behold. You should put it on your bucket list Herod's temple. He has been rebuilding the temple now for 15 years, and it is unbelievable. He has put a lot of money and time in it. We had to go up to the temple on day 40 because of Leviticus 12. Leviticus 12 says that a mother who gives birth to the first child Has to purify herself with two sacrifices. If it's a male child, if she gives birth to a son, she goes on day forty And offers a lamb for and a pigeon for a sin offer. You think that's if a daughter, she has to wait till day 80 And go offer two sacrifices. So until that time, she is considered clean. Meaning she cannot touch anything that is enter the sanctuary. And so we were going up to fulfill Leviticus 12. We were also going up to fulfill Exodus 13. Exodus 13 was connected with plague number 10 when God rescued his people from Egypt, from bondage. And the tenth plague, the angel of the Lord went over and killed all the firstborn sons of the Egyptians. And sprang Israel loose from Egypt. Right after that, God said, You understand the fact that all firstborn sons belong to me. Now you can buy them back and you ought to buy them back because I want you to buy them back. You you redeemed them by paying, and it was five shekels of silver that we paid. To redeem our son. About twenty-five dollars in your money. And so that's why we went up to the temple So we entered by the south, the south gate, the double doors down there on the south, and we went up this endless series of steps. It's a long ways up. We get up and we come out into the court of the Gentiles. which is an unbelievable place. It's probably two football fields long, it's probably two football fields wide Herod has just expanded this thing and it is it is an amazing place. We walked across that, we went through a beautiful gate to the court of the women. And then we climb 15 steps up to a platform in front of the gate of Nikanor. The Natanter Gate were the big doors that were probably at least as tall as the ceiling of this building, heavy wooden doors that took several men to open them and close them. As we went up the steps, there were fifteen steps there up to that gate. Those are the steps that the priest Stop on to quote and sing the Hallel Psalms. You know the Hallel Psalms? There are 15 halal psalms. It's Psalm 120 to Psalm 134. And the priest would line up on step number one. And they would sing and say, Psalm 120. In my distress, I called, I cried unto the Lord, and he answered me. And they would finish that psalm. And then they'd go up a step and they would sing. And say Psalm 121. I will lift up mine eyes into the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord. And they would finish that psalm. And then they'd go to the next step and they'd sing. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord, Psalm 122, and they'd finished that psalm all the way up. Fifteen Psalms, 15 steps. I was thinking about that as we went up the fifteen steps. We got up to the top, and guess what we found? Went through the great door, the Nakander doors. Guess what we found? A long line of people. The place was jammed. And we stood in line. And we stood in line. And we waited. And we waited. Finally a priest came up. We gave him our two sacrifices, and he disappeared, and he he went and did something, came back, sprinkled Mary, and declared that she was cleansed We then paid our five shekels of silver and redeemed our son. Then the priest pronounced two benedictions on Mary. A blessing because of her son, and a blessing because her son had been redeemed. You know what I was thinking about through all of this? You know, I'm standing there watching the priest, watching all the people, in the middle of the noise, the thing that struck me was our offering. Our offering You know, the normal offering according to Leviticus 12 is a lamb for a burnt offering and a dove or pigeon for a sin offering But the last verse of Leviticus twelve says, if she cannot afford a lamb. And made provisions for two pigeons instead of a lamb, which cost quite a bit more. We offer the two pigeons. Called the poor offering. Why? Because we were broke. We spent all our money in Bethlehem. Absolutely broke. Wondering how we're going to get back to Nazareth. And the thing that rolled around in my head was, how can God the Father Allow his son to be dedicated in the temple for the poor often. The poor offer. I was thinking, I wondered whether I should go up to the priest and say to the priest, you know, we are dedicating Messiah, the Son of God, with the poor offering. Can you help? I wondered whether he would respond by saying What? Messiah? Let's make this special. We'll supply the land. Or whether he would say, Oh well, if he's Messiah, how come he doesn't have money? for the regular offering. So I didn't try it. Although I thought it. You know Would you like your son to be unrecognized? Would you like your son to be dedicated with welfare money? Where is the intervention of God? Why are there not angel choirs? Why does nobody know who He is? How about a couple of choirs singing the hallelujah course? This is Messiah being presented to the Lord on day 40 and being redeemed. Nothing. And so we turned and left. Mary was cleansed. My son was presented to the Lord. We turned and left Left. Walk back through the gate of the canor, down the fifteen steps, down through the court of the women. Through the door, through the gate, out into the court of the Gentiles. Guess what happened? Some old man came toward us yelling. Yelling. You know, it's one thing if in the middle of a crowd somebody calls your name and says, Hi Joseph, hi Mary, this man did not recognize us. He recognized our baby. And he came up saying, This is the Messiah. Here he is. Picked him out of Mary's hands, held him up, and said, This is Messiah. I thought How did he know? We didn't have a name on the baby. You know, there wasn't any halo. He looked like every other baby. Nobody else recognized him in 39 days. Nobody else recognized him. How did he know? His name was Simeon. He had walked with the Lord for years. He was filled with the Spirit of God when he came into the temple. And the Lord had revealed to him that he would not die until he laid eyes on Messiah. He came into the temple, he saw Mary carrying this baby, and he knew immediately this was Messiah. So he picked up, just picked the baby up out of Mary's hands, held him up, and said, Lord, now lest thou thy servant depart in peace. According to thy word. For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before all people. The light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. And he said this in loud tones. Wow. That was amazing. We were completely dumbfounded. You know, here I was bummed over the poor offering. I was bummed over the fact that the priest didn't recognize him. You know, for the priest, we were just another number in his daily routine. But here's a man who knew. And then another beautiful old lady came up. Who I think was pushing a hundred. And she started praising God. She started singing. And she even started preaching. She was giving many sermons to people who were around watching the show, wondering what was going on, you know. And she was talking to them about what was involved in the redemption of Jerusalem and what this What this baby was going to do. It was a great time. It was unbelievable. I wish I had a video because It was, you know, it was so striking and so out of the ordinary. It was like Simeon and Anna, it was like they were our family, you know? They knew Nobody else knew. They knew. Like brother and sister, even though they were, you know, probably 100 years older than us. And it was just great to be around them. So we were pumped as we left the temple. We left the temple to go back to Bethlehem to pack up so that we could go to Nazareth the next day. And we got there about six o'clock. It's an easy two-hour trip, two and a half hours, two, two and a half hours from Jerusalem down to Bethlehem, and we got there. About six o'clock, and we ate a little bit, and we were hustling around, getting everything ready, and we couldn't stop talking about Simeon and Anna Simeon and Anna. Boy, did they make our day? Did they make our week? Did they make our month? It was just the fact that they understood. Nobody else had understood. No priest, no Pharisee, no Sadducee recognized Our son. People would bump against him in the market, you know, they would brush against him, they'd bump against him, they'd say hi to him, with no concept that this is their messiah. I thought, isn't that the way it is often in life? You know? You rub shoulders with people and you have no concept of who they are. are. No recognition of the fact that this person is special. So we were talking about that. Along about eight o'clock last night, there was this loud knock on the door. We heard noises. We heard shuffling. We heard heard voices talking. I went to the door and opened it very cautiously, and there were about 10 or 12 guys standing out there. I could tell pretty early on they weren't Jewish. I didn't know where they were from. And y you know, with all the terrorist activity these days, you gotta be careful who you let into your house, especially ten or twelve guys. But it was their attitude, their attitude. They asked almost timidly, is there a baby here? When I said yes, they were just so excited. So excited. And they all crowded into our little to our little living room And they were all so relieved that they had arrived. They said, Can we come in and worship him? I thought, worship? Worship our baby. So they came in, they were so excited, they wanted to worship our baby because they had arrived. Which I thought was kind of strange. But then they told us their story. Their story was amazing. They had started off Right after Jesus was born, when they saw a star out in the east in Babylon, that indicated to them that there was something special happening. And they started for Jerusalem. They came more than 500 miles, walking, riding camels, with a lot of stuff. And they came to Jerusalem thinking that Jerusalem would know where the king of the Jews had been born. And they appeared on the streets in Jerusalem asking the question of people: Do you know where the king of the Jews has been born? We saw his star in the east. We've come to worship him. Any idea where he is? Nobody knew. Wasn't even in the papers. They expected it would be on the front page of the newspapers. It wasn't in the papers. No information. In fact, they said the people Seemed to be more fearful than helpful. And they kept going around asking this question until they got a note from a special guy who came and said, King Herod wants to see you. They went up for tea to Herod's palace, and they said the old man had one thing on his brain. When did you see that special? And then he said, our wise men, our Jewish wise men think that Bethlehem is the place. So go to Bethlehem, and when you find him, come back and bring me word because I really want to worship him too. So they said that when they left, they were completely surprised because they got out of Herod's palace and there was a star again. That was the star they had seen in Babylon, and apparently for some reason hadn't seen it Since Babylon days. And now they saw the star again. This time the star moved. And it moved and led them to Bethlehem and was right over the house where we were. I didn't know we had a star over our house that night. But that's why they knocked on the door because there was a star over our house. So they came in, we just had a great time. They talked, we talked, we brought out Jewish tea, they brought out Babylonian tea. It was just Unbelievable. And then they wanted to worship our baby. I don't know if you've ever seen grown men. I don't know if you've ever seen grown dignitaries Bow down with their faces to the ground and pray and praise God and glorify God for this baby. I mean, I was in tears. When I heard what they were saying, when I heard what they were talking about, and how they were blessing God for this baby Here were guys who had spent a lot of time. They had invested a lot of energy. Because they were convinced that this baby is the future ruler of the world. And you could see how much money they put into it when they brought out the gifts. They started out by giving him frankincense. I thought, what is our baby going to do with frankincense? Frankincent. It's a rather unappropriate baby gift. But frankincent. Is the ingredient used in the perfume for worship? Frankincense is the smell of It's the incense of worship. And I wonder whether these wise men pictured our baby ruling the universe forever. And their frankincense contributing in days to come. They brought out myrrh. Myrrh is an ingredient Used in the oil that is used to anoint kings and priests. They brought out gold. Gold is the standard gift to give to kings, to rulers. So as I thought about it, I thought, you know, I think these fellas are here because they understand the fact that our son will one day rule the universe. And they were determined with a passion to be first in line to honor him. It was great. It was amazing. Absolutely amazing. I cried half the time. Laughed half the time. Here are these men who have an amazing testimony of faith. They were from Babylon, they were magi, they had a magi in their history in Babylon who wrote a book. His name was Daniel. Magi that followed him respected him because he was the head Magi under Nebuchadnezzar. He wrote a book. That talked about his experiences and introduced people to God. These men came to trust Daniel's God. Loved Daniel's book and decided that that prophecy that Daniel made in chapter 9 Where he introduced the anointed one to come and told that he would be here in 69 sevens. They said, you know, if that ever happens in our lifetime, if we can ever figure out when we're going to go. And they went. They came. They wanted to be first in line to worship. So here are Dignitaries from a distant land. We didn't know them from Adam. We didn't know where they were from. These are men who walked in. with permission, came into our house, crowded into our little room, kneeled in front of a 40-day-old baby. Who couldn't talk to him, couldn't respond, and went home satisfied Is that a statement of faith? It's unbelievable. So We didn't want them to leave. They didn't they didn't want to leave. And, you know, but ten guys couldn't stay in our tiny place. And so it was after midnight when they finally left out into the darkness. I really don't know where they went. And we went to bed just excited over the display of God's. Grace and mercy to us that day. And I think I got maybe an hour of sleep, and I was wakened up in my sleep by an angel When I woke up fully, I said, An angel! First time in two hundred days! Amen. I've been looking for an angel. Yes. Are you going to supply heavenly Uber traffic to for us to go back to Nazareth? Amen. Praise God. The angel said, I've got good news, I've got bad news. Good news is you have been chosen to go on a vacation. Bad news is somebody's chasing you The angel said, um you can tell this is creative license. The the the angel the angel said you understand the fact that Herod is coming tomorrow with a search party. He wants to kill the baby and you've got to get out of town immediately. immediately. So the way God set up all the details and and aligned everything We were ready. We were packed, ready to go. So we got out at 5 this morning. Left Bethlehem, came down the hill on our way to Egypt. And here we are at, what is this, 12 o'clock, our lunch break, and we are 13 miles down with you at Beth Shemesh on our way So let me give you two things that I have learned about God. I wrote these down on our way. Two things that I have learned about God in the last eight or nine days. day eight or nine months. Number one, God has successfully met every need we have had. Successfully met every need we have had. Think about this. If the wise men had come on day 39, two days ago We would have have had gold in our pockets when we went to the temple, and we would have had the normal offering. Why didn't they come on day 39? Because God did not want his son dedicated with a normal offering. He wanted his son blind with poor people God has supplied every need, but He has not supplied the needs at the time that we think we need them. I may have been embarrassed by the poor offering, but God wasn't This is something I've got to learn. I've got to learn to trust God and to rest in his perfect timing. You know, my complaining, my begging, my constant request of God to supply something I don't have is counterproductive. What I need to do What I need to do is trust him. What I need to do is praise him and rest in his perfect timing. On the other hand, if we had gotten the message from the angel that said, go to Egypt before the wise men came, we could not have gone because we were broke. The wise men came, and then the angel said, Now you've got to go to Egypt. So we now have gold, we now have frankincense, we now have myrrh, all which can be fairly easily turned into money when we are in Egypt. I don't know how long we're going to be down there, but we have plenty of money. Which is a rather unusual thing for a carpenter to say. So here's my question. Have you thanked God for his supply of all your needs? All You should be excited over the way God has met all your needs. You should be praising him with loud voices, no matter who you are, no matter what you don't have. All The second thing I've learned is that God has successfully brought us through impossible circumstances. Impossible. circumstances. Every place he has led has looked hard, and some places have been absolutely impossible Getting to Bethlehem with an eight and a half month pregnant woman with no extra help. No place to rent, no rooms to rent in Bethlehem. I didn't want to just come to Bethlehem to pay more taxes. I did not want Mary to go into labor. I did not want to stay here. I tend to worry about these kinds of things because they look threatening. But I've come to realize that all my personal challenges and all the impossible situations that God leads me into are really nothing. To God. No problem to him at all. In fact, I'm beginning to think that he directs us into great difficulty so that he can show his amazing artistry. At solving the difficulty with no special effects. No angels. Nothing unusual. Standard stuff. He resolves the difficulty. So here we are on day 41, with quite a few impossible things behind us, and we're pointing in the right direction, even though we're going the opposite direction. We have gold in our pockets to pay our way, and we are going to see the pyramids Don't you wish you were going? Huh? We'll send you pictures. We'll put it on Facebook. Taken from our cell phones. We don't know what's in the future. The future may have great difficulties in it, but it's probably not a whole lot different than your future. Amen. Very few amens on that But we're going to go with God. Because what he does in the hardest events is spectacular. Haven't you found that to be true too? Are you content in the way he has led you? Have you thanked him? I mean, I have 50 days of work back in Nazareth waiting for me. I probably have angry customers And I'm heading to Egypt. And I don't think that is going to be a big problem that God can't solve. He's going to meet all our needs. There's a verse that somebody is going to write someday, somewhere, that says In light of the fact that God spared not his own son, but gave him up for us all, can't we trust him to supply every other gift also? Do you see the question? In light of the fact that God spared not the ultimate gift, but gave the ultimate gift up for us, can we not trust Him to supply lesser gifts? Certainly. So do you think God is on schedule in your life? Have you enjoyed his amazing direction and the way he supplies your needs? Are you following his directions? Or are you creating an easier way? Remember these two statements. Christ Christmas is a celebration of the fact that God has successfully met every one of our needs. And we are going to live in praise to his name Number two, God has successfully brought us through impossible circumstances. Let me pray with you. And then we're on our way to Egypt. Almighty, majestic, eternal Brilliant Father, we praise your name. It is incredible to watch your artistry. In the standard events of life. Would you enable us in new ways to see your hand? And to trust your hand, realizing your love for us, because you sent for our benefit your only begotten Son. In whose name we pray with thanksgiving. Amen.