I'd ask you to bear with just a brief word of personal testimony this morning. Five years ago on this date, I was in a hospital in a coma, having suffered a massive brain hemorrhage, and uh Wasn't expected to live out the day. Was on life support. And uh it just wasn't certain what was going to happen, but many people were praying and the Lord In his glorious sovereignty, he knew that that was not his chosen hour for my home going. Uh he brought me through that and I praise him for that. Lost forty-six pounds in ten days. I don't recommend it as a weight loss program And as you can see, you gain it all back anyway. But I praise the Lord for what he did, and I praise the Lord that he restored me. The the doctors didn't expect that I'd be much good physically or mentally after that, but the Lord has really blessed and I'm thankful I invite you this morning to turn with me to the book of Romans, chapter 15, beginning at verse 4. And our emphasis this morning in particular will be on verse 13. But we'll begin reading at verse 4 so that we have the context in mind. Romans chapter 15, beginning at verse 4. This is the Word of God. For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through the patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be like-minded toward one another, according to Christ Jesus. That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore receive ye one another. As Christ also received us to the glory of God. Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God to confirm the promises made unto the fathers. And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles and sing unto thy name And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people. And again praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles, and laud him, all ye people. And again, Isaiah saith, There shall be a root of Jesse. And he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope. Through the power of the Holy Ghost. Let's look to the Lord in prayer once again. Our Father, we have been truly blessed this morning. To sing your praises, to hear your word read, to hear instruments played, to glorify you. To hear words sung that pointed us to our Savior, the great God man Thank you for all that you have done for us in Christ. Thank you for the word that we have before us this morning. And as we look at it together, we pray. That you will open your word to us and that you will open our hearts to your word. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The great theme of the Book of Romans. If we could put one great theme across the top of the book of Romans. I believe it would be one true gospel. One true gospel. That's the theme of this book. God's salvation by grace alone, justification by faith alone, in the person and work of Christ alone, and all that goes with that. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, Paul says, chapter 1, verse 16, because it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Romans is all about the gospel. It's all about why man needs it, how to preach it, how to believe it, and how the believer is to live in light of it. And that's where we will be this morning. But before we get to chapter 15, there's much That we find in the book of Romans. First of all, in chapter 1, Paul tells us about the nature of the gospel. He tells us about the fact of original sin. And he tells us the fact that all Jew and Gentile stand guilty before God. And in chapters 2 and 3, Paul tells us about the rightness of the judgment of God against all men, both Jew and Gentile. That we're totally unable to save ourselves from the wrath of God by law-keeping or by any other means. What we need is the perfect law-keeping righteousness of Jesus Christ. he tells us in chapter 2. And in chapter 4, Paul tells us about justification by faith alone. In chapter 5, he tells us that our position in Christ is a unique position because we now have his imputed righteousness. We now have deliverance from God's wrath. We now have peace with God Therefore, having been justified by faith literally in the original, we are having peace with God right now. And in chapters 6 through 8, Paul deals with the problems of the remaining sin within us. And in chapter 8 in particular, he leads us through that great golden chain of redemption. It takes us from our starting position of total depravity and hopelessness all the way to ultimate glory at the end of chapter 8. Nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ. Absolute certain salvation. And then in chapters 9 through 11, Paul deals with What for many has been a problem was then, is now. The fact that salvation is the same for both Jew and Gentile by God's sovereign election. But God's not finished with Israel. And then we come to the place we always come to in Paul's epistles. And that's the point what had which he shifts from doctrine to application. That begins mainly in chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, because of all these things we've been saying for eleven chapters, I beseech you therefore, by the mercies of God, present your bodies a living sacrifice. choice wholly acceptable to God. That's your reasonable service. Don't be conformed to this world. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you may prove, you may demonstrate what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Because of the gospel, the life of the believer in Christ is to be the life of a renovated mind. A mind that's undergoing a complete makeover, a change in every part of our thinking. And in chapters 12 through 16, the rest of the book, Paul focuses on the life of the believer in Christ He focuses on how we're to serve God. He focuses on the behavior of the Christian under civil governments that God has instituted in chapter 13. And he talks about the balance in chapter 14 between the Christians' liberty and things that are not prohibited in Scripture and our responsibility to live before our brethren in a way that will not cause any of them to stumble. And then we come to this passage, chapter 15. Paul talks about what justification by faith has done to the believer on the inside. That's where the passage that we're considering this morning fits in. It comes after all of that. It's based upon the wealth of doctrinal teaching that has preceded this. It's all rooted in the gospel. And this passage in particular deals with a key aspect. Of the life of the believer in the church today in the light of the gospel. And that's the fact that we are to live a life of hope. So as we look at this passage in Romans chapter 15, I want to focus our attention this morning on three facts about that hope and where those facts lead us. First of all, the scriptures are the source of hope. We have that in verse 4. Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through the patience and the comfort of the scriptures might have hope Written for our learning, written for our instruction. The word learning here in verse 4 is the same word that's translated in many other places as doctrine. Doctrine. Our problems in the Christian life come by and large when we neglect the Word of God, when we neglect sound doctrine. When we neglect learning from the Word, line upon line and precept upon precept, building that within our hearts and our minds. Today, many Christians honor the Bible in many ways, but they don't really understand it. They don't really know what it says. There's no renovation of the mind going on. And there's no appreciation of the width and depth and height of the hope that we have in the promises of God. Several times in his letters to the various churches, Paul uses a rather unique phrase. He says, I don't want you to be ignorant, brethren. Says that many times. And what's he saying when he says that? He says, you need to be in the scriptures. These things were written for your learning. And why is that? He says, in order that by the patience and comfort of the scriptures. You might have hope. Now, the word that's translated patience In our English Bible is actually the Greek word for perseverance. It's actually the word for endurance, for steadfastness. What's Paul saying? The patience or the perseverance of the scriptures. Scripture perseveres. Scripture never changes. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Psalm 19 1989. Jesus in the gospel says the scriptures cannot be broken. The scriptures persevere, therefore God's people persevere. That's what it's all about. Steadfastness in Christ, endurance, even in the face of the greatest trials. In James chapter 5, we read this. He says, you've heard of the patience of Job. And the word again there is literally the perseverance of Job. And has seen the end of the Lord, the end or the outcome intended by the Lord with Job. That the Lord is very pitiful. In other words, that the Lord is full of pity and of tender mercy. The same word that speaks of the patience of Job is the word that's translated patience here in Romans 15 in our English Bibles, but it is literally the word perseverance or endurance. And the Greek word that's translated comfort here in Romans 15, chapter 4, is a word that means consolation or encouragement. It's a form of the same word that's used in the Greek as the name for the Holy Spirit, the comforter, the paraclete. It's a form of the same word. He's the comforter, Jesus said. John 14, 26, the Comforter, who is the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have sent to you. And in chapter 15, verse 26, Jesus told the disciples, When the Comforter has come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, he shall testify of me. The Holy Spirit is the one who illuminates Scripture for us. Paul says that the scriptures were written for our learning. In order that we through the perseverance and comfort of the Scriptures, the encouragement that arises from the study of the Scriptures, that through that we might have hope. And the result of that hope, as we continue to look at Romans chapter 15, we look at verses 5 through 7, and what we find there is that the result of that hope is like-mindedness. Like-mindedness toward one another within the body of Christ. Harmony within the body of Christ. And like-mindedness in glorifying God. The scriptures are our source of hope, and the scriptures train us. That's also what's in view here, that the scriptures train us so that we'll be able to give evidence of the hope within us. So that's the first fact. The second fact I want to focus our attention on is the great truth that Jesus Christ Himself is the confirmation and fulfillment of that hope. Notice again verse 8. Notice again verse 8. Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God to confirm the promises made unto the fathers. In his saving work, Jesus Christ has confirmed promises made long ago. The promise of redemption that God gave to Adam and Eve in Genesis chapter 3, the promise of a people that God made to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12 and repeat it again in Genesis chapter 15, the promises that God confirmed to Isaac and to Jacob and later to David so dramatically. And all the way down through the line of the prophets. The promise of the Redeemer, the promise of the Messiah, the promise of deliverance from the curse of sin and death. The promise of all that we need to live this life, the promise of comfort in trials, the promise that God will supply all our needs according to the riches of his glory in Christ. The promise that He'll never leave us or forsake us. The promise of the life to come, the promise of new heavens and new earth. The promise of ruling and reigning with Christ. All the promises of God are in Christ. And Paul's making the point here that the promises. Are not only for the Jew only, not only for the fathers, not only for those who received them in the Old Testament, the promises are also for the Gentile. They're also for us. And at the end of that roll call of faith in Hebrews 11, the inspired writer puts it this way: He says that all of these, the people of the Old Testament, Having obtained a good testimony through faith, they did not receive the promise. They didn't see its fulfillment. God, having provided something better for us. That they should not be made complete apart from us. There's one body of believers in Christ from beginning to end. And Jesus Christ is the hope of everyone who trusts in him from beginning to end. Jew and Gentile in all ages and all periods of history. Old covenant, new covenant. And in John chapter 10, Jesus told the Jews, he said, Other sheep have I, they're not of this fold. He was speaking of us, he was speaking of the Gentiles, and he said, Them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. And Paul tells us here in Romans chapter 15 that the scripture is always spoken this way from the very beginning. He he shows that, as he does so often in his epistles. By quoting the Old Testament, and he does that in verses 9 through 12. First of all, in verse 9, he quotes from 2 Samuel chapter 22, For this reason I will confess you among the Gentiles. And sing unto thy name. And secondly, in verse 10, he quotes from all the way back in Deuteronomy chapter 32: Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. And then in verse 12, he's quoting from Isaiah chapter 11, one of the great prophecies of the coming of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ, there shall be a root of Jesse. And he that shall arise to reign over the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust. The promises of God in Christ are the hope and future of his people in all ages. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 15 that in if in this life only we had hope in Christ, we would be of all men most miserable, most pitiable. Colossians 1. 27, Paul tells us that Christ in you is the hope of glory. But the promises of God in Christ are not only a hope for the future, they are indeed that. But they are the hope of the present, the hope of present reality. Paul says this back in chapter 5 in Romans. Familiar words. He says, therefore, having been justified By faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation worketh or produces patience. And again, that's that word perseverance. And patience or perseverance works experience. And experience hope. And hope. Maketh not ashamed. In other words, hope doesn't disappoint. Why? Because the love of God is shed abroad or poured out in our hearts. By the Holy Ghost, that comforter who was given to us. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died. for the ungodly. Hope maketh not ashamed. Hope does not disappoint. What Paul is saying is that the hope of the believer is not a deceptive hope. It's not the typical human, I hope so, kind of hope. I hope it's going to happen. I hope things are going to turn out all right. No. It's not that kind of a false hope or a deceptive hope or a hope that may have an unreliable object Our hope has the most reliable object of all, the Word of God. All the promises of God are in Christ. And we have the Holy Spirit as the guarantee of the promises. And where do we find the promises? We find them in the scriptures. The Scriptures are our source of hope, that you, through the patience or perseverance and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. And who's the confirmation and the fulfillment of all that hope? Jesus Himself. So that brings us to a third fact that Paul focuses our attention on here, and that's the fact that God's desire is that we may abound in hope. Notice again verse thirteen. Now may the God of hope, the God of hope. Fill you with all joy and peace in believing that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. This is Paul's prayer for believers. Our God, he says, is a God of hope. The God of hope. The only God in whom there is hope In verse 5, Paul spoke of God as the God of patience and comfort. The patience and comfort of the scriptures. The God who perseveres, the God who never changes. And here he speaks of him again as the God of hope, the hope that is embodied and manifested and fulfilled in the person and work of Jesus in saving. Sinners. And Paul says, my prayer is that the God of hope will fill you with all joy and peace in believing. Place your hope in the scriptures, Paul said. Place your hope in the Christ of the scriptures. Trust in the God who gave us that hope which we have in Christ. Trust in the God who has given us his Spirit to illuminate his word for us. And to be our comforter. The joy and peace which the God of hope imparts to us rests on faith in Christ. Paul, literally, what Paul is saying here, he's saying, may the God of hope fill you with every kind of joy. Every kind of joy. And he says, may the God of hope fill you with peace. And the focus on the meaning of the word peace here in context has to do with security. Security, a calmness, and a composure in our souls. Because we are sure of salvation in Christ, so that we have nothing to fear from the hand of God or the hand of man. In Psalm 5, David says this: He says, Let all those rejoice who put their trust in you. Let them ever shout for joy, because you defend them. Defend them. Let those also who love thy name be joyful in thee, for thou, O Lord, wilt bless the righteous with favor. Thou wilt surround him. As with a shield. Security. Security. The God of peace. The God of security. And Paul says here, beginning in verse, at the beginning of verse 13, he talks about joy and peace in believing. And in the original language, there's actually a definite article there. It actually reads like this: Joy and peace in the believing. Joy and peace in the believing. And the idea is joy and peace in the continual state of believing. Understanding that you're accepted. Accepted in the beloved, accepted by God through Christ. Understanding that you've been justified in his sight once for all, understanding that your sins have been laid upon Christ and His perfect righteousness has been laid upon you. And Paul says the goal of this is that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. And the word abound here actually means superabound. Superabound. To have an overflowing abundance of hope. Hope beyond measure, hope that exceeds what you will ever need. And how do we obtain that abundance of hope? He says we obtain it by the power of the Holy Spirit. We obtain it by the very fact that the indwelling Spirit of God is the guarantee of all these things. By the very fact that the indwelling Spirit of God is the author of the book that perseveres. And he's the illuminator of that book. So that you, by the perseverance and the comfort that derives from the scriptures, may have superabounding hope, joy, and peace in believing. Now today many false teachers are proclaiming what they that the goal of what they call the Christian life is to have Physical health, or to have material wealth, or to have personal success, to have a psychological uplift, all kinds of things. And these preachers say that if you truly belong to God, you'll have those things. And in fact, not only will God give them to you, you'll be able to give them to yourself. Some of them say you'll actually be able to speak these things into existence yourself. And the flip side of it is that they say if you don't have these things, it means there's something wrong with you. But that's not what we find in the Bible. That's not what we find. What do we find over and over again in Scripture? We find that God may give us physical health or he may withdraw it for a time. In certain ways to accomplish his plan and his purposes. He did that with the Apostle Paul, didn't he? God gave him a thorn in the flesh. We don't know exactly what that was. But that doesn't sound like the God of the prosperity and psychological and psychology preachers. It's the all-wise, all-perfect God of Scripture who works all things together for good. We also find that God may give us material wealth, or he may remove it, or he may withhold it He says, I will supply all your needs according to my riches and glory in Christ Jesus. The psalmist says, I've never seen the righteous begging bread. But yet, as we look at Job, for example, God removed, God took everything away from Job. for a time. Everything. He's literally sitting there in a pile of ashes. But that wasn't the end. We may also find that God may give us a sense of personal success in the world's terms as he did with Solomon. Or he might bring us to the point where we feel like an absolute failure. Look at Peter after Jesus. This resurrection, go get someone else. I'm not fit for this. I'm going back to my fishing. And Jesus said, Jesus just ignored that. And he said He said, No, I want you to feed my sheep, feed my lambs. And Peter was gloriously used of God. We also find that God may permit us to experience what we would term psychological or emotional uplift at times. David often experienced that. And that there were many other times when David cried out to God as he did in Psalm 88, and how many times we want to cry out with David, my soul is full of troubles. I'm like a man who has no strength. You, God, have laid me in the lowest pit. I appreciated the words of the hymn this morning. That even when he brings me into the lowest pit, I find him there with me. As David said in Psalm 130: out of the depths. I've cried unto thee, O God. What do you do in times like that? What do you do in dark periods of life? What do you do when health fails? What do you do when you find that circumstances beyond your control have eaten up your savings? What do you do? How do you think about God and about yourself when spiritual depression comes? What do you think when it seems that in human terms you're a failure? What do you think? Do you think that God has forsaken you? Do you think there's something wrong with you? Do you think that God is finished with you? Do you think that you're not saved? Now, I'm not suggesting that we don't need to look at our lives. That we don't need to understand if the chastening hand of God is upon us, why it is so. But Satan also wants to use these things to take away our joy and peace in the believing. He wants us to think that there's something wrong with God. He wants us to think that God has failed. And those kinds of thoughts are inevitable for anyone who buys into what many churches are selling today. The reason is that those false gospels testify to a poverty of understanding of God and his word. They may talk about joy and peace in believing in those churches, but the problem is what they're believing. Let me explain what I mean by that. What did Paul say when God withdrew his physical health and replaced it with a thorn in the flesh? He took God at his word. It was his testimony that he took God at his word when God said this, as Paul records it in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. God said to him, My grace. is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. And so we read in the next verses there that Paul responded with understanding. And he said, Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities. In reproaches, in needs, and persecutions, and distresses. Why? For Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then That was Paul's testimony of joy and peace in believing. What did Job say? When God took away not only his wealth, but also took away his loved ones, took away his health. And Job didn't understand what was going on in heaven. That there was this great contest between God and Satan in realms that he couldn't see or hear or understand? But God did cause Job to understand, even in all of that, even in the confusion of all of that, he did understand that God was at work. That God was in charge, even in this great adversity. He said, Naked I came from my mother's womb. Naked shall I return there? The Lord gave, the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And scripture tells us that in all this Job did not sin nor charge God with wrong. That's what Satan expected he would do. That's what Satan told God he would do. You take these things away and you see this man collapse. But he didn't. Job testified of confidence in God despite everything. He said, I know that my Redeemer lives. And that he shall stand at last on the earth. And that after my skin is destroyed, this I know that in my flesh I shall see God whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold and not another. And he said, How my heart yearns within me for that That was Job's testimony of joy and peace and believing. And at times David cried out from the depths of despair. But he also gives this testimony in the opening verses of Psalm 40. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined to me and heard my cry. He also brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my steps. He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Many shall see it and will trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man who makes the Lord his trust. And does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord my God, are your wonderful works which you have done. And in your thoughts, and your thoughts toward us cannot be recounted to you in order. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. That's David's testimony of joy and peace in believing. The false gospels that we hear today teach the direct opposite of this. They don't teach true joy and peace in believing. They're not trusting in the genuine Christ of the Bible. They are in fact cultivating a spiritual poverty. They're cultivating a misplaced confidence in your own flesh and your own ability to make things happen. And the result of that, and after a while, you invariably see it in people who buy into all of this if you get close enough to them. The result is that they come to a point where there's fearful doubting of God and adversity, instead of a confidence in the word of God and in the testimony of Jesus. Christ. And this leads to all other kinds of wrong thoughts that can come into the heart of an individual and into the thinking of a church because of ignorance of Christ and His Word. I mentioned that before that several times in his epistles, the Apostle Paul uses an attention-getting phrase. I don't want you to be ignorant, brethren, he says. I want you to have understanding. I want you to be unified in your understanding. God does not want us to walk in ignorance, as so many people who call themselves Christians are doing today. Joy and peace in believing is not about subjective feelings. It's not about how you felt when you got up this morning. It's not about how your boss treated you on the job last week. It's not about how your wife or your husband treated you yesterday. Or if your kids disrespected you or obeyed you. It's not about what you think of the size of your bank account or your 401k. It's not about who's got an elected governor or president. It's amazing the kinds of things that Christians will mistakenly look to for joy and peace. You won't find peace at the bottom of a bottle, whether it's a whiskey bottle or a prescription bottle. You won't find it in the world's entertainments, but you will find it in the scriptures. You will find it in the God who loves you so much that he gave his only begotten Son for you. You. We all want blessing. But what do we mean when we say that? Well, most of all, I think most of us mean that we want life to be easy and simple and free of order. But let me ask a question in contrast to that. Are we more interested in that? Or are we more interested in knowing our Heavenly Father? Are we more interested in knowing His Word? Are we more interested in the giver of every good and perfect gift than we are in the gifts that he may give or may not give at a particular point in time? Are we more interested in the blessing or in the one who blesses? The Word of God tells us that the Christian who seeks true joy and peace in believing begins to experience. A hunger and a thirst for God Himself. As we read in Psalm forty-two, the Christian who's truly going deeper with God Finds that his soul, as the psalmist puts it, is thirsting after the living God. So let me just close this morning by encouraging you not to seek an experience If you're simply focusing on subjective experience, if that's your measure of things, Then what you're doing is you're opening your heart to many kinds of counterfeits. Seek the one true and living God. Seek the one who doesn't change. Get into the book that doesn't change. Seek to know him through his word. Seek to be more and more conscious of the presence of the Holy Spirit living within you. Oh, how many days I go through, and I come to the end of the day, and I Wonder, was I ever today conscious of the fact that God lives within me? Seek to love God Seek to trust your life and your very self entirely to Him and to His Word, and seek to look to all that comes into the This life. Seek to look at it all through the infallible lens of Scripture. There are a lot of other lenses that you can look through that are going to distort things. But Scripture will show you things clearly. God wants you to have superabounding joy and peace in believing. by the power of the Holy Spirit. And the Word of God tells us of that hope and that confidence that Jesus Christ is the confirmation and the fulfillment of that hope and confidence. And that God the Holy Spirit lives within you to make that hope and confidence a reality as you walk with the Lord through all of the uncertainties. Of this life. And onward toward the sure promise of glory. And it is sure. Let's pray. Our Father, we are grateful that you are The everlasting God, that Jesus, the Messiah, whom you have sent, is called the everlasting God. Unchanging, immutable. God only wise. And Father, may you, the God of hope, fill us with all joy and peace. believing. Oh Lord, that we may superabound in hope through the power of the Holy Spirit. And may that hope within us be a bright And shining testimony to others around us that they may see you working and living within us That they might desire to know the Savior, whom we know. We pray in His name. Amen.