All right, open your Bibles this morning to Romans chapter 6. Romans 6. We are in a series where we are hiking through The book of Romans. Sometimes when you take a hike through an area, it might have landmarks along the way, and so you stop and you look at the waterfall. You might not know this, but About a half a mile from here, there is Cascade Fall Trail. It's right down the landing road here. You can see right there where people park beside the road. If you were to park there. At the second area where people park, there's Cascade, it's either Cascade Trail or Cascade Falls Trail. There are at least two waterfalls there. One It's oh they're not huge, but ten ten feet tall maybe the one. And if you ever want to take a walk there, it it's a lovely place. And you would stop at the waterfall, look at it, see what God has made And enjoy that. And then you might continue on. And this is the process that we're attempting to go through through Romans. We're not really going verse by verse. But we're looking at ideas, concepts, important theological points that Paul is making and applying them to our lives. Let me ask you something this morning. Have you ever had someone tell you that they love you? Let's try to quantify. How many of you think that someone has told you that at least once in your life? At least once. Okay. Now I won't ask you to put your hands up for these other questions. Just think. How about five times? Five times? Don't raise your hand. 10? Anybody here, don't raise your hand, a hundred times someone has told you that they love you, or a thousand times? Maybe 10,000 times, I recently met a woman who had been married for 71 years. And that's the record that I've never met anyone married longer than 71 years. Anyone here been married that long or longer? Okay, Mrs. Langwepper, I'm sorry. Well, how long? 83. I'm sorry, I forgot about you. You take the cake. You won. 83. Wow. So you probably were told many times that you were loved in those 83 years. To be told that is an amazing thing, but there is sort of a caveat here. It depends on who tells you. Right? I mean, if someone that you don't like or has proven themselves untrustworthy tells you that they love you, you may uh wonder about the validity of their statement. Uh in his in his book Oh, it's called The Tale of the Tardy Ox Cart and 1500 One Other Stories by Chuck Swindle. He writes about a young man that he heard about. who was determined to win the affection of a lady who refused to even talk to him anymore. So he decided that the weight or a heart was through the mail So he began writing her love letters. He wrote a love letter every day to this lady. Six, seven times a week, she got a love letter from him. When she didn't respond, he increased his output to three notes every 24 hours. In all, he wrote her more than 700 letters. And in the end, she married the postman. I mean, and so it doesn't really matter how many times you say I love you if that love is not received very well. I mean, what would happen if you had someone named Samson say, I love you. And you were living during the days of the judges. Or if you were during the days of Christ and you had a man named Judas. Say, I love you. How would you take those words? How would you estimate the validity of those words? But what do you think? How well do you know your Savior? How well do you know your God? Because God says that He loves us. And in Romans 5, he has here in this chapter this amazing statement. Look at Romans 5, verse 6. When we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die Yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die, but God demonstrates his own love toward us. In that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. That term that's translated demonstrates could also be translated proves. It has the idea of something, the tense there is that it's a demonstration in progress that has no endpoint. And because it's a trans it's it's in the active tense, it's God actively at the present doing something that will have no end. What is he doing? Well, he's demonstrating his love to us, but this demonstration is tied to the past. What past? What action? Golgotha or Golgotha, however you pronounce it. The cross, Jesus. When we look back And we think that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. It remains a present demonstration of the love of God that He has for us. And so God in his character and his infinite wisdom has set up for eternity future this perpetual evidence that we are loved. You've heard me preach this before, and truthfully, I intend to never stop preaching it, because you and I are tied to mortal flesh. And we go through life in pain sometimes. Our circumstances go up and then they go down And we are all so tempted to think that God just doesn't love me today. He wouldn't allow me to suffer in this way or that way if he really loved me. And so we have to go back. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. This is an ongoing demonstration, it's never going to stop, that He loves us. Do you recall from Romans 5 that the theme here is our justification by faith? Abraham was an example of it in the Old Testament. That's Romans 4. And now, because we've been justified by faith, we enjoy certain privileges, a standing in grace. Peace with God. And so we exalt, we rejoice in what we have, to know that we are loved, to know who we are in Christ. This fact, if understood properly, leads us to believe that there is nothing we can do to undo it No sin we can commit will undo the cross. Now, have you ever gone out to eat with someone and someone says to you, order whatever you want? And you kind of look up and you go, you you just kind of think in your mind, hmm, should I really order what I want? Or should I just sort of, you know, tone it down? And so you might say something like, Well, what do you recommend? And so they say, Well, I recommend this, and you say, Well, I'll I'll have what you're having. And you you want to be gracious and not overdo it. But there really is this idea within this theological concept of justification that you cannot lose what Christ has done. We believe in the eternal security of the saints. Now, this this should shock us. Because the teaching is so that if and if you go and commit some horrible sin. Tomorrow, you realize you have a lot of credit card bills to pay off from your Christmas shopping. So you decide to rob a bank tomorrow. There's one right down here. There's at least two or three within a mile. So you go and rob that bank That is not going to undo your justified status. But what you know, there's a security guard there. You shoot him and kill him, that's not going to undo your justified status. If you were to never attend church again, say, hey, you know, I'm kind of tired of this big building, eh? I think I'll stop. That would not undo your justified status. And so if you properly understand it and statements like that are made, someone might come along and say, whoa, wait a minute, you mean when I sin? Grace just keeps abounding over and over again. I really kind of like this. You know, why not just keep sinning? I'm not going to rob a bank, but I'll just do some other things. I'll just keep kind of going in my sinful habits and going in my sinful habits because in the end, grace abounds. I mean you look at Romans 5 verse 21 and you read statements like this, so that as sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. There's this reign of grace, and we're under that now, so that means, wow, it doesn't really matter what I do, does it? And to move from a proper understanding of justification into that would suddenly to find yourself in heresy. However, the answer is not to misdefine justification. The answer is to properly understand our union with Christ. And that is what Romans 6 is all about. Now folks, you and I, we need patience, right? Let me tell you a story. There's an old artist. He was very skilled in his art He was so skilled that he was very rich for everything that he had done. He was rich during his lifetime, which is odd for an artist, okay? And this was in America. This was not years and years ago during the years of Renaissance the Renaissance. And he had a son, and he wanted to teach his son how to draw and paint. So he took his son and he put him in a room and he put a skeleton in the middle of that room. And he said, Here, draw that skeleton. And so the son was busy drawing the skeleton, and he did an okay job. He showed it to his dad, and his dad thought that was great. The next day came around and he handed his son a pencil and he put him in that same room and he said, Draw that skeleton. And he did this over and over and over again, having that that kid look at this skeleton from different vantage points, trying to get the proportions right, trying to figure out how big a foot bone was, or the many bones of a foot. And so over and over again, he finally got to the place where he knew what bones were in a human skeleton, what the proportions were. He could almost do it with his eyes closed. And it was at that point that his father moved him on to the next thing. Have you ever heard the story of the scientist who was teaching his student about fish? Maybe you've heard this story. Supposedly true, he had his student look at this fish, dissect it and look at it, and write out characteristics of this dead fish for days. And every morning he would come in, this is supposedly a true story, and he would look at all the things he had written down and say, okay, you've missed a few. And these two stories kind of illustrate the level that you and I as Christians really need to go to when it comes to the big doctrines of the faith. There are some things in the Bible that are just so important you should lock yourself in a room and just stare at them for a long, long time until you know them like the back of your hand. And our union with Christ and our justified status in God, these are things you ought to have dreams about at night when you're judg You're sleeping. They just ought to be so much a part of your subconscious and conscious minds. Because this is what our Christianity is all about: the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that is why in Romans 6, Paul does not start with what we are to do. He starts with what we should already know. K-N-O-W. Look at your Bibles at Romans 6. You've seen this before, but look at it again. Romans 6, verse 3, he says, in answer to the question that we should continue in sin that grace may abound, he says, Or do you not know? Look at verse 6, knowing this that are, and then he gives some facts there. Look at verse 9, knowing that Christ has done certain things. It's not until verse 11 that we have an action that we're supposed to take. The New King James translates it, reckon. Another translation would be count or consider yourselves to be a certain way. Now I have to start here. Are you okay with that? Are you okay with Christianity being a learner's religion? If I could put it that way You know, I've been in some churches where the preaching is all about what you've got to do, do, do, and that's good. There are things we need to do, do, do, but you better make sure you know, know, know. And then do do do. And what happens with you and I, I think, is that we just kind of let our eyeballs roll over these pages, and we don't often really ponder and meditate about these things. Things. Do you know what I'm praying for all of us? Paul prays over and over again for spiritual illumination. Spiritual illumination. The natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness unto him. Because they're spiritually discerned. If you're here this morning and you have the Holy Spirit living inside of you because you're a Christian, You should ask God to give, open the eyes of your understanding to understand the scriptures. Study and pray and seek God's wisdom. So, what does he say we have to know? Well, the question that is put forward in verse 1 is, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? The answer to that, certainly not. Now in the King James Version it says God forbid, but the Greek word for God is not really there The phrase means may it never be. It's in a very strong, it's a strong phrase. So they the King James translators translated it, God forbid, because that was kind of a really strong way of saying absolutely not. The New King James tries to capture it with certainly not, I believe the New American standard says, may it never be, but it's the idea of no, no, in the strongest possible way, no. How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? Hmm. I died in my relationship to sin. Something took place where I died to sin, and so I should no longer have a life. In sin. Verse 3: Do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? Now, in the book of Acts, you have people getting saved and they are immediately, almost immediately, baptized. And at our church, we believe baptism, the mode of baptism is immersion. Alright, so every Christian in the Bible was baptized. And we believe the mode is immersion, and I think that that can be demonstrated from the scriptures. I don't think, however, that this, certainly he is writing to Christians who were baptized with water, and they would think back to that, but it is only a picture of what has taken place spiritually. So even if he's referring to water baptism, which I don't think he is, he is referring through that to the spiritual baptism. We've been baptized into Christ. We have been put within him. And so there are certain results of that. Now, water baptism is a picture of what takes place spiritually when we are we become Christians. What is it? Well, here We take the person and they go completely under the water. Why do we do that? Well, if we held them under the water for a long time, what's going to happen to them? They are going to die. It's representative of death, going in, dying with Christ, and then burial. They're in the water for a moment Then they come out and guess what? They're alive. So it's the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Now that's a symbol of what is taking place. You and I, when we become Christians, we are now able to Do certain things that we couldn't do before by virtue of this baptism into Christ. He says here in verse 4: we were buried with him through baptism into death. That just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life For if we have been united together in the likeness of his death, it's not literal. Christians aren't born again and suddenly we physically die and then come back to life. It's it's spiritual, it's in the likeness. of his death, certainly we also shall be in the likeness of his resurrection. Now look at the points that he's making here. Look at your scriptures. And draw, connect the dots here as clearly as you can. Because verse 4, we are buried with him through baptism into death. That just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. If we have been united together in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. The dots are connected this way: there's death. And then there's resurrection. There's death. And then there's new life. A walk of new life. He goes further in verse 6, knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves of sin. For he who has died has been freed from sin. Now, if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more, death no longer has dominion over him. Now, when we look at the translation here in verse 7, freed from sin, this actually is not freed from the mastery of sin. It has to do with like the just we're justified, and so we no longer have to deal with the consequences of our sin because we're a dead man or a dead woman spiritually. So we don't deal with that. But to boil all this down, alright, when Christ died, he died for sin, for the sins of the world. We died as well. There was the old relationship we had with the law. That's over. The old way is gone. We are no longer under condemnation. And we are now walking in a new life. A new way. Old things have passed away, and all things have become new. Now that sounds simple Do you feel that way from day to day? Let's rack up some things here that it doesn't mean. Does this mean that you're no longer tempted to do sin? Yes or no? No, you're still tempted to do sin. James says that. We're tempted when we're drawn out by our own desires. Does this mean that we still, that we no longer have evil desires? No, we still have evil desires. Even though things have changed and become new, there's still something in us that reaches out to temptation. So, what is Paul asking us to do? He's asking us to believe something to be true spiritually, to have taken place when Christ died. That actually goes against some of our experience. He's asking us to have faith In a spiritual reality that is sometimes appears to be in direct contradiction to our day-to-day experience. So folks, what you have to do when you're faced with a temptation is not wait for the desire to subside Or expect that somehow you will no longer be temptable, what you have to do is just believe what you know And it goes like this. You look at something that's big before you and you say, yes, this is the way I feel, but I know that I am dead with Christ. And risen to new life. And as someone who has participated in the resurrection of Christ, I am not required to give in to this sin. I can choose to be dead to this sin. And this is where the idea in verse 11 of that word reckon or consider or count comes in. Likewise, you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now, this can be difficult, can it? The walk of faith. But it is what we as Christians are required to do all the time. How many funerals have you gone to in the last decade of your life? I think here at Faith Bible we've had at least five. And every time I'm at that funeral, at a funeral, or preaching a funeral, or just there, there's a dead person present. And I hear you say, I'm going to see him again. It doesn't look like you're going to see him again. I mean, he's going to go under the ground. He's gone. Literally, as long as you're alive, you're not going to see him again. He's under the dirt. But you believe, in spite of what your senses are telling you, by faith, that this is not the end. That that body will rise from the grave at the last day, the trumpet. That even now he's absent from the body and present with the Lord. So you look with your faith and you believe what the word says, even in contradiction to what you see. That's exactly what's happening here in Romans 6. You have to you feel a certain way, you feel an attraction to a temptation, you think, I'm very alive to this temptation. And yet the word of God says, reckon yourself dead. Count it to be so. Act on what you know. And in doing this, if you look at your Bible, this is what happens in verse 12. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in its lusts. And do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead. and your members as instruments of righteousness to God, for sin shall not have dominion over you. For you are not under law, but under grace. Look at the words again. Verse eleven, reckon yourselves to be dead. Verse 12, do not let sin rain. Verse 13, do not present your members. as instruments of unrighteousness. This is amazing. This is amazing. Yesterday the boys and I were working on something and Phil was with us and we were talking about Actually, I was kind of preaching Adam, sorry guys. I do. This is preacher's disease. We tend to preach our sermons before we preach our sermons. But there was There was an experiment done years ago, a psychological experiment, where they gathered a group of ordinary people, run-of-the-mill ordinary people, put them into a r into this sort of little prison. It wasn't a real prison, it was fake. And they signed half of the people to be prison guards and the other half to be prisoners. And so, in a matter of days, they had to completely discontinue the experiment because the prison guards started abusing the prisoners. In ways that, you know, whatever, calling them names, getting physical, wanting to beat them up, that kind of thing. And days before they were like grocers, you know, people that worked at grocery stores. There was no The prison guards were not rich, evil people. I mean, now rich being rich does not mean you're evil. But what I mean is they weren't particularly more evil than the other people. But putting them into that situation completely perverted their souls. That's really sad, isn't it? But you put a Christian into that situation, the Spirit of God lives in him. And he has the ability to reckon himself dead to his sinful impulses. And so I was telling them I read an article in World Magazine recently about a Cuban man. Who was in prison during the days of Fidel Castro, decades in prison. And he said when he first got there, they were executing Christians almost weekly or nightly. And he knew because in his cell he could hear two things. He could hear the pr the Christians shouting, Long live King Jesus, long live King Jesus. And then the And then there was silence. Here are these poor people in a Christians and they're in prison and they have the ability to face the end of a gun barrel and say, Long live King Jesus. And then you have these other poor guys and you put them in a room for three days and they start wanting to beat each other up. Folks, we're Christians. The power of sin is broken in our lives. We're united to Christ. If we know what we know, we can reckon on it, count it to be true, and break the reign of sin. Now I'm not preaching sinless perfection. This is a process, the process of sanctification. But it is here, and it is amazing. Because there is the dominion of sin that's broken, the reign of sin that's broken, and in verse 14, the end of that verse, He ties it back in with this overall argument, even all the way back to justification, because he says you are not under law, but under grace. The idea being, as we work, To be consistent in reckoning on our union with Christ, there will be those moments of failure. We will fail. But we're not back under the law, because all the law can say to us is, you failed. Therefore you are condemned. We're not under that process anymore. We fled to Christ. And so now when we fail, a righteous man falls down seven times and gets back up because he's allowed to. Because he is in Christ. And he's been forgiven, washed in the blood of the Lamb. 1 John 1:9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just. Those two words imply justice, not mercy. Because God looks at the cross, and if he didn't forgive you and me, it would be unjust to Jesus. Because Jesus paid the penalty, it's finished, and so he promises to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We are not under law, but under grace. This passage should be locked with you in a room for days to understand it. Let me give you another reason why I believe it's so important for you and me. Because it was attacked constantly. Let me give you an example. I've mentioned this before. Maybe we don't need to turn. Well, let's turn there. Turn to Colossians. Turn to Colossians. Look at Colossians chapter two, verse eleven. In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. Buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead, and you, being dead in your trespasses and uncircumcision of your flesh, He is made alive together with him, having forgiven you all your trespasses, having bl wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having mailed it. Now that sounds very similar to Romans 6. It is statements of application he's making in a different context. He's talking about union with Christ, but he's applying it to the Colossian situation. What was their situation? They were legalists and mystics, and I always have a problem mispronouncing it, but they would mistreat their body ascetics. Am I pronouncing that right? Ascetics. Trying to. They were looking to visions and dreams as a means of sanctification and completion They were looking to legalism, holidays, holy days, and certain diets to be closer to God and to denying themselves, self-denial, in order to be closer to God. And so Paul says things like this. Look at Colossians 2. 23. These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom in self-imposed religion, false humility, and neglect of the body. But are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. So even though they look good, Christians in Colossae, they will be of no value of you if you want to overcome your sinful tendencies. Let me give you some kind of humorous modern illustrations of this, alright? If you could bear with me. A lot of our Christian schools have demerit systems. And oddly enough, for I think a year my parents tried to do a demerit system at home, but it failed utterly. What would happen if you took the demerit system in a Christian college to the extreme and you actually started to think That if I can give someone enough demerits, they'll finally be a godly person. What if we took that to the extreme? So you can imagine, you know, do you realize the kind of things you can get demerit? By the way, I'm not saying all demerits are wrong, okay? But they are definitely not a way to become a more godly Christian. Let's say that uh you get a demerit because you didn't sweep the floor. Wow, I got I got a demerit. Well, I didn't get a demerit, I got a demerit because I didn't clean my mirror in my dorm room. That's bad And then I got a demerit because I skipped a class. Actually, you get five demerits for that. I mean, if you go through a whole month and you start racking up demerits, you get 50, 60 demerits. And every Christian college I know of has a certain limit. And what happens when you reach that limit? That's a kicking them out of school. That's it. You can't stay here. You've reached the limit. So all the demerit system can really do is identify you as a lawbreaker and kick you out when you finally reach your limit. It's not really effective for making someone a godly person in and of itself, is it? But now, but what about rules? Can we make enough rules to get people to become godly? Think of this for a second. You know, uh there was it was a rumor at my Bible college that there there was a rule that during finals week you couldn't play board games. And I actually met the person who was the one who was at fault for creating that rule. It was 20 years ago. She was in her room on finals week. Her and her friends were all playing Parchezi and Monopoly, having a great time, and in walks the RA. Hey, what are you doing? It's finals week. You should be studying. And it was true. They had already studied They were ready for their finals, okay? It really was true, she told me. And they said that. We're ready for our finals. And she said, you you shouldn't be playing games during finals week. Put those games away. And he said, there's no rule we can't play these games. Bad thing to say. It was the next school year. They opened the rule book up, and there it is. During finals week, no board games. Everyone is expected to study. But what if you take that to an extreme, okay? What if, well, do you realize that we're really we have a lot of problems? Do you realize that when you speak, you could actually say things that are wrong? Do you realize that? So I really think a good rule would be, let's make sure that we stop speaking. Because speech could end up in sin. And we all speak, and even James said the tongue is set on fire, you know, so let's just stop speaking. That's really bad. Let's just stop. And do you realize that sometimes your feet take you places you shouldn't go? I recommend that we stop walking. It's really not advantageous to sell. I mean, well, you could walk somewhere. You're not supposed to go. And worse than that, I mean it can get worse. I mean, I should write the president and say, look, our eyes, whoo, man, we do a lot of sinning with our eyes. You should blindfold your students Make sure each one is is given a special blindfold, make it extra thick. So do you realize that if you could just keep piling the rules on, I mean, all right, let's make sure the rule book would be as thick as the Pharisees. Traditional rules that they added on top of the Bible. And in the second century of the church, there were many monks Who thought this way, and so they went out in the desert and they didn't speak. They took vows of silence, and they didn't go around Ladies, because they didn't want to be tempted in that way, and they just lived out there, and they thought that that would make them more holy. The Colossian Christians started to believe this. Do you believe that? Now, understand, I'm not saying that having Christian standards is wrong or that having a rule is wrong. But to think that a rule will in and of itself, if you pile on enough personal rules, that will change your heart, that that can actually replace your union with Christ. It won't work. It has a fair show in the flesh, self-imposed religion, false humility, neglect of the body, but it's of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. Back to Romans 6. And so in Romans 6, your hope and my hope is that when we were born again, something happened, right? God changed us. We died with Christ. We are risen with Christ. And so now sin does not have to dominate our lives. Where does this lead us then? Let me try to wrap this up. It leads us to constantly remembering the cross. It leads Christians back to the gospel every day. You know what? A couple years ago I realized that I should not call A Sunday school class back to the basics. Because the gospel is like it's like a tapestry. The New Testament is like a tapestry where the gold thread of the gospel is in every single letter. All the books. And the applications that are made are all go back to Christ, his sufficiency, the fact that we're complete in him, the cross, the finished work. They're constantly pointing us back to that. the apostles and the writers of the New Testament. This is not the basics. This is our life. Without this, we have nothing. And so we do well to hike through Romans 6 and to just peer at this and think about what we have in Christ. Christ. Folks, I began the sermon by asking if if someone had ever told you whether they love you And we looked at Romans 5 and about the fact of how God demonstrates his own love toward us. He loved us and he united us with his Son eternally. That is who you are if you're here today as a born-again Christian