Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the privilege of being here this morning. We stand in a long line of godly men and women, and we recognize that your truth abideth still and your kingdom is forever. We face a real adversary, that adversary who has been there since Genesis 3 in this world. And We we cannot we cannot overcome him. Only one word can overcome him, and that word above all earthly powers abides, and that name is Jesus Christ. Thank you for the privilege of gathering and giving us hearts to want to hear your word. Pray for your spirit's illumination of the word. And conviction of sin, I pray that we would rejoice in your salvation, that we would overflow with joy and with gratitude for what you have done for us. And that it would just increase our love for you more. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Some of you were in Sunday school this morning and we had the chance to do a brief overview of the Reformation. And just to set the stage, that the reason that uh we were talking about the Reformation today, some of you may be familiar with that term, some may not. Just want to give a brief review of Sunday school because I know not everyone was there. Um but the reason that we're talking about justification by faith today And as was mentioned, these five solas, or that's a Latin word for the word alone or only. Some people call them the five only, so that's easier for you to remember. You're welcome to use that word. I may try to refer to them that way myself this morning. But the reason we're doing that is because on Tuesday there was something that happened and it wasn't Halloween. Not for anybody that really cares about really what really matters It was the 500th anniversary of an Augustinian monk named Martin Luther who nailed a piece of paper to some doors in Wittenberg, in Germany, and accidentally set off the Reformation. I had a professor in seminary who once said the gospel is the power of God to salvation. The word there is dunamis, from which we get the word dynamite. Now that's not what the Bible means. It doesn't mean the Bible is the word the gospel is dynamite. But my professor once said, he said that any idiot can set himself off with iron mic and blow himself up. And so when you have the gospel, you have a powerful weapon, even if you don't know it. And so Luther did not intend to start a reformation. He was just looking for the truth. And when he found it, it set the world on fire, and that fire has not gone out We're still enjoying the benefits of that reformation today. But to better appreciate what it was that he discovered, or I should say rediscovered, we want to talk about that this morning. In the Reformation, the truth that had been buried under years of tradition, under years of false teaching, was rediscovered. And we know anytime that truth is revealed or understood, it's through the power of God. None of us can come to an understanding of the truth by ourselves. The Holy Spirit illuminates our minds in understanding to the truth. It says a natural man does not receive the things of God because they are foolishness to him. And we were all natural men and women at one time until the light shone through. And so we're grateful for God shining the light into our hearts. But in that reformation, this time of enlightenment came, this time of awakening to the truth came and was restored. Today we talk about justification. We're going to look at what is justification? Where does it come from? Why does it matter? How are we justified? Sometimes the Bible uses big words. And we don't like big words. We like little words. We don't like to think. But if we don't use our minds, we're not obeying God. Because he said to love him with what? To love him with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind, and with all of our strength. So we can't engage God just on the level of emotion. There has to be mind. There has to be understanding. And while some things are harder to understand than others. We owe it to God to give him all the power of our human faculty to understand what he has said, what he's taught us about himself. Justification, then. What is it? The Bible gives us some information, and we'll look at that briefly. But there are some explanations, there's some understandings, there's some modifiers. That were sort of rediscovered during the Reformation, that are referred to as these five solas. And in your bulletin, you'll have a handout. I kind of developed this. This isn't high-tech graphics. That's not my gift. But you'll see how these these solas or these only's relate to our justification and our standing before God. Now the reformers, they did not use these words in a systematic way. You wouldn't you couldn't open up the writings of Martin Luther and find these words into chapter six or something. But as people look back in time and they say, well what what was it? What are the essentials of the Reformation? What are the key things that we can look back to? What was rediscovered? These five only's were part of that rediscovery that was that was brought to bear in the Reformation. If you look at that, look at the bottom, you read this from the bottom up. The foundation is scripture alone. All of our truth and understanding about salvation. We get from the Bible. We don't look anywhere else. We don't look at personal experience. We don't look the church treat teaching or tradition. We look to the scriptures alone. That was one of the ones that you'll find, sola scriptura, you'll find that written in many of the reformers' writings. They'll refer to scripture alone, and that was the battle cry, going back to the scriptures for the truth. But then our salvation is accomplished through three different of these soulas. It's through grace alone. God initiates it, God completes it. It's through the process of God's grace. It's nothing that we earn It's through Christ alone. He is the basis of our salvation. His righteousness is the ground on which our salvation rests. Our justification rests. And then it's through faith alone. Faith is the channel. But then it all points up to the top to the glory of God alone. The Latin for that is Soli Deo Gloria. Any of you that are musicians or are interested in music, if you look at some of the original compositions of George Frederick Handel or of Johann, Sebastian, and Bach, you'll see SDG at the bottom of their compositions. Soli Deo Gloria, to the glory of God alone. That's a direct fruit and root of the ref that came from the Reformation. Bach and Luther didn't live in the same time period, but they lived in some of the same cities. And the connection between the two men was somewhat significant. So that that's sort of an overview of these solas, of these only's. But I want to get into the actual, and they'll show up throughout our study. The main topic then is justification, justification. We say justification by faith, but that's that's sort of shorthand. That's an abbreviation, because justification isn't just by faith. But there's different causes and they all have their place. Because our justification doesn't rest on faith. God doesn't look at our faith and say, that's all I need is you to believe. There's got to be some substance, and the substance is what Christ accomplished on the cross. And so we'll try to see how these things fit together as we go. But first off, what does it mean to be justified? What does it mean to be justified? That's not a word that we use a lot, other than someone trying to justify their actions. But what does it mean? How you define this word is profound. It will affect your view of salvation, it will affect your view of God, and it may determine your eternal destiny. How you understand what it is to be justified. We frequently use the word justified as a synonym for salvation. I was justified, I was saved. But they're not equivalent synonyms. Salvation rests on justification, but salvation is not exactly the same as justification Where do we go to the answer? We want an answer. Where do we go? We go to scripture alone. And that's where the first one of these comes in. We want an answer to something in life. We go to the scriptures. It's scripture alone. That's where we go. Paul says in 2 Timothy 3. 16 that the Word of God is powerful and effective for accomplishing all we need for life and for godliness. Everything we need. Scripture is sufficient. The church had lost that. The church had gone to what what's our what's our tradition say? What's the church always done for these hundreds of years? The church would rely on what the church had said and done for these years rather than going back to the scriptures. And it was only as the scriptures were rediscovered and their authority was recognized again. That people began to see the light of the gospel shining through. And we may think, well, that's yeah, it's simple to believe in scripture learning. Why would you go anywhere else? And yet, the temptations that affected these Middle Ages, these dark ages, they are sins that plague us today. Because when you have a problem with your marriage, with your children, With your finances? Do you instantly think to go to the scriptures first? You walk to many Christian bookstores, they have sections for different self-help topics But the areas of biblical studies and of theology are often back in the corner somewhere, and they don't have a lot of information in them. And so it's sad that we say scripture alone, but often it's not scripture alone that we practice. We want to check the Bible verse. We do refer to the Bible, and I'm not saying we don't. But somehow, sometimes our dependence on the truth of Scripture alone for every problem we face in life. Sometimes it's harder to believe that. Especially when Scripture disagrees with what I think I've experienced personally. Because Scripture may say, this is true, or this is false, or this is right, and this is wrong. And I may say, well, it doesn't feel wrong. It doesn't feel wrong for me to do this. You may meet someone on the street who says, I don't feel like I'm in trouble with God And so there's always a tendency and a danger that we have to guard against. It's not just church tradition we need to guard against, but personal experience as well, something we have to be very careful of. Are we going back to Scripture alone for our answers? To the solutions for the problems we face in life. The reformers did, and they gave us that legacy. We have to be careful that we don't let it go. What does the term mean then? I said it's not a synonym for salvation. It's something different, something more than that, something separate from salvation. Although the terms, we get the same general idea, but if we want to be precise, we have to define the term. And this is a great distinction between Rome and the Reformers. Rome would define it one way, the Reformers defined it a different way, which we believe is a biblical way. And so the question is, what does it mean? It's a legal term. As soon as we start talking about legal terms, most of us probably start to. That's not my apartment I was recently called for jury duty. I, you know, honestly, I'd never given much thought to our judicial system. I don't do bad things, and so I don't end up with dealing with the judicial system very often. I've never dealt with it before. Never gotten a speeding ticket. I probably should have. I know I should have. I've never gotten one. So I've never dealt with any sort of judicial system before until I was in that courtroom back in September. And suddenly the judicial system took on a whole new meaning and interest to me. And I saw how important it was that justice be carried out and that people be innocent until proven guilty. We had a case where It turned out to be one man's word against his stepdaughter's word, and he could have gone to prison if he was found guilty. But we just felt that although he may have been guilty, there wasn't enough evidence to convict him. And God, who says on the testimony of two or three witnesses, someone should be condemned, God would rather have an innocent person set free. Than have a guilty person, or would rather have a guilty person set free than to have an innocent person punished. And so the judicial system is important, even if we think it's not. You ask any criminal if the judicial system is important, they don't think it is until they're arrested, and all of a sudden they realize it's very important. But so the the word justify is a judicial term. And it's very important to us because one day See, we understand, we know God's a judge, right? Everybody understands the concept of God being a judge. That's a judicial term. Has something to do with the judging system. That's what judicial is referring to is the judging system. But let's turn to Deuteronomy 25 to get an idea for what it what it means to justify. Deuteronomy 25 is talking about the law of Moses, laws that the people were receiving before they went into the promised land. And so there's not necessarily a direct correlation to what's being said in Deuteronomy 25 and our situation before God. But it does help us to define and describe what the idea of the word justify means. In Deuteronomy 25, I'll read verses 1 and 2, but really verse 1 is the crucial part. If there is a dispute between men and they come to court, that the judges may judge them, and they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked. Then it shall be, if the wicked man deserves to be beaten, that the judge will cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence with a certain number of blows. And he goes on But look there in verse 25 what it says. The judges judge between two men. They justify the righteous and condemn the wicked. What are they doing there to the righteous person? The righteous person is righteous. He's the right one. And the judges are justifying him. Are the judges making the righteous persons righteous? They're just declaring that he is. Here's what he claims, here are the facts, and we acknowledge he's not he's done no wrong, he's been justified. And so the idea of justifying is to declare someone to be righteous. Typically, a righteous person is the one who's declared righteous. And that is what we're getting at. Now Cyrone believes that when we talk about justifying, that it's being made righteous, or being righteousness being put inside of us. But that's not what the Bible's talking about. The Bible's talking about being declared righteous, being seen by the judge as innocent. If you think about this for a minute, you'll start to see that we, as sinners, have a problem. Because we, to be accepted with God, need to be justified. But we are wicked. How's God going to justify a wicked person? Because it's not being made righteous. It's being declared to be righteous. How is God going to take someone like me? Born in sin and iniquity, born with original sin and plenty of sins I've committed, how is God going to look at me and say, innocent? That's a serious problem. And this is the problem that Luther dealt with. How could God justify the ungodly? How can this be? This is a serious problem. This is not something we can easily overlook. See, we have this idea that justify means to be forgiven, and we just say, well, forgive and forget. God just forgives our sin. But you see, we have a debt that we paid to God. We stole God's glory. We all fall short of God's glory. We have stolen God's glory, and that debt's got to be paid back. God, if he is just, he can't call a wicked person just or righteous. So we have a problem. We're in trouble with God. And this is why this we we may not be aware of how important this fact is, but this is why the Reformation was so important. It became an argument and a discussion. How can I, a wicked person, stand in God's presence and have him say to me, you are righteous? This is the question of the ages, really. This is the question that everybody shouldn't be asking, how do I pay my bills? How do I get my action through Congress? The question every single person in this world should be asking is, how can I, a wicked person, be just before God? See, a lot of us we don't recognize our sinfulness, and so part of it is well it's not so hard for God to declare me to be righteous. Because I'm not so bad. But when we really consider our sin, we recognize that we are wicked before God. And we've got a problem to deal with. You think back to Isaiah chapter 6, Isaiah a prophet. I think that Isaiah 6, although it's in chapter 6, I think it's actually the calling of Isaiah. I think it's his initial call to the ministry. But he stands there as someone that God's about to call as a prophet, so probably not someone who's in rank sin. And yet when he sees the Lord high and lifted up, and the pillars of the temple, the doorposts shaking, Isaiah says, Woe is me, for I am undone. For I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for I have seen the Lord, the Lord of glory. Isaiah the prophet is undone at the majesty and the holiness of God. Until we see ourselves as undone and broken before God as sinful sinners, justification is not even a question we're asking. But once we do, it becomes the question that's most important. John Newton, in his song Amazing Grace, he says, it was grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. We'll be talking about salvation by grace alone in a moment. But you see that slipping in. God's grace gave John Newton, the ability to see his sin. He wouldn't have feared God if it hadn't been for the grace to see his sin. But once he trembled in fear before his God because of his sin, then God said, Oh yes, but I have a solution. Then the same grace that caused him to fear then relieved his fear by saying, I've got an answer to your problem. And that's what the reformists discovered. So the answer then is going back to the scriptures. What do the scriptures say about being justified? Luther was aware of this. Turn to Galatians chapter 1. I listened to a sermon this week, and the guy was preaching said that this sir this passage from Galatians, he believes, gave Luther the steel backbone that he needed to stand up to people who could easily have executed him. And to say, here I stand. And this is in Galatians 1, reading verses 6 to 9. Paul says, I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel. Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we, me, Paul, even if I or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we preached, To you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again: if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed. Or let him be sent to hell. Let him be damned That's what Paul is saying about himself. If I come to you with a gospel other than what I've already preached to you as direct revelation from God, if anybody comes to you with now this would be hard. An angel comes down, this 12-foot angel comes, stands next to me and says, Paul got it wrong. We'd be very prone to think Maybe Paul did get wrong. Here's this big angel telling me that Paul got it wrong. But Paul says, even if an angel from heaven comes and says something other than what's written in the pages of Scripture, let him be damned, let him be sent to hell. This is what gave Luther the confidence. He said, here I stand before these people who could have executed him. He said, My conscience is held captive to the Word of God. I cannot go against the Word of God of my conscience. And so that the solution then is in the Word of God. Scripture alone is the answer that we look to. But then I briefly mentioned earlier, turn to Proverbs 17. I mentioned earlier that we have this problem. God declaring the guilty to be just. What's the problem? This is just a proverb, just a collection of Solomon's writings. But it highlights this problem that we as wicked sinners face before a holy God. In Proverbs 17 and verse 15, we read this: He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the just, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord. He who justifies the wicked, he who condemns the just, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord Now see if you're reading the word justify is in make righteous or as in forgive, and that's why we have to be precise with our words, it's not being saved specifically. It's being declared righteous. So God says it's an abomination to me for you to look at someone that you know is guilty and declare them just or righteous or innocent. We would do the same thing. A drunk driver comes, he's proven to have been driving the car that kills one of our family members. The judge knows he's guilty and says, You're declared innocent, you may go. The justice that's inbred in us because we are made in God's image knows that it's wrong for the wicked to be declared righteous. We know it's wrong, and we don't want it, unless we're the ones who are wicked. And don't want what's coming to us. And that's what Luther felt. He feared the justice and the punishment of God. And he he I'm sure he read this verse and said: He who justifies the wicked, he who declares the wicked to be righteous and just. Is an abomination to the Lord. So God is on the horns of this dilemma. If God is going to save us, he has to declare us righteous. And yet we are not righteous. So what happens? What's the answer? What's the solution? How can we become righteous? How can God forgive and declare to be innocent someone he knows is not innocent? This is where we get into that center of the diamond that's on your your outline there How can the unjust, wicked person, you and me, how can we be declared not guilty before a holy God? We can look first at grace alone. By grace alone are we justified? Through the kindness and savior. Turn to Titus 3. It is by grace that we are justified. Each one of these can be truly said to be alone because they are alone in a specific way in relationship to the idea of justification. Titus chapter three Titus 3, we'll start in verse 4. But when the kindness and the love of God our Savior toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. That having been justified by His grace, We should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. But where did it start? It started in verse 4, when the kindness and the love of God our Savior appeared. It began with God. Our salvation begins with God. If there's to be any hope of the unjust being justified, being declared to be righteous, it has to begin with God. Because the unjust cannot work himself out of this pit that he's dug. We cannot work ourselves out of the debt that we owe. We are too far down. There's nothing we can do. We can't wipe out the stain of sin. We can't erase history and go back in time. Once we are wicked, we are wicked, and there's no way out that we can we can get out by ourselves. Salvation, justification, begins by grace alone through God, and it continues all the way to the end through grace alone. We sing this song. The phrase in the song, Not the labors of my hands could fulfill thy law's demands. On Christ the solid rock I stand. There's nothing I can do. I cannot earn any favor with God. He cannot, if he if he sees my works, he can't look past all my past works. And he knows that the works that I do in unbelief are not done out of holiness to God, but only out of benefit to me. There's nothing in this that are good. If you look at Hebrews 6. 1, I'll just reference this, it won't turn there. But the writer there says one of the foundations of the Christian faith is leaving behind the repentance from dead works. When we come to Christ, we learn that we have to repent from dead works, because that's what our works are, until we come to salvation, until we come to God declaring us to be just and righteous. And if you think about it throughout the Bible, God is always the initiator, God is always the seeker. Adam sins. What's Adam do? Looks for God? Looks for salvation? Adam hides. God comes looking for Adam. Paul the persecutor, he's out the crow Christians. He's not looking for God. What does God do? Paul, why are you persecuting me? The light shines from heaven What does Jesus say? I came to seek and to save those who are lost. Salvation begins in the heart of God, in grace, looking for a sinner who's not looking for him. He devised the plan. If you read Revelation 13. 8, it says, it speaks about the lamb who was slain from the foundation of the world. The solution to our problem, our sin problem. Was devised by God even before there was a world of sin to be died for, to be slain for. But there's a constant tenden tendency for us to slip back into this idea that our salvation somehow rests on our works and not on grace. Have you ever had this situation Maybe you're not a teacher, but maybe you have an obligation. I think about this because I teach. I'm on my way to church. Kids are messing around in the backseat to get angry at the kids. Now I have to stand out in front of church. And preach or teach, and my conscience is guilty. What do I do? I feel like I have to do something, I have to do a few good things before God can be pleased with me again. And your situation may not be teaching or preaching, but it may be some other thing where you feel like, I know I did this sin against God. And it was a really bad sin. And before I can feel kind of close to God again, I have to do some good things. It's a tendency that we face, even if we don't believe in penance. It's a tendency that we as fallen people feel that we have to earn some favor with God. Even after we're Christians, it's a tendency that comes back. It's a temptation that comes back. We have a trouble believing that it's all of grace. It's all initiated by and accomplished by God. Salvation is by grace alone. But it's not just grace alone. It's not just grace, God saying, I'm a big hearted God, I'll forgive you. There has to be some way of dealing with the problem that we have. And that's where we read about Christ alone. Turn to Romans chapter 5. Salvation is initiated by God, the foundation, the fountain of salvation, of justification. I see I sleep back in myself defining salvation and justification is the same thing. The foundation, the source of justification is grace. Justified by grace, Paul says in Titus, but also justified by Christ alone. There has to be some way of dealing with this debt of stolen glory that we owe to God, the stain of sin. Let's read Romans 5, verses 6 through 10. For when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood. We shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. So we see the ground of our salvation, the ground of our justification, the ground of our acceptance with God is the blood of Christ. So you have some confusion. I think we have confusion when we speak about justification by faith without really thinking about it. We think that somehow our faith is the reason God saved us. We'll get to sola fide, salvation, or faith only in a moment. But our faith is not the ground of our salvation, our justification, our acceptance of God. The death of Christ is the righteousness of Christ, that is the ground. That is the thing that fills that hole. That fills this pit of debt that we owe to God. The ground of our justification is the death and righteousness of Christ. Not only did Christ die to take the punishment for our sin, Christ lived that perfect life that we didn't live. And that perfect righteousness, that debt that we owed of wickedness, has been filled up by the righteousness of Christ. The word there is imputation. Crediting something to someone's account. There's a lot to pack into this morning, and I can't take as much time as I'd like to. But if you have a chance to read the book of Philemon sometime, it's only a few verses. Paul says to Philippi, to Philemon, whose slave Anesimus has escaped from Philip. From Philemon and run and come to become a Christian actually with Paul there in Rome. Paul says to Philemon, he says, I really like it if you let Philemon or Onesimus stay here because he's useful to me. But if he owes you anything, put that on my account. If he stole anything from you or he owes you anything, charge that to me, and I'll pay it And that's a good illustration of what justification is. Jesus says, I have this righteousness. I earned favor with God. I lived 33 some years on this earth. I kept the law perfectly. You see, we can't be justified by the law because we can't keep the law. Jesus could be justified by the law because he kept the law, because again, justifying is not being made righteous, it's being declared righteous. But the law of God, measured against the life of Christ, the law of God would judge Christ just or righteous, because he kept the whole thing. And so all the failures that we have as people, all the deficiencies that we have. Are filled up by the righteousness of Christ. Theologians refer to that as the act of righteousness of Christ. He was earning righteousness that he could credit to our account because he was already perfect in his nature. And as he lived that life, he had righteousness. And he was lived a righteous life that he was able to impute to our account. He doesn't make us righteous, he declares us to be righteous because his righteousness is put on our account. And the New Testament says, our wickedness is put on his account. He became sin, who did not know sin, that we might become the righteousness of Christ. There's another big word we won't get into today, and that's sanctification. And that is the process whereby we do start to become righteous after we are justified. But the justifying part, the declared righteous part, comes at the moment of conversion. Sanctification begins at the moment of conversion, being made renewed, being made new again in the image of Christ. That's a process That will continue throughout our lives until we are glorified, and then that righteousness does become part of who we are. But until that time, we are, this contradiction of terms, we are sinners who are just. The righteousness of Christ is put to our account. God now looks at us, not at the corruption that's in us, that's been washed and cleansed, but the righteousness of Christ has been put to our account. And so Luther would say that I won't use a Latin because I can't remember it, but it's basically we are both sinner and just at the same time. We're both sinner and just at the same time. We are justified sinners. See, I always understood that to mean justified sinners mean I'm a forgiven sinner. That means I am a sinner who's been looked at by God as completely as if I'd not sinned. My sin is completely covered. And put to Christ's account. Any sin I commit before salvation, after salvation, it's put on Christ's account. That's why I can feel guilty, even though I know I'm saved. Because I'm still committing sin. And I still feel the guilt. But all that guilt now gets put over on Christ's category and taken from my category. And so that's sometimes maybe why we struggle with our assurance of salvation, is because we know that we're still sinners and we can still feel that. But God looks at us as just because the righteousness from Christ has been put on our account, our sin has been put on his account. But that's only true if we look at the third sola or alone, the fourth, but in the third in this category, and that is by faith alone. How is it that this righteousness of Christ comes to us? How is it that I, a sinner, why is it that the people out there that aren't coming to church because they don't love the Lord? Why is it that they are sinners and I'm a sinner, but I'm justified and they're not? It's because of faith. It's because through faith alone, and faith really is the channel. It's the connection point to the righteousness of Christ. That makes me a wicked sinner able to stand before God in his presence and be just. And we can look briefly there at Romans chapter 3. Just a few pages over from where you were. Again, this is a massive thing to accomplish. We joked in Sunday school this morning about trying to cover a thousand years of church history in 45 minutes. This is much more difficult. than covering that much period of time because there's so much so many nuances, so many things to say that I feel like we're hardly doing justice to any of these verses. But yet there's a time in which we need to step back and try to get the picture get the whole picture. So reading then in Romans chapter 3, starting in verse 21. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe. For there is no difference. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth as a propitiation or satisfaction. By his blood, through faith, to demonstrate his righteousness, because in his forbearance God passed over the sins that were previously committed, to demonstrate at the present time his righteousness. That he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So all through that we see that faith, it's by faith that we receive this justification. This justification comes on all who believe. Without belief, there is no justification. Without belief in that. And yet, so we say justification by faith alone. But is it my faith that saves me? Well, yes and no. Yes, faith saves me by being the channel through which his justification is given to me, but is there anything in my faith that can save me? I can think of the analogy of a drowning man. Is his cry for help that which saves him? If he cried and there was no one to pull him out of the water, would he live? His cry doesn't accomplish anything other than to recognize I need help. And that's what our faith is It's a cry, say God, there's nothing that I can, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. There's nothing I can do to earn your favor, to earn your satisfaction for the debt that I owe. I'm wicked and I cannot take away my wickedness. All I can cry out is, God, be merciful to me a sinner. If you have time this afternoon, look back at Luke chapter 18. Where you'll read about the tax collector and the and the Pharisee when they go to the temple. And the Pharisee makes all these boosts about all these works that he's done. And the public and the tax collector, he just beeped on his breast and says, God, be merciful to me as sinner. I've got nothing to offer you, and I want to be accepted by you, and I'm in danger of your judgment. Just be merciful to me as sinner. And Jesus says that man went back to his house justified rather than the Pharisee. That man didn't become righteous, but God says that is what he needs for that righteousness of Christ to be given to him. The channel, the conductive place, the hose that brings the water, faith is the delivery system for the justification of God. The whole Bible talks about this. Paul will say in Romans 4 that going back to Abraham, it was through Abraham that we first learn about just being justified by faith. It was through Abraham that that principle was taught. Before Abraham was circumcised, before he did anything good, he was just a pagan living in Ur. God called him out of Ur. He believed God. And God declared him righteous because of his faith. But it wasn't his faith that was the ground of his justification. His faith was just the source, the conductive source of his justification. And so sometimes, and I think this is a mistake I've made in the past, I think, yes, I'm justified by faith. It's not my faith in and of itself that saves me. It's only my faith as it relies on the righteousness of Christ that I am saved. That I am righteous and stand righteous before God. So we saw, we go to the scripture alone for the information. What does it mean to be justified? How are we justified? We look at the process by grace alone, initiated by God, through the righteousness of Christ alone, delivered to us through faith alone But that last only, that last soul of the Reformation at the top of your diagram there is Soli Deo Gloria, to the glory of God alone. That is the purpose of this type of salvation, this plan of salvation. One more passage in Romans to read, and that's in Romans 11. If you know the vision of the book of Romans a little bit, you'll know that Romans 1 through 11 is Paul's doctrinal portion. By and large, in Romans 12 through 16 is his practical portion. Romans 1 through 11, Paul has been talking about justification by faith. Justification initiated by God, accomplished through Jesus. All the world stands guilty before God. How can we escape? He takes many chapters to explain this process. And then at the very end, having considered the mystery of God, that God could put all this together. He says this in Romans 11 at the very end. Verse 33. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him, and it shall be repaid to him? For of him, and through him, and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. Amen. Paul can do nothing but just praise God as he's considered. I think his mind was smoking a little bit. It was burning, trying to consider how does God do all this? Because we looked at Proverbs and it says, God says it's an abomination to call the wicked righteous. And yet God did that. Because we read in Romans 3. That through death, the death of Christ, through the imputation of his righteousness to us, God can be both just and the justifier of the ungodly, the one who has faith in Jesus. God solved the solution of how he cannot be an abomination to himself by declaring the wicked to be righteous. He solved that dilemma by sending Christ the perfect sacrifice to be the righteous one and have all that righteousness of Christ put on our account So now he can look at us not as we are on ourselves, but as the righteousness of Christ is put on our account accredited to us. And when Paul sees Something he could not have come up with, something he could not have imagined. He said, I would of all people, I was the best Pharisee that was out there. Luther would have been and said, I was the best monk that was out there. And yet I felt the weight of sin before God because I knew in my heart I wasn't getting rid of the sin. I was just doing works on the outside. I couldn't fix the inside problem. But when I saw the answer to my problem, I said, Oh God. Luther described it as the gates of paradise being opened to him. He felt that heaven had come to earth. I'm not sure where it is, but it's somewhere in Luther's writings. He said it produced in him a stand on your head kind of joy. A man who had beaten himself up for years because he was trying to find favor with God. All of a sudden, he's figuratively, or maybe literally, standing on his head for joy. He is so happy. That God could find a solution to this. The weight and the pressure of trying to please God through his works was taken away. There was no more effort. He realized his effort was futile anyway. And all the oppression, all the burden of sin, all the weight of God's wrath and judgment was lifted and taken away. All through the simple act of faith in Christ. Faith in what Christ had accomplished. Any other system of salvation would bring some sort of credit to someone other than God. Rome's system brings glory to the saints and to Mary. You know how much the saints and Mary are venerated in Catholicism. Second only to God, and sometimes almost on a level with Christ are the saints and Mary. So if there's any sense in which the saints had an extra righteousness that they had left over that they credit to our account, which is the view, then Some of the glory doesn't go to God, it goes to the saints or to Mary. Or if there was to be justification through works, that if we could do enough works to be pleasing to God. And to take away our guilt, then the glory would go to the one who did the works. And we'd always be wondering, as Luther did, have I done enough works? How do I know if I'm justified? How do I know if I'm pleasing to God Have I done enough? But see, in God's system, justification is a once and done deal. Once you are justified, you're not any more justified than you were the day you were saved You're not any less justified, and you can't have your justification taken away. This puts a a nail in the coffin of anyone who thinks that salvation can be lost. Because once God justifies, once God says not guilty, He can't go back on that because his declar declaration of not guilty wasn't based on anything we did. It was based on what Christ did. And you'll read that in in Romans chapter 8, he says, Who can bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Once God says not guilty, no matter what Satan says or what my conscience says, God says not guilty, there's no arguing with God's declaration. God says you're not guilty because of faith in what Christ has done. There's no argumentation. No matter how guilty you feel, if your faith is in what Christ has done, God sees you as not guilty. That takes away so much discouragement. He loves me as a sinner. He loved me when I was still a sinner and an enemy with him. Once I'm adopted as a child, of course he loves me. Not because he has to, but because he has loved and he has chosen to. So this whole system, these five aspects of salvation, as identified or recovered in the Reformation. We see an attribute to the glory of God alone. And I trust as we look at this, this should lead us to humility because it had nothing to do with us. You ask yourself, why are you a Christian and your neighbor isn't? Because you were smarter? Because you were better? Because you decided to believe? What is that makes you better? What is it that makes you a Christian and someone else? It's all the grace of God. It's God who initiates it, God who brings it to completion. It all depends on Him and Him alone. It should lead us to rest in the confidence. God, I never could do enough to please you. I can't please you now. I'm not trying to please you. You've declared me to be righteous. I'm your child. I want to live to please you. And when I sin, that sin's already covered. And it should lead us to gratitude. Gratitude for a God who's looking for lost sinners and saving them. And yet, when I look at my life, and I know I'm not humble. And I know I don't I'm not grateful enough for what God has done. I recognize that those are sins. I'm not humble. I should be humble because of what Christ did for me to save me. I should be so grateful. I should be full of joy, and I'm not. And it discourages me because I see the sin in my life. And then I remember, oh wait. Undeclared righteous. Even that sin of ingratitude, even that sin of lack of humility, God says it's covered. The righteousness of God, of Christ, has covered it all and taken it all away. So, uh a flyover of these five only's of the Reformation. How are we justified? We look to the answer in Scripture. We depend on grace alone, in the work of Christ alone, delivered through faith alone, and all of that. Sourced in Scripture, accomplished by God, brings the glory back to Him. Let's pray.