Back in February, late February, Kerry, Beth, Payton, and I attended the Roots and Reformation Conference, hosted by Baltimore Bible Church. It was held at Morgan State University in the heart of the Baltimore City. There we heard from famous speakers, plenary speakers, or uh Paul Washer, Conrad Umbewe. We also benefited from some of the breakout sessions. One of them was led by Dr. Mark Tetlock of the Masters Academy International, connected to the church and seminary of the late John MacArthur. While Dr. Tetlock wasn't a headliner of this conference, I really enjoyed his presentation. It was entitled Ministry in the Urban Church, Insight from the Nations. You can find an audio recording on Baltimore Bible's website During his talk, Dr. Tetlock often cited from the missionary Harvey Kahn and his work, The American City and the Evangelical Church. The main idea of this book is that during the 20th century, there was an evangelical flight from major cities. Sound conservative churches left urban context to retreat to suburban ones. Meanwhile, it was the liberal churches that stayed. Say what you want about them, but these liberals in cities reached the poor, the disadvantaged, the marginalized. Now, of course, that's no excuse for bad theology or bad motivation. But what plagued many in the fundamentalist movement was this distancing of themselves from those in need. Separation for the sake of doctrinal purity also led to some unhealthy forms of disengagement. But as you and I know, hopefully, such this connection is not necessary. It's not biblical for thousands of years, thousands of years. Faithful Bible expositing Christians Have hit the rough streets, not only proclaiming God's love, but showing it. Why do I say all this? It's not because we as state Bible church should feel guilty for being in the suburbs. Honestly, after spending a few days in the New York City recently and lugging around two little kids, I'm glad we live in the suburbs. But while we don't have to feel guilty for being where we are, we should feel motivated as we look northward. Was it by accident that God put us just outside of the city in the Baltimore metropolitan area? We just shake our heads and turn our backs on hundreds of thousands of people living in that city. We just say, I'm glad I don't live there. But we are to do something, and what is that something? Turns out that even in Genesis, written thousands of years ago, there's guidance for us today. As we continue in chapter eighteen, we see there's much we can do if we stand, even if we stand outside a city full of sin. We learn from Abraham's example how we can have a heart for the city. So let's turn to Genesis 18, picking up from the middle of the chapter, verse 16 to 33. Genesis sixteen, sixteen to thirty Genesis eighteen, sixteen to thirty-three. Then the men rose from there and looked towards Sodom, and Abraham went with them to send them on the way. And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am doing? Since Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation. And all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. For I have known him, in order that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way of the Lord. to do righteousness and justice that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has spoken to him. And the Lord says, because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great. And because their sin is very grave, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry against it that has come to me. And if not, I will know Then the men turned away from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham still stood before the Lord. And Abraham came near and said, Would you also destroy the righteous with the wicked? Suppose there were fifty righteous within the city. Would you also destroy the place and not spare it for the righteous uh fifty righteous that were in it? Far be it from you to do such a thing. thing as this, to slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous should be as the wicked. Far be it from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? So the Lord said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes. Then Abraham answered and said, Indeed, now I who am but dust and ashes have taken upon myself Suppose there were five less than the fifty righteous. Would you destroy all of the city for lack of five? He so he said, If I find there are forty-five, I will not destroy it. And he spoke to him yet again and said, Suppose there should be forty found there. So he said, I will not do it for the sake of forty. Then he said, Let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Suppose thirty shall be found there. So he said, I will not do it if I find thirty there. And he said, indeed now I have taken upon myself to speak Speak to the Lord. Suppose twenty should be found there. So he said, I will not destroy it for the sake of twenty. Then he said, Let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak but once more, suppose ten should be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the sake of twenty. So the Lord went his way as soon as he had finished speaking with Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place. Outline-wise, we note the movement of the three heavenly visitors, the Lord pre-incarnate Christ, and his two angelic companions had just concluded their stay with Abraham in verse 15. Next in verse 16, it says, Then the men rose from there and looked for Sodom. And Abraham went with them to send them on the way. That's four of them walking. After the Lord speaks and reveals a few things we see in verse 22, then the men turned away from there and went towards Sodom, but Abraham still stood before Solomon. the Lord. That's two of them remaining at a spot. Finally after some back and forth between them, we read in verse 33, the Lord went his way, that is, towards some bottom as soon as he had finished speaking with Abraham and Abraham returned to his place, that is back to Hebra. There's no one left at that spot. So that gives us at least a two-part outline, with verses 16 to 21 as one part, verses 22 to 33 as another. Now, furthermore, you could take the verses 16 to 21, and I think you can divide it into two subparts. Note the repetition of the phrase and the Lord said in verses 17. And twenty. Based on that, I think there are actually three parts all related to God speaking, right? There's a deliberation in verses 16. There's a disclosure in verses twenty-twenty-one, and there's a dialogue in verses twenty-two to thirty-three. Scheme is based on the commentary of Alan Ross, Creation and Blessing. I encourage you to pick that up. Here's another helpful commentary from Ross, and it concerns the main point of our text. At first glance, you might think this is all about how we need to intercede for our society. Pray for the city, cry out for the lost. No doubt praying for others is important. But I agree with Ross that what unites Genesis 18, 16 Thematically is the theme of justice. The great question last week from verses one to fifteen concerned God's power. It was that question in verse fourteen. Is anything too hard for the Lord? The great question for this week was in verse twenty-five. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? God is not only all powerful, he's also just And we not only trust that God is just, we are to be just like Him. We are to do righteousness and justice like Abraham, according to verse 19. So all that to say. I'd like to suggest three ways we can do justice to the justice of God. First, be concerned for justice in the world and at home. That's in verses. 16 to 19. Secondly, be accurate in your assessment of sin. That's 20 to 21. Thirdly, be prayerful for the preservation of cities. That's 20 to 21. The first way to do justice to the justice of God, be concerned for justice in the world and at home. Pick up on the narrative from last time. After drawing near to Abraham and intimate fellowship and challenging Sarah's faith, it was time for the Lord and his angels to To depart. I assume it was the same day as the meal, perhaps still in the afternoon. There's no suggestion of a lengthy time break from verse 15 to 16 Abraham being the gracious host that he is, he escorts his guests. Out of the teribent trees of Mamre They better get going. Sodom was about twenty to thirty-five miles east, southeast of Hebron. Not only that, Hebron stood around 3,000 feet above sea level, while Sodom in the Dead Sea area stood about thirteen hundred feet below sea level, so that's not a huge descent. So I imagine the Lord looking towards Sodom from the elevated position. Then he spoke the words of verses 17 to 19. He deliberates with his angels. Now I think the question in verses 17 to 18 is a rhetorical question. Let me read it again. Shall I hide from Abraham what I am doing? Since Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. Shall God hide? And the answer is no. There's no reason God should hide from Abraham. what he's about to do. Why should he not hide? There are actually two reasons. The Lord should disclose his judgment to Abraham. The first reason is right there in verse 18. See, because Abraham will become a nation And nations will be blessed in him, Abraham, a sort of a present application, must become something like an international man Now, what I mean by international man is not that he needs to get frequent flyer miles points or become a diplomat. I'm saying Abraham, as a channel of God's blessing to the world, Must be concerned for justice in the world. That concern naturally starts with nearby cities like Sodom. So here's a quick application for us. We can't know all that's going on happening on Earth. In fact, I tend to think there's a bit of an information overload in our information age. Please don't do scroll at 1 a. m. Right. But if we are sons of Abraham, you know, if the Great Commission applies to us today, if we must go and make disciples of all nations, If our brothers and sisters in Christ's body are imprisoned and mistreated, we should be concerned for justice in the world. We might start where our missionaries work, learn more about the injustices where they are. We can also learn about cities near us, as I sort of hinted at the beginning of the sermon. Be concerned for justice in Washington, D. C. , Baltimore Okay. Live near both of them. Right. Be concerned for justice in smaller cities. Some of you guys have friends in Frederick and Frederick County A lot of things have changed over the decades. Apparently Frederick and Frederick County, they're the Maryland's fastest growing city and county, respectively. But as you know, with more More people come, more problems. Ask what kind of injustices are taking place there. How can we pray for those cities? While learning about injustices everywhere, there's also concern for justice at home. In verse 19, the Lord continues his deliberation with his angels. Understand, this is the second reason he should not hide what he's about to do, Sodom. If Abraham is supposed to lead his home and teach them the justice, right, and the righteous ways of the Lord, he should know what's about to happen. No doubt Abraham has already taught them many lessons about God, his faithfulness, his power, his names, God most high, possessor of heaven and earth. Yahweh, God Almighty. Now here's a chance to learn more. How the Lord is the judge of all the earth. Here comes a real demonstration of how our holy God deals with evil. My son's not good with scary images in books. I was reading to an illustrated children's version of Pilgrim's Progress. Got to a page where the Christian, that's the main character, encounters giant despair in the Downing Castle. He just can't he just like closes his eye, he can't read those pages. His spear didn't make sense to me because earlier in the book he you know read about the battle with Apollyon. Well his It's my fault for assuming preschoolers make sense. Anyway, I was just skipping over some of those parts, scary parts of Pilgrim's progress But if I'm going to follow Deuteronomy 6. 4-6, Proverbs 22-6, and Ephesians 6. 4, I can't skip over God's righteousness and justice found all over the Bible. I can't pick and choose only happy passages. I can't ignore the next chapter. We're just going to keep going, right? In chapter 19 in Genesis. I must declare the whole council of God. I must do justice to the justice of God. I must be concerned for justice at home. There's one more application of this point. I think it relates to evangelism and outreach. No, it seems like God's justice and righteousness are hard topics. I tend to but I I was thinking about it and I tend to think they're actually great conversation starters. I read this week that Generation Z, right, those born in 1997 to 2012 are very concerned for justice. Apparently they're known as digital activists. I had to look that up They're skilled in social media to stay informed and engage with the world. They value not only kindness, but fairness and honesty. I think those are good concerns. I'm not suggesting that every Gen Zer is like this or that they're rightly informed on all matters. I'm just saying they're more interested in those topics. Righteous. And justice than we might think. So it behooves us to get the facts straight, be ready to talk with them We'll see how our God demonstrates the importance of that in verses 20 to 21. And for us to do justice to the justice of God, we must be accurate in our assessment. of sin. Again, note that there's a slight break in the narrative in verse twenty. There's that phrase, and the Lord said, which we saw earlier. In verse 17, the Lord spoke to his angels, and maybe Abraham overheard him. Now the Lord, I think, speaks directly to Abraham. The deliberation has become a disclosure. But first, what's said in verse twenty was no secret. With even Abraham knew of the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah. By the way, the two cities belonged to a group of five cities of the plain. The two were close to each other distance-wise. I think I was trying to think of something like the twin cities of Minnesota, Minneapolis, and St. Paul But also picture Sodom and Gomorrah as the two of the most notorious, corrupt cities in the area. Their sin was very grave, the Lord says Now you might picture Sodom and Gomorrah as somewhere like Skid Row in downtown LA or Cherry Hill in Baltimore City. And sure, there was violence and sexual immorality. But anytime we get a little too judgmental, right, I'd like to point to passages like Ezekiel 16, 49 to 50. We're closer to Sodom than we think. Ezekiel tells us, look, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom, talking to God's people there. She had pride, fullness of food. An abundance of idleness, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. And they were haughty and committed abomination before me, therefore I took them away as I saw fit. God knew all the pride, laziness, and lack of compassion in Sodom and Gomorrah. He knows we struggle with the same sins in our time too. Now moving on to Genesis 18, 21, we might ask why did God, being omniscient, knowing all things, need to conduct a reconnaissance of these cities? We asked a similar question back in Genesis 11 with the Babel incident, if you remember. There in verse 5, we read that the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. Whether it's at Babel or Sodom, the Lord will get right up close to do what? To make an accurate assessment of their sins. It's for us to know. Using anthropomorphic language so that we know that God knows. It benefits God's people to know that God is thorough in this process. That way we too can do justice to the justice of God. We too must be accurate in our assessment of sin. Now here's another break in the narrative in verse 22. We're about to transition from a disclosure to a dialogue. As we do it, it's helpful to remember Abraham's status before God. Abram's a friend of God. So not only does he have access to insider information, he can have a back and forth with him. He can with due respect, of course, asking him questions and receiving answers. And from Abraham's example in Genesis 18, 22 We have the third way to do justice to the justice of God. Be prayerful for the preservation of the cities. So after the two angels go on towards Sodom in verse 22, Abraham remains with the Lord to talk more. Throughout the conversation, Abraham is careful to speak respectfully. He recognizes God's grandeur. He humbles himself. And as you see, there are six rounds of questions with descending numbers. 50, 40, I'm sorry, 50, 45, 40, 30, 20, and 10. He approaches the Lord in verses 23 to 25 with the first round. He knows him as the judge of all earth who will do right. But he's concerned that the saved would be treated exactly like the unsaved. Also, he's interested in seeing the unsaved preserved for the sake of the saved. Now notice how he juxtaposes the righteous and the wicked. He's confident that God will not destroy the righteous with the wicked, slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous shall be as the wicked. Now Abraham begins with his conviction that God is just, but he goes on to a thought experiment. He begins with the possibility that 50 righteous people live in Sodom, according to archaeological studies and guesses. Around this time, a typical local city in the area, their population estimates were around 1,000. So not huge cities. So we're talking possibly five percent of the population being righteous The Lord responds in verse 26 saying he'd spare Sodom for the sake of 50. Round till Abraham goes down to 45. Again, note the language of humility and respect in verse 26. There's humility as he admits he's dust and ashes. He does not stand as God's equal. He also addresses him as Adonai, Lord or Master. Recall from chapter 15 how he used that title while seeking answers from God, he does the same here in verse 28. I'm just I'm not gonna go through this like uh I'm gonna speed through a little bit. I think Abraham maintained the same tone in round three as he asked concerning And in rounds four to six, Abraham continues to be careful. He displays godly fear. He obviously does not want to anger God. He addresses him as Adonai each time. He also picks up the pace with the countdown, right? He moves from denominations of five, fifty, forty-five, forty to denominations of ten, thirty, twenty, and ten. Now we might ask why Abraham stopped at ten? Was he just thinking I detained my lord long enough, I'm scared to ask anymore? Perhaps uh this these are some guesses, by the way, these maybe there was something like uh Jewish tradition of Min at play here. Minyan, that's a Hebrew word, consists of the minimum requirement of ten in a city for certain communal activities like public worship. And maybe Abraham was thinking that Lot and his family could make up that ten. Perhaps he assumed his nephew had a large family by now, with children and grandchildren all saved. Surely Lot would have modeled and communicated his faith for the second and third generation. Surely this community together would have totaled 10 to 19 people. All these are guesses. In the end we're not exactly sure why Abraham stopped at ten, but stopped he did. And in verse 33, he returns to heaven when the Lord continues to Sodom. The report will show that not even ten righteous are found there. We'll see that Later. Still, we learn from Abraham's example. We do justice to the justice of God in this way be prayerful for the preservation of cities. So in some, Abraham sets a good example for righteousness and justice. He strives to be just like God. Again, Alan Ross is helpful in simplifying the lesson for us. He writes, those who will enjoy God's blessing, A, will teach justice, according to 1819. B may intercede for just judgment to preserve the righteous, and C, know that God may preserve the wicked for the sake of the righteous. Now I wanna end by comparing Abraham to someone worse than him and someone else better than Of course I can't help but compare and contrast Abraham to Jonah, right, who shows up later in the Bible. Most of us know the account. Remember that he too thought hard about a very wicked city, Nineveh. He went the opposite direction when the Lord sent him there, and then after a coarse correction, Very dramatic one. He went there at last. Then his worst nightmare came true. The entire city repented Jonah was displeased, angry, wished to die. Imagine a prophet of God upset that a city full of the wicked turned into a city full of the righteous. Abraham shows us a better example in his dealings with Sodom. Let's not turn our backs on cities, right? As corrupt as they are. Look towards them with prayer. Remember how the Lord determined the boundaries of our dwellings, as Acts 17 tells us. Again, it's no coincidence that we live less than 15 miles from Baltimore. Also, if we dare to look, and if we look hard enough, there are rough parts in our own cities. It's no secret that down the street, right along Route 1, there have been reports of sex trafficking and prostitution. I admit my first instinct is to stay away as far as possible. But there's got to be something we can do. Perhaps with the help of other churches. Somehow, some way, we can reach hard places that need the presence and prayer of God. The righteous. But to be uh honest, right? The best that we can do in prayer, even the best that Abraham can do as a friend of God. Even if you are so called a prayer warrior, often fall short. I don't know about you, but I don't pray enough, right? Our prayers are often too small. We pray amiss. We don't pray earnestly. We don't pray vigilantly. We don't pray gratefully. When we fail in our prayer life, we must remember there's someone greater than us. And Abraham. There's someone who prays without fail. He sits at the Father's right hand. He always lives to make intercession for those who come to God through him. Of course, I'm talking about Jesus. Even better than the friend of God. He is the only begotten son of God. He existed from eternity past. He became man and became one of us. He lived a perfect life and demonstrated his power. After some years of public ministry, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. As he drew near it, he saw it and wept over the city. He desired to gather the children of Jerusalem together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but they were not willing. Jesus had a heart for a city that would reject him. So as predicted, he was betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes. They condemned him to death. And deliver them to the Gentiles. But this is all part of God's plan. When Jesus went to the cross, he didn't suffer for his sins. He doesn't have any sins. He never sinned He went to the cross to pay for our sins. Remember, we're no better than Sodom, right? We're guilty of pride, laziness, lack of compassion, we're lustful, we commit sexual immorality. Yet Jesus took our place. To sanctify the people with his own blood, he suffered outside the gate of Jerusalem. There he finished his work. He satisfied the wrath of God, as we sang about earlier. He breeded his last, he was buried, and on the third day he rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection. He ascended to heaven. He now sits at the Father's right hand to intercede for his own. Jesus, as righteous servant, will justify many. And this good news of Jesus demands a response. For you to be justified and declare righteous, you must repent and believe. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Jesus. Trust in Him only for salvation. Eternal life's a gift, not earned or deserved. God saves us by grace alone. Through faith alone in Christ alone. Now if you're among the saved, there awaits us a city prepared, built And made by God. Here on earth we have no continuing city, but we seek the one to come. We're destined for a home above. Jerusalem. No and be confident that the prayer of our final song is fulfilled through Jesus. Jerusalem Jerusalem, God grant that I may see your endless joy and of the same partaker ever be. Let's pray and sing. Lord, we thank you that you are loving and just That you keep your covenant, you do not break promises, you are just and justifier of those who Have put their trust in your Son Jesus Christ. And we thank you that we do not face your wrath. And we thank you that you shape us and mold us to care about justice and righteousness. to be through sanctification, to grow in those areas. And Lord, as we grow, may we be prayerful May we be mindful of things happening, those suffering. Our brothers and sisters all over the world, those who need to hear the gospel, where there's much work to be done. But we ask that as we pray for revival. Start with us. Start in our own life as we uh pray, as we demonstrate your love and righteousness to our family. and our friends and our neighbors. We just thank you for what a privilege this is to display your attributes, albeit in a lesser glory, but we just thank you that you're shaping us to be more and more like you. Your son. In Christ Jesus we f in his name we pray. Amen.