And being a deserted place, there isn't any food. If you recall the story where it said Peter said, We've toiled all night, have caught nothing. In verse 25, it says, in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went to them. So we just say things that don't make sense, right? The spirit wars against the flesh. And it'll be fine. So it's between three and six in the morning. And as the first hymn said, we are so often prone to wander, but we know that we are kept by your power and that through your grace You know, you you turn on the television and you're not sure what's gonna get us first. And when we have that in place, these troubles of Earth, they buffet the boat, they rock our ship a little bit, but they don't overwhelm us. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. He knows his disciples are tired. So they don't get any rest. But all four gospel writers record this miracle. So this has been a significant day for them. Put them in the baskets. wind. Lord. What does Peter say? That one of the last songs, Across the Land, it speaks about how he holds it all together. How do we see that in this passage, though? Of saving them from the curse of sin, of ultimately delivering them to conformity to his image. It's a hard boat. it's so hard? Christ has done. confidence that you get by seeing Jesus come through time and time again and be there. It's become a blessing to me in the past couple years that I've I've learned it and known it. with the themes this morning in so many different ways. To your word. And you know, we can't die by all these different methods, so they can't all come true, right? And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water. Galilee is only about two or three miles wide at that point, so they don't have far to go. So the the Jesus and the disciples are on the boat going west, and the crowd, they get on the land and they start running. w wha what are we gonna do? Now it's interesting that except for the resurrection, this is the only miracle of Jesus that all four gospel writers record. And it says at the end of John chapter 6 that many after that point, when he brought them to a decision point, many of them didn't follow him anymore. And so his ministry became more quiet. And that's what the disciples are dealing with on top of this long day that they've had. And so they call out, and they're terrified. He seemed to be doing it out of the genuine desire of his heart to be with Jesus because Jesus doesn't rebuke him for saying, Tell me to come. But Jesus out of his compassion doesn't criticize Peter. He reaches out, grabs that rough fisherman's hand, and pulls them up to safety. So we see his authority over people. And they've just been rioting because they want to make him king, and yet he sends his disciples away, and yet somehow he's able to get all this huge crowd by himself without a megaphone, without a fire hose. He can help us and will save us. He didn't have to wait till they were exhausted from rowing, three hours, four hours, five hours, and still getting nowhere. And meet them in their need. this journey. Throughout this whole experience, he's keeping his disciples. To preserve our faith, to strengthen us. I'm gonna sink through the waves. Sometimes we live we know that the world didn't start by a big bang, but sometimes as Christians we forget that it's not going on because God put the the wheels in motion and now they keep going. When you look up at the sky, like right now, if you could see through these windows, and you see raindrops coming down, what do we always say? I think we need to have that same sense that this is crazy. The water and the dry land thing? speaking, the Lagos, the word, he was the one actually doing the creating. Jesus confirmed that he was divine. They'll still fail. As far as we know, all these men, except for Judas, of course, all these men finished well. We've got Matthew, he's a tax collector, he's worldly wise. Of course, we got Judas. Heart. He's probably not a pushover either. Jesus, why'd you send him to four years of Bible college just to crash his plane into the ocean? And so the deeper the trial, the more discouraging the trial, the more confidence we will have in Jesus when the trial is done. I'm going to get you through here. I've not seen the righteous forsaken or the children begging bread. If we flip on Fox News and we see the latest crisis, our hearts will melt like wax. And we're living by faith, then we don't have the fear. Matthew fourteen is where we'll be, and let's open with a word of prayer. The word of the gospel this morning, and I thank you for all the truth we've already sung to each other, as it says to speak to each other in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. I pray for your insight this morning. seasoned saints could can fully grasp. Now in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. And they cried out for fear. O you of little faith, why did you doubt? Jesus' cousin, the forerunner, has been killed by Herod. And he heals many of the sick that were there. It's not as though his ministry got less or got worse. Because they thought they had this political ruler, this leader that would get them out of Rome's grasp and out of the prison house that they found themselves in with Rome. And he also knew it wasn't his time to put himself forward as king. What I want to do is briefly go through the story and then go back again and look at some of the themes. They want to make him king, and Jesus knows this isn't the time. And Jesus wants to get his disciples away from the crowd, so he has them go down to the boat and set off across the lake of Galilee, basically to go back to where they were in the morning that morning. The disciples are probably wondering why is, you know, why are we going back across the lake? But this trip, as we will read, was a much different kind of trip, this return journey. But this is not going to be an easy trip for them. This way. No, I had to look it up too. I work outside, I climb trees. And it can just just the the noise of the wind can be distracting. And I was out there for an hour. Or to encourage ourselves, Lord. We can't just be the ostrich who puts his head in the sand and ignores what's going on. Deal with the news about North Korea or Iran or the latest terrorist attack. Because saving sinners, God has much more planned for us than just keeping us out of hell. Jesus made his disciples get into the boat. They got into the boat, even though they didn't know why, even though they didn't know how long it was going to be till they saw him again, even though it didn't make sense, perhaps they saw a storm developing and thought, maybe this isn't the best time to get into a boat. Maybe we should wait, maybe we should walk back this time. 5,000 men plus women, assume every person married, maybe Mott, then it's 10,000 people. There was something authoritative in Jesus' manner and in his method that caused the crowd to disperse. They didn't know they knew he was back there somewhere on the mountain praying, but they couldn't see him. And through that experience, he preserves his disciples. But what does Jesus say? We are safe and secure. He's put the crisis there so he can show himself strong and bring through on the other side. But look also, we have a sovereign savior. Of course Jesus walked on water because he's Jesus. But not this time, because Jesus is the King of creation. Then he went up into the boat to them, and the wind ceased, and they were greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure, and marveled. For they had not understood about the loaves because their heart was hardened. But this faith thing, this following Jesus thing, it's a process. Sometimes it falters, sometimes they're afraid, because faith and fear are inversely related. So their faith ultimately, or their fear ultimately did not prevail in their lives. You've got at least four of them were fishermen, rough, callous hands, time spent dealing with fish, with sharp objects, knives. We know they were tired. Jesus, why why did you send me into this trial? He's flying down to uh South America to be a missionary, and he's on a commercial jet, and his jet goes down and he dies. Ultimately long for that song is the song Is Well with My Soul. God knows that one day it won't always be a fight. And so when you have 70, these years we have, and you've got infinity, and infinity, and eternal life, Seventy is almost like zero by the time you're talking about infinity. blessing beyond that we what we can imagine. So here are these men, these these these fishermen, the zealot, Matthew the tax collector, they're scared, they're in the boat, wondering why Jesus sent them out in the storm, why he would appear to them like this ghost that they can't explain. The reason I went to Matthew 14 is because I felt like I needed some encouragement. They're fishermen, right? Trying to fix my raspberries. But it seems that it what he didn't have a bad motive in this. And that's what we're trying to do. And live life confidently in the Lord. We didn't get rain because a cloud showed up. One of my kids lately has been dealing with issues of conscience and how why did it why is it so hard to overcome sin? And so often we live as though these 70 years we might get is all there is. You know, we we look at our ourselves, we look at and say some of us are are older and closer to the time we'll be with Christ, and we think, well, we've we've made it through most of the troubles of this life, and I just have to get us through a few more years. But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid. So we need to set a little bit of context for this passage. The next day, this crowd follows Jesus again. Jesus himself goes up to the mountain to pray. So finally, at the midst of all this, when they're tired and worn out, they see something. Out of the boat, onto the water, and lo and behold, his feet don't go through the surface of the water. And so that brings us kind of through a quick trip through this narrative here. But you see, saving sinners isn't just getting them out of hell. We're not fully saved. There's a song whose line says, if I didn't have a problem, I wouldn't know he could solve it. And then what happens when he gets in the boat? And what's their response? Who were these men in the boat? Or even modern representations. What is going on here? I spoke with Steve Conrad about what my theme would be today, and uh through circumstances of life, uh the hymns that have been chosen a few weeks ago fit perfectly with I have a good creative imagination, which which helps in some ways, but also can bring a lot of discouragement when you think of all the possible ways bad things could happen to us. And to back up a little bit even further from that, early in the morning, Jesus and his disciples had gotten the news that John the Baptist had been had been killed. And he he knows that most of the people who follow him are doing that because they want the food, not because they want the Christ who made the food. Up to this point, he had had large crowds following him. Now, we read that Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side while he sent the multitudes away. And they're getting discouraged, they're getting tired. So even there's a moon out, you know, it's always a little bit lighter on the on the water than it is in the land. What would you think it would be? Well, they don't know what they're seeing, but they know that there's something out there with two legs and it's moving, and it's it scares them. And Jesus, he doesn't come directly to the boat. I would have lost heart, unless I believe that I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. We have a sovereign savior. Paul even says, those of us who are being saved, there's still a salvation work that's going on. To show us he will bring us through. He also has supernatural wisdom and knowledge. And what does it say? know that our Savior knows exactly where we are. What was that like for him to walk on water? Now, this is after the other time when they've been in the boat with Jesus, and they're terrified by the water and the waves, and Jesus says, peace be still. So the disciples know they know he can make the waves stop when he wants to. I never was very good at math. He is accomplishing something through him. I think he epitomizes, he he is this dramatic portrayal of everything that's going on in the disciples' hearts. So it's in those trials, and there's pluses and minuses to getting older, right? That taught us to fear and then taught us to trust you. And the the the specific story that we'll be talking about today is one that if you went in first grade Sunday school, you probably already know it. And the practical desert there, where are we going to get food for them? Because they're tired. And they're tired. World situation, whether it's health situation, whether it's financial situation, we've got to look at face forward directly at it. That work of sanctification. And that is why it matters that we have a sovereign Savior. He has all knowledge, he has all wisdom, and he is able to go to them and meet them in their need. But he chose not to. They are a privileged group because he is keeping them. He's holding on to us through these trials. He made the law of gravity. So they'll fail again, but they will finish their course as well. and rough, hard, coarse nets. So let's look first at the fact that their faith was weak and wavering. Thank you for your willingness to uh learn that song. I was thinking of Calvin Coolidge, who said he, the president, he said he didn't worry about a lot of things. They got a lot to think about. He had something greater in store for them, though, than just healing Lazarus from his sickness. We've got to see Him be faithful. Jesus is alone on the mountain praying. Then Peter answers him and says, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water. We know Peter often says things that don't make a lot of sense, right? Then all the disciples who are in the boat marvel and say, Truly, you are the Son of God. Look at it for a minute. It's dark. And in John 17, he also says, before he returns to the Father, he said, You've given me to keep them, and I've kept them while I've been in the world. John 6, the very next day, when the boat finally makes it to shore the very next day, and the crowds see Jesus again, they gather back with him again. Tempted and tried. I so often fail at this, but I try to tell myself, oh, God's sending us rain. And I think that Matthew in his gospel, the great purpose that he has in this gospel is to show that Jesus is Christ. Immediately Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side while he sent the multitudes away. To grow in godliness, to grow in faith, to grow in doing mighty works for you here on this earth, as we are your faithful, faithful children. But then we think of our kids or our grandkids. This is how they're getting across. So when we're going through our trials, sometimes we're tending we tend to think, maybe Jesus doesn't see, maybe he doesn't know. They leave him because he's not the kind of savior they're looking for. So these are the men that are on the boat. We don't we can't make sense. And I told in the story of Pilgrim's Progress, where Pilgrim has to fight with Apollyon. The crowd didn't experience this experience, uh this this this uh opportunity to see him walking on the water and to see him uh deal with calming the storm. They're going to fail again. So we see Jesus is sovereign over these events. Thank you for coming to seek and save the lost. It's hard to row this boat across this lake. Well the problem is that part of Galilee is the northern part of the Sea of Galilee. And now Jesus is going to leave them, or have them leave him, with the thought that he will be joining them later. I often do the things I don't want to do. Two things that are true about these men though. You're going to be victorious. They need a break. Can we just send 'em away to try to find food out in the country, to find some villages where they can buy some food? We're trying to say, how do we have courage? We have our yes, we are saved. Lord, to whom shall we go? Mark actually tells us that they have to row because there's no they they can't navigate by the sail. It was so distracting because I'm trying to tie my bush up and all the other all the other pieces of their bush are blowing back and forth and and the wind's howling around, my jacket's flapping around me. Instead of getting a deserted place, the crowds are gathering right there with them. There's a lot for them to process. And that's where we see his wisdom. I'm gonna be like Peter and I'm gonna sink. Judas, a warning to all of us, Judas who saw all these miracles, Judas who gave false worship to Jesus and ultimately became the son of perdition, because none of these things penetrated his stony. The days in which we live can often cause our hearts to to be troubled. I had a well put in, I had to move uh some raspberry bushes, and then I had to put them back up after the well well-drilling truck left. All of these men were frightened by what they saw. Would you say, oh, that must be Jesus, right? Remember that God has given these men to Jesus. He says, the song we sing, I will hold you, I will hold you fast. So that's why he brings the disciples to this experience that the rest of the crowd is not privileged to, because he cares for them. Most of us are not at our best at three and six in the morning, especially if we've been up all night, all day. We have a sovereign savior, compassionate, involved in the process not just of saving sinners from hell, but of saving them from the remaining sin. Paul says that the trials of this life are nothing to be compared to the glory that will be revealed in us. Being up in a tree when there's 50 mile-an-hour wind is not a fun experience. He could have stopped this storm before it even started. He made the law of buoyancy. They're going to fail in big ways before the story is over, before the gospel accounts are done. So I would say it's probably pretty significant. They know how to sail down the Sea of Galilee. So that's that's Peter. And so in that we see his wisdom and we see his knowledge. Look also with the authority he has over creation. Where else do we see his power over creation? The disciples are often shown as these kind of womanly, effeminate sort of, just like Jesus, I don't know where they get that from. We know they had a lot to think about. The whole reason they went on this side of the sea was to get some rest and some peace, which they didn't get. The fourth watch of the night was between three in the morning and six in the morning. And I say even the psalm that we read this morning fits so well with that. We get rain because God sent a cloud to send rain. We read from John 1 that in Genesis it says God did this. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Be of good cheer. They need some deliverance from the pressures of ministry, from the discouragement. And it says they've rode for three or four miles. He also had authority over the crowd. He's a pretty tough guy. And I couldn't even I could probably probably spend all morning just talking about the ways in which those hymns fit in with what we'll speak about, but I'll let you uh see those connections. So he has compassion. There are no cities on that side of the, very few cities on that side of the Sea of Galilee. It's a big lake. And Jesus says, Peter, Satan has desired to sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you that your faith will not fail. Your faith might fail. It says, verse 25: In the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. And this is the first time that we are told the disciples worship him. And they're tired. And so Jesus came to save sinners. We see at first that he walked on water. It was with smaller groups of people. I got the calculus and I hit a brick wall. I pray that the Holy Spirit would come not just to teach us information, but to change our lives. We can look through the trials, we can look at the discouragements with courage and with confidence, knowing it doesn't depend on us. Mark, Mark chapter 6. He may not be the rough, tough fisherman, but he knows how the world works. It'd be a whole lot better if this didn't happen. One day the fight will be over. They're wondering what's going on here. He comes kind of parallel to the boat, walking alongside that. He hears them shouting out, it is a ghost. That he is in control of this world. He's keeping them from their faith failing. And we feel like, God, I'm going to lose it. But Jesus was human, and humans don't walk on water. And you can tell your kids of God's faithfulness, but you can't live that experience for them. In fact, John even tells us that at the end of the feeding of the 5,000, they said, this is the prophet. This wasn't like a test. You think about it. That was by my request, and uh I appreciate you uh being willing to try something new if you hadn't been familiar with that one. But as we as you study the scriptures, you can see that we're not fully saved until that day when we become like Christ. Did the waves all of a sudden get flat so he could just walk or is he taking these big steps over the waves? How long is this going to take? But no, when Jesus said, get into the boat, they got into the boat. For you only have the words of life. Paul says in Romans 7, I always end up doing the wrong thing. And we're getting further from shore. If we thought we could make sense of it, God wouldn't have done it this way. And what kind of a world are they going to live in? Men just like us. What does it say? This has been a really long day for the disciples. It just became more concentrated with fewer people because the crowds, by and large, stopped following him. How do we not be afraid in the middle of these difficult, frightening times? And you just think of this. He knows our exact trouble. I I like Peter. Why did Jesus wait all night to come to them? He can override that when he chooses. North Korea, Iran, will it be the the lone wolf terrorist? And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. And each time we our faith grows a little bit, it gets stronger. He's preserving us. He had ministered in Galilee. So we're so hung up on these seventy years God may give us here on earth. People don't walk on water. Your faith may be weak. And that is the story of Jesus walking on the water. And when the crowd see what's happening, they say, oh, let's we'll we'll follow them Because I can't keep my eyes on you. It's going to be a fight, we're going to fail. He's also aware that if the disciples hang out with this crowd too much longer, they might say, well, they might themselves become infected by this false idea of why Jesus had come. Here we just watched Jesus feed 5,000 men from a little boy's lunch. And he has some words for them that are somewhat provocative words And the sea, I'm standing on solid ground. Of course, that's that's exactly what I'm expecting to see. Matthew says, they confess, truly you are the Son of God. And it fits well with our theme this morning. So Jesus, he does his miracle, the feeding of the 5,000, the story that we're all familiar with. These are rough, rough guys. So these trials that God brings into our lives. So that's a bad way to start the day for most of us. It says the boat was in the middle of the sea, tossed by the waves, because the wind was contrary. That doesn't mean he put a gun to their head and said, get in the boat. God enabled their faith to grow and to lead this early church to victory. So nobody's above fear. O Lord, haste the day when the face shall be sight. Now when evening came he was alone there. They know there's storms that often come. They're used to being out on the lake at night. So there's two major things that I want to look at. And Jesus looks at Peter. But this time he doesn't even say anything. But out there in this midst of this this storm, when they see this, the thing that really frightened them wasn't even so much the storm, and it's this this this ghostly appearance that they see. And thank you for preserving us and for holding us fast. And beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me! We want some peace and quiet. He rebukes him gently, but he reaches out his hand. They get into the boat. We've got to look at reality in front of us. And so for us when we get through our trials and we get discouraged by the news reports, whatever it may be. One day the faith will be psyched. And I thought maybe I'm not alone. The constant blowing, the constant motion. Like, well, if it's really you, Jesus, then tell me to come and I'll come. I think he's the patron saint, the patron saint of fearful Christians. There's much more to saving a sinner than getting their, I've got my ticket to heaven They had a wavering and a weak faith. We just left there this morning and now we're going back again. When's the fourth watch of the night? Remember, he's been up all night long praying, and the disciples are out on the lake. He rules creation. There's maturing that goes into this. Take take heart. But the day gets on, the day drags on, and now it's late. Through your trial, through your discouragement, through the trouble in the world, we think things are falling apart. So this is the same water he created 4,000 or so years before that. You know, when we talk about the disciples today, we often see these Middle Age paintings, or the paintings from the Middle Ages or from the Renaissance. The more we row, the farther we're getting from shore. There is so much more to life than these 70 years. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a ghost. So he said, Come. It's unusual that our Messiah, our Savior, prays, but we'll get into that a little later. Well, how do we see that He is sovereign? He knows our exact problem. You've got the blue-collar guys, the fishermen. And there's there's these battles that we fight as Christians. We know we will be kept until the final day The disciples are alone in the boat. It's stormy. He and Peter get into the boat at the end of the story, and what happens? There is a special love that God has for his people, and he will do what he needs to do to keep them and preserve their faith. You know, we don't know what they were thinking when they left the shore. He didn't want to heal him from his sickness, he wanted to raise him from the dead. And he starts walking towards Jesus, but then he sees the wind, the wind distracts him, he gets fearful again, and he starts to go under. We're justified, we are accepted by God, and yet there's still work that needs to be done in our lives. Time doesn't allow us to get into so much more that's there. So this is the context for where we pick up in Matthew chapter 14, in verse 22, I'm sorry. But they see something coming across the water. Remember how many people were there that day eating the food? We see his sovereignty is control over everything. You'll overcome it because I'm going to hold you in my hand. He said if you see eight or nine troubles rolling down the road towards you, chances are nine or seven or eight of them will roll off the road before they even get there, which is which is often the case. There had been lots of crowds following him. It's not a problem for him. And then kids, you had some kids in, two to five kids apiece, maybe whatever it was. He's keeping them from making shipwreck of their profession. The reason it turns out to be significant, if you look at John chapter 6, and John's accounting of this. They wouldn't normally have even been maybe within a mile of shore the whole time, but they're being pushed further south into the Lake of Galilee. How they saw something, maybe there's a moon out. He has a rock solid command over everything that happens in this life. He gives a little more detail than Matthew does. Because I'm sinful and I still have flesh that that clings to me. That doesn't make any sense. And it was it was some sort of in some sense the climax of Jesus' preaching ministry. Why does it matter that we have a sovereign savior? What did Jesus come into the world to do? And so this these trials that he brings us through that is all part of our salvation. How will they persevere? We tend to live as though God's not a part of what's going on in this life. But one thing I knew is that when you get to dealing with numbers like infinity, the closer you get to infinity, the less those numbers even seem to matter. He wants to conform us to the image of Jesus Christ. That's from Colossians. I so often think of how here here, test yourself. So he sends the multitudes away. And it's windy. Instantly, the storm stops. So Jesus is using experiences like this to deepen the disciples' faith, to give them that courage they need to press forward. They know what it's like to be in the water. It kind of pumps up like this. He's on the Mount of Transfiguration with Jesus and he says, Oh, let's build some tabernacles to dwell in. But I want to go back now and look at some of these themes because what we what we're trying to do here is take heart, to build courage in our in ourselves. He could have stopped the storm. We know that daybreak came at six. Unless it's frozen. And so that's one of the blessings about being older. It is I. So we'll take a few minutes to just look at the story, what's actually happening here in these words. But what how late is it now? I'm gonna see expect to see Jesus walking across the water. So that's some of his authority over the people, his authority, his knowledge, and his wisdom that he has. He made creation. They will run with perseverance. I think of a story where a man who was a he had trained his for three or four years to be a missionary, going to Bible college and all this. Father, I thank you for the It's not unusual for them. Anybody have ancient history? Jesus, I'm afraid through this difficult trial you're calling me through that I'm going to let go. He just gets in the boat and is instantly silent. Just functioning when it's windy all day long, I don't know how many of you are spent a lot of time outside. But then Jesus, out of compassion, knowing that they're troubled, says, Be of good cheer, it's I, do not be afraid. And he said, Come. Now, because we've heard this story since we were in kindergarten or first grade, I think we tend to lose the miracle here What did He do with Mary and Martha? But just think about Peter. They're running along the shore, and some of them actually make it to the destination before Jesus and his disciples get there. Mark says he would have passed them by. Jesus says in John 17, Those that you gave me I have kept. We see his authority over creation. Most of them were martyred. You can look turn to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 14. Um so Maybe we all could use some encouragement in these days that seem so troubling. And so Jesus, being the compassionate Savior, even though he's tired, he takes the time and he says he teaches them many things about the kingdom of God. They're on a boat. And yet he went directly to them. He could have fixed their problem right off. Remember, this is after this experience, this is after the walking on water. We say, it's raining. Because God, like I said, God has so much more in store for us than just healing our physical bodies, keeping our physical bodies out of hell. Will it be our own government? They each record different miracles. And they're used to sailing at night. Because you know the wind isn't a fan is one thing because it's always blowing at the same speed. Why did Jesus send us into this storm? Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he will strengthen your heart. But if we keep our eyes rooted in the scriptures. He says, let's get in the boat. There was another time when Peter was. And when Peter had come down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. If you went back a few verses, you would see that this is right after the feeding of the 5,000. Which is, I think, one of the main reasons Matthew put the story in here. He had first called them from their boats, and they followed him. When faith goes up, fear goes down. This doesn't make sense. He dealt with the Romans, he dealt with the Jews. Will they endure? One is that we have a sovereign savior. And so he brings us through these difficult times. I can't hold on because I'm too scared. Let's read John 14 verses 22 to 33. But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, tossed by the waves, for the wind was contrary Then those who were in the boat came and worshipped him, saying, Truly, you are the Son of God. And so the disciples say, And he says. He didn't have to go to them. And the more that faith is strengthened. Nobody's immune to it. Do not be afraid. They're terrified by what they see. He holds it together. You've got the white-collar guys, Matthew the tax collector. You see, we know this from the Old Testament, God's ways are not our ways, right? Because we realize that it says there's five thousand people, that's just the men, as it's very clear. And in his time. And so that's what I hope we'll get from this today. But after this point, many stopped following him because they realized it was not what they were looking for. The trip in the morning had been fairly uneventful. Back and forth, back and forth, up and down, up and down. Peter is the fearful one. And so they're going from, let me do it from your side. I don't know how many of you enjoy the wind. They obeyed him I don't know how it walked, I don't know how it looked, I don't know how it worked. They spend their life on the water. Jesus is saying, take your eyes off of this life, look to that life, look to the life that's coming. Instead they get a whole long day feeding the five thousand, and then after the five thousand were fed, they had to go around and pick up all the crumbs. That's Peter. Can you tell me when exactly that was? That was the first hour of the day. Whether it's When you talk to an atheist today and you tell him Jesus walked on water, what are they going to do? In John 1, it says Jesus as the second person of the Trinity was actually the one But eventually, there will be Jesus recognizing, it's doesn't say that here in Matthew, but in Mark, we read that Jesus says, In other words, he's coming alongside the boat, but he's not coming directly to them. Jesus is keeping his disciples. Through this experience, These disciples were growing and they're learning. There are so many pressures coming in from outside. But this is going to be a different sort of night. Whether maybe they didn't have a sail or whether it was too the s the wind was too strong, but they didn't have they couldn't have their sail up. It doesn't say it was raining, it said that it was blowing. But there was something in his voice, something in authority that he had that when he spoke, they obeyed. But the faith is there. Peter wants to be with his Savior. So here's Jesus, 20,000 people. I keep saying things I wish I didn't say. The Christian life is a fight. Of course, they're in a deserted place, that's why they went there. But that's how long they've been working, that's how long it's been taking them to get across the lake, to get back to where they started from. Jesus doesn't make him stop sinking. Remember Genesis 1? We're not sure why Peter said this. Is it raining? He wanted to really show his power. And yet as you stop and and think through some of the elements that are there, there's a lot more depth than I think even us as Sometimes there's three that record one miracle and one that records a miracle. Where do you see His power in this passage? So he has authority over people. In Hebrews, we see the same thing. That's not what they're expecting to see He just says, Lord, bid me come and I will come. It can handle another trial. Much as the same as the situations Jesus sends us into. Jesus, if you'd been here, my brother wouldn't have died. But let's look now from the human perspective, the fearful followers. There there's lots of fear and there's lots of worry. And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him and said to him, But now they go back into the boat and they head back across the Sea of Galilee. So all I'm trying to do is tie my raspberry bushes back up to this trellis that I had. He came into the world to save sinners. We don't walk on water. That's not the kind of men these disciples were We're worried about how am I going to deal with my physical problems. It's one of the blessings of seeing him provide for you consistently. Peter, the patron, saying the fearful people. As we edify and encourage one another through singing and now through listening. Because the most important thing we need to know is who is our Savior, who is our Lord. He didn't have to wait till it was 3 o'clock in the morning. I can't see him physically. He could have done it through his prayer, through speaking the word. In Mark 6 it says. If we, like Peter, take our eyes off Christ, we're going to sink. He has authority over the people. You know, when Peter steps out of the boat, And he goes to pray on the mountain. Instantly, the wind ceased. He's a pretty smart guy Now How did he know that? But that's who they were. They're on the western shore of Galilee. How did that happen? Because that is what we want. How does that help me, knowing that I have a sovereign savior, how does that help me It depends on him. But he is. But I want to look now and flip it over and let's look at the disciples. When fear rises, you know that it's because your faith is down. But they had faith. So they didn't start off the morning with a lot of joy and happiness. You've got a lot of people there. But in his wisdom, he chose to go to them exactly when his timing was right. Hair starts to fall out, knees start to hurt, back start to ache. Where's God in that? It's a hard They want the miracles, they want the excitement, they want the healing, but they don't want Christ. We're going to come in by force and try to make him king. But why do the disciples, why do they get to experience this? Now he's walking on it. That our love often does grow cold. But he says, let's he does. I pray this in Jesus' name. They got nerved there pretty quickly. A breeze is nice. And so This life is hard. He's holding this universe together. They think it's a crisis. He gets that, there's that physical touch. How did he know where they were? But why does it have to be so hard? They're over here on the western side, and they're going to travel east. There's more strength for the next trial that comes. I hope you become familiar with it. Will will they make it through? He is sovereign. Just like the disciples, they couldn't see Jesus. You've got Simon the Zealot, the radical, the one that wanted to overthrow Rome. This is the next day. He's in complete control of his creation. I go to the swimming pool, I go to the lake, and I put my foot in, it's going to go through. But somehow in this stormy lake, he's walking on water, not a problem for him. We want to be changed and conform to your image, the image of your Son. Getting worn out by this experience. Is because he wants us to see that Jesus truly is the Son of God. He knew that because he is the Son of God But Jesus knew that wasn't the kind of leader he came to be. Wait, I say, on the Lord. They're going to head back towards Capernaum. Jesus knew He said, let's get in the boat. Look there in verse 22. He says we are in his hand, and no one can pluck us out of his hand. And yet they're afraid. So um There's no pulsations. Wind, not so much. Jesus is using those experiences. It's not a problem for him who made the water to walk on the water. Only time can give the experience and the confidence. It says when the evening came, he was alone there, verse 23. It's it's very unnerving to be out in the midst of a windstorm. Jesus is saying, I'm preparing you to live in an eternity. And I tend to be a worrying kind of person. They're further from this further from the shore. And it says, because he was afraid and didn't know what to say. Jesus looks at Peter and he says, Will you also go away? He gets the crowd to disperse. This life is a fight. Amen. They're going to laugh at you. David says, I have been young and now I'm old. He steps out of the boat. That is all part of making us more like Christ. This is not an accident. Let's go across to the other side to a deserted place so we can rest a while. I live my life outside. So we're looking at maybe fifteen and twenty thousand people gathering. Why the disciples? God will call me home. The other day I was out That's what really matters. Why did they get this privilege? God? He has a kingdom to give to us. It's been a long night. And yet There's no sail. Jesus. This is all