Seven billion six hundred ninety-five million four hundred seventy-six thousand three hundred seventy humans Ten thousand two hundred fifty-five people groups, hundred and ninety-five countries, seven continents, Now with these numbers in mind, if I were to ask you to elect one person as the ruler of the world, who would you elect? Who could represent all of our diverse cultures and languages and customs? Is it the Pope? Is it the president? I hope that all of you said, at least in your heart, Jesus. And Luke would have agreed with you. Today we take for granted that Jesus died not only for Jews, but for all people. But for Luke, it was important as the only Gentile altar in the Bible to promote the idea that Jesus is not just a Jewish king, but the rightful savior of all mankind. The gospel is not just a regional thing or tied to a single ethnic group, but global for all people. Jesus can save the twelve tribes of Israel and he can save people from seven continents of the world. Now, Luke could have asserted this in a thesis statement or a propositional form, but he has decided to use the historical narrative. Let's see how he convincingly argues that Jesus is the true Lord of all mankind. You'll see in the bulletin something a little bit different under the The order of service. In the order of service, right after the sermon title, you'll see the two main points of today's sermon. And my point is that Jesus takes the rightful place as the ruler of all mankind. And those are the two points that come from this passage. Let's read the passage now. When all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also was baptized. And while he prayed, the heaven was open. And the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove upon him. And a voice came from heaven which said, You are my beloved son, in you I am well pleased. Now Jesus himself began his ministry at about thirty years of age, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, the son of Heli, the son of Matat, the son of Levi. the son of Melchi, the son of Jana, the son of Joseph, the son of Matatiah, the son of Amos the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Nagai, the son of Ma, the son of Matadiah, the son of Seme, the son of Joseph, the son of Judah, the son of Joannes, the son of Ressa, the son of Jerugabel, the son of Shiotil, the son of Neri, the son of Melchit, the son of Adi the son of Khosam, the son of Elmudon, the son of Ur, the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matat, the son of Nevi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim, the son of Mileiah, the son of Menon, the son of Mathah, Matath, the son of Nathan the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obath, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nashon, the son of Aminadath Son of Ram, the son of Hezron, the son of Heras, the son of Judah, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, The son of Seruk, the son of Ru, the son of Paleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shela, the son of Canaan, the son of Arfasot the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalil, the son of Kaina, The son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God I need to catch my breath. So what do these words mean? What is it communicating? So I have those two points there First, Jesus was baptized like us, but he was not a sinner like us. I'm getting that from verses 21 through 22. Now last time we ended with the arrest of John the Baptist as he was too outspoken for Herod's taste. Before his incarceration, John received this wonderful privilege of baptizing Christ, the one he has been promoting all along. But if Jesus is really greater than John, why did Jesus get baptized by John? Before we answer this question, we should read the parallel passage we find in Matthew 3, 13 through 15. So if you want to turn back two books quickly. And go to the third chapter of Matthew and keep your finger at Luke. Three thirteenth through fifteenth. We have a conversation We see John having the same question as we do in that passage. Verses 13-15 of chapter 3 says in Matthew. Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at Jordan to be baptized by him. And John tried to prevent him, saying, I need to be baptized by you. And are you coming to me? But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allowed him. John has performed many baptisms, but this one stopped him at his tracks. Jesus, the one bringing the baptism of the Holy Spirit and fire, is now receiving the lesser water baptism. But note how Jesus doesn't say to John, John, actually you overestimated me. I'm actually a sinner like everyone else. I need this baptism of repentance. No, Jesus does not say that. Jesus is everything John testified and more. The one person in the world who is exempt from baptism is Jesus. He never sinned. Second Corinthians five twenty-one says, he knew no sin. 1 Peter 2. 22 says he is not guilty of sin in deed or word. Not a thought of his heart, not a word from his mouth, nor any action from him ever displeased God. Jesus is not just another sinner that adds to the guilt of the world. Quite the opposite. John the Baptist says elsewhere Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Gospel of John 1. 29. Yep We see in this chapter 3 of Luke, in verse 3, that John's baptism was a baptism of repentance for remission of sins. But what sin is there for Jesus to repent of? What sin did he have that needs to be forgiven? And like I said, none. So why did he take the baptism? John MacArthur lists some views out there about this. I'll try to give like titles, quick titles. First view is priesthood. Some believe Jesus did it as an initiation right into his high priesthood. And third was about the age that you see people become priesthood Others think, um, I'll take this view as um gentile view. Others think Jesus was identifying with Gentiles who became proselytes to Judaism through baptism. The third view is, I'll call this the endorsement view. Still others hold that through baptism, Jesus was endorsing John as the prophesied forerunner. Um the fourth view is my least favorite. I'll call it the redemption view. This view is saying that Jesus is beginning to bear the sins of mankind right here at Jordan at baptism. Making this act redemptive along with the death on the cross. I don't think that's biblical. Better than all of these Is the view that Jesus is being an obedient example for us. He showed us how to be sympathetic with sinners while being opposed to sin. The writer of Hebrews tells us, and this is found in Hebrews 4. 15, Jesus was someone who could sympathize with our weaknesses. Was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. And we are witnessing in this passage that how he can be sympathetic And even tempted, yet without sin. And we'll see that especially in the next passage as he is tempted in the wilderness. Jesus perfectly exemplified sympathy for sinners without relinquishing his moral purity. It's difficult, but Jesus did it. We on the other hand, we don't always do a good job. Now, we could go one direction. We can keep some distance from simple lifestyle of co-workers, pay for our unbelieving neighbors, witness to the lost. And then refuse to go with them everywhere and participate in their activities. Because there's this danger of getting too close and compromising. But when we are people pleasers and insecure in our call to holiness, we will fall prey to temptation. But there's also the opposite of keeping too much distance and being disengaged with the world. But if we're going to fulfill the Great Commission, go to the lost, we have to have some courage and we have to have uh be secure in our identity. And Jesus is showing us how. The first step toward this end was baptism. Was this a risky move? Yes. F. F. Bruce comments, quote, Christ's baptism might create misunderstanding, just as his associating with publicans and sinners did. He was content to be misunderstood. He wasn't darting his eyes left and right, nervous about what other people thought. He wasn't intimidated by the judgmental glares of religious leaders. To fulfill righteousness, he came to call not the righteous, but sinners to repentance. But while calling sinners to repentance, he would be called a glutton, drunkard, a friend of sinners, tax collectors, Matthew 11, 19. But Jesus is so secure in his sinless identity that he can identify with sinful people without sinning himself. Now, just in case there's any confusion about Jesus' sinless identity, God the Father and God the Spirit clears it up for us. Luke narrates in verse 21 that while Jesus was praying, heaven opened. Next we have both a visual and an audio confirmation of Jesus' identity and ministry. The Holy Spirit, normally invisible in form, descended in bodily form like a dove upon him. Dove as you see in Matthew 10, 16. is often a symbol of innocence and purity, an apt symbol visage for the Holy Spirit. John the Baptist saw this as a clear proof that Jesus is the Son of God. Again, going back to John's Gospel, chapter 1, verses 32 to 34. I'll just read it for you. And John bore witness saying, I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and he remained upon him. I did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, Upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining on him. This is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and testified that this is the Son of God. The Father breaks the centuries-long silence with this public display of affection. You are my beloved son. In you I am well pleased. These words are short but amazing, considering who spoke them. Charles Spurgeon, the Prince of Preachers, once preached on this voice from heaven, but he took it from the Matthew 3. 17 parallel. And he called the sermon title, A Great Sermon by the Greatest Preacher. And what a sermon. And what a preacher. God the Father Himself has been. Spoken to testify Jesus is the Son of God. In just ten words, we have a testimony weightier than all the martyrs and theologians through the ages. The contents of the Father's words can be divided into two parts. One modern commentator sees, You are my beloved son as one part, as an echo of Psalm two, which we read this morning. And in that chapter, David foresaw the millennial kingdom where all nations are subjugated under the Messiah reigning in Jerusalem. With You Are My Beloved Son, we have an echo of Psalm 2, and we get a glimpse of Christ in glory. In you I am well pleased is an echo of Isaiah 42, especially verse 1, marking Jesus as the suffering servant. We see Christ in his humility. So then with these two parts together, we see that Jesus' ministry will be both glorious and meek, powerful and gentle, just and merciful. Isaac Watson, The Joy to the World, understood this in the lyrics. He rules the world with truth and grace. And makes the nations prove the glories of his righteousness and wonders of his love. And what a wonderful moment in history that John likes to see. Heaven opened to earth, and we get an intimate look at God in three persons. Now, Christ's love for us is wonderful to be celebrated, but even more wonderful is the love shared between Christ and the Father. The Holy Spirit also joined in support of Jesus' ministry. And do you know that we can be part of this wonderful fellowship with the triumph? God. When we turn from our sins and trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior, we mere mortals can have fellowship with God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit We are saved to God the Father, redeemed through God the Son, sealed with God the Spirit. If we love and follow Christ, he and his Father will make their home with us. Believers receive the Spirit who abides with us forever. And when we We publicly declare our fellowship with our Triune God when we are obediently baptized in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Alright, let's move on to the second point. Jesus is human like us, but he was not born like us. I'm not going to reread those verses. In verse 23, I'll at least talk about a few phrases and names The phrase after the comma is crucial, being as supposed the son of Joseph. And the two words in the parentheses are more than parenthetical. So what is it saying? Son of Joseph was what people thought of Jesus, but it was not true genetically speaking. Joseph was not Jesus' physical father. He got his human nature from Mary and the Holy Spirit before Mary ever slept with the man. When Mary asks how she could become pregnant as a virgin, we read in chapter 1, verses uh verse 35. I'll just read it for you. You can flip back. It says there, and the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. So now Luke wants to signal this miracle. Look back to chapter 1 and 2. Communicate Jesus' unusual verse, yet maintain the standard practice. Of listing patriarchs' names and genealogies. The virgin birth is the signal to all humanity that while Jesus is human like us, he was not born like us. And if we are to s and we don't believe this, that um that Mary was somehow perpetually virgin or that she was immaculately conceived. That would taint, that would lessen the uniqueness of Jesus' birth. No one was born like Jesus from a virgin. He gets past Joseph with the important caveat, right? As supposed, and then beginning with Helium. He lists Mary's physical descendants. That means Heli that we see there is Jesus' maternal, not paternal, grandfather. So, what are we looking at here? We are looking at Mary's genealogy. Now, it's inevitable that there will be overlaps as lineages of Joseph and Mary meet at Jerubabel. Sheotiel, David, Judah, and Abraham. But Luke not only wanted to reinforce, but supplement the genealogy in Matthew 1. to provide a complete picture of Jesus' origins. His four qualifications as the Messiah. For that, Jesus is the both the legal and the physical descendant of David and Abraham. So Matthew talks about his legal right to sit on David's throne Because Joseph is the legal guardian and father, Jesus has the right to sit on David's throne and hold the scepter of Judah. Through Mary, Jesus is truly the physical seed of David and the patriarchs who received the covenant promises. Luke also adds to the genealogy of Jesus by reaching way past Abraham. So the Matthew genealogy only starts at Abraham. In verse 34, he continues to his father Terah, Abraham's father Terah. He goes beyond Shem and even past Noah to the times before the flood. But in the verse 36, we are well past Genesis 12 to Genesis 5. In verse 37, we got the good old Methuselah, the name mentioned in most standard Bible quizzes. Who is the oldest man in the Bible? Nine hundred sixty-nine years. His father was Enoch, the first person to be ever raptured. Enosh and Seth are grandson and son of Adam mentioned in Genesis 4, respectively. Finally, in verse 38, we go all the way back to Genesis 1 and 2, the creation of Adam, God's son. Now, why add four and a half verses and twenty names after Abraham? Authorial intent. Matthew is interested in presenting Jesus as the Messiah, the King of the Jews. While Luke is more interested in presenting Jesus as the Son of Man, the Savior of all mankind. Matthew is a Jew writing to other Jews. Luke is a Gentile writing to another Gentile, Theophilus. That difference will impact the content of their respective works. With the mention of Adam, we are invited to consider Jesus as the prophesied seed of the woman who will bruise the head of the serpent. Genesis 315. Not only that, the juxtaposition of Jesus and Adam is a key feature elsewhere in the New Testament, especially in Paul. By being united in with Christ, we are part of a new humanity, new creation. This idea is found in Romans 5, 12 to 21. And I'm just going to read for you verses 18 to 19 from that chapter. Therefore, as through one man's offense, judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation. Even so, through one man's righteous act, the free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of life. Whereas by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners, So also by one man's obedience, many will be made righteous. As believers of Christ, we are freely gifted with justification of life and righteousness in the present, at this moment. And our future is also hopeful. And as we sang about it this morning. Because Jesus Christ is the second Adam Who rose from the dead. We are promised a glorious resurrection because we are united with Christ. We get more Adam Christ comparisons in 1 Corinthians 15. Like Stephen said, as Steve Conrad said, that he debunks the idea, Paul debunks the idea that there is no resurrection from the dead. using hypothetical. And then he says in verses twenty to twenty-two in First Corinthians fifteen But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. Whereas in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. And skip down to if you're in 1 Corinthians. fifteen. Skip down to forty two to forty-nine. Paul uses examples from nature to contrast different divine designs of the universe. And he continues in verse 42. So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body. And so it is written, here we go again, the first man Adam became a living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural and afterward the spiritual. The first man was of the earth, made of dust. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust, and as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. Praise the Lord that we are not only related to the first Adam, but related also to Jesus, the second Adam. Now Jesus is the second Adam, but he is not second in the title of the Son of God. Which is what we see there at the end. Now it's true that Jesus as the Son of Man entered history thousands of years after Adam. But he existed before Adam too. Now we're like, what? What does that mean? Let's proceed a little at a time. Now, first we have John the Baptist, who is about six months older than Jesus. He says in John 1:15, John bore witness of him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me is preferred before me, for he was, chronologically, before me. But he's six months older. What does that mean? Let's go back further. About 700 years prior to John, in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah saw the Lord sitting on a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. And we have this calling of Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6. But here's what John the Apostle says about this encounter. These things Isaiah said when he saw his glory and spoke of him. Wait, whose glory and who is John talking about here? And who did Isaiah see at his calling? John is saying that Isaiah saw the glory of Christ before he became flesh and dwelt among us. And remember, again, Isaiah lived 750 years prior to Jesus' birth. Okay, one more backtracking. While Jesus was arguing with Jesus his day in Jerusalem, what did he say? He said that he existed even before Abraham. The father of Hebrews who lived about 2,000 years before Jesus. Christ existed before John the Baptist, months older in age. Isaiah the prophet, centuries older in age. Abraham the patriarch, millenniums older in age. How is this possible? Because he is the eternal Son of God. He exists eternally before all creation. First uh Colossians 1:15-17 says, He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. You know how John begins his gospel. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Down to verse 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. This genealogy teaches us that Jesus is the descendant of David, the root of Jesse, the Lion of Judah, the seed of Abraham. And son of Adam. But none of these earthly names would exist without Christ. He is David's son, but also David's Lord. He's not only the rightful heir to the throne as the king of the Jews, he is the king of kings, lord of lords. He is the second greater Adam because he is God's son in ways that Adam could never be And why did the Son of God, the second person in Trinity, become man? There was a philosopher, theologian named Anselm of Canton. Who wrote a treatise entitled Cerdus Homo, which means why God became man. His influence is still felt today, and an outline of his argument looks something like this. Uh and it's al almost goes like a gospel tract. And there's um certain words that are important like eternal blessedness. God made man for eternal blessedness. Man fell from his original state, forfeited eternal blessedness, and ruined the entire race through sin. The remission of sins is necessary for a fallen man to arrive at eternal blessedness. In order for sins to be remitted, satisfaction must be made. There's some crucial part here when we talk about Jesus. Only man ought to make satisfaction for his sin, but he cannot. Only God can make this satisfaction, but he ought not. It says only man ought to make satisfaction, and only God can make satisfaction. It must be made by a God man, God-man. If man remains unredeemed, God's purpose for humanity and creation will be frustrated. Which is impossible for an omnipotent being. Therefore, a God-man is necessary for the redemption of humanity. That in a nutshell tells us why Jesus came. Jesus is that necessary God, man. He was baptized and have a genealogy just like us. But he never sinned, and he existed from eternity past. And he showed an example of obedience in his life. He gave his life on the cross so that we could be forgiven of our sins. As we celebrate the Lord's Supper today, I hope that we can appreciate This wonderful news that he who is wholly other came to be with us and save up save us from our destruction in hell. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you speak to us from all parts of Scripture. Lord, even in what seems to be Just endless list of names, Lord. Lord, every moment in history you had a purpose. There's nothing that passes you by without your notice. That every life that was born, no, you know. No, you know the seven point seven billion people that live on this earth right now. You know that they need you. And you did not just stand idle, but you sent your son. And he came on the earth 2,000 years ago. And though he did not sin at all, not in word, not in thought, not in deed, Lord he came to identify with us. Lord. He came to preach the gospel to people who don't deserve your grace. Lord, we are thankful for that because we ourselves, we know we don't deserve grace. We thank you that not only did he become man, that he is God, that he can save us. He pays the penalty that we also have paid to bring us to eternal blessedness with you so that we can enjoy the fellowship with you. The Son and the Holy Spirit. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.