I looked at my age demographics this week because I was thinking about charitable giving across generations. My birthday is very late in 1980. I teeter between the categories of Generation X and Millennial. But I clearly and fondly remember owning and listening to a Walkman playing Mario on the 8-bit Nintendo Entertainment System. Chatting online with friends with dial-up internet and gas prices closer to a dollar. So I'm going to align myself with Gen X According to one ranking about eight years ago, the greatest generation born before 1945 had the highest percentage of its population giving at 88%. So while their numbers are shrinking, many of them give. Not surprisingly, baby boomers born between 1946 and We're second in percentage of givers at 72%, and boomers contribute most to the sum of all charitable giving As for the Gen Xers and Millennials, the older contributes more, but only 59% of us give, and we make up a smaller percentage of the population. I'm looking at all this and I wonder in general whether the baton's been dropped, a message lost in transit. And I'm talking about I'm applying this to Christianity here. Between the older believers and younger Christians. Will substantial charitable giving start to fade over time? My parents never taught me budgeting per se, but they were definitely frugal and that was impressive. Most I've learned about biblical finances was from a fanatic Dave Ramsey disciple, and I don't know too many of them. Thankfully, God has much to say about earning, saving, and spending money. Today's passage in Luke 16, 1 to 13, is a crucial. Let's read it now. He also said to his disciples, There was a certain rich man who had a steward, and an accusation was brought to him that this man was wasting his goods. So he called him and said to him, What is this I hear about you? Give an account of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward. Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my master is taking the stewardship away from me. I cannot dig, I am ashamed to beg. I resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. So he called every one of his master's debtors to him, and said to the first, How much do you owe my master? And he and he said a hundred measures of oil. So he said to him, Take your bill and sit down quickly and write fifty Then he said to another, And how much do you owe? So he said, hundred measures of wheat And he said to him, Take your bill and write eight. So the master commended the unjust steward, because he had dealt shrewdly. For the sons of this world are more shrewd in their generation than the sons of light. And I say to you, make friends for yourselves by unrighteous mammon, that when you fail, they may receive you. into an everlasting home. He who is faithful in what is least is faithful also in much And he who is unjust in what is least is unjust also in much. Therefore, if you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust The true riches. And if you have not been faithful in what is another man's, who will give you what is your own? No servant can worship uh can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon Handling money is no easy matter. We must know its potentials and risks, both temporal and eternal consequences. In this particular passage, as disciples of Jesus, we must understand money in context of three major areas of life. Friendship, stewardship, and worship. I derive three money principles, one Use fating funds to make eternal friends one to nine. Two, be a faithful steward to receive much reward verses ten to twelve And three, holy worship God, not money. Verse thirteen First, let's talk about friendship and how we can use fading funds to make eternal friends. This is the first and main principle that Jesus derives from the parable. The point seems obvious, but commentators have struggled with some of the details of the parable and the structure of this passage. For example, structurally speaking, where does Jesus' story end exactly? I take the view that it ends in the middle of verse 8, and then our Lord begins the explanation there. Comparing the sons of this world with sons of light. Jesus' proposition in verse 9 wraps up the section nicely. It parallels the steward's thought in verse 4 with words and phrases that when they may receive into As for the details of the story itself, it helps to compare this parable with the preceding one. Both are realistic fiction, featuring wealthy men, and both suffer loss because of a prodigal. Whether it's the prodigal son or the prodigal servant, both prodigals had to own up to their mistakes and come face to face with their respective authorities. Both engage in monologues and come to some kind of plan to preserve themselves in the future. But there are of course some key differences, whereas repentance is a theme of the prodigal son parable. Shrewdness is the theme of the prodigal steward parable. At the end of the story, here there is no substantial character transformation from lost and dead to found and alive. The steward's just as unjust as he was at the beginning. He's still one of the sons of this world, not one of the sons of light. So we need to be careful to pick out what's commendable in this steward, which is just one quality, and discard all others And that one quality to be emulated is only and namely shrewdness. And here's what shrewness looks like. Backed into a corner. This man knows for sure he's getting fired. He can't dig himself out of this mess, figuratively and literally. He's been at this white-collar job for so long, manual labor is not an option. He was about to take a free fall from a lofty position. To be a resource manager for a wealthy man was to be envied by all. Such employment was so coveted that some sold themselves as slaves to wealthy individuals for such a status. Now he's afraid he'll end up in the streets begging. The steward's plan is not given in detail, but it is executed in verses 5 to 7. The goal is to ingratiate himself to his master's borrowers so that they'll welcome him. into their homes once he's let go. Make his bosses' debtors indebted to him. They'll show hospitality later for his kindness shown now. Time's taken away so he gets right to work, and the two transactions recorded are typical of many he conducted between then and the termination of his employment. The first transaction reduces a hundred measures or a tuce of olive oil. Batos in Greek relates to bot in Hebrew. In our terms, we're talking about eight or nine gallons per measure. That means this customer owes 900 gallons of oil As for the second client, he owed a hundred measures of or chorus of wheat. Chorus in Greek relates to kor in Hebrew, and in our terms, we're talking about 10 to 11 bushels per measure. That means this customer owes one thousand bushels of wheat. And these are large sums Amounts exchanged between aristocrats, lords, and nobles. For one reference, look at Ezra chapter seven, verse twenty-one to twenty-three. How much Artacirces, the king of Persia, granted Ezra as limits, up to one hundred cores of wheat, one hundred baths of wine, one hundred baths of oil The steward's not playing around with pocket change. He's wheeling and dealing with the rich owners of olive groves and wealthy patrons with acres of land. So also these reductions are not small discounts. That much is certain. Now, some commentators, like Joseph Bitzmayr, have attempted to delve deeper into details. Some think that the amounts deducted, specifically 50 measures of oil and 20 measures of wheat, Are not part of the principal owed to the master, rather the discounted amounts are the extra interest or the commission owed to the manager Now to charge that much for handling fees seems ridiculous, but remember this guy is no paragon of virtue. It's not hard to imagine him filling his own pockets at the expense of his boss and his debtors. Whether the discount is from the principal or the interest, we're not sure. But we see that the steward's employer is impressed. He was forward thinking. He was using his position in the present to position himself in the future. He was operating within the bounds of unstable rules to stabilize himself. Again, we're not talking about sound business ethics here. We're not praising the steward's dishonesty, mismanagement, and underhandedness We're praising his shrewdness. We have something when we something similar when we think about Rahat We don't praise her past sexual immorality or even her deception of her fellow citizens. We just praise her for her faith and works. In the same way, there's a kind of shrewdness in worldly scoundrels that can be learned by godly saints. This should not surprise us. Jesus compares those who hear and obey him to the wise and shrewd man who built his house on a rock. He told his disciples as they went out to be shrewd as serpents. In another parable, the five virgins who were prepared for the coming of the bridegroom were shrewd. Earlier in Luke 12, 42, we saw how faithfulness goes hand in hand with shrewdness. Jesus and his disciples, his apostles, wanted us to be shrewd. According to God's will, not wise in our own opinion. If we're going to be shrewder and wiser, we first need to accept that the sons of this world do a better job preparing for the next phase of their lives than the sons of light preparing for heaven. Unbelievers recognize the power of money, and even in their corrupt ways, value friendships that last a lifetime. Can we do better with friendships that last eternity? I have to ask myself, honestly, if I were to die right now, how many saints would invite me over to their celestial mansions to hang out? Some of you know that 1988 Christian song by Ray Boltz that goes, Thank you for giving to the Lord. I am a life that was changed. Thank you for giving to the Lord. I am so glad you gave. The third verse goes like this. One by one they came, far as the eyes could see. Each life somehow touched by your generosity. Little things that you have done, sacrifices made, unnoticed on the earth, in heaven now proclaimed. They always play the song when missionaries came over. But anyway, um I don't think it's going to play out like that exactly. But I agree with the sentiment. And for better guidance on how to use money to make eternal friends, I encourage you to read and meditate on these passages. I'm not going to read them right now, I'll just give you the references. Matthew ten, forty to forty-three, Matthew twenty-five, thirty-one to forty-six Luke twelve, thirty-two to thirty-four, Romans fifteen, twenty-five to twenty-seven, Galatians six, six First Timothy six, seventeen to nineteen. There are actually many more, but that's just a start. But whether it's someone sent out by Jesus, the poor individuals among us, other churches in poverty, or faithful ministers who depend on your generosity. We can build eternal friendships with our wealth. If the Lord has blessed you materially, think of ways to use your money To help siblings in Christ and build relationships with them. It could be formal monthly donations or just a tasty lunch on you. One more thought before I go on to verse 10, and it has to do with the peculiar phrase, unrighteous mammon. Let's look at it one word at a time. The word mammon comes from the Hebrew verb which means to be firm or put trust in. It's not that hard to go from that word root to money, wealth, and possessions. It's also not difficult to see how mammon could be an idol, a rival to God. More on that later. As for unrighteous, Jesus did not mean that money is intrinsically evil But we've been warned sufficiently that often our relationship to money is sinful. Jesus taught that the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things entering in, choke the word of the kingdom. Those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, this is Paul now, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. So money may not be the root of all evil, but the love of money definitely is. He who loses love I'm sorry, he who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver. Low he who loves abundance with increase. This also is vanity. Says that in Ecclesiastes five ten Well then the best approach to unrighteous mammon is to make sure it doesn't make you unrighteous. I read a piece from Paul Tripp, a biblical counselor, warning against five dangers of money. See if you can relate to them. One, money can cause you to forget God. Two, money can change the way you think about you. Three, money can cause you to look down on others. Four, money can weaken your resolve to fight temptation. And five, money can finance your allegiance to the kingdom of self Well boy these pitfalls, if in whatever state we're in, we learn godliness with contentment. Riches sprout wings and fly away like an eagle, to be eager to give to the weak and the poor, especially fellow believers. Make friends with them as they will be strong and rich in heaven. But even more important than our friends in heaven is our Master in Heaven, and that leads to the second point about stewardship. Be a faithful steward to receive much. Here are two features of these verses that stand out. First, in verses 10 to 12, we have the constant theme of faithfulness. I think that it was in God's wisdom that these verses immediately follow the preceding parable. Verses 10 to 12 are there to make sure we only follow the unjust steward in his shrewdness. Not his untrustworthiness. In his desperation, the steward in the parable did only one thing that was commendable. As a general rule, we should not be like him. We need to strive at all times to be faithful stewards to receive much reward. The other feature, so secondly, we observe the parallelism that runs through these verses. What is least corresponds to the unrighteous mammon and what is another man's. Much corresponds to true riches and what is your own. We need to understand that worldly currency is not what counts most. But it counts least. While unrighteous mamma is corruptible, true riches are not. Our material blessings on earth belong to this world, which will fade away. What we have in heaven will truly be ours. Now, from verses 10 to 11, we go from general to specific. Generally speaking, how you manage frivolous matters says a lot about how you manage weightier matters. We'll either be faithful or unjust with what's been entrusted to us. Now in verse 11, Jesus teaches specifically about money, referring to it once again as unrighteous mammon. How we balance our budget, donate to those in need, use wealth for God's glory. Says a lot about how we'll manage heavenly riches. Consider the money in your account as an audition, a tryout, an evaluation. You're being tested now for the future management of your own riches. I encourage you to go home and consider your spending thus far in 2021. Five months have passed. How much have you stored up for eternity? Have you been a faithful steward? If we were to do something like a kingdom audit, what would be the total invested in helping fellow saints and furthering the spread of the gospel? A few cents, a few dollars, tens, hundreds, thousands Will we receive much reward as individuals? And how about as a church? I don't have much to say here except I feel that God will reward us for our faithful giving. But if we were to model ourselves continually after a specific church, We could look to the church of Philippi. From the first day of their founding, they distinguish themselves by their giving and enjoy fellowship in the gospel with Apostle Paul. They stood out from other churches as he departed from Macedonia. Paul writes, No church share with me concerning giving and receiving. But you only. For even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Here's a church filled with faithful stewards who receive much reward. Let me tell you as a transitional statement that faithful stewardship requires a worshipful attitude In some church services, the offering time becomes a sort of an intermission from worship. A time to chat with those sitting next to us, check our smartphones, stretch, run out for a drink, etc. But thankfully, I was taught that offering time is still worship time. I think that's true. If I go back to Philippians chapter four and read what Paul said about their generous donation And I see it in verse seventeen to twenty. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Indeed I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaproditus the things sent from you. A sweet smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. We are best as faithful stewards when we see giving is for God's glory. We're supplied in our needs as we give to others' needs. Our offering is a sweet-smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. Our gifts can be the fruit that abounds to our accounts. But what happens when money meant to be sacrificed on the altar becomes the object of our worship? When we become consumers and no longer see God as a consuming fire. What happens when we care less about being well-pleasing to God and more about well-pleasing to ourselves when our heavenly accounts run empty, but our earthly accounts Abound. That leads us to the third money principle of worship. Holy worship God, not money A philosopher once said, Money is a great servant, but a bad master. I think this is true and relevant here. We've already seen how money can serve us in making friends for eternity. We've also seen how faithful stewardship of temporal possessions pays off in eternal dividends. But all throughout we've been dealing and calling money as unrighteous mammon for a reason Because of our evil hearts, it tends to corrupt, lead us to greed, covetous, and idolatry. Yes, money is a great servant, but a bad master. We must gain mastery over money lest we become its slave. To do that, we must learn to hate and despise money and instead love, be loyal, and serve God. We must wholly worship God, not money. Ultimately, this struggle with love of money is a battle for our hearts. Here are some diagnostic questions to see if Mammon is your idol. Is this world your home? Or is heaven your home? For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. When we think of paradise, who or what comes to mind? Do we worship the creature and creation rather than the creator? Is God Himself your exceedingly great reward? The critical question for our generation and for every generation is this. If you could have heaven with no sickness, And with all the friends you ever had on earth, and all the food you ever liked, and all the leisure activities you ever enjoyed, And all the natural beauties you ever saw, all the physical pleasures you ever tasted, and no human conflict or any natural disasters Could you be satisfied with heaven if Christ were not there? I hope your answer is no. What would heaven be without Christ? Without our wholehearted worship of the one and only triune God. If you desire true friendship, stewardship, and worship, and never heard of the gospel before, the good news. I ask you, come to the Father through Jesus. He's been good to us. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. And comes down from the Father of Lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. But we've been ungrateful and foolishly worshiping the gifts rather than the giver of those gifts. We've used what God has given us for our selfish purposes. We've turned away from Him But our Father is kind to the unthankful and evil. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Christ, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. So God's Son never sinned, he humbled himself even to the death of the cross for our sake. There at the crucifixion, Jesus paid for sins we'd committed, took the penalty of hell we deserved. He then rose from the dead, proved many times over that he's alive and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge the world. Before it's too late, come to Christ in repentance and faith. Turn away from self-indulgence and self-reliance Turn to Jesus and place your hope of eternal life in Him alone. All the money in this world, and even if we were to add it all up through history, He cannot buy you a ticket to heaven. Per save to the finished work on the cross, the greatest gift of all Eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Trust in Him alone for salvation. It is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And we're saved so that we might worship God alone. And this morning let's remember the cost that we was paid as we observe the Lord's Supper. Let's pray. Lord, we're thankful each and every day for the roof over our heads, clothes on our back, food on our table. Lord, those things were meant to point to you. And how many times have we taken you for Granted, that we've been ungrateful, that we complained and forgotten all the good things you provide for us. We do not count your blessings one by one. We dismiss them altogether. We forget about them. In our comforts. Or it's sad to say some of us need your discipline to be reminded that we need you. And it's not about the gifts. Help us to loosen our grip on the things of this world, see it as vanity, and come to you Renouncing all. We rather have your son than the things of this world. Take all that we have Where all these things are sinking sand, we put our feet on the gospel, and we want to build on the foundations of that gospel. Help us to make friendships that last for eternity. Help us to be good stewards with our time and possessions. May we worship you and you alone. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.