In the mid-1860s, the London Megachurch, Metropolitan Tabernacle, was flourishing. Thousands of new members, many elders were appointed to care for them. Pastor Charles Spurgeon's sermons were published and distributed all over the world. Ministries of outreach, evangelism, pastoral training were established and growing Spurgeon was not satisfied. He wanted to bring some organization to all that was taking place around him. For that end, he became the editor of a monthly magazine. The writing would not only celebrate God's work at his church, but also other Baptist churches sharing his ministry vision. The name of that magazine is Apropos, The Sword and the Trow. Virgin borrowed this image from Nehemiah 4. As God's people were rebuilding the Jerusalem walls, they had to multitask. On one hand, literally, they had tools for construction such as a trial. On the other hand, again literally, they carried a weapon like a sword. They had work to do, but dangerous enemies lurked. The foes did not want to see the city restored. Men with the sword and the trousers, the right image to describe the work of every Christian We gather together to edify each other, encourage and stimulate growth. But we're also aware that many seek our harm spiritually and maybe even physically. To be clear, in the dispensation of the church, we don't bear the sword The government does, but as Steve reminded us earlier, we do wield the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And what every saint and every age, regardless of Old Testament or New Testament, we all need courage, boldness. As you continue in Genesis and turn to a new chapter, we see an example in Abram. Now, when my son wants to hear an action story from the scriptures, I turn to someone like David and Goliath. I usually don't think of Abram and Kederlaumer. By the way, it's Kedderlaumer, not Cheddarla, or But here's Abram, a man of faith, taking up arms to fight and deliver Lot. So let's go to Genesis 14. And that should actually read Genesis fourteen, one to sixteen on the slide. Sorry about that. So we'll read that, a portion of this chapter, verses one to sixteen. And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel, king of Shinar, Ariok, king of Elassar, Kedarlaumer, king of Elam. and title, King of Nations, that they made war with Bera, king of Sodom, Bersha, King of Gomorrah, Shinnab, King of Adma Shemebur, king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela, that is Zoar. All these joined together in the valley of Siddhart, that is the Salt Sea. Twelve years they served Kedulaumer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled. In the fourteenth year, Kedalaumer and the kings that were with him came and attacked the Rephaim and Ashterot, Karnaim, the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Shabe, Kariatim. And the Horites in their mountain of Seir as far as El Paran, which is by the wilderness. Then they turned back and came to En-Mishpat. that is Kadesh, and attacked all the country of the Amalekites and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazazon Tamar The king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zebuim, and the king of Bela, that is Zoar, went out and joined together in the battle in the valley of Siddim. against Hederlaumer, king of Elon, Tito, King of Nations, Amraphel, King of Shinar, and Ariel, king of Elassar, four kings against Thai. Now the valley of Siddhim was full of ashelf pits And the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled. Some fell there, and the remainder fled to the mountains. Then they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their provisions and went their way. They also took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom and his goods, and departed. And one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew where he dwelt by the Terebin trees, the Mamre, the Amorite, brother of Eshkol and brother of A-Ainar. And they were allies with Abram. Now when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his three hundred and eighteen trained servants who were born in his own house and went in pursuit as far as Dan. He divided his forces against them by night. And he and his servants attacked them and pursued them as far as Hoba, which is north of Damascus. So he brought back all the goods, and also brought back his brother Lot and his goods, as well as the women and the people. So Genesis fourteen stands in stark contrast to the earlier two chapters. Look at all the names of kings here. We haven't seen such a large cluster of names since chapter 11. Look at all the people names too. All the IT, I-T-E-S and I-M S, right, Ms. They're the Rephaim and the Zuzim, the Amalekites and the Amorites, etcetera That's not all that's peculiar here. Like I said, we probably don't picture Abram as a warrior like David. You might tell you he's a lover, not a fighter. But Kiana reads this right. Because if you don't fight for your love, what kind of love do you have? Abram loves his nephew, Lot, even after they separated in chapter 13. You'll fight to get him back from the clutches of powerful kings. So then we have in Genesis 14 a chapter that looks like it belongs in the Samuels, the Kings, or the Chronicles. I'm going to cover this chapter in two sermons. First, this week there's the battle and the victory in verses 1 to 16. Next week there's the aftermath, the celebration, and the spoils of war in 17 to 24, and this famous I outline today's passage into three parts. There's the political background in verses 1 to 7. We're told what happened in the years that led up to the war. Then Moses narrates the battle itself in verses 8 to 12. Then we're told Lot's taken captive along with his goods. Lot's connection to Abram brings Abram into the fray. He organizes his own army to save his nephew. So Abram's victory is recorded in verses 13 to 16. So that's three parts, verses one to seven, eight to twelve, and thirteen to sixteen. But besides the passage being a chronological account of war, what unites it? What's the underlying theme here? I think the two mentions of Lot and his goods in verses 12 and 16 is a big clue. I believe the passage is about Lot's poor choices and the consequences that follow those poor choices. See while Abram's growing in his faith, lots moving in the opposite direction. Wrong direction. I mentioned this last week. It's as if he's simulating the opposite of Psalm 1-1. Remember, Psalm 11 reads, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. Lot, unlike that blessed man, grows more and more comfortable with the wicked men of Sodom. First, Lot moves towards them. It says in the middle of Genesis 13, 12, Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent even as far as Sodom. In today's passage, in the middle of Genesis 14, 12, we just read that Lot dwelt in Sodom. Finally, if you skip ahead to chapter 19, it says in verse 1, When the angels came to Sodom in the evening, Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. Lot went from pitching his tent outside to having a home inside. It's as if he went from applying for visitor visa to applying for permanent residence. Next he was naturalized. Finally, he ran for public office. He settled down, married probably a sodomite. He even arranged his daughters to marry some b bachelors of the city. We know what disaster ensues. Yes, God does deliver Lot, but his story is a cautionary tale But even at this point in Genesis before this dramatic judgment of Sodom, there are lessons to learn So we're trying to follow Lot's perspective here. Had Lot or someone else kept the war diary in Genesis 14? There might be three entries in it. So bear with me and indulge me here. I'm gonna call these like entries, right? And they correspond to three parts of the sermon outline. And you don't have to serve in the military to find practical principles for living here? We're in the Lord's army, right? Yes, sir. Here are three biblical reflections to prime us for spiritual warfare. Biblical reflections to prime us for spiritual warfare. Entry number one. Our Lord is sovereign over unstable nations. That's verses one through Entry number two, our confidence is not in rulers but in God. That's eight to twelve. Entry number three, our love and faith inspire courage for battle. That's thirteen to sixteen So the first entry and biblical reflection to prime us for spiritual warfare is this: our Lord is sovereign over unstable nations. So turning to the new chapter, we as readers are suddenly thrust into some turmoil of international political affairs. It's like watching a real-life simulation of that board game risk. Sure, we learned about the Pharaoh back in Genesis 12. But there's a lot more going on here. Not only is the word king in Hebrew, Melech, found for the first time in the Bible in chapter fourteen. Twenty-seven times we find the word king, twenty-eight if you count Melchizedek, whose name means king of righteousness. Do keep in mind kings in this context are more modest than kings closer to our times. They do not rule over empires that stretch over continents and across oceans. They rule over much smaller city-states. That domain, I think Matches the profile of kings and places in Genesis fourteen one. Sinar corresponds to Babylonia, further east there's Elam. As for the other two, it's hard to pinpoint on the map, Elassar and Goim, translated as nations. King of Nations is probably a pompous Exaggeration. At any rate, archaeologists identify majority of these names, monarchs and places, to be of Mesopotamian origin. So in a word, these are kings from the east, kings of Orient, if you want to call them. And they're not like the friendly magi that visited baby Jesus. Right. They don't come bearing gifts from afar. They come to take and plunder from the region. Remember how Moses described the region back in chapter 13, verse 10? It was well watered everywhere, like the garden of the Lord. It was like the land of Egypt as you go up toward Zor. There's much to be desired here. Specifically, according to some research, copper, a valuable ingredient for bronze, was abundant in the region south of the Dead Sea. That's where Sodom, Gomorrah, Adma, Zeboim, and Bela were located. But as we see in verse two, the five kings of these cities, I'll call them the Jordanian kings. Plains of Jordan, defy the four Mesopotamian kings. It makes sense to make an alliance. According to verse 3, they joined forces in the valley of Siddin Likely at the southern tip of the Dead Sea. They felt enough is enough. We learn in verse 4 that the poor Mesopotamian kings enslaved them a dozen years, likely exacting costly tributes. It's time to fight back. Thirteenth year. The four Eastern kings saw the tributes had stopped, the money stopped flowing in, they heard news of uprising. They won't take this sitting down. Kedderlaumer appears to be like the elpha of these of the in the group. He got his fellow kings ready. They organized their troops, probably numbering in the thousands, typical of the Bronze Age. But the Mesopotamian kings not only wanted to put down the rebels, they're going to make a lot of noise in the area. They're going to leave a path of destruction. That way every ruler and every city would know who's the boss. No one else would dare think about defying them. Verses 5 to 7 reveal the extent of their military campaign. In verse 5, there are three people groups names ending with Im. In verses 6 to 7, there's another trio ending with the Ice. As for the itinerary, picture a big U shape. Draw the U letter, but do so from right to left, not left to right as we normally do. And draw the U letter in three steps. First, draw a line on the east side of the Jordan River from north to south. The line goes from the near the Sea of Galilee to near the Dead Sea. That movement is described in verse 5. Force kings strike three victims, the Rephaim and Ashtoric Karnaim, the Zuzim and Ham, the Emim and Shabet Kiriatdaim. Secondly, as you do with any U letter, draw a curve at the bottom. At the lowest point of the sheikh are the Horites, according to verse 6. At the southernmost point is their mountain of Seir. It's as far as El Quran, which is by the wilderness. Now it's time to ascend north, go up the left side of the Ushaikh. Verse 7 describes this movement. Kedilaumar and his allies came to an N-Mishpat, that is Kadesh. They attacked all the country of the Amalekites and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazizon Tamar. Now, as the Mesopotamians pass near the Dead Sea second time, they're likely worn out of it. From the six battles they fought already. So the five Jordanian kings chose the right time to attack. That's the background for the showdown that ensues in verse 8. Uh covered all these details just so that we understand all that's going on, but there's a lot we don't know like I don't know how these Mesopotamian kings started working together. Do I side with the Jordanian kings? Are they the you know our allies? Like even though the king of Sodom is among them? I don't know. Politics is complicated. Even back then. Okay. I just know that our Lord is sovereign over unstable nations. And I was Just wanted us to meditate on this big idea from Daniel 2, 20 to 21. God is to be blessed forever. Wisdom and might are his. I don't know if you watch the news and get fall into despair, but this truth helps me sleep at night Even as nations rage and peoples plot a vain thing. So I'm I'm not trying to just be dismissive of all the details, but keep in mind all this was a setup for the battle at the Valley of Siddhim. I wanted a cool name for that. I'm going to call this account the War of Nine Kings or something like that. And again, if there was a diary kept, an entry would state the following. Our confidence is not in rulers, but in God. That's the second biblical reflection to prime us for spiritual warfare Verses 8 to 9 take us to the clash at the Valley of Sidon. Again, it's five Jordanian kings versus four Mesopotamian kings. Five is greater than four. Right? Also there's the advantage in being near their home, like having a home field advantage. So Bera, the king of Sodom, and his company should win. But not only did the five kings lose, it was a disaster. According to verse 10, the The two leading kings, Bera and Bishha, lost their nerve first. Others were literally down in the pits. Ashford and Bitumen were was a dark, slimy substance used to bind bricks Our fighting men were stuck in it. Others fled to hide in cracks and crevices of the hills. It gets worse in verse 11. If he was, then he did more than just dwell with the sodomites. He was in the trenches with them. If he wasn't in the battle, the conquering kings came to Sodom, ransacked the city, and took his citizen, and Allah was carried along with them. And that's what we see in verse 12. Lak was taken, as it says in verse 12. It was taken from the well-watered area that looked like the garden of the Lord, like the land of the Of Egypt. He found security and prosperity. That's why he put up with all the moral failures of Sodom. He was like, it's worth it. I have a nice place to live. Place to start a family, secure, place to grow. But as he learned, even his physical safety was precarious. If Lot is wise, he might have noted, our confidence is not in rulers, but in God. So here's another verse to think about from somewhere else other than Genesis. Maybe Lot Ip thinking correctly would have anticipated Psalm eighteen Psalm one eighteen, eight through nine. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in principle. Jesus. Balak would have been better off staying close to his uncle. He would have saved himself a lot of trouble. Now it's up to Abram to save his nephew. Matthew. And that leads us to the third entry and biblical reflection to prime us for spiritual warfare. Our love and faith inspire courage for battle. Again, the four Mesopotamian kings are victorious, they're on their way home. They're likely homesick, tired, and worn out after putting down the resistance. They're probably thinking, worth it, right? They collected their trophies. They're making their way back up north, up the left side of the use shape, as I said earlier. In Genesis 13, 18, we last saw Abram by the Terebin trees of Mamre. Mamre, as you see in verse 13 of chapter 14, is an Amorite who lived in Hebron. That's about 30 miles from the valley of Siddhart. Mamre had two brothers, Ashko and Anir. They were descendants of Canaan, the Amorites, but they cut a covenant with Abram the Hebrew. So such alliances were helpful in moments like this. A fugitive, probably a sodomite. When Ulot reported what happened, Abram did not hesitate. Here's a side of him, like I said, we probably don't expect out of Abram Again, he's more of a lover than a fighter, but when he fights for Lot, whom he loves. Lot left them a while ago, but they're still brethren. That's his motivation to take up arms. So in verse 14, Abram gets his men ready. There are 318 young men, second generation domestic servants. It's striking the amount of loyalty Abram inspires These servants are not battle-tested like the four kings and their army, yet they're ready to die for Abram and his cause. Prepare to go the distance. A straight line from Hebron to Dan would be over 100 miles. But this army's not all passion and heart. Abram guides them with his intellect. We're told that in verse 15 he divided his forces. My guess is that while the four exhausted kings were sound asleep, Abram crept up behind them unnoticed. He split up his men. into four smaller groups, maybe about eighty men each. He take one group, Mamre another, Anir the third, and Eshko the fourth. They surrounded the enemy camp on all sides, north, south, east, and west, and like a pack of wolves, they flanked their prey. When the attacks began, the kings panicked, they ran for their lives. Abram's army chased them about fifty to sixty miles north of Dan. As we see in verse sixteen, the campaign was successful. The chase ended at Hobah, where the kings left behind Lot, his goods, women, and the people. No information leading up to this point was suggested that Abram should win. Abram's a tenth dweller. He and his three Amorite friends were just normal plain folks. They based off against four kings who recently defeated five kings. It was Abram's domestic servants versus a professional military, supposedly better trained and better armed. It was not relative skill or experience that led to this win. Abram's love and faith inspired courage for battle Again, we're not in a physical warfare, but we need the same love and faith for our spiritual warfare today. We may not be servants born into Abram's household, but we are Christ's servants born again into God's household. That's why we overcome the world. So here's another verse from outside of Genesis to think about more specifically. Right? As first John five four to five reminds us, this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is he who overcomes the world? But he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. Son of God. So this is a vital matter, right? Do you believe in Jesus? Do you have faith that overcomes the world? Such faith is central to the gospel, the good news But it begins with the bad news that none but Jesus is trustworthy. You might put your hope in politicians or rulers But you'll be disappointed. You might place your faith in yourself. The same result, disappointment and failure. Again, even the best of us cannot be trusted. None can deliver us from sin. That's because we all have a heart problem. Jeremiah seventeen nine says, The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? It's no wonder Jesus You know, we learn about Jesus in John two, twenty-four-twenty-five. Jesus knew better to commit himself to men, because he knew all men and what was in all men. Matthew 15, 19 says, again Jesus saying, out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. Sinners, we stand under God's just wrath. That's why to put confidence in any sinful man, yourself included, is foolish. When we sit at the throne of our lives to rule as kings, our kingdom crumbles into shambles. We deserve, as sinners, a place in hell, down in the horrible pit, not a seat in heaven. But God did not leave us like this. God the Father in love sent God the Son. Jesus is God and man in one person. He's rightly a king, and his kingdom is not of this world. But he humbled himself. He was born into this world to bear witness to the truth. He came to rescue us from this present evil age, the domain of darkness, and from the wrath to come. As Abram did for Lot, Jesus does for us, but a whole far, whole lot better. His mission is to free us from the bondage of sin, corruption, and Satan. For that end, Christ gave himself for our sins. After living a perfect life, he laid down his life as a substitute. He suffered in our place to satisfy God's wrath. He went to the cross to pay the penalty of sins we should pay. Having finished his work of redemption. He breathed his last, he died, he was buried, but that's not the end of the story. On the third day, he rose again from the grave. Yea, many proofs of his resurrection for many days. Or to many people. Then he ascended to sit at the Father's right hand. Now we eagerly await for our Savior, Lord Jesus Christ, to be revealed from heaven. He'll return to judge the living and the dead, and we sang about These truths earlier. Now this good news of God demands a response. All must repent, turn from sin, turn from self-reliance, surrender to the King of Kings. Request terms of peace from Him. Give yourselves over to Jesus. Trust Him only for everlasting life. You cannot earn a place in heaven by your life. Works. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. I hope for most of us here that what I said is just a reinforcement. review. We do need regular reminders of the gospel. We also need to tell others about it. Don't wait for them to come through church doors, as the master said to his servant in the parable, go out into the highways and hedges. Compel them to come into the kingdom of God. I guess in a sense we have to give chase to help those held captive to sin. And we have to be equipped. Put on the full armor of God. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds. Rely on the Lord for victory. So let's remind ourselves of that truth as we sing our final song. Did we in our own strength confide? Our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing. You ask who that may be. Christ Jesus, it is He. Lord Sabbath his name, from ace to ace the same. And he must win the battle. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you've given us this gift of repentance and faith. By your gracious will, Lord, we trust in you. Because we trust in you, we not only secure ourselves a place in heaven. Lord, we secure ourselves power and victory for today. So we pray that you will give us boldness. Grant us love for the lost. Give us victory over sin. Lord, when we see things happening in this world, may we not panic, but trust in you. May we not put faith in men. People, government, Lord, put put put you first in our lives to trust in you. Pray that you would help us, Lord. As we face this new week, there may be temptations, challenges, or things that we do not expect. But give us the all that we need. We thank you for the full armor of God. We thank you for your word. Thank you for your word. Thank you for prayer. We pray that you would equip us. Christ's name we pray. Amen. Thank