Do I look like uh Sean to you? I asked myself that in my early twenties. Why? Well, a little over twenty years ago I was in the process of naturalization. It was my chance to choose an English name as I became an American citizen. I figure I'd keep it close to some by getting another four-letter name that starts with S I ended up not going through with the name change. I'm still sung officially on paper. Maybe it had to do with my Korean-American friends laughing at the idea of calling me Sean. I don't regret it though. But I sometimes sometimes I do wish I got a cooler polysyllabic name, something like Brando or Aragorn. Now I bring this up because whether it's now or thousands of years ago, a name change marks an important relationship change. Your relationship with the country might change, as was the case with me. As a woman, your relationship with the man changes as you become Mrs. So and so. I sometimes like to ask Mary ladies at our church, what was your maiden name? And then your name might change as your relationships with God, his people, and the world change. Jesus gave Simon a new name, Peter. In the early church, the apostles called Joseph Barnabas, the son of encouragement. It's likely that while Paul had two names, Latin Paul and Hebrew Saul, he favored Paul as he became the apostle to the Gentiles. As we continue in the life of Abram, God changes his name to Abraham. He also changes the name of his wife. We'll see why such change was needed with Abram at age ninety-nine no less. Let's say we begin our coverage of Genesis seventeen. Unlike the previous chapter, I'll take two weeks to cover it. After all, there are 27 verses to read and study. God has a lot to say to Abram here. That's because Abram and Sarai are on the verge of life-changing events. It's not hard to figure out what the Lord wants to say in Genesis 17. Just locate and count the word that occurs 13 times Between verses 2 to 21. The Lord Himself uses the word. What's the word? It's covenant Sean-wise, covenant's the main idea. The covenant with all its implications ties all the parts of Genesis 17 together. That's clear enough. Not only that, uh I think Genesis seventeen is easy to outline There are some obvious transition markers in the narrative. We begin with verse 1 and verse 22 marking a unit. The Lord appears to Abram in verse 1, then the Lord leaves them in verse 22. Then in verses 23 to 27, now Abraham does all that God demands. We can further divide verses 1 to 22 into three parts. To do that, note that two times we find the phrase God said to Abraham. See if you can locate it. One's in verse 9, the others in 15. So to consume Genesis 17 in bite-sized pieces, we have four major parts. We have verses 1 to 8 as one portion, 9 to 14 as another, 15 to 24 a third section. Lastly, we wrap up the chapter with 23 to 27. We'll cover two of the four sections as today's sermon text. The other two I'll explain in two weeks, Lord willing. So let's read Genesis 17, 1 to 14. Genesis 17, 1 to 14. When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am Almighty God, walk before me and be blameless, and I will make my covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly. Then Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, Ask for me, behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram. But your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and your descendants after you. Also I give to you and your descendants after you the land in which you are a stranger, all the land of Canaan, as an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you Me and you and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised, and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male child in your generations. He who is born in your house or bought with money from any foreigner who is not your descendant. He who is born in your house, and he who who He who is born with your money must be circumcised, and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. And the uncircumcised male child who is not circumcised in the flesh of his The two covenant-related topics for discussion today are the following. First, there's the significance of the covenant in verses one to eight. Secondly, there's the sign for the covenant in verses 9 to 14. If that sounds too short and terse, here's more. As we ask what God accomplishes by his everlasting covenant, we give two answers, sort of more broadly applied to us. First, God powerfully transforms our destiny. And identity. That's verses 1 to 8. And then secondly, God markedly sets us apart from the world. That's 9 to 14. The first of two accomplishments through God's everlasting covenant is this: He powerfully transforms our destiny and identity. It only takes a second to turn a page or two in our Bibles. Decades of Abram's life have flown by From the end of chapter eleven to the beginning of chapter sixteen, we've covered over ten years. Even more rapidly, as we turn from chapter sixteen to seventeen, we speed through like thirteen years. That's nearly twenty-five years of waiting for God to fulfill his promise. When Abraham's on the verge of hitting three digits of age, the Lord appears to him. When Abram and Sarai are at their weakest and oldest, the Lord reveals Himself as Almighty God. That's gonna mean something. Last time I encourage you to study the names of God in the scriptures, even if you just focus on the names of God in the life of Abram, you'd have plenty to study. It makes sense to begin with the name of Yahweh, which is Lord in all caps. In Genesis 14, Melchizedek calls him God Most High, El Elyon. He's the possessor of heaven and earth. In Genesis 15, Abram addressed them as Adonai Yahweh, Lord God. In Genesis 16, it was Hagar who encountered him as God who sees, the High Roy, the living one who sees me. To this list of names we now add Almighty God, El Shaddai. El without controversy means God. Shaddai has been subject to debate. Among the best cognate options are the nouns meaning mountain. Perhaps another connection is a verb meaning destroy. There's even suggestion that Shaddai has to do with nourishing and sustaining. One thing is certain. Abrams confronted with someone greater than him and greater than his circumstances. No wonder El Shaddai occurs more frequently in Job than anywhere else, but that's Topic for another day. Here and now in Genesis, the application for Abraham, for Abram is clear. God Almighty demands that Abram live by faith in his presence. He demands a blameless life with nothing held back. This way of living in Latin is called coram deo, in the face of God. The right lived under God's authority for his glory. We should not separate the two commands, walk before me and be blameless. If you have a genuine relationship with God, your morality will change. If you want to be truly a moral person, you must be in a genuine relationship with God. There's no hope of being a good person without him. And more on this later. For now we see in verse 1 how God powerfully transforms Abram's destiny. Moving on to verse 2, the Lord reiterates some familiar promises. He has promised already earlier in chapter 13, verse 16. I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if a man could number the dust of the earth, then your descendants also could be numbered. He then said later in chapter fifteen verse five, Look now toward heaven and count the stars if you are able to number them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. This time the Lord uses an adverb twice to make the same point. It's like describing a big creature like an elephant to my two-year-old daughter. But let's say you can't use the superlative, the biggest. You set up for repetition to make an emphasis. Elephant's not just big, it's big, big, right? Similarly, God will multiply Abraham much, much. That's what's going on here. So why does God repeat Such promises. Why does he say the same essential things only with some variation? It's not like God needs reminders No, but we sure do. We need reminders. Think about anniversaries or other special occasions. Sure, married couples like Ira and I have one marriage and one wedding. We made our wedding vows then. But vows can be renewed or reaffirmed. We can remember every year on our special day in our calendar. Or take another example. I remember growing up in Laurel, starting each day in first period of Deerfield Run Elementary School. Reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Do they still recite the Pledge of Allegiance at public schools? Interesting. Okay. It's an identity-shaping exercise. Repeating it regularly did not cheapen the first time I made the pledge. Rather, all those later times, saying it enriched the first experience. Likewise, Abram's getting a repetition. He's overwhelmed hearing all these promises repeated and restated to him. We see him falling on his face in verse 3 There's a slight pause here in the narrative. It's as if verses 1 to 3 was more of an introduction to the covenant. Now we have the body of the covenant beginning in verse 4. Recall that back in Genesis 12, 2, he said he'll make Abram a great nation. Now he's saying he'll make Abram a father of many nations. He's not only doubling down, he's predicting exponential growth. God's powerfully transforming Abram's identity. And what better indicator of identity change? Then a name change. That's what we have in verse 5. Abram, what we have called them up to this point, means exalted father. Or high father, perhaps his name was an homage to his own father Terah, indicating noble lineage. Abraham, what we call him from now on, means the father of many or the father of multitudes. It's as if there's a shift in focus from quality to quantity. The Lord makes it even more clear in verse 6. Abraham considered his body already dead at this point, but God will make him fruitful. Again, we see the double adverb, he'll be fruitful much, much. Nations will come out of him, even kings. Because of all that's to come, now we see the covenant extending beyond Abraham. In verse 7, we see it's an everlasting covenant for his descendants in their time. As we'll see later, to be a child of Abraham means more than just having the right lineage. It's a question of having the same faith as Abraham's. Wrap up this first major section of Genesis 17 with verse 8. Here are the land promises again. Abraham will join his descendants to dwell in Canaan. In the future. This is a literal prophetic word looking beyond the return of Christ and the resurrection of the saints. We're looking at the millennial kingdom when God restores Israel to the promised land. We don't see it right now among the Jews, of course, but someday the Lord will pour out the spirit of grace and supplication on a remnant. They'll repent and believe. God will put his law in their minds and write it on their hearts. He will be their God and they shall be his people. God will accomplish all this powerfully. as he transforms their destiny and identity. As we pause for application, I must ask, has God transformed you? You believe that God changes people through the gospel. If we don't believe such change is possible, that God could do it, right? I should quit. And we should close down this church. If we struggle to believe that, which is more often the case, we must remind ourselves of verses like Romans 1. 16. The good news of Jesus is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Through this message, God Almighty can alter your destiny and identity forever. But first you must realize before the good news there's the bad news. Nowhere we're headed apart from Christ. Dead in trespasses and sins, left to ourselves, we walk according to the course of this world. We're alienated and enemies in our mind by wicked works. We break God's laws, covet, lie, steal, lust, blaspheme. Because we fulfill the desires of the flesh, we're children of wrath, headed for hell So in our own strength, we cannot walk before God. We cannot be blameless. But the Lord did not leave us like this. The Father sent his son as one of Abraham's descendants. Jesus is God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life. He was blameless in every way. And when it was time, Jesus gave his life as an offering. He went to the cross. There he suffered in our place. His was the blood of the new covenant, which was needed because we broke the old covenant, the law. He shed his blood for many for the remission of sins. His body was broken. He paid our sin debt in full. Endured the wrath of God in our place. He declared his work finished, he breathed his last, and he was buried. But on the third day, as we'll celebrate this coming week, and actually every Sunday On the third day, Jesus rose from the dead. Death could no longer hold him. He gave many proofs of his resurrection before many witnesses. Then he ascended to heaven. He sat down at the Father's right hand. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. And Jesus will be exalted that day As prophets predicted, kings shall shut their mouths at him, nations will shake before Christ the desire of all nations. Now, this good news of Jesus demands a response. All must repent. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus, trust in them only for salvation. We cannot earn or deserve a place in heaven. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. So through this good news, God powerfully transforms our destiny and identity. Now the next thing he accomplishes through his everlasting covenant is this. God markedly sets us apart from the world. Again, the phrase, and God said to Abraham, creates a natural break in the chapter. So we have its second major portion from verses 9 to 14. Key idea here in verse 9 is derived from the verb you shall keep. That's speaking of the covenant between God and Abraham. Now, to be clear, the Lord Himself guarantees that his covenant will not fail Recall that he alone passed through the severed parts of the sacrifice, but that doesn't mean that Abraham's exempt from responsibilities. It's like though we'll always be there for our children, they shouldn't take us for granted. Right? They must still obey, do their homework, finish their chores. Can't wait for them to have homework and have chores. Looking forward to that. Lots of homework. Lots of chores. Anyway, so so the covenantal responsibilities continue in later descendants. Go on to the first half of verse 10. You'll see the verb you shall keep again. But unlike verse 9, the U there is plural. English can be vague that way. There's no visible difference between U and U singular and U plural. I'm telling you that looking at the Hebrew, there's more emphasis here on the collective, Abraham and his seed keeping the covenant. So the rest of verse 10 specifies their responsibility. Every male child must be circumcised. This is the first time we hear of this practice in the Bible. But according to the Greek historian Herodotus, The Egyptians did this centuries before Abraham. So circumcision is not new or unique, but it is adopted as the sign of the Abrahamic covenant of God. According to verse 11. But why this particular sign? Alan Ross has some instructive commentary. Quote: The rite of circumcision was appropriate to the nature of the covenant. With the symbol, God instructed his people regarding the joining of faith with the act of reproduction. I'll add my own commentary. I think there's a a parallel between circumcision and the ear-piercing ritual of the willing servant described in Exodus 21 and Deuteronomy 15. As a servant is physically marked in his ear because his hearing is dedicated to his master. Similarly, a man of Abram's descent, a male, is marked in his genitals because his reproduction is dedicated to God. So, more details to follow in verse 12. All male infants must be circumcised on the eighth day. Some believe that a week period allows for the boy to experience one Sabbath. Medically speaking, some studies indicate that a baby's natural blood clotting ability reaches its peak on the eighth day. I think pro-thrombin. Gotta check with my wife for the proper pronunciation there. But whatever the reason for such details, the rule applies to all who belong to Abraham's household. That includes not only his physical descendants, but foreign servants. and their sons, so Gentiles who join Abraham by faith are graciously included in the covenant. Even before Christ, we see how all the families of the earth can be blessed in Abraham's Abraham. Verse 13 reiterates that point. So to conclude in verse 14, to follow this command is to keep the covenant. To do the opposite means breaking the covenant. Refusing circumcision meant death penalty or expulsion from the community. That's how God markedly set Abram's seed apart from the world. Now before I discuss how God markedly set us apart from the world today in a different way, let me make a transitional point. The descendants of Abraham were often guilty of relying on their physical sign for significance. They were missing the point. Trusting in outward markers is just ritualism. They should have known that the external sign of circumcision points to greater reality, the circumcision of the heart. Paul has much to say about this in Romans. He tells proud Jews who thought they were better than the heathens. Circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law, but if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. This is Romans 2. A true Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God. So, what matters most is whether there's the internal transformation through the Holy Spirit. What's most important is the inward spiritual holiness. Of course, how do we know whether one has this change of heart? Can use some proof texts to ask the following questions Galatians 6. 15, is this person evidently a new creation in Christ? Does he keep God's commands out of gratitude? 1 Corinthians 7. Is there faith working itself through love? Galatians five six. Does this person love the Lord his God with all his heart, with all his soul, that's Deuteronomy thirty? Does he worship God in the spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh? Philippians 3. Again, such transformation occurs through the regenerating spirit, not the letter of the law. One major implication of this truth is that now the circumcision of the flesh is unnecessary for Gentile believers in the church today. The early church had to work this out carefully and scripturally. For example, here's how Paul made his case. In Romans 4. He shows how Abraham was counted righteous by faith before he was circumcised. In other words, Genesis 15:6 comes before Genesis 17. Obvious, right? That way, Abraham is the father of faith to both the uncircumcised and the circumcised. So a gentile man who believes the gospel in his heart need not become a Jew. Again, this is a New Testament reality. Finally, the last question for today, right? Let me just look at that for a second. Say that slide for a little minute. But uh the last question for application is whether there's any ritual that's parallel to circumcision and sets us Gentile Christians off from the world. There is actually. It's baptism. Like circumcision, baptism is an initiation rite. It brings an individual into the faith community. Now, my dear Presbyterian friends, believe that the tie between circumcision and baptism are so strong that we should baptize infants and bring them into covenant family. Their view is called Pato Baptism or Pedobaptists, right? That's what they are. And the order proceeds, you get baptized as an infant, you become what's called a non-communing member of the church. Right? Meaning you're a member without taking communion. Later you make a profession of faith, then you have this confirmation process, then you become a communion member and you partake in the Lord's Supper, the Holy Communion. As a Baptist, I hold to what's called a believer's baptism, credo baptism. I believe the proper order is simpler. You make a profession of faith, there's baptism, membership, Lord's Supper. While there are parallels between circumcision and baptism, there's enough discontinuity to warrant waiting until later to baptize individuals. As in wait until they profess Christ at an older age by their own volition. Why? Because there's no passage in Scripture. where we see infants being baptized. My infant baptizing friends calendar. But that word household in the New Testament must include infants. Right. Like Acts sixteen, Acts eighteen, First Corinthians one. I don't know why that has to be the case. It's more biblical to see differences between the two initiation rites because we are New Testament believers. And the way that the signs are shown is different. So here's some differences. Circumcision separates a Jew from Gentiles. Baptism unites Jews and Gentiles. Circumcision obviously applies to the male. Baptism is applied to both male and female, one in Christ. Circumcision points to generation. We talked about that earlier. Baptism points to regeneration. Circumcision is about putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, according to Colossians 2. Baptism is about putting on Christ, identifying with him in his death, burial, and resurrection. That's in Romans 6 and Galatians 3. Now we can argue on and on about the appropriate mode and timing of baptism. I got family members and friends who you know we can do that if we wanted to, who are Presbyterians. But we'd all agree, as evangelicals, that any ritual by itself means nothing. Just as an outward circumcision meant nothing without inward circumcision, water baptism means nothing without spirit baptism. So it's vital that churches and individuals stop to reflect on the reality behind our ordinances and our practices. In a few moments we'll have some time to do just that as we observe the second ordinance that we which is the Lord's Supper. As we do, again, here's what God accomplishes by his everlasting covenant. Think about what God has done. Right? He powerfully transforms our destiny and identity, markedly sets us apart from the world. With that in mind, let's prepare our hearts to approach the Lord's table. Let's pray. Oh we thank you for You being who you are. Lord. You're sovereign, your ruler, your the creator of all universe. Lord You cannot be held, you cannot be bound, but you bind yourself to us through covenant. And we are so privileged To be recipients of your promises. And we see that the promise just lasts. Even in our bad days and our good days, we're thankful that you are faithful. You don't change. And Lord, we think about now how we might show to others, whether it's the profession of faith through baptism or just in our holy living as we live before you, in your presence. As we strive to be blameless in our thought, word, and deed. Lord, we know that we often fall short, but we want others to see. That we have a genuine relationship with you. And we have that through your Son Jesus Christ. We thank you for your son. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.