Okay. Well let me get you to uh open your Bibles to Hmm let's just go to Philippians three. Philippians three. This morning we're starting a series on knowing God. My grandfather, Robert Fox, was quite an extraordinary man. He's a veteran of World War II. When the war was over, he came back And he was work he worked for the Pentagon. It was of course top secret work, but I do know that he traveled to isolated islands in this Pacific Ocean, which tends to lead me to believe that he was somehow involved in uh nuclear engineering. And the continuing development of the nuclear bomb after World War II. He liked to build things. Not content with little models of trains, he built two full-size airplanes in his garage, which he was able to fly. Outside of McClure, Pennsylvania, where he had his house. Recently, when my grandmother died, and we cleaned out her attic, we found a parachute, we found rivets to airplanes, we found the front, or actually the rear we. fuel that would go underneath the fuselage of the tail of an airplane up there and the neighbors were moving in like vultures to buy that stuff. We had a yard sale. He was really extraordinary. Built built airplanes, possible nuclear engineer. He was he was a good husband. He took care of my grandm grandmother, the two sons, my dad and my brot my uncle, who actually died when he was sixteen in a terrible car crash. But you know what? I never knew. My grandfather. Because the only picture I have of him was when I was less than one year old, because he died when I was born, right after the first year of my life, Robert Frost. My grandfather died. I can guess what it would have been like to go down to the local restaurant and sit there with my grandfather and eat a steak with him, but I'll never know. The details of his personality, the look on his face when he smiled, the his favorite soft drink. Never really knew my grandfather. My grandmother lived to be ninety-three, died about a year ago. and a half, two years ago, two years ago. Had a long life with her. I learned, for example, that she loves tea berry ice cream. She did, tea berry. Anybody ever have it? I hated it. It was green, tasted like uh Pepto Bismol in my childish brain. She loved it. We spent many a summer, two to three weeks out of the summer, up in McClure, Pennsylvania, and she would take us to the swimming pool, and I also learned that she couldn't swim. She hated ladder. So she would sit there on the bench and my brother and I would swim for boy, it seemed like hours, uh every afternoon in the summertime. And then we would come back and we would sit on her back porch. I knew her smile well. I knew her thoughts on politics well. I knew uh what TV shows she liked to watch and what her favorite food was and her idiosyncrasies for my entire life. She was always complaining that she needed to lose weight, so She would pass to us, my brother and I, and of course we never turn this down, Hershey's bars and milk duds and Snickers bars, and she would pass this around in like cereal bowls full of this stuff, and she would not really eat o herself because she said she needed to lose weight and yet she was skinny my entire life. I never could figure that out. I knew my grandmother pretty well through my life experience with her, but I never never knew my grandfather. You know sometimes As Christians, by virtue of how we live, we might know God well enough to accept his plan of salvation, and we might know facts about God afterwards. saved, but sometimes Christians never really come to know him well with any degree of detail. A mature Christian is someone who comes to the place where they are willing to accept the fact that knowing Christ should be a priority in their lives. Maturity is something that Paul mentions in Philippians chapter three. uh three. Did I say two? Go to chapter three, verse fifteen. After describing his testimony and his desire to know Christ, he says in Philippians three, verse fifteen, let us therefore As many as be perfect, and the word does mature, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Christ, the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, not just knowing about Christ or about God was a priority to the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul Paul was a man who walked with God. God was not an event to him, a thing he did on the Lord's Day and coming in with the other Christians, wherever he was, planting churches, ministering. But God was his lifestyle. It was who we talked to day and night. It was Paul who said, Pray without ceasing. It was Paul who who said that we need to have a a walk that's in keeping with our calling, that's worthy of our calling. It was Paul All those letters related every detail of life, folks. Your marriage, your finances, the way you raise your kids, the kind of relationship you have with your neighbors, it all went back to Jesus. It was Paul who said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Folks, this morning, what category would you place your walk with Jesus Christ in? Do you know about God? Has your walk with him grown cold over the years? And you've sort of drifted into just tree? him like he's your dead grandfather? Or do you know him? Are you able to cultivate thinking that is according to the patterns of God's Word? I mean when someone talks to you about a contemporary topic, can you think the way God would think. Well I think because the scriptures say this that it would apply this way to this situation politically or this way with my neighbors who are over here. I I'm I'm saturated with the word of God and I know no Christ. Have you ever wept because you thought Jesus would weep? Or have you ever gotten angry because you thought Jesus would get angry at this? Those are all characteristics. Characteristics of someone who walks with God and knows God. This morning we're starting a series on knowing God and knowing Christ. Very synonymous, although with Christ we're going to focus more on Salvation and and uh but we also have a lot here about knowing God. So in the New Testament, in the Greek text that underlies the King James Version and the New King James Version, you've got a Greek verb, Ganosko, that's translated variously 223 times in your Greek New Testament. The New King James Trans Version translates this Greek verb to understand or perceive, to be aware of, to ascertain. And 134 of those 223 times that this Greek verb is used, it's translated no, K-N-O-W. There is a major writer of your New Testament that loves this. Greek term and others like it, who is sort of the apostle of knowing God. And this is John. When you go to the Gospel of John and you look at first John, and and not so much second or third, And even Revelation, you have a man who is constantly through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit talking about knowing Christ and knowing God. Everything from the Gospel of John to where Christ Christ says, I know my sheep and my sheep hear my voice and know me to all the times in First John where this idea of knowing God is emphasized and loving God because of that knowledge. But we're not going to get into the Apostle John today. We are going to, believe it or not, focus on Philippians 3, a verse that you all know well, a passage you know well, and then by the end of this sermon, we're going to be able to do this. gonna f we're gonna end up in the book of Ezekiel if you can believe that but we're not going to stay uh the it's just gonna be alluded to at the end. So so let's focus on how the Apostle Paul in Philippians uses this word Well, there's only four times in the in the letter to the Philippians that he uses it. Let's just look at those briefly. Philippians 1, verse 12. See if you can find the words. But see if you can find it here. But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happen unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance Of the gospel. Where's the word there? Well, in our King James Version, it's the word that's translated understand. So here's the apostle, and he wants to inform them that when it came to his circumstance, Even though his circumstances were bad, it fell out to the feverance of the gospel. They might have the wrong perspective on his sufferings. And so Paul explains to them, I want you to understand this. In this context, our word here simply means to inform in order to uh to understand. To understand. He's informing them so that they might understand. Look at that. Philippians 2 verse 19. Here it's translated, no, K N O W. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send to Motheus shortly unto you that I also may be of good comfort. comfort when I know your state. There's some communication that needs to take place. Paul lacks knowledge about how they're doing and he wants to receive comfort when he finds out what's going on. So again, the idea seems to be information that's passing from one individual to another so that understanding can happen. Well what happens when you observe someone over time and you take in that information And you understand, well in Philippians two verse twenty two, we kinda have this idea, but ye know the proof of him, that's Timothy, that as a son with the Father he has served with me in the gospel. What is this? Well, they've been able to observe Timothy over time and they understand that he has proven character. All three of us with these references are really to just learning and understanding, being informed. Just the basic way we would use this word. No. I don't know all the details of your life. I didn't know all the details of my grandfather's life, but I did know something. But then there is this passage. passage that we know so well in Philippians three. And what's happening here is a little bit different because the context flavors the meaning of the word. When we look at Philippians three, verses one to eleven. And really, if we'll just focus in on verse ten, just to show you, Philippians three ten. We have this that I that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. Being made conformable unto his death. In this context, there's more here than just being informed about Christ or understanding certain things. things about him. And we'll look at that. So so first let me let me let me show you this. There are certain prerequisites to knowing Christ. He gives those pre prerequisites right here. If you look at verse five Now Paul's reasoning here is before I came to Christ, this is what I put my confidence in. And now that I've come to Christ, I've rejected this kind of self-confidence or self. Self-reliance. You know what the great prerequisite to coming to Christ and knowing Him is? It's a rejection of self-confidence and reliance. And here's what he says. He says here that uh he was circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching them all, a Pharisee, concerning Zeeland, Persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in them all, blameless. These things he's heading under the this this phrase in verse four of trusting in the flesh. Look, if there's any other man thinks that he He hath hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I Lore. Now you can draw a line between these verses and really kind of group them in this way. There's this confidence that he had in his connections, his nation, his family. His country, his group. He was of the Hebrews. The oracles of God were given to his people. He had an incredible cultural heritage. And this began as a child, the circumcision on the eighth day. He was of the stock, and you hear the pride there, of Israel. He was of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews. He really had a great deal of confidence in his identity, in his this cultural context. Now does that happen today? Absolutely. There's a great deal of nationalism and us, we Americans, we're used to it, right? God bless America. Uh don't we sing that? Don't we haven't you seen bumper stickers after nine one one happened that said God please bless America again? I saw one that said that. And have there not been times when your heart has swelled at the price of pride of what has happened to our country, and I am in the first to say, I believe personally, my opinion, that we that America is the greatest country on the face of the earth. That's my opinion. But that's what I think. And what does This happened in other countries? Do you think there are other citizens of other places and they have this nationalism? I was reading a couple of months ago, actually it was uh it was on a radio show, describing what's happening in Russia right now under our dear friend President Putin. Apparently he is stirring up a type of nationalism in Moscow that is explicitly anti-Americans. uh anti-America. One of the results of this is a clamping down on Americans adopting children from Russia. Another is they they actually had interviews of people who were singing in Russia songs against America and And these songs were completely pro-Russia and the joy it's sort of this ardent Russian nationalism which to them means anti-Americanism. Are they proud to be Russians? I think so. Are they allowed to be proud? proud to be Russians? I would hope so since we're proud to be Americans. When I was in Egypt, it fascinated me. Really did. The Christian perspective there, the evangelical's perspective on Egyptian nationalism. I would say things to them like, Well, you know, I don't have to eat at this time of night and they said, No, don't worry about it. We are Egyptians. We can handle this. And they had a certain view on Israel. They were they were very um they were very anti Israel and they actually had the perspective that our president was pro Israel and pro Muslim Brotherhood against Egypt. And they were seeing us through the Egyptian nationalistic sort of perspective there. So why am I bringing this up? Folks, do you think God's going to give us a pass at the judgment seat of Christ or even at those who have not accepted Christ at the great white throne judgment? Because we're a married Americans or Egyptians or Russians? Do you think there's anything about your family, your your nationality that's going to impress God? I'll let you think after all you lived in America. It's not going to happen. happen. But he he he it's not just Hebrew of the Hebrews here, there's a tribe involved and there's a family circumcised the eighth day. When I was living in Anderson, South Carolina, one of the biggest jokes we have were we knocked on doors was that people would say, Well, uh my daddy's a deacon. And what am I supposed to say to that? Well, this has nothing to do with your daddy being the deacon or your mother being the preacher at the local assemblies of God. Church. This has to do with you, not your family. You see, one of the great prerequisites of knowing Christ is rejecting all of this kind of self-reliance, your connections, your family. Your country, your group, it's irrelevant. And we all know this when it comes to knowing Christ. But then there is this, there's this confidence that Paul used to have. If you look at your Bible again, in the law, he says here at the end of verse. five as touching the law of Pharisee concerning zeal persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, in his opinion, blameless. So he he had a certain amount of self-denyance on this righteousness that he had accumulated during his lifetime. He had so ardently obeyed the law that no one could accuse him in any way externally of disobeying it. Can you imagine having that kind of perspective on yourself? Here's this law, here's this Torah, and I have obeyed all of it. Kinda sounds like the rich young ruler, doesn't it? Whose real problem was covetousness. And that was Paul's as well. Folks, do you realize that if you've come to church a lot, if you've gone out and given to the poor, it does not matter. God does not have a great accounting sheet in heaven with all all the good things you and I have done and added those all up and said, okay, here is someone who is righteous before me. I'll allow them in. It matters to me. You can put your confidence in that. No. None of us can do this. And let me encourage you, those of you who are evangelizing, tell people this. Tell them: look, you can't put confidence in the group that you're with. That you're from, or the family where you grew up. You can't put confidence in what you've done, the righteousness that you've accumulated, it's all worthless. And folks, this is the inspired word of God. If you look down the word, you can't do it. What things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. You doubtless, and I count all things but lost. Loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and do count them but dung, refuse rubbish, not a very pleasant word to see in your book. Bible, but there it is. Let the word sink in again. I count loss. I count all things but loss. I have suffered the loss of all things. This is all the good stuff before he was a Christian. All the things that he put confidence in the world. In the trust of this in the flesh. Gone. Wiped out. Zero. That's what Paul's saying. Now, folks, is this your opinion? Seriously, there could be someone. in this room and somehow self righteousness has got a hook into your soul and for many years you might think you're a Christian but you're really not because you're relying on these things. Paul was saying, I came to the place Where I realized it was junk. Have you ever come to that place? Have you ever said, Lord, my righteousness is filthy ass. I want some real righteousness. Where can I get that? You can get it, of course, from Christ and Christ alone. So the prerequisites reject it. Reject self-reliance and self-confidence. And let me put in a little corollary here. After your Christian, after you're a Christian, is it possible for you to again start to rely on your flesh to give you a standing before God? If that's true, and you're actually measuring your standing before God on how much how many times you attend church. What happens if you become ill and you can no longer attend church? What happens to your standing with God then? Or what happens if you're really struggling with some sort of temptation and you don't have the victory over it and you really want the victory? What happens to your your position before God then? I mean if you want to go do you really want to go back to Verses four and five and six, is that the land that you want to live in when it comes to justification and a position before Christ? If you do, then you're doing what the Galatians did. Because the Christians In Galatia rejected justification by faith, and they were starting to follow after a works justification and ruining the very foundation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So don't go back. Now I'm not saying with a high hand should grace abound? It's always going to abound, yes, but shall we continue as Him that grace may abound? No, we don't want to do that. Overcome your temptations and certainly you should be faithful in your church attendance. But then Those are not the foundations of our walk with God. It's Christ and Christ alone. What brings me then to this if you look at your Bible? What is this knowing knowing Him? Alright, so first, let's just pick this up at verse eight. I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the same. The loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ and be found in him. Now I want to point out something first. First, when it comes to knowing Christ or knowing God. God. You have to understand the facts. Now with my grandfather, I that's all I had were some miscellaneous facts. I didn't have the experience of those facts. But that doesn't mean we reject the facts. Facts are the context of our walk with Christ. Without those facts, your love can be completely misaligned. You know, I it was interesting on Tim's uh uh we he we pulled up Wikipedia in Sunday school to give. the definition for disciple, and of course it was all mishmash of different things. But I think one of the things I said was, followers of Christ in Islam, was that one of them? And you might be surprised to know that Jesus is mentioned in the Quran. More than once. And it is possible for someone to sort of give lip service to the identity of Christ as he's embedded in the Quran. But those facts are so wrong, right? Right? I mean, you show up on your wedding day and you're all ready to go and the wrong woman comes in the door in a wedding dress. I mean, it's a pretty important fact to get the right woman on your wedding day or the right man. Are sort of important things. What do I see that in this text? Well, you see here that there is knowledge in verse 6, the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus Christ. My Lord. And that word certainly has within the confines of his definition the idea of facts about Christ Jesus our Lord. Can I show you that with chapter two? Turn back a few pages to chapter two. Philippians 2, Paul is exhorting the people to have the mind of Christ, to have humility and unity. The unity of the Philippian church was diminished, so he tells them in verse 5, Let this mind be in you. But then in verses 5, 6, and seven and eight, he gives the facts of the gospel. The exhortation to have such a mind has to rest completely on the facts of Christ and who he was and the mind that he had, the example he set. With this might be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. I mean here's here's what took place, here are the facts. He made himself of no reputation, he took upon him the form of of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And the passage goes on to take it to the exaltation of Christ and the worship of all creation. Around the throne of Christ. Paul has to have facts upon which to base his exhortation, and it goes back to the gospel. And this is the knowledge of Christ Jesus. Can I show you one more thing about this? Turn to Galatians. Galatians. The letter to the Galatians is a polemic. It's an argument and it's a strident one. Paul is angry with the Galatians. There's no other way to describe it. But it's a righteous anger because they're leaving behind the foundation of justification by faith alone. And they're turning to another gospel. Galatians 1, verse 6. I marvel that ye are so soon removed. from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another. But there will be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. Folks, there's only one gospel. That gospel has certain facts attached to it. Jew tells us to contend for the faith once delivered unto the saints. It's delivered, we possess it, we we proclaim it, but it does not change. Paul has to go on in Galatians to defend himself. And he defends himself this way. He says, Look, I'm not preaching to you some strange message. I spent time personally with Christ, and he taught me this. And then there was a time when I went and met with the apostles in Jerusalem, and I they agreed with my message. It was the same message. And we have that story in chapter two. Well we have it at the middle at the end of chapter one. And verse 17, all the way through chapter 2, is the story of him saying basically, I was taught the gospel by Christ. I talked to the apostles, they're preaching the same gospel. Galatians believe the one unchanging gospel. Gospel, please. And then of course you have in Corinthians, you have him running there and talking about the gospel being the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. So turn back to to Philippians quickly. Philippians. What we're saying here is that knowing God and knowing Christ presupposes knowing the truth and certain facts about who He is. So you have to know what's happening, and you have to share the facts. But then it goes beyond just an assimilation of facts. If we're back in Philippians three, and we have here certain expressions that indicate that it involves a Shared experience. If you look down here again at verse ten, there's the facts and then there is that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and The fellowship, and that word translated fellowship, has to do with the shared experience, the shared experience of his sufferings, facts, and experience with. Liver out those facts in a relationship with Jesus Christ through the Spirit of Christ, the Spirit of God who is in us and the word of God that is before us. Wow, what does this mean? power of his resurrection. Well, there are some people that think power always involves speaking loudly. If you speak loudly in a religious context, there's a demonstration there are power. So the world always speak The more power is exhibited. I can even get louder than that. Did you know that? I can't speak loudly. Okay, can loudness indicate power? Yes. Does it always indicate power? Powder? Powder? Not powder. Well, I've really been to a NASCAR race. Kinda loud. I haven't gone but I've seen them on TV. How about an Orioles baseball game where they're winning? Pretty loud, a Ravens game when they're winning. Well, okay, so there's power there maybe, but is it the power of the resurrection? What what is this talking about? Well, we have, if you turn quickly to Romans 1, we have this given as The great demonstration of the power of God, the resurrection. You look at Romans one verse three, and this is part of Paul's introduction To the Christians in Rome. He's just saying, Hi, I'm Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle. And but he's separating out in verse one the gospel of God, which, verse two, had been promised before. by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. It concerns his son Jesus Christ. He was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. He was declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection of the dead. From the dead. When you put this together with other passages in the New Testament, what you have here is the resurrection is sort of the primary exhibit A to the extent of the power of God. Now you and I have been saturated with legacy. Hollywood and special effects saturate us with the lie that that power is everywhere. You've got a science fiction character coming back to life. You have someone else who's been cloned and brought back. You've got characters who never seem to die and they're always coming back. And then you've got reruns of things that have I mean, our culture is rife with a Thoughts. Power. It's fiction. We need to have a higher estimation of the power of God demonstrated in the resurrection. Here he is on the cross and everyone. Last drop of blood has come out of him. His brow is pierced, his hands and his feet. His back is lacerated down to the skeleton, probably. His internal organs possibly visible out of his back. They carried his dead, clammy, disgusting body down off that cross, and they lay it in a tomb. And he decides, he's happy. enough. It's finished. The choice is made. Death cannot hold him. And he rises up, but not back to that sick and bloodless form. But there's this revelation worm body. This body with eyes like fire and skin like burnished brass and light that emanates out of it. There's this Mount of Transfiguration body. But when John, the apostle, sees him, he falls down on his face, there's this glorious resurrected body. And Paul is saying, I want to have some kind of experience in the power of the resurrection. I know it factually. But I want to have that kind of power in my life. Now, there are different ways to sort of shore up our understanding of this power, but the simplest one is just to remind us what we know from Romans. Romans 6. What does the this power look like? Romans 6, among other things, indicates that it is a power to live a new life. Folks, do you realize that God gave us the resurrection not only as a demonstration of his power, but Illustration. An eternal illustration. We are partakers of new life, resurrected life. Look at uh Romans 6 5. You don't have to turn there, you can just listen. If we have been throwing it together Now, this is likeness. This is for the human now. There's something similar between our life and the resurrected life of Christ here and now. Now, future, we get the resurrection. But now our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin, for he that is dead is freed from sin. Now if he would be with Christ we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead, dieth no more, death has no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth continually unto God. Likewise reckon, this is right now and in the year now, the world of sin, reckon you also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. The resurrection power that's demonstrated here is the ability To reckon on our position in Christ and to overcome the sinful things that we struggle with every day. It's the drunk who cleans up his life? No, no, no, no. It's the drunk who is gloriously born again. again and he bases his new life on the foundation of Christ alone and now his testimony is you know what I haven't drunk in ten years and it's Jesus. It's all Jesus. He's done this for me. The power of the resurrection is a life that is growing in sanctification and holiness over time. It's what separates us from those that are dead in trespasses, in sins, reliable in Christ and seeking to be righteous. In Philippians, if you turn back though, there is this desire in Paul to know him and the power of his resurrection. You know, sometimes I read missionary. biographies and I think I'm living on a parallel earth or something. Because I look at what God did in church history and I look at what he's doing now and I say, I I you know, I get really discouraged. Do you ever feel that way? When I look at Hudson Taylor, Hudson Taylor, I told you this before. Hudson Taylor was a terrible preacher. Couldn't preach. He was a quiet little man. People commented on his preaching. I mean I told you. this. They used to write reviews of sermons in the local newspapers. Can you imagine this? Not movie reviews, sermon reviews. And so Hudson Taylor was known to have had, well, at least one and I'm sure multiple. Of bad sermon reviews. And yet he prayed, and he was a holy man. He knew the power of the resurrection. And he saw so many Chinese people come to Christ and answer. to his prayers. And I look at that and I compare it to what's happening now and think, where are you God? Where is the power? I really still like what happened, uh Wow. Let me tell you another. Let me tell you a story I just heard. I'll go back to my stock illustrations here. So when I was in Egypt I taught I met a man named Marcus Constantine who's a pastor. He was a missionary in South Africa for a while in an orphanage with the Zulu people. But he graduated from New Bible Institute, and while I was there, one of his teachers, a conservative evangelical, not a you know someone who believes in speaking in tongues and the miraculous strange things that could happen, but who had been a missionary. And uh this is all right, this might be a little off topic, but I'm gonna tell you the story. So this man was on the mission field on an island, and the the natives there told him, Look, if you see if you see the death ship, come in. Come into your into your your hut and don't go back out. Because every time that ship comes, somebody dies in the village if they're out there. And so this conservative evangelical said Oh come on guys, this is okay, okay, sure, sure. If I see a ship, I you know I'll be careful if I see a ship. So he went away into the interior of the island and he came back and someone in the village was dead and he said, What happened? And they said, Oh, the death ship came. It's like okay. Okay, yeah, right. Probably I don't know, typhoid fever, disease, something. And so but they were convinced. Well, not too long after that, he was in his hut or whatever lived in there near the beach, and there's a screaming and wailing going And he jumps, he looks out his door and walks out and looks at the ocean, and there's a ship. This is what this professor at Moody Bible Institute said. And it looked like something out of Pirates of the Caribbean. It was black, and everyone in the village was running and scared and just fleeing for their lives. So he looks at the ship and he said and he just says, I'm a Christian and I am in Christ, and I'm here to proclaim the gospel. And I just command you to leave. He said the ship turned around like it had an electric motor on the back and sped out into the ocean, and they never saw it again. Folks, that wasn't that guy. That's the power of who we are in Christ. In that case, we might use the word authority. I want to be careful because I'm not saying we c we we command diseases to go. We pray. But that is an example. What do you do with that example? At least it's an illustration and the but the best illustration is that this changed life. Cannibals and they no longer do that. Drunkards and they no longer do that. So here it is, folks. Are you hungry like that? Like I am for that power. That's all I'm saying. Are you not hungry for it? Don't you want to have a holier life? Don't you want to grow in Christ? Are you sick of the sinful things that you struggle with? Are you desirous to be closer to him? Do you want to know Him and the power of his resurrection. I do. And I want I hunger and thirst after the kind of experience where I am growing closer and closer to him. Very not reasonably to this. Philippians three and you know what's what's next? It's the fellowship of his sufferings. Now you can't really have the fellow you can't really have the power unless you're willing to have the sufferings. And y you don't have to turn there, but These two are directly connected in First Timothy. Let me just read this to you. Oh, I'm sorry. Second Timothy chapter one. He says that Verse 6, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound. mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner. But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. If there was a revival in our country and Christians stood up and said, I'm a Christian and I'm going to look for Christ and evangelize, and I don't care what's going to happen. Let the chips fall where they know. What would happen? Our government would say, Oh, bless you Christians. I love you so much. Would you like to witness at the White House? Maybe you like to pass out tracks here around the Pentagon. What would our government do? Folks, I know in Egypt the Christian know that if they walk outside of their church building and they're filled with the power of God and they're on that one track, they're arrested like that. Here's the afflictions following the power or connected to the power. And I really think there's a principle here and it really convicts my heart. Do we want the power without the afflictions, without the commitment, without what without the the the priorities that God has? Do I just want this power to overcome my sins so I can kind of be a moral person and not suffer from the consequences of my sins and I can just sort of float through life this holy man who never does anything. Is that the kind of power I want? Is that the kind of power you want? Folks, only what's done for Christ will last. Who cares about anything else? Shouldn't we be seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness? Now I'm not saying be a fool and like Let your finances go to pot and not try to live with proverbial wisdom, but the fellowship, the shared experiences of his sufferings. You know where this leads in Philippians 3? to look there again. It leads to what Paul becomes. That's the being. That's the result of you know facts about Christ and then you experience those facts in your life and suddenly You are changed. You're not the same person. And you see here in Philippians 3, in verse 10, that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of the sufferings being made confirmed. Unto his death. There's something that changes in us on the journey to Christ's likeness. And when we die to our desires and to our priorities, and we put the priorities of Christ first. We are sharing in a sense in the death that Christ died and eventually in the physical resurrection, verse eleven, and of course now in our spiritual connection to it. The result, conformity to the likeness of Christ. Where does this lead us? Here's where it leads us. Knowing God and knowing Christ is a dangerous thing. Are you sure you want that? Do you really want it? I asked myself that. There have been prayers that I prayed and then I saw how God answered them and I thought to myself, I don't know if I'm gonna pray that way anymore. I don't like that answer very much. God has to be God. If we're going to know him, we have to know him on his terms. We don't want A sort of id an idol that is really, really close to the true and living God, but really not. Do you want to know the one and true living God? To walk with him? It's a dangerous thing. You want to be conformed to the death of Christ? It's convicting. I'm almost done. Next week, Lord willing, we'll find ourselves in the book of Ezekiel, where over 70,000 Times, seventy times in that book, this phrase is used that they might know that I am, and then he'll give something about himself. I don't know if I can connect Let me stretch it a little more and just let me read to you what he says and you'll know what I'm talking about. It extends the theme of how dangerous this can be. Thus says the Lord God. Pound your fist and stamp your feet. This is the new King James, okay? It's a little bit clearer than the old King James. And say, Alas for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel, for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. He who is far off shall die by the pestilence, and he who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who remains in his deceived. seed shall tie by the famine, thus will I scum my fury upon them. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. Wow. Ezekiel twenty nine Therefore thus spake the Lord God Surely I will bring a sword upon you and cut off from you man and beasts, and the land of Egypt shall become desolate and waste. Then they will know that I am the Lord, because he said, The river is mine, and I have made it. Judgment brings knowledge of the Lord, the glory of the Lord. But that's not all it is. Ezekiel 37, the valley of dried bones, Ezekiel is looking at these bones and the Lord says, Bring do something to these bones to give them life. And Ezekiel says, I can't do anything. And the Lord says, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. They indeed say, Our bones are dry, our hope is lost, and we ourselves Are cut off. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, O my people, I will open your graves and cause you to come up from your graves, and bring you into the land of Egypt, of the land of Israel. Then you shall know. I'll put my spirit in you and you shall live and I'll place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I, the Lord, have spoken it and performed it. One last word. Okay. I will set my glory among the nations. All the nations shall see my judgment which I have executed, and my hand which I have laid on them. So the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God. God from that day forward, the Gentiles shall know. Wow