So last week I talked about my college days. My best memories there are learning things for the first time. So I recall the class I took as a freshman. Introduction to astronomy. I said that I especially enjoy the lessons on the wave particle duality of light. Well, another thing or two I learned in that class was about the two major models of the universe. No, it was a debate between heliocentrism and geocentrism. Geocentrism, the idea that the sun revolves around the earth was held by many big names for many Centuries, Plato, Aristotle, Ptolemy. Heliocentrism, the idea that Earth revolves around the sun, was not popular at all for a long time But then things changed in the modern times. Nicholas Copernicus advocated heliocentrism in the 16th century. Galileo Galilei reinforced the idea in 17th century. That's funny saying that. Galileo Galilei. Anyway, he used his telescope To study heavenly bodies in motion, then Johannes Kepler considered elliptical orbits in his laws of planetary motion. So the Polish guy, the Italian guy, and the German guy all contributed to bringing the heliocentric model into prominence. Now in our days the idea of sun orbiting the earth sounds ridiculous. You know, we no longer subscribe to a Geocentric model. Yet we can't shake this feeling that the sun was made for our well-being. And there's some special care God has for Earth. This plays out in our worldviews. While many of our unbelieving friends and neighbors insist there must be life on other planets. We marvel at how the Lord has cared for life on this one. While Richard Dawkins might derive Earth as a quote, speck of debris from the cosmic explosion, end quote. We see our creators concerned for it to make it suitable for his creatures. Like David in Psalm 8, we wonder at the privilege we enjoy as humans. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? So even if the if doctrines of astronomy declare we're heliocentric, the doctrines of creation and doctrines of grace Do allow us to be geocentric to a certain degree. I know I'm being a little facetious here, but this planet is where God sent his son. Here on earth is where he died on the cross that by his blood, by him and his blood, the Father might reconcile all things to himself, whether things on earth or things in heaven. Even if the sun doesn't revolve around us, the Creator has a special concern for us. Well, reinforce this lesson as we continue our look at the first week of the universe. Last time we talked about the first day. We read about the first day in Genesis 1:3 to 5. We saw a pattern established in the first 24 hours. Creator Elohim breaks the silence. Then God said, It happens at least once in each of the six days as we read through Genesis 1. And then each day always comes to a close with this summary. So the evening and the morning were blank day, first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth. And between the Lord speaking and Moses summarizing, some interesting and unique things happen to make one day different from another. See if you can locate the differences as I read. Genesis one six to thirteen. Genesis one six to thirteen Then God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters. And let it divide the waters from the waters. Then God made the firmament and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament, and it was stuck. And God called the firmament heaven, so the evening and the morning were the second day. Then God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so And God called the dry land earth, and the gathering together of the waters he called seas, and God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb that yields seed and the fruit. fruit tree that yields fruit according to its kind, whose seed is in itself on the earth, and it was so. And the earth brought forth grass, the herb that yields seed according to its kind, and the seed that yields fruit, whose seed As you can see, today we're picking up the pace just a bit. We're covering two days of the Creation Week, both the second and the third days. Well we still need to be careful readers. So as a pop quiz, I'll ask you, did you catch what makes the second day different from the others? Here it is. Why is it that our Creator sees nothing as good on the second day of creation? Well some people joke that even God does not like Mondays Uh but but to be serious, uh it's not like something bad happened on uh day two. Uh at at the end of Genesis one, verse thirty one it says, God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good. That of course includes work. On the second day as well. Keep that in mind as we look for better explanations. So another explanation is that on day two, God didn't create anything special He simply separated what was already there, the waters. He fashioned the firmament out of pre-existing material created on the first day. So there's nothing unique to declare good. Another explanation is this. What happened on day two does not relate specifically to mankind. There's nothing here for our good. I lean towards this last explanation. Careful readers note how the waters above the firmament are not called by anything by name. While the waters below are called seas. Verse ten. Maybe that has something to do with that. So could it be that these waters above are not meant for our good? They may be at best irrelevant to those on earth I think that's sort of the right idea. Not dogmatic on it, but day two did not end with any practical outcome for survival of life. So we need to consider God's water project as a two-day project. That's how I like to see it. That means on Monday the waters were separated vertically And atmospherically. Okay, so the water below is still submerged underwater. That's why on the next day, day three, Tuesday, the waters are gathered horizontally and continentally. It's only after completing both vertical and horizontal separations that God resumes his positive review of his work. Then he proceeds to bring life on dry land as he had always intended. So it's as if God had to do some planetary waterproofing before he could construct Earth as a habitable place. Does anyone know about the pain of waterproofing? Right? Yes, God understands your struggles when your basement floods, right? And the Lord acts his act of caring for our home planet, making it livable, is what makes them worthy of praise. As Isaiah 45, 18 says, He is the Lord who created the heavens, who is God, who formed the earth and made it, who has established it, who did not create it in vain, who formed it to be what? Inhabit it. I am the Lord and there is no other. So again, since clearing waters is a two-day project, we're covering both the second and third Days of creation together. And there are a lot of details to consider here. That's why, as we navigate through these verses, we must keep our head above waters, pun intended, by focusing on these two weekday truths. First, the God of power divides and gathers waters for our survival. That's verses six to ten. Secondly, the God of life enlivens earth for our sustenance. That's 11 to 13. As usual, I think it benefits all to explain how I derive these points. Verses I just mentioned, you have the repetition, and God saw that it was good on day three. You see them in verses ten and thirteen. That forms the two parts of the sermon and the two points. Not aligning with the two days, but really I'm aligning with the the declaration of goodness. Secondly, you see there are two different empathies. The focus of verses 6 to 10 is on the waters, divided and gathered. Okay? The focus of eleven to thirteen is on the dry land where there are grass, herbs, trees. With that in mind, first the God of power divides and gathers waters for our survival. I'll come back to these points later, but the key interpretive question for day two is this: What is the firmament? What is this firmament? I'll call it the question of the day. I'll give my answer in a moment. But first, what do the skeptics say? Those who question the Bible and think it's not scientific. The skeptics would answer like this, quote, something like this. Look, Moses was no better than the ancient writers of his day And the Bible is no better than the ancient writings of its day. It contains unscientific ideas now proved to be false. See, Genesis teaches that there's a solid dome around the earth. When obviously the sky or the atmosphere is not solid. Therefore we cannot trust the scriptures because it makes errors in scientific details. something the skeptics would say. What do we as Christians say to that? How do we describe the properties of this firmament Because we believe in the historical grammatical interpretation of scriptures, we begin with the word itself. The word in the original is Rakia. The noun is etymologically related to the verb rakha, and this verb raqa means stretch out or flatten down like with the hammer of some uh met metallic material. You see it used to describe hammering of some material into thin sheets in various parts of the Bible, the verb I mean. Now back to the noun, it occurs Seventeen times in the Bible, more than half of the occurrences, nine of them are in this chapter, Genesis 1. But let's start with the eight outside of Genesis 1. In Psalm 19:1 and 151, Rakhia is synonymous with the heavens. And God's sanctuary. In Ezekiel the prophet describes the rachia over strange living creatures in the initial chapter. And then later in chapter 10, it has the color of an awesome crystal, and on it something like a sapphire throne. Okay. Finally later, Daniel describes those resurrected saints like brightness of Rachia. So there's not much help from Psalms and Prophets. Okay, so we're back to Genesis. The Rakia is created on day three. It's called heaven. It's capable of holding up water. On day four, God sets lights in the Rakia. Next day, day five, in verse 20, we see God creates birds that fly over the Rakia of heavens. So somehow Rakya can hold waters and even celestial bodies, but it's certainly not solid and overly dense. It's hard to put into words what rakia is exactly. But in choosing this word, Moses is doing his best, with his limited knowledge and vocabulary. It's unreasonable for us to expect them to have be a modern scientist. But this limitation does not mean he made mistakes. As long as we understand Rakia, generally speaking, to a general audience, we're okay. But I do want to add that we as general audience would be better served if we translate Rakia as expanse rather than firmament. Firmament in KJV and NKJV shows the influence of the Latin vulgase firmamentum. But you'll see expands instead in many other translations, ESV, NASV, Holman Christian Standard Bible. New English translation. I think that Rakia is better translated as expanse than firmament because firmament strongly implies some hard solid material. Right. Expand seems to be more closer to the idea of expanding, right? No matter what the material. Okay, that's probably enough discussion of Rakya for now. I don't want Rakya to be the only thing you think about as you leave the service. In the end, all we can say for certain is that Rakhia is made or expanded into an expanse that serves the purposes of God to divide the waters. How it works, who knows. But nothing's too hard for our Creator Elohim. He can make things out of thin air. He can suspend things in thin air. Things like water and even heavier objects. So I think of Job twenty-six seven to eight. It reminds us it is he who stretches out north over empty space, hangs the earth on nothing. He binds up the water in his thick clouds, yet the clouds are not broken under it. Or as Jeremiah ten thirteen Reminds us when he utters his voice, there is a multitude of waters in the heavens. And as we move on to day three, we see that he not only divides waters, but he gathers them. Can you imagine being there that day, right, seeing earth emerge out of water? So while the Lord did tell Job about it in Job 38, 8 to 11. He who shut in the sea with the doors, right? When it burst forth and issued from the womb, he fixed his limit for us and said bars and doors. He said, This far you may come, but no farther And here your proud ways must stop. So that's God's own commentary on his own words here in Genesis. Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place. and let the dry land appear. So he calls this dry land earth. He calls the gathered water seas, giving them a name unlike the waters above. The result is a world before the flood, now lost to us. It's not the world we see in our maps today, with seven continents. The dry land probably here is one supercontinent. Now some call it Rhodinia before the flood and Pangea during the flood, and Lord willing we'll talk all about that later in Genesis. But for now we stop in the middle of day three and marvel at the work of God. Once he's done separating and gathering the waters, he sees that his work is good. It's a work accomplished by his powerful word. As 2 Peter 3. 5 tells us. By the word of God the heavens were of old and the earth standing out of water and in the water. So the lesson here is that the God of power divides and gathers waters for our survival. Now let's go on to verses 11 to 13 and finish day three. God speaks for a second time this day. And we learn here that he's not only the God of power, he's also the God of life who enlivens earth for our sustenance. So how we read what Creator Elohim said, let the earth bring forth grass, the herb that yields seed, and the fruit tree that yields fruit according to its kind. So now that the waters are clear, the Lord turns his attention to dry land and the focus is on vegetation. Then grass is most obviously generic food for animals not yet created, donkeys, sheep, and cattle. But God also speaks More specifically, of two types of vegetation: there's the herb and there's the fruit tree. And notice how each one produces seed differently. The herb yields seed directly. The fruit tree has fruit according to its kind, and the seeds of that tree. Is in that fruit. But with either herbs or trees, whether the seeds are out in the open or within the fruit, theirs is the ability to reproduce after their kinds. Hyssop sir, hyssop herbs make hyssop herbs. Fig trees make fig trees. God of life enlivens earth with plant life But keep in mind that plant life is not ultimate. Psalm 104:14 says he causes the grass to grow for the cattle and vegetation. For the service of man, that he may bring forth food from the earth. The plath life was created for the good of humans and animals. So you don't even have to flip the Psalms to confirm this truth. Just look down at the end of Genesis one where the herb and the fruit tree are mentioned again. Before day six comes to a close and the Sabbath begins, God speaks once more to Adam and Eve and Verses twenty nine to thirty. See I have given you every herb that yields seed which is on the face of all the earth, and every tree whose fruit yields seed to you Also to every beast of the earth, to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, in which there is life, I have given every green earth for food. That's how the God of life enlivens earth for our sustenance. So as an application, even though I like vegetables, I'm going to eat tomatoes and cucumbers, right? Even if you name them Bob and Larry, right? We can have better applications than that. But so on the first days of the universe, first two days of the two weekdays I should say, right? Not the first day, but the first two Weekdays of the universe, we have two lessons about the Creator Elohim. The God of power divides and gathers waters for our survival. The God of life in life is earth for our sustenance. And now as we close day three, let's ask the question of the day How can we apply these principles concerning God's power and life? To answer that question, I'd like to discuss two applications: one for believers mainly, and another for unbelievers. For believers, I like to emphasize power. For unbelievers, I like to emphasize life. First of all, believers do not underrate or underestimate God's power displayed in creation. I'm going to do a Dr. Beale imitation and talk about Isaiah for a bit. What we find in Isaiah are important recalls of God as creator. And it turns out that what he did in the beginning has a lot to do with Where we end up. For example, God's power as creator empowered our Savior Jesus to complete his mission. In Isaiah, Christ is prophesied as the servant of the Lord. Not of us know that. One of those passages is in Isaiah 42, and this servant whom we know as Jesus now faces all kinds of pressure. We're talking about big, enormous tasks. He must bring forth justice to the Gentiles and for the truth and establish it in the earth. He'll open blind eyes and free prisoners out of darkness, and he'll do this without fail or discouragement. How does he do all that? On what basis are we assured Jesus will succeed? Well, look at what the Father says to his son in verses 5 to 6. Thus says, God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread forth the earth and that which comes from it. Who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to those who walk on it? I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness and will hold your hand. I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles. Can you imagine Jesus saying that the doctrine of creation is not very important? Of course not. The God of power who created all things, he empowers Christ. Calls Him, holds His hand, keeps them, and gives them as a covenant and light to the world. Okay, how about saints, God's people? Staying in Isaiah, you find that those who trust in Christ will be vindicated. Okay, it says in chapter 45 that they will be saved by the Lord with an everlasting salvation. They should not be ashamed or disgraced forever and ever. As for their enemies, the idolaters, they shall be ashamed and Also disgraced all of them, they shall go in confusion together. And again, how will this happen? On what basis are we assured that the saints will win? Well look at verse this is eighteen to nineteen. I say I cited verse eighteen earlier, but here it is again. For thus says the Lord who created Seed of Jacob, seek me in vain. I the Lord speak righteousness. I declare things that are right. I could go on and on with various other facets of our faith But what's the underlying theme here? I'll say it like this. It's this. The confidence of Christ And the confidence of Christians are both based on our confidence in God the Creator. Again The competence of Christ and the competence of Christians are both based on our confidence in God the Creator. The same God of power, who divides and gathers waters for our survival, ensures the work of our Savior and our salvation. So sayings, you'll be enriched, right? Strengthened in your faith as you see what Elohim creator did in the beginning. beginning as he created all things, what he did in the past has implications for what he has uh what he is doing now and in the future Finally, let's return to Elohim as the God of Life for one more application. And now I turn to non-Christians, but not only non-Christians. For those of us who want to evangelize non-Christians and for those of us who need reminders, and we all need reminders of the gospel. But I am addressing unbelievers here directly. Unbelievers, consider the gospel the message from the God of life. We talked a bit earlier about plant life that emerged from the dry land. I don't know if you ever look at the grass on your lawn or at the park and say to yourself, that's basically my life. I'm green and vibrant today, but someday I'll be dry, shriveled, and trampled. Maybe you feel that right now. Well, if you do think like that, you're not far from God's assessment of you, even if you're healthy, you deck yourself with wealth and live in prosperity. Here's what James 1 10-11 says about you. As a flower of the field, you will pass away, for no sooner has the sun risen with the burning heat. Then it withers the grass, its flower falls, and its beautiful appearance perishes, so the rich man also will fade away in his pursuits. James agree with Proverbs that riches do not profit on the day of wrath. We might have our heydays and our glory days, but we'd be in trouble on Judgment Day. That's because all of us are sinners, right? We're idolaters. It's all over history. For example, instead of thanking our Father in heaven, people in Jeremiah's time betrayed him. They worshiped idols like the queen of heaven. Carved images of metal and wood. And today we're not much better, right? Might be worse. We covet material blessings of others. We make altars for man We do not honor the Creator who gives fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. We place false deities above him who gives to all light, breadth, and all things. But because of our sins, we deserve condemnation. We're not like precious wheat that's valuable for food. We're like chaff ready to be burned up with unquenchable fire. But God did not leave us like this. He sent Jesus, He's the Son of God, fully divine, yet He's the Son of Man, fully human too. It is He who came down from heaven and is above all. He is perfect and holy, so he deserves all the praise, honor, and glory. Yet he gave himself up for our sins. But even in his sacrifice, this would be for his glory and the Father's glory. Before he went to the cross, he declared in John 12, 24: Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it produces much grain. So that's just what he did. He was crucified to penalty to pay the penalty of our sins, satisfy the wrath of God. The Son of God suffered and died to bring many sons to glory. But that was not the end. On the third day, the stem of Jesse, the Davidic branch of righteousness, the true vine, rose from the grave. He showed by many proofs that he's truly alive, he then ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. We must get ready for that day. You want a pure soul and a spirit-led life, you must be born again. How is that possible? Well, as it was established on the third day, you need a new seed for new life. But it's not just any seed that'll save you. You cannot be reborn through corruptible seed. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Corruption does not inherit incorruption. So listen to what Peter says in 1 Peter 1, and we talked a little bit about this during the Sunday school. All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of the grass. The grass withers and its flower falls away, but the word of the Lord endures forever. Now this is the word which by the gospel was preached to you. By heeding this good news of Jesus, you have eternal life. So as the scriptures demand Repent. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in Him only. You cannot earn or deserve the right to enter God's presence. And eternal life. It's a gift unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. If you haven't already made this decision, do not delay. I hope somebody will hear the sermon. Just record it and post it online. Contact me or another member of this church. Know that the God of power and life calls you to Himself through Jesus This is the most urgent call. Think about the lyrics of the final song as we close the service. As summer flowers we fade and die, fame, youth, and beauty hurry by. But life eternal calls to us at the cross. Let's pray Lord, we thank you that you are the God of power who moves waters. You are the God of life who brings forth vegetation and give us life. You form us in our womb. In the womb wombs of uh just our mothers we grow we're s we're sustained by life plenty of food around us and We just thank you for all these material blessings. But we're most thankful that even these material blessings point to spiritual, heavenly blessings. So that you are the God of power who sustains us and able to keep us from falling. You're the God of life who regenerates us. Cause us to be born again, to be your children. Lord, we pray that as we study creation, as we study who you are and what you did, May we be in all of you and all that you have done for us and all that you will do as we look forward to the future, the new creation, the new heavens and the new earth, new Jerusalem. We thank you that all these things are true and connected because we serve you, the one God, the one God who sent his one Jesus, his son, so that we might be saved through this one gospel. We thank you in Christ's name we pray. Amen.