I think that's a good thing. So have you guys seen this in different places? Um maybe you've seen it in t-shirts and mugs. But originally it's a motivational poster created by um the UK Cup Government in 1939. The Ministry of Information had planned to promote it in preparation for the World War II. But apparently, the two other posters that preceded this one were unpopular. So this third one that reads keep calm and carry on was not widely distributed. It's too bad because, you know, maybe if they started with this one, it would have been popular immediately. immediately uh and is pretty popular today even out of i its original context In uneasy times of low morale or political angst, we need a calming message. But we need more than British stoicism or American pride, or just struggling with apathy. maybe. We need more than a one-liner on a poster or a bumper sticker. Thankfully we have many lines in our words in the in the scriptures. We've got many verses and chapters to keep our head up and our faith strong. And our collection of Psalms is especially helpful. That's why after completing our long series on first Corinthians, I thought it'd be good to spend some time reading Psalms. So keep calm and read Psalms. I thanks to my wife for creating this image. But really it's quite an awkward pull for the season. The election has ended and some people are losing their minds. media or different places. And as the holidays are around the corner, we as saints can stand out, be different. We can be the most grateful and the most humble. As we count our blessings at Thanksgiving, we can be the most joyful about Christmas as we look back to Christ's birth and his return. We can be the most hopeful as we look forward to a new year, Lord willing. So let's keep calm and read Psalms, right? Now I don't mean intend to go through all 150 of them. I had to narrow it down to a sort of a handful. The first step in this process was to limit my selection to what is called messianic psaps. Messiah Messiana comes from Messiah, and Messiah means anointed one in English, Christ in Greek. So we're talking about songs that relate to Jesus and anticipate him and his ministries. Looking at some of these and looking through some of these to behold Christ would calm and quiet our souls. But I'll say one gripe that I have with the term messianic psalms is that it's far too broad. Okay. So to add some nuance, I put out my old seminary class notes in In spring 2009, I took a course at Capitol Bible Seminary called Hebrew Messianic Exegesis. It was memorable for multiple reasons. It was an advanced level uh language course but also deeply theological and you know it's Todd Beo at his best. But that semester I was in a bad car accident. I fractured my hips, so I was in crutches for about half the semester and that class was located on the third floor of Miles Hall with no elevator. So Hebrew messianic exegesis was both an agonizing and wonderful experience. It's kind of like what the psalmists often tell. Anyways, back to the subject of Messianic Psalms. Dr. Beau added some wrinkles under this heading Instead of one broad category, he promoted three subcategories. So this may sound a little bit academic, but hopefully encouraging to you as you read the Psalms. There are one extended Messianic Psalms, ultimate messianic psalms, strictly messianic psalms. In extended messianic Psalms, the primary subject is not Jesus, according to the plain reading of the passage, but then the inspired New Testament writers reveal how the extended meaning is messianic. One well-known example is Psalm 8, and we'll look at that around Thanksgiving. Secondly, in ultimate messianic Psalms, there is a partial fulfillment in David. But its ultimate fulfillment can only be in Jesus. Examples include Psalms 16, 22, and 40. We'll look at Psalm 40 closer to Christmas. Thirdly, there are strictly messianic Psalms. These look directly to Jesus. They do not have any near fulfillment, that is near the time of his writing, in the life of David or other kings of the past. So Psalm 110 is a famous one. So is Psalm 2, and we'll look at that in two parts today and next week. Now before I read Psalm 2, let me say a few words about It's structure. There are 12 verses in this chapter. They can be neatly divided into four movements consisting of three verses each. The first three verses record the psalmist's astonishment at the rebellion of the nations. Verses four to six reveal the Lord's reaction. Seven to nine are also words of reaction, but this time from the viewpoint of The Lord's anointed. Finally, ten to twelve issue a final warning against the nations. So today we'll cover half of this psalm. Let's read. Psalm two, one to six. Psalm two one to six Why do the nations rage and the people plot a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together Against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their course from us. He who sits in the heavens shall Shall laugh. The Lord shall hold them in derision. Then he shall speak to them in his wrath, and distress them in his deep displeasure. Yet I have set my king on my holy hill of Zion. I just want to say up front that this is a psalm of King David. That's not confirmed by a superscription or a heading. But we do find in Acts chapter 4, verse 1. Verse 23, the early church inspired by the Holy Spirit, attributing this Psalm to David. It's hard to know for sure when he wrote this, and that's neither here or there. The historical setting is not so relevant considering sort of David's looking into a distant future. So it's worth repeating that this is a strictly messianic psalm. The contents speak for themselves. themselves. The kingdom envisioned here is grand. The David was good and he was a godly warrior, but he never enjoyed Ruth to this extent. Sure, his son Solomon. Enjoyed a prosperous reign stretching from the brook of Egypt to Hamet. But no ruler andor people thus far have exercised authority of this global proportion. So the scene here describes something yet to come, the end times. For those interested in timelines and prophecy, I believe Psalm 2 Corresponds to Gog and Magog and Ezekiel 38 and Revelation 20. This massive war takes place twice. First, when Christ returns to rule, secondly, in as his millennial kingdom closes. Far away, but even so there are some relevant principles for us today. As you can I derive these principles based on the passage. Notice how each of the two movements ends with a declaration. The hubbub of the conference room in verses one to two leads up to a declaration of war in verse three. Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their corresponding. From us. Meanwhile, the scene of the throne room, throne room in verses four to five, ends with the determination of God's choice in verse six. Yet I have set my king on my holy hill of Zion. So, with these two movements, I'd like to present a human problem and a divine solution. The human problem is this: we rebel in vain against God in Christ. That's verses one to three. The divine solution is this. The Lord remains in control and installs Christ. That's verses four to six. First, the problems that we rebel in vain against God and Christ. Whether it's at the Garden of Eden or the Tower of Babel. Home, school, work, or church. We have trouble submitting to authority. Of course, at times the problems with the authorities themselves, the first king of Israel was rebuked because he rebelled against God. So Samuel confronted Saul, saying, Rebellion's as the sin of witchcraft. Stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Later, Isaiah called out prophets and priests. These are supposed to be examples to people, but they were getting drunk. Okay. Today there are abuses and scandals and fallen leaders everywhere. And we may want to distance ourselves from them, but the fact is we the people got the same rebellious streak against God. Consider how an entire generation that saw the the plagues of Egypt, crossed the Red Sea, ate the manna and quail, did not make it into the promised land, safe two individuals, right? Their tragic account was for our ammonition and warning, as we see in the New Testament. What was said by Jeremiah equally applies to us. He said in chapter five verse twenty-three. This people has a defiant and rebellious heart. They have revolted and departed. So yes, all of us rebel against God That's what sin is. Back to Psalm 2, David starts in verse 1 by opening our ears to loud cacophony, then outbursts of anger. He wonders what's the commotion all about? Why do the nations rage? What's all this racket for? And then in the second half of verse 1, we move from Outward, voisterous display of emotions to inward thoughts. The verb translated as plot is found in a few passages before this one It's Haga in Hebrew. Interestingly, it's translated as meditate in Joshua 1. 8 and Psalm 1. 2. Joshua 1. 8 says, this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in it day and night. Psalm 1. 2 says, concerning The blessed man, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. So while the blessed man and the congregation of the righteous Savor and well as God's word night and day. The ungodly think 24-7 on things that do not last. Foolishness Of rebelling against God. And here's how David sees our plans to you serve God. It is a vain thing, it is worthless, it's pointless. It's hard for you to kick against the goats. In my family, I'm the one who always sees the silver lining and everything. We got lost on the road. It's okay, we spent extra time together. We made a few mistakes, we learned from them But look, there's absolutely no silver lining in rebellion against God. But because of our basic human problems, rebellion, we see what we see in the world. Verse two The nations and people appoint kings and rulers to promote their desires Kings take their mil stand militarily as the top grass. They're the brawn of the operation. The rulers take their seat as in a conclave. They're the brains of the operation. Could be talking about the same person. Or it could be different. The main point is that they oppose God's programs and prerogatives. They rebel, re rebel, rebel in vain against God and Christ. And this specifically is against Israel's God and King. You see how the Lord in the second half of verse 2 Is in all capital letters. Well, it's not as if the psalmist is trying to yell at you with like modern social media. If you take your few Bibles and go past the table of contents to the preface, right, you'll find it in front of you. And if you look at the fourth paragraph, which starts with the format of the New King James Version, then go down to the second to the last sentence, and this is what you'll find. Okay? It reads. And If you can't find it, that's fine, just look up here. The covenant name of God is usually translated from the Hebrew as Lord or God using capital letters as shown as in the King James So in Psalm 2 2, the Lord all cast refers to Yahweh, okay, Jehovah, right? is he is who he is, self-existent, self-sustaining, self-determining. Sovereign above all, yet by covenant, he's revealed himself and bound himself to his truth. chosen people. He's the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and their descendants. He made promises to them and he'll keep those promises through the royal seed of David, anointed as king. God's own people love this, of course, but not his enemies. So they expressed their rebellion verbally in verse 3. You know what's so crazy and insane about sin? Jesus told us plainly that whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. That's what it says in John 3. 834. But the sinner is so delusional and so hardened, he or she convinces him or herself that bondage to sin is a good thing. They call captivity to sin liberty, right? Enslavement to wickedness, freedom. Just as they call evil good, darkness light, bitter sweet. Worst of all, rebels refuse Christ's good shepherd rule. They consider his yoke heavy and his burden weighty. This is why, and we also rebel against the world. God in vain, right? And in Christ. Now I'll come back to the implications or applications of verses one to three later, but first let's forge ahead to verses four to six. In the second movement, we have the divine solution to our human problem. The answer is clearly not God negotiating, compromising, giving in to our tantrums Rather, it's this, the Lord remains in control and installs Christ. As a world war is declared against God, he doesn't panic. He doesn't bite his nails, pace up and down his room. He doesn't vacate his throne and leap through some escape. He remains seated, he remains as Lord, he remains in control. Psalm 115, verse 3 reminds us: our God is in heaven. He does Whatever he pleases. Back to Psalm 2. 4. The Lord, not in all cats this time, this time the name is Adonai, laughs at the rebels in mockery. I like how one of my favorite preachers, H. V. Charles, sums it up. Human rebellion is divine comedy. Human rebellion. Is divine comedy. God finds our feeble efforts amusing, silly But then the laughter eventually stops and the mood changes. God of heaven responds to their foolish talk with anger. This is a biblical representation of God that we need to preach and teach more. He is radical. He distresses rebels. He's deeply displeased with them. Now it's very understandable how the Lord destroyed these kings and rulers right on the spot, right? But commentator David Goodzik makes a good point about God's forbearance and grace. Grace. He has every reason and every right to simply act against defiant men. Love and mercy compel God to speak a word of warning before he acts. Warnings giving warnings is an act of love. So the passage goes on. That word of warnings in verse six, yet I have set my king on my holy hill of Zion. The Lord is saying, I know you want you want to all sit as kings and rulers overall, but there's only one. One seat for one king I approve. It's reserved for the man of God's choosing. This particular ruler is for a particular people at a particular place. Jesus is the King of Israel. Stationed at Mount Zion and Jerusalem, the hill and the city God set apart as holy. From there his reign will extend to the ends of the earth. This is how the Lord remains in control and installs Christ. So here's a review of the points. The human problem is that we rebel in vain against God. in Christ. The divine solution is that the Lord remains in control and installs Christ. Now let me get to some applications or implications as I I mentioned earlier. And I have two, and both have to do with knowing. One, know who God is, faithful Yahweh and sovereign Lord. Two, know what God does in the past, present, and future. When I say know who God is, I want us to focus on the name and descriptions of God. of God. You know, in just the few verses that we read, we learned about his character, who he is, his names. Okay. I already spoke of the Lord in all capital letters in verse two. How is the covenantal name of Yahweh? From that we know him to be faithful in his promises and protection of his special people. We saw in verse 4 how he's the one who sits in heaven as Lord, this Lord is not in all caps. It's Adonai. From that we know God to be sovereign over all things with authority and power. Knowing God as faithful Yahweh and sovereign Lord. is vital to our faith. Because he's faithful, it's better to trust in Yahweh than to put confidence in princes. Because he's sovereign, we need a glimpse of Adonai still sitting on the throne. Maybe you have trouble dealing with political changes, just as people in Isaiah's time probably had trouble dealing with political with the passing of King Uzziah. I mean the guy ruled for fifty-two years. They got used to him. Probably with a lot of people, the only king they ever knew. But they have to grapple with that. So God showed Isaiah the vision of God on the throne. Maybe you read the names on the ballot last week and you weren't that impressed. But when you look at the names of God in your Bible, you should be impressed. Start with knowing God as faithful, Yahweh and sovereign Lord. Now names tell us a lot about God, but we know so much more as he works, moves, and acts in history. That's why we must also know what God does in the past, present, and future. Let's start with Psalm 2, 1 through 6. And see how it relates to the past. So we fast forward about a thousand years from the time of David to the time of Jesus and the early church According to Acts 3, one afternoon in Jerusalem, early Christian leaders Peter and John went to the temple for prayer. En route, they encountered a man lame from birth. They could not give money, but they gave him something much better. A miracle in the name of Jesus so that he can walk. Well, that got everyone's attention, and it got Peter and John an audience. They boldly proclaimed the gospel. But you turn to Acts 4 and the Jerusalem authorities did not like that. See, they had earlier rejected Jesus, who died and was resurrected. They wanted to silence his followers too, so they severely threatened them. But the two were unfazed and replied in Acts chapter 1. Chapter four, nineteen to twenty. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. The leaders could do no more, so Peter and John were released. The two returned to their own and reported what their enemies said. And then what did they do? Did they batten down the doors, like make sure that the doors are locked? They get scared. No, a prayer meeting was called. We had the words of their prayer written down for us in Acts 4, 24 to 30. Goes like this. Lord you are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea, and all that is in them, who by the mouth of your servant David have said, Why did the nations rage? And the people plot vain things. The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly, against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together to do whatever your hand Whatever your hand and your purpose determine before to be done. Now look, now Lord, look on their threats and grant yourself servants that with all boldness they may speak your word by stretching out your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus. You see the earth early church citing Psalm 2. 1 to 2 in Acts 4. 25-26. They're inspired by the Holy Spirit to quote and interpret David's words. And there's something like a matching exercise here. Who is the Lord? Verse 24. God the Creator, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. Who is the anointed one, the Messiah, the Christ? Verse twenty-seven, God's holy servant Jesus. Who are the nations, people, the kings of the earth, and rulers who oppose them? Verse 27 again: Herod and Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel. But then what comes of it? All the rage and gathering and plotting. Look at the end of verse 27 into verse 20. twenty eight, the authorities were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. This is mind boggling. At this earthly level they had their they laid their hands on Jesus after plotting to destroy him. They had him tortured, ashamed, crucified. Yet they were just pawns in the hand of God. of the grand chess master. They're just tools to implement the divine plan. And what is that plan? It's God's rescue plan. And it's imperative we understand that we do need rescuing. Apart from grace, we're sinners under God's wrath. Although we knew God God, we did not glorify Him as God. We were not thankful, but became futile in our thoughts, and our foolish hearts were darkened. We changed the glory of the incorruptible God. Into an image made like corruptible man. We set up ourselves as false gods, set up ourselves against the true God. And we won't quit our foolishness apart from grace. Stepnecked, refusing to bend to Lord's will We rebelled against our Creator, we provoked them to wrath. Praise God for the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and long suffering. God the Father sent his own son, Jesus. He is Christ the Messiah, the anointed God and man in one person. He lived a perfect life. He came to Jerusalem as the rightful king, just in having salvation, lowly and riding on a donkey. Yet instead of seeding him on the David's throne, Herod and others mocked him. The Jewish leaders manipulated Pontius Pilate and the Roman authorities To fulfill their desires to kill him. Instead of royal courts, he was sent outside of the city walls. Instead of Mount Zion, he went to the hill of Calvary. But again, they could only do whatever the Lord's hand and purpose determined before to be done. By dying, Jesus fulfilled his mission. The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for Many. He died on the cross to pay for the penalty of sins that we should pay. He was buried. He rose from the grave on the third day. After showing many proofs, of his resurrection, he ascended to heaven. So that covers what the Lord has done in Christ in the past. What does he do in Christ? In the present. Since he has appointed a day, he'll judge the world in righteousness by Jesus, the man whom he has anointed and ordained. He now commands everyone everywhere to repent. We must turn from pride and self-righteousness and turn to Christ Jesus, believing the gospel. There's salvation and no other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Through Jesus, you can be delivered from God's wrath in hell. You can receive eternal life as a gift, enter heaven freely. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Finally, we end by asking, what does God do in Christ in the future? We got a glimpse of it when Our elder Carey read earlier from Revelation eleven. We look forward to that day when we can say the following The kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ and he shall reign forever and ever. With eyes on that day, let's sing our final song. Okay Though the nations rage, kingdoms rise and fall, there is still one king reigning over all. So I will not fear, for this truth remains: that my God is the ancient of days. Lord, we do thank you for what we see as peaceful transition of power in our country. But Lord, we know that you give us peace that lasts. We you have promises, you've given us promises of a future kingdom. And we stand in this time of already not yet, enjoying the privilege we have as citizens. sons of heaven as your children but at the same time we're looking forward and this looking forward to the return of your son When he is seated on the earthly throne, even as he is now seated at your right hand. Lord, pray that in our attitude, in our life, in our words, people People will see that we are not at home in this world, that we serve the true King of Kings, that what happens with the instability in this world does not phase us as it in the same way that it phases the people of the world. Lord, make us all witnesses like the early church as they look to your word like Psalm Too. Lord, may we see that you are sovereign, you are faithful, and that you are deserving of our complete trust. You are worthy of our praise. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.