Alright, let's open our Bibles to the Gospel of Luke this morning. The Gospel of Luke. Sometimes people misunderstand things. I don't know if you heard the story of the little girl who was sitting at the dinner table talking with her parents about God. And her parents were endeavoring to explain the doctrine of the omniscience. To God, I'm sorry, the omnipresence of God to their little girl. And their little girl was having a hard time comprehending, as you can imagine, that God is everywhere. And so she asked, Is God on the roof? And her parents patiently explained, yes, he is there present on the roof. Is God in that closet? And her parents said, Yes, God's presence is in that closet. And then she said, Is God in my milk? In my glass? And they said, Yes, you know, as as parents are patient and they want to try to explain to this dear child, yes, God is in your glass. And she quickly put her hand over the glass. She said, I caught God. I've got him right here. And she didn't understand the omnipresence of God. She had a hard time with that. And as a child would do, she she thought that if God was here, she could capture him. So sometimes people misunderstand or have a hard time understanding the doctrines that are in the Bible or some of these great theological words, such as omnipresence, omnipotence. and omniscience and all on and on we could go. Certainly during the life of Jesus Christ, his disciples at times misunderstood him They had a hard time understanding what he was teaching and how it applied to their lives. What we're looking at this morning in Luke chapter 9. Starting at verse 37, and really down to the end of the chapter, verse 62, is a series of discussions wherein Jesus clears away some of the confusion that his disciples had. They misunderstood his teachings or some aspect of who they were as the disciples of Jesus and how they were supposed to act. For example, now we've already gone through when they came down from the side of the hill there after the Mount of Transfiguration, there was the question of their faith, and they directed it in the wrong direction. He rebuked them in verse 41. But as you continue down and you look at verse 43, what we have in verses 43 to 45 is directly stated as a problem of misunderstanding. Look at verse 45. It says, but they did not understand this saying, and it was hidden from them, so that they did not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask him about this saying. What Jesus said was confusing to them. Now, from the Godward side of things, God had hidden it from them for a time. But from the manward side, they were fearful. They didn't even want to ask because the thing Jesus had said caused fear to rise in their hearts and was confusing to them. In verses 46 to 48, we have the problem of disputing. If you look at verse 46, it says, then a dispute arose among them as to which of them would be greatest. If you could characterize verses 43 to 45 as a problem of fear or of not really understanding the purpose of Jesus' ministry, you could characterize verses 46 to 48 as a About the nature of greatness among the disciples of Christ. What does it mean to be great? I'll be great, and the other one says, I'm going to be greater than you. And Jesus has to step in and stop this misunderstanding. In verses 49 and 50, we have a misunderstanding about the nature of unity among the followers of Jesus Christ. John says in verse 49, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because. And then he gives a reason. And Jesus corrects him in verse 50. Excuse me. Jesus corrects him in verse 50 and he corrects their misunderstanding about the nature of biblical unity or of unity among the disciples of Christ. Well, the misunderstanding only goes on in verses 51 to 56. In this section, we have the Samaritans rejecting Jesus simply because they knew that he was going to go on to Jerusalem He set his face to go to Jerusalem because the climax of his ministry was his rejection by his people in that city. And so they don't want to, verse. 53, they did not receive him. That is, he sent his followers in, his disciples in to prepare for them. They didn't receive him because they knew that he was going to journey to Jerusalem And the response there of James and John in verse 54 is, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them? Just as Elijah did. I mean, here's this immediate retribution. James and John, sons of thunder. Let's see them judged by God. He has to correct them. And then finally, in verses 57 to 62, we have a great deal of misunderstanding as to the cost. The type of sacrifice that is required to follow Christ. What they really don't understand is the life-altering cost of discipleship. We have a man in verse 57, and he says, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. And then Jesus warns him in verse 58. And then he says, follow me. And the man says, no, look at verse 59. Lord, let me first go and do certain things. And the Lord corrects him in verse 60, and then the man says in verse 61, Lord, I will follow you, but let me first go and do certain things. And the Lord has to correct him in verse 62. So what we have here is a great deal of misunderstanding among the disciples of Jesus Christ and at the end there a potential follower of Jesus Christ. What is it? What do you think in each passage, in each section? What do you think it is that they needed to understand? What is it in each vignette, each mini story here that the disciples needed to understand? Well, in our first section that we're going to look at They needed to understand the absolute necessity of the death and resurrection of the Christ as the foundation of all that was to come. If you look down at your Bible again and at the first section there In verse 44, this is Luke 10, 44, he says, Let these words sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men. Now, this is not the first time that Jesus told his disciples this. You flip back only one page, perhaps, in your Bible, in chapter 9, verse 22. And Jesus says, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised the third day. This was not the first time that he had said this. But the disciples, if I could put it this way, they were being swept away in the current of optimism And anticipation that Jesus existed in at that time. Optimism and anticipation. And that optimism and anticipation of what the Christ would do is completely based on the messages that they were receiving about him. You would react in the same way that the disciples reacted. You wouldn't understand. Let me show you this to you. If you'll go first, all we're going to do is look at Luke. Look at all the way back at the beginning of Luke at Luke chapter 1 and at what the angel said about Jesus to Mary and what he was going to do. Luke 1, 32. Now in verse 31, the angel says to Mary, You shall call his name Jesus. And then the angel says in verse 32, He will be great and will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign. Anything in there about death? Anything in there about resurrection? There's a throne Your son will sit on it, and he will reign, verse 33, over the house of Jacob forever. Puzzling perhaps to Mary. Maybe she thought in terms of his lineage down the line. And his kingdom, of his kingdom there will be no end. Mary contemplates, no doubt, the nature of the angel's message to her after she thinks about it and visits Elizabeth and then if you look down at verses 47 to 40 to 55 we have here her magnificent Psalm. It's sort of in terms of Old Testament Psalms. And she speaks her praise to God. And I just want to call out a few words there. If you look at verse 51. She's speaking about the Lord. He has shown strength from his arm, verse 51 says. This is Mary praising God for Jesus and how he God chose her to bring the Messiah into the world. Verse 51, he has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. Verse 52, he has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. Verse 53, he's filled the hungry with food things, I'm sorry, good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. Verse 54, he has helped his servant Israel. Listen to those terms again. The Lord has shown strength. The Lord is scattered. The Lord has put down the mighty. He's exalted the lowly. He's filled the hungry. He's helped his servant Israel. Would it be fair to say that these are, among other things, terms of conquest, strength, scattering, putting down, helping the hungry? And the angel says he's going to have a throne. This only goes on when Zecharias speaks about his son, John the Baptist, and Jesus. When you look down only a few verses. At his prophecy about John's ministry in relation to Jesus Christ. He says in verse 69 that the Lord has raised up a horn of salvation for us. Zachariah says about Jesus in verse 71 that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. Verse 72 to perform the mercy promised to our fathers. Verse 74, I'm sorry, what did I just say? Verse 72. Now verse 74, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, Might serve him. Again, these are terms of conquest of the Messiah, liberation of Israel. so that they might serve verse 75 in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. The angels in chapter 2 verse 14, when they speak of Jesus to the shepherds, you know this. In the King James Version and the New King James Version, it translates that, Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace. Goodwill toward men. Now there is something happening here where the angels are saying, The Lord or God, who is in the highest, he is bringing something to earth and offering it to us, toward men. Men, they'll receive this gift. Glory to God. Look what he's doing. This gift. Any talk of death? Any talk of resurrection? Any talk of suffering so far? Simeon in chapter 2, verses 29 to 32. He broadens the vision when he speaks not only of Israel, but of the Gentiles. He praises God in chapter 3, verse 30. I'm sorry, chapter 2, verse 30. He says For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people, Israel. You look at Anna and she speaks in terms of redemption. Verse 38. She comes in. At that instant, she gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of him to all those who looked for redemption in Jerusalem. Now, this is all the things going on before Jesus is even born. I mean, these are psalms that surround the birth narrative of Jesus Christ. But then John the Baptist comes. And he's the precursor of the Christ. And he's going to talk about the nature of his ministry. And the what, if you look at the statements that he makes. And do that in chapter 3. Look at first at verse 9. I'll skip some. He says this about the ministry of Jesus. The axe is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And everybody says, what shall we do? Why are they so scared? Because John the Baptist is prophesying that the coming Christ will bring a ministry of justice and judgment. You better repent, brood of vipers. Who told you to repent? And when they say, Are you the Christ? In verse 16, he says, no, no. He will baptize you at the end of verse 16 with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his threshing floor. And gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. And with many other exhortations he preached to the people. Now, if you were to stop right there and pretend for a moment that you have never read the gospel story before, and you're just reading through Luke to try to learn about the ministry of Jesus. Just pretend for a moment you haven't read anything else in the Bible except this. What would you tend to think about this coming person? A king, a throne, the exaltation of Israel and the scattering of Israel's enemies. Judgment on the enemies of God. And folks, that is why when John the Baptist is sitting there in prison thinking about Jesus, he's confused. Because when Jesus arrives on the scene, if you recall, he's baptized, he's tempted, and then he goes, and we have the first sort of scene in chapter 4 where he identifies himself and he quotes from the Old Testament from Isaiah 61. And in his quote from Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2, okay, it has some of the themes that John the Baptist said. Would you turn to Isaiah 61, 1 and 2? But he stops short of a phrase that John the Baptist would have appreciated. Isaiah 61, 1 and 2. If you just look right at it so you can see the rest. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. Stop. Now, what is he saying here? Remember, Mary had sort of the first part of her psalm is God scattering. And God pulling down, the Lord pulling down. And the second part of her psalm is God feeding the hungry, helping the weak. What have we just read about? Have we read anything about God's scattering and pulling down and judging? No We've kind of read something that's in line with the second part of Mary's Psalm. And Jesus stopped before he read the end of verse 2, which says, and the day of vengeance of our God. The next statement there. He stopped. He didn't read that. Didn't say anything about vengeance at this point. So you flip back to Luke. And you go back to him identifying himself in Nazareth, where he was rejected, and then you see the nature of his ministry, no wonder in Luke 3 we have We have John the Baptist in verse 4. Let's see, make sure I have this right. No, I don't. Luke's uh Luke 7. I'm sorry. Luke 7, we have John the Baptist saying, uh Where are you? Look at Luke 7 verse 17. It says, in this report about and went throughout all Judea and all the surrounding region. Then the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things, and you know how the story goes. John sends two people to Jesus, and they say in verse 20, Are you the coming one, or do we look for another? Now, notice this carefully, verses 17 and 18, there is a report about Jesus. And all The report about him went throughout all Judea and all the surrounding regions. So what report? That's the report of the activity of the things he did. Jesus healed the lepers. He did bind up the brokenhearted. I mean, he did exactly what Isaiah prophesied he would do in Isaiah 61. And he judged no one. There was no winning fork. There's no fire. There's no judgment of God coming down for the freedom of national Israel at this time. And so it is after John receives this report that he sends these men in verse 20, are you the coming one? And Jesus Highlights his ministry and its current emphasis at that time. In verse 21, he doesn't say, give me a little while, John, and I'm going to judge everything. He just highlights it in verse 21. He says, and that very hour he cured many people of their infirmities, afflictions, and evil spirits, and to many who were blind he gave sight Then Jesus answered and said to them, Go and tell John the things you have seen and heard. The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear. So he just goes back and says, Just go tell John again. What he has already heard. And Jesus is emphasizing Isaiah 61, 1 and 2, but not yet the day of vengeance. And so what do we have then? Well, we have all these prophecies about Jesus that seem to include retribution for the enemies of Israel, the exaltation of the throne of David, and we have John the Baptist who preaches repentance. And you know that some of the followers of John the Baptist became the followers of Jesus. And certainly they were to an extent aware of John's ministry. And so all I'm trying to point out here, folks, is that these men who misunderstood, and if you go to flip over a few more pages to Luke, Chapter 9 again, verse 45. They did not understand this saying. They did not understand that the Son of Man had to be delivered into the hands of men, even though And Luke's progression here, they had been told twice, it is actually reasonable that they didn't understand. Because the message that Luke gives us is a message of Judgment. And how can this Messiah die and rise from the dead? The disciples needed to understand that there is this absolute necessity of the death and resurrection of the Christ. That that is the foundation of everything that was to come. Folks, aren't you glad today that we are not just believers in a metaphor, in a story, in a morality tale? In some sort of philosophy or pagan religion or myth, our entire faith rests in a historical fact. There was Jesus, He was born, he died, and he rose again. And that is the foundation of everything. And that is why Paul said, I'm not going to preach anything else to you, but Christ crucified. That's where it starts. And that's what these men needed to understand. Certainly part of their fear was the result. How would you like to hear this? Guys, I am going to be delivered into the hands of men soon. Let this sink down into your ears. What? This is just getting good. What is this? Well, what else did they need to understand according to these different passages here? Well, this one, and I really love this one, of course, I love the first one as well. But they also needed to understand what really makes a disciple of Jesus great. What really makes them great. You look down here again at verse 46. It says, then a dispute arose among them as to which of them would be greatest. And Jesus, perceiving the thoughts of their heart. Took a little child and set him by him, and said to them, Whoever receives this little child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he who is least among you all will be great. Now, first, I want you to see the connection here between their words and their hearts. There was a dispute, verse 46, that was verbal. And Jesus, in his perception, verse 47, is internal. He perceived their motives, their thoughts. which created the verbal issue and the dispute. This is evidence of his deity, that he was not just a man. So what exactly is he doing here? Well, if you look secondly in verse 48, he talks about the little child. This is not primarily a verse about children's ministries, okay? The little child here is a symbol for an individual who has nothing to offer the kingdom of God. Per se. As you look at a child, he has no wealth of his own. He has limited strength by virtue of his size and physical stature. He had limited mental faculties by virtue of his age. His experience has not given him any significant amount of wisdom. So why, why would we ever receive such a one and minister to such a one in the kingdom of God when he at face value appears to have virtually no va- no value when it comes to the kingdom of God? This little child is a symbol of what would appear to be worthless to someone who's trying to achieve greatness. A little child. And then thirdly here, what we have is he's going to primarily tell you, he flips their argument on the side, that this response here is different than from the other gospels. It's additional data that we have here on what he told these men. Let me see if you can see it. Look at verse 48 again. He says, whoever receives this little child, that's the symbol of what would be worthless or small, in my name receives me. So here's the first fact. Greatness has something to do not with what you're doing because it at face value it appears so insignificant, but why you're doing it. This expression in my name has, and I'm afraid I'm going to have to sort of overlap point three here a little bit has everything to do with his name. And if you recall from Luke The angel tells Mary what to name him. It wasn't Mary didn't get out an ancient Hebrew scroll like what parents do today and say, you know, I really like this name Jesus. It sounds very Jewish. Let's do this one rather than Bartholomew. That was not her choice. And in Matthew, Matthew 1. 21, there's a connection, and I do want you to look at this, see it with your own eyes. Matthew 1. 21, the angel explicitly tells Mary why. Why the name Jesus? And he says this, and she will bring forth a son And this is in fact the angel speaking to Joseph. So the angel told both these, Mary and Joseph, what to name the child. And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. The name Jesus means Savior. You go back to Luke chapter 9 and you pick up on this expression, in my name, and you put it in the context of the sayings that Jesus taught about the kingdom of God. His own personal authority, the mission that is revealed in the name of Jesus, that he would save his people from their sins. And you put these kind of things together and you synthesize, and what you end up with is kind of a summary where when I do something in his name, I'm doing it for the sake of his kingdom and for the sake of that mission to save people from their sins. It's all about doing it for his sake and through him. It's about Jesus. It's not about me. It's in his name. And so what Jesus is saying in verse 48 is that when if you do something insignificant, but you're doing it for this motive. For the kingdom of God, for me, in my name, that that person might be saved, that that person might know me. You're doing it for me So he's elevating all gospel ministry is in this sense is being put on the same level He's taking this extreme example in order to lift up every example. It's all wonderful. It's all great if it's in his name. Because when you do the smallest thing in his name, you've done it for him. And that's the point. Why are you doing it, disciples? We want to be great. Well, guess what? If you do something insignificant in my name, you will be great. So the first point he's pulling out here is this in my name thing. You'll be great by virtue. of of doing it for me, of doing it for me, not what you do, but why you do it. And then secondly, if you look at your Bible at verse 48 again and look carefully at that verse, It says, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. Now here he's saying that you will be great also by virtue of my relationship with God. Now look folks, in this world, you might know someone who knows someone who knows someone who's really great. Have you ever heard someone brag about their association with some celebrity? or some great musician, some politician. I mean there I've gone into offices where people have pictures of them shaking hands with someone great, you know, whether it's a former president, a congressman. I just heard recently one of my relatives shook hands with Hillary Clinton at a fundraiser before the presidential election took place. We have different ideas of who is great in this world, right? Who's greater than God? Jesus is saying here, look, if you do this for the child, you're doing it for me. When you do it for me, you're doing it for my Father, God Himself. What's greater than that? And so what we have here in verses forty nine, I'm sorry, verses forty-six to forty-eight is they needed to understand that that true greatness in the life of the disciple has to do with Why you do it and who you do it for. If you're doing it for the right mission, if you're doing it because you know Christ, You're automatically great, folks. You're automatically great. It doesn't matter who you are, what your gifts are, because the last statement of verse 48, he's making that point. For he who is least among you will be great. It doesn't matter what you are, it's Jesus and God and the mission. Now, don't you want to be part of something bigger than you? Don't you get tired of going through life without a whole lot of meaning? I mean, you go to work, you come home, you go to work, you come home, you go to work, you come home, times 10,000. You go to work, you go college you come home you go to work you go to college I get tired of it. Man was made for something great. And that greatness in the Garden of Eden was Adam and Eve walking with God, having that personal relationship with him. Wouldn't it be great to have a job that you know beyond a shadow of a doubt in God's eyes is great. Great, significant, important, then do this. Do it in the name of Jesus. Remember who Jesus is. He knows the Father. You do it for him, you do it for God. They needed to understand what really makes a disciple great. Do you understand that this morning? It's not the gifts that you have. It's not the education that you have. It's not the position that you have. It's Jesus and your motives. Do it the right way. Thirdly, and I'm moving through this quickly because I know I have too many points this morning. They needed to understand the universal basis for unity among the disciples of Jesus. They misunderstood that. You look at verse 49 carefully. John says, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him. Why? Because he does not follow with us. Now, this lack of following was a lack of organizational unity. What is organizational unity? Well, we have it here. We have a flow chart we're working on. We're trying to have sort of a connection between groups. and ministries in our church, they're linked up. But you know what? Faith Bible Church does not have organizational unity with Hope Bible Church We don't really, we're not involved in their Sunday school program. They're not involved in our Sunday school program. Or take, I'm just pulling out examples of other Bible churches, Baltimore Bible Church. or some Bible church in Pennsylvania or whatever, we don't have an organizational unity with them. And in John's mind, he's saying, hey, you should not do ministry because you are not, as you look at your Bible again, verse 49, you are not following with us. You're not a part of our group So you don't have a right to minister where you are. And that was patently false. Jesus had to correct that. And verse 50 corrects it this way, do not forbid him, for he who is not against us is for us. Again, I would say two things here that you can see fairly clearly. First, in verse 49, they are actually doing something miraculous. In Jesus' name. It says here, they were casting out demons in your name. So they were Looking upon themselves as acting in representation of Jesus or in the power of Jesus. Now, I want to stop there for a second. We do have one other example of that in the Bible that went bad. Do you remember Acts 19? Quickly turn to Acts 19, because I think he needs this important enough for you to see. This is a group of other people who did this very thing in the name of someone else. It didn't go too well. In Acts 19, verses 13 to 16. We have these guys, these itinerant Jewish exorcists. If you didn't get there fast enough, no worries, just listen. Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists took it upon themselves to call the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, Now listen to what they're saying. This is key. We adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches. They didn't preach Jesus. They were trying to hijack the name of Jesus into their ministry for the virtue of its power over demon activity. It was like they were searching for power, but not making him Lord of their life. Not putting their faith in Jesus, just hijacking his power. And it didn't go well What did the demon say? You read the passage there. The demon says, I know Jesus, I know Paul. Who are you guys? Throws them out and they run away. It's a big disaster. Everybody hears about it. That's different than what's happening here in the Gospels in Luke and in Mark where this incident is recorded. Because Jesus, number one, we know that because Jesus didn't, he told, if you go back to Luke, Luke 9, go back there quickly. Jesus said, don't forbid them. So Jesus is not going to tell John to leave him alone unless their hearts were in the right place. Whereas we, yes, we are assuming that, but he is Jesus. He doesn't make mistakes. So they must have been on the right track. We know it also because they were doing it in his name. And then the explanation that Jesus gives in verse 50 kind of clinches it because he describes them in terms of being for us, not against us. Look at verse 50. Do not forbid him, for he who is not against us is for us. So these are people approved by Jesus for Jesus and his ministry, doing miraculous ministry in the name of Jesus successfully What does this mean? Well, in doing something for Jesus, it has to mean, and this is implied, I don't want to read too much between the lines. But the implication is they had a correct understanding of who he was and what he was teaching as it goes up to this point. The book of Acts hadn't been written yet, okay? So we're talking about during the days of the incarnation, these other men knew Jesus well enough to accurately preach him and do things in his name and for him. It also implies not just the head knowledge or the intellectual knowledge of knowing the facts of the works and life of Jesus, but also a corollary would be an assent to his of faith. There's a corresponding submission in their hearts of faith. They were followers of Jesus. They weren't just some weird guys running around trying to usurp the name of Jesus so things would get done. Now when I was a kid, I don't know if you've ever done this, but I read about the story of Jesus saying, if you have faith as the grain of a mustard seed, you can stay to that mountain, get up and move, and it'll move. Now when you're a kid, you take things literally, right? So I heard about that in Sunday school, and so I went outside and I tried it. I really had things in my life that were big that I thought would be cool to move them around. So what's the child do? Okay. In Jesus' name, I want my dad's Volvo ten feet in the air. Move! In Jesus' name, I want my mom to make four dozen cookies this afternoon. Move. Now, those are facetious because I don't really remember exactly what I asked for, except that it was ludicrous. But in my childlike mind, I was usurping his name to do things that I selfishly wanted. That's what we have in the book of Acts. But here in Luke and in Mark, we have faithful followers of Jesus who understood the person and work of Jesus as it had been revealed up to this point. And Jesus says about their ministry, verse 50, don't forbid them. Don't stop them. Keep that going. They needed to understand that the universal basis for unity among the disciples of Christ is the person and work of Christ and the corresponding faith. In his words and works. The name of Jesus. Again, they did it in his name. So that's pretty cool. And that's something that we can understand this morning and know that when we have other churches who are gospel-centered churches, and it that it would just now there are other things involved that we could talk about, but I'm not gonna I'm leaving those out intentionally and just trying to stick with Luke. We could go to Ephesians 4, 4 to 6. We could talk about how there's one faith, one baptism, one Lord. So it's a unity of doctrine, and that certainly is included in this, although it seems more general. But that is the basis for unity. Now, let me get you to look next at the next passage. All right. Let's look at this quickly, and I want you to see it because it's very encouraging. And I think I'll probably have to. We'll see how far I can get. If you look at your Bible at Samaria, And how it rejected the Lord. Let me point out a couple things here first in verses 51 to 56. In verse 51, it says, Now it came to pass when the time had come for him to be received up. Now that is not a statement of his crucifixion, that is a statement of his ascension. And in the Mount of Transfiguration, he was talking to his men there in the Mount of Transfiguration. And if you look back at only a few verses at verse 30, this is chapter 9, verse 30, it says, Then behold, two men talked with him, who were Moses and Elijah. Who appeared in glory and spoke of his decease, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. The word there that's translated decease in the New King James probably better translated departure or exodus Now, this is probably not a reference to his crucifixion either. It's probably a reference to his ascension. His ascension is written about in Acts chapter 1, remember? So when he is setting his face to go to Jerusalem, one of the things that's on his mind is his ascension to the Father. There's this moment of suffering, this horrible moment of suffering, but there's the ascension. And so, verse 51, if you look at that again, he steadfastly set his face to go. He knew that he had a mission to accomplish. At the end of it was the ascension. And so, verse 52, he sends his messengers in, and they were rejected. And the response we already read: Lord, shall we cat call down fire from heaven and consume them? Jesus responds again, and I keep saying two and two and two, but let's put it this way. If you look at verse 55, he talks about their spirit They don't understand what spirit they are. And in verse 56, he says: the Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. Folks, it's like this. Rather than fire and destruction, a spirit of salvation The saving of men. Now that word spirit in my version is not capitalized. It's possible reference to the Holy Spirit or to the Holy, if it's not capitalized, it will be interpreted as the Holy Spirit's. effects on the human spirit in the new man after salvation. But there is something internally Now you don't have to turn there, but when he talks about the spirit, one of the best passages there is is 2 Timothy chapter 1, where Paul talks about the kind of spirit that we've been given. And he says in verse 6, just listen. He says, I remind you to stir up the gift of God which is in you. Verse 7 For God has not given us a spirit of fear. And here it is not capitalized, a reference to the effects of the Holy Spirit upon the human spirit, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. You don't know what kind of spirit you are of, he says. He rebukes in verse 55. That's a strong word. We're back in Luke 9. You don't know what kind of spirit you have. You don't know what manner of spirit you have. As Christians, when we come to Christ and are born again, we are given the Holy Spirit and He certainly produces the fruit of the Spirit in our lives, which is love to our enemies, to those who would spitefully use us and persecute us. Our job in the present age, the age of grace, is not to call down fire on their heads, but to call down blessings on their heads To not be overcome by evil, but to overcome evil with good. And he, the disciple here, is still thinking in terms of the Old Testament, quite literally, Elijah. In the Old Testament, there were those moments of destruction and judgment. Folks, how does this work out? I'll give you one example You take this guy who's a Jew who persecutes the church, you should know immediately who I'm talking about, Saul. And then he is born again. His whole life changes. He goes out and starts planning churches, he's being used by God. His chief persecutors Yes, the Gentile authorities are involved. Yes, you have Ephesus and you have these rich guys making shrines who get involved. Businessmen get involved. But people who will follow him from place to place are his fellow Jews. Who are not accepting Jesus as the Messiah. I mean, there are points at which he runs to the village over there that's a fair distance away, and they find out he's there and they chase them down. They are intent on killing him, not figuratively, literally, stoning him, beating him with rods, getting the Romans to execute him, anything they can do to kill him. Paul had every right to look to the Lord and say, Lord, I call down fire on these. But that is not the spirit that God gave the Apostle Paul. Paul's spirit toward his brothers and sisters in Romans 10 verse 1 he says this just listen, brethren, my heart's desire, this is an expression of the inner man and what it wants. And prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Here's a man who was persecuted by those who should have loved him. And instead of retaliating, he's saying, Lord, please save them. That is the Spirit of Christ. The day of judgment is coming. When Jesus comes from heaven in flaming fire, taking vengeance on the enemies of God. But that day is not yet And back in Luke chapter 9, Jesus had to correct him. And you'll notice also in verse 56, he calls himself the Son of Man. And two other times when he uses this phrase, I mean there is the there's at least the context of suffering in verse 22. The Son of Man must suffer many things. I mean it's almost a little illusion there. The Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives. but to save them. Aren't you glad that our Lord is like that? Aren't you glad that as a Christian He has extended his grace to you. And aren't you glad that even the most vile people in this world still have a chance? Still have an opportunity to repent and put their trust in Christ, and that you can be part of the process of demonstrating the Spirit of God in your spirit as you go out and love them no matter what. No matter what, you extend your hands in grace and you say, This is who I am. This is the spirit that is within me. I don't wish vengeance on you, my friend, when you say bad things about me, when you might belittle me, then you might mock me, when you might all the things I cherish you just throw in the streets for ridicule. I don't care. I still love you That's the spirit of my heart. Wow, this is amazing the way the Lord corrects his disciples Let me give you one more. All right. You keep looking down the passage at verses 57 to 62. And herein the disciples needed to understand, and this is the toughest one for us today, they really accept. They needed to understand that becoming a disciple of Christ had life. altering repercussions. That becoming a disciple of Christ, a real disciple, was going to be costly Maybe you have in your Bible above that section a header that says true cost of discipleship, like my Bible says. That really is what he's emphasizing here. How does he do that? Well, you look down at your Bible again. You have this guy in verse 57 who says, I will follow you wherever I go. And Jesus really presses it on him that if you follow me, verse 58, you might not have a place to live. like you have now. Foxes have holes, birds have nests. I don't have anything. Do you still want to follow me? And then he said to another, here's one who he is just calling out, follow me. And this man says, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus' response is no. I'm just paraphrasing verse 60, no. Follow me and preach the kingdom of God. And then we have yet again another also who says, Lord, I will follow you, but let me first go and bid them farewell who are at my house. And then Jesus states the principle in verse 62. Read this whole verse in your Bible as I read it out loud. Just read it silently. But Jesus said to him, No one, having put his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. Two words. Two words. First. It's twice in verse 59 and 61. In the economy of God, following Jesus, being a part of the kingdom, you have to put the kingdom first What does that sound like? Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you Now there is a promise. You will have what you need if you put the kingdom first, but it has to be first. And in this passage, it is calling out the most difficult decisions we could possibly make. Family decisions, material possessions, and how to relate to those. I mean it's cutting down to the bone, and I really don't want to take away the sh the keenness of the edge of that cut because what it says here is It's very stark and frightening, frankly. You might have no place to live in the course of serving the kingdom first you might have nowhere. In the course of serving the kingdom, you might have to just let the dead bury their own dead. You might have to Put other things down on your list. So the first word is first. The second word, focus. That's verse 62. where he gives the illustration of the plow. And in the ancient days, I'm sure you've heard this, if you have your plow and your animal, you've got to be looking forward at that distant point so that the furrow in the ground will be straight. And if you're looking behind you, if you're looking around you, the animal is going to go to the sides, your furrow will be crooked, and whatever you're planting won't be done in the best of ways. So applied to the kingdom, verse 62, there's got to be this focus. You've got to keep your life focused on that. And there's a sense in which you just can't look behind you at what you've lost. Because there's so much looking forward that you must accomplish for God's kingdom. So the kingdom requires priority. The kingdom requires a constant focus. Where does that leave us now as far as applications? Jesus. Jesus is amazing. Think about this. 2 Timothy 3. 16 says that all scripture is given by inspiration of God. This is the written word. Capital W. Well. Yeah. Capital W an uh. And it's profitable for teaching, reproof, correction, and instruction in righteousness. You take the word and you talk to people, you rebuke them with it, you correct them with it. In our stories today, the living word, Jesus. Did the exact same thing that the word, the written word, is supposed to do. He rebuked his disciples, he corrected his disciples, and he taught his disciples. So the living word did what the written word we know will do. We stand as people who are on the other side of the death and resurrection of Christ and the ascension. Jesus Christ is alive today. And he is risen, just like he said. We should rejoice about that. We know what the disciples couldn't understand. We've read it. He's at the right hand of God. Salvation is complete. The age of grace is upon us. And every person in this kingdom. Every person who's taken on the name of Christ and believed on him, you are great in God's sight when you do things in his name. As simple as serving in the nursery or washing dishes or going about your family life, trying to reflect Christ and your relationships there, all of that is looked upon as great. Because when you do it to the least of these, you've done it to Jesus. And Jesus is the Son of God, and you've done it to God. Brothers and sisters, rejoice. Rejoice. We're about to look at a table this morning. And just as we look back at the broken body of Christ and the shed blood of Christ, this table, did you realize there'll be a day in which this ceases? There'll be no more communion in this sense because salvation will no longer be available. It will be over with. The day of judgment will come. That second part of Isaiah 61 verse 2 will be read. The day of vengeance of the Lord. But that's not today, not yet. This table is still available in the sense of Christ's death on the cross. If you're here today and you're not a Christian, you've never put your faith and trust in Christ. Don't wait. Don't wait. If the Spirit of God is working in your heart and giving you a desire to know Him, to know the Word, don't put it off till tomorrow. The exhortation from the Bible is today is the day of salvation. Because you don't know where your heart will be tomorrow. We should be grateful that it is the age of grace. And folks, I know this is a lot of different things, but just keep these in mind. Check your priorities. As we begin the new year Are you seeking the kingdom first? What does that mean for you? Have you sat down and written out a few things maybe about this year? For me to seek the kingdom first this year, I will Fill in the blank. What is it? What is it that God is doing in your heart, in your life? Is there something in is there somewhere in your life where the kingdom of God is at the bottom of the list? And you've put something in its place. And what is it costing you to be a follower of Jesus? Are you tempted to look behind you? Are you tempted to look behind and say, this is too hard? I want to give up. Don't do it, my friend, because you can't be a follower of Christ and look behind you and be effective. Let's pray.