If you don't know me, my name is David. I have the pleasure of serving here as a church intern, and I'm very grateful for Pastor Cho for the opportunity to preach this morning. So of course today is a Sunday. We're just dedicating it all to talking about youth discipleship. So I hope you were here for the Sunday school hour and enjoyed the report on Iwana. So of course today's sermon is a topical sermon and the theme is discipling the next generations. So what I wanted to do is I said, let me just go to the book of Proverbs. There's lots of passages where it's a father speaking to the to his son. And I thought, what is the tone of the father? What is his attitude? What is his emphasis? And so that'll be the the sermon today, which is just three motivations for preaching Christ to the next generations. And of course this is very applicable if you work in Iwana or you work with any of the uh kids or teen ministries here, but of course it's also applicable if you have kids, if you have grandkids. If you know young people in your neighborhood, uh I hope it'll be as beneficial to you this morning as it has been to me in preparation. If you were hoping for a rich exposition from the book of Genesis from Dr. Cho, you might be disappointed. All right, let's open in a word of prayer. Father, we are so thankful that you love the little children. And you have said, Let the children come to me. Your gospel is not restricted to those who are old and wise. It is freely given to those who are young and simple. or old and simple. God, we're so grateful that you came to rescue us. And we ask this morning that as we look in your word, you will open our eyes to see see wonderful things out of your law. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So if you will turn with me to Proverbs chapter four. We'll start there in verse 20. Uh the title of our message this morning is Life, Joy, and Glory, or Three Motivations for Teaching Christ to the Next Generation. Or if you want the super long title, because of the all-surpassing value of God's wisdom displayed in Jesus. Discipling the younger generation results in life for them, joy for us, and glory to God. So the Apostle John says that he has no greater joy than to see his children walking in truth. And I can certainly resonate with this any time I've worked with uh young people, but I can also testify just being back here for the last few months. What a joy it is for me to see those who are spiritual parents or spiritual older brothers and sisters continuing to walk in the truth and lead others in that way. A few people come to mind uh right away, I can't say everyone, but seeing the faithfulness of Mrs. Bailey week in and week out in Children's Sunday school. and I don't want to. There's not many people who I admire as much as Susanna and Lydia every Tuesday night leading the teens with me and helping me out. Those are two people I really admire. Every week, most weeks, not this week, obviously, I I take attendance count how many people are here, which means right when service starts, I walk to the back, I peek in the windows, count real quick how many are in nursery and children. Church, which means I see every week the same sets of workers faithfully teaching the children. And what all this has communicated to me the last several months is this. Jesus Christ is worth giving your entire life to teach others about him. One more example. I remember about a decade ago in BBS. Mr. Bob Wiley was just one of my favorite uh workers there. I just really enjoyed having him as one of the leaders. Maybe it's because he gave me an extra help on my verses, I don't know. But and now just getting to see him working in Iwana and getting to see kids have the same experience. than I did. So thank you so much for your example to me. Alright. So Proverbs 4, chapter 4, verses 20 through 22. I will read it if you will join me. My son, give attention to my words, incline your ear to my sayings. Do not let them depart from your eyes, keep them in the midst of your heart. For they are life to those who find them, and health to all their flesh So sharing Christ with young people results in true life for them. And this idea is not just found isolated in this one proverb that knowing God's wisdom results in life. It's all over the place in the book of Proverbs. Here's just a quick sample. Proverbs six, reproofs of instruction are the way of life. Proverbs 16 Understanding is a wellspring of life to him who has it. Earlier in Proverbs chapter 4. Hear my son and receive my sayings. The years of your life will be many. Take the last verse, take firm hold of instruction. Do not let go. Keep her for she So the idea that youth ought to treasure wisdom because it results in true life is pervasive throughout the book of Proverbs. But the question is, what do we mean by wisdom? We don't merely mean a practical list of pithy sayings to increase your quality of life. While of course it's true that we do mean the practical guidance of the scriptures, when we as New Test Testament Christians talk about the wisdom of God, we're talking about something even more grand than that. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 30 says this. But of him, Jesus, you are in Christ Jesus. Who became for us, for us who believe, wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. We'll return more to this passage at the end. But I just want to make this very clear. The New Testament, it's all of the New Testament, makes this point very clear. The true wisdom of God, the most full revelation of the wisdom we have, is revealed in God Himself. It is revealed in Jesus. So when we speak of us desiring to share wisdom with the next generations, what we are saying is, I want to give you Jesus. We want to give Jesus to them, who is wisdom incarnate. And why is this? Well, the reason is that humanity left to ourselves We had not found the true wisdom of God. The best wisdom of humanity left to ourselves is selfish, self-promoting wisdom. Even the wiz the best wisdom you can find, apart from God, has not resulted in widespread global peace and flourishing. At best, it has resulted in prosperity for one individual and maybe those immediate Immediately around them. Nor has the best wisdom in the world resulted in us being able to find God on our own. And it is into that foolish world that God Himself came. Jesus lived in perfect self-sacrificial wisdom. Died in the place of foolish people, and rose from the dead to bring life and to bring true wisdom to all who will respond to God's invitation. And through Jesus, well, God is remaking us, us who trust in Christ, into truly wise people who can experience abundant life today. And we can experience eternal life forever. So when we speak of wisdom, that is what we're talking about that we want to give to the next generation. As we disciple them. So returning to Proverbs chapter 4. The picture in this chapter of Proverbs. is of a father who is imploring his son to walk in the wisdom of God because he knows the result is true life. In fact, this is a father who has tasted and has seen that God is good, and that blessed is the man who trusts in him. And he wants his son to taste and see the goodness and the life of the same God And this points us forward to Revelation, chapter 22, and verse 17, it says this. And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him who hears say, Come, and let him who thirst, come. Whoever desires, let him take of the water of life freely. This is the offer of God. This is the offer of the Father in Proverbs 4, and this is the offer that we want to make to the children and teenagers that we Have the privilege to share Christ with. So, what is eternal life? Or what is this life we want them to receive? Well, it is the eternal life of Jesus. This is what Jesus says. In John 17, 3, he says this. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So what is this life that we are so desperate to pass on to children, to teenagers, to those who come behind us? Jesus Christ Himself is that life. So when we speak of eternal life, we speak in terms of quality and quantity. So quantity in terms of eternal life is never ending. Quality. In terms that is the fullness of life that God intended us to experience, because it is a fullness of relationship with the God who made us And this life can begin today. This life can begin for any young person or adult today. We're not merely wanting to tell children the gospel so they can punch their ticket to heaven. We do want their souls to be saved. We do want them to have assurance of their home in heaven and their eternal home with God. But we also want them to understand that they can have a vibrant, life-giving relationship with their Creator who loves them. An adventure that starts today and ends never. Few reasons that to know God and to walk in his ways is to experience Christ. Further is listed in Proverbs chapter 4. Verse 6 says, Don't forsake her or don't forsake wisdom. She will preserve you, love her, and she will keep you. Verse 13 says, Take hold of instruction, do not let go, keep her, for she is your life. And this reminds us of Jesus. The scriptures say of him, in him in Jesus was life, the life was the light of men. So this is the question. What is the life that God offers versus the life that the world offers? Well, consider the perspective of this father Who is imploring his su a young person not to wander into the ways of the sinful world, which seem right. Which to a young person or to an old person look really, really good. But the end is destruction. Because the world says you can have it all. You can have everything you want, especially if you're in the United States. You can work hard, you can have money, you can have status, you can have illicit pleasure, you can have everything you want. And if you work hard and you get good grades, you can get more money to save it in the bank so later in your life you can have even more of everything you want. This is the good life. To be seen as the best, to be seen as the most popular, the best looking, the one who can have whatever he or she wants. Whenever he or she wants it, with no consequence. I see it, I want it, I go on Amazon, and I buy it. The life the world offers is a life that says, indulge in sin, indulge in self-promotion, and the end thereof is happiness. As until you taste it. And then this type of wisdom that appears good has its end instead in destruction. In time, whether it's in a day, a week, a year, ten years, twenty years, it ends in personal and relational destruction And even if someone seems to get away with living a life of foolishness and selfishness for their whole life, well, eternity it ends in the ruin of one's soul. But Christian, this is not so for you. For Christ has offered to you Eternal abundant life, which is a life, yes, of self-denial. But it's a life that results in relational flourishing. Now it may result in a smaller bank account. But it results in real purpose, real joy amid real suffering, because you don't have to spend your life chasing something that you think you're missing. In Christ, our deepest Needs are met. Because in Jesus we realize that God who made us, who understands even the depths of our sin, loves us infinitely. And through the cross and through his resurrection, he has promised to care for us forever and not to withhold from us any good thing. I don't mean in this to say we can give or we should risk giving some false impression to young people That it's all sunshine and rainbows all the time, some light prosperity gospel. Follow Jesus and you'll always be happy and have good relationships. No, Jesus who says, Come to me and have abundant life, also says, deny yourself, take up your cross and follow me, and that in this world we will have tribulation. In fact, I would think the Christian life actually involves more suffering, more struggle, more pain, not less. But in the midst of our suffering, We have a joy and a confidence that transcends through our suffering. Because we have the Holy Spirit within us. And we have strong confidence that our eternal state and our eternal destiny is not worth being compared to any of the pain and struggle we have right now. If you're a Christian, your relationships will still go awry. But you have a security that your most important relationship, your relationship with God, is eternally stable. And even more than this, God has given us a church community to love and to love each other and an eternal family. The global church to celebrate with forever. God does not promise material wealth, but Jesus reminds us that true wealth is yours forever, and that money is not your source of joy or a way to show that you are better than anyone else. But following God who made you and walking in His wisdom is the path to true happiness, the path that shines brighter and brighter until And maybe you're here and you're not a Christian, you're on the fence, you're not sure if you're a Christian. Why not embrace the abundant eternal life? That Jesus offers you today. Why not turn from your sin? Put your faith in Jesus Christ, who loves you, who died for you. and who rose from the dead to secure your eternal joy. Back and start for you today. As a transition, I'll never forget an illustration I heard when I was about sixteen. Uh I was at a youth rally closer to Baltimore, and the uh the pastor there he said When you're going to spend time in God's Word, don't treat it like a chore. And this is what he said. He said, take your Bible, sit down in your beanbag chair. Take your baggage ritos in one hand and your diamond dew in the other hand and enjoy ceasing on the Word of God because it is life-giving, wonderful words. So the right application this morning is probably not that we all need to go to Green Valley and buy Doritos and Mountain Dew. That's probably not the right application. But I wonder if you do know an experience quite like this. For some of you, it might be that you love your time in God's Word. You love to sit down in the evening with a cup of tea. For me, I'm in my twenties now, so I love to have a cup of coffee and read God's Word. We know God's word is life-giving. Then this brings me to the second point. In Proverbs 23, which is sharing Christ brings joy, real joy to those of us who teach. So that's our next motivation for sharing Christ with the next generation. We turn to Proverbs 23. And verse, starting in verse number fifteen. And this is what God's Word says. My son, if your heart is wise, my heart will rejoice. Indeed, I myself. Yes, my inmost being will rejoice when your lips speak right things. Do we preach Christ to the next generation because it is true life for them? And because it gives us deep joy to teach them and to watch them follow Jesus. I hope you've had this experience. Read again with me what the author says. He says, In my inmost being I will rejoice. He says, When I see you, son, walk in the ways of Jesus. It brings joy to the very core of who I am. Two summers ago I had the privilege to counsel at a Christian camp, and one of two of the weeks was basically a leadership enough. intensive. So I had uh nine young guys staying in a cabin with me and uh we had a great time, we had a ton of fun. These all of these guys loved Jesus. All of them uh were very attuned spiritually seeking to please the Lord. In addition to just that we had a ton of fun. Um it felt for me like I was experiencing camp for the first time getting to be with them. And I was actually just texting them last night in our group chat, and many of them this summer are back at the same camp counseling and walking very strongly with the Lord. And Do you have any idea how happy that makes me? Like to see these young guys who I loved two years ago continuing to walk faithfully with the Lord and now to pour into other young people. What an amazing joy and happiness for me. And I hope that all of you have had an experience and many experiences like that. Deep joy through discipling young people. But many of us also know the opposite experience. Because many of us have close friends or even family members who seem to walk with Christ and they're not Or we know people who we poured time and prayer and energy and love into and they just never seem to care. We have felt this type of spiritual heartbreak. And if that's you, your temptation might be to become a little calloused. So you're going to go serve You're going to do it for the glory of God. You're going to do it because it's the right thing to do. But you won't give them your heart. Or maybe you're tempted to say, I won't give these young people my heart. I don't want to have my heart broken again. So I will do what's right, I will serve, I will disciple, but I'm gonna keep my heart out of it a little bit. Or maybe your temptation is the other way, and I feel this temptation too. Maybe you show up for a wanna say every Friday night and eventually it just becomes routine. You just become a little indifferent to what you're doing and it's easy to be absentminded. Your first thoughts are not to pray for the children, to consider their spiritual position. But maybe your first thought is, I can't wait to get home and rest, or can't wait to get onto whatever I have this weekend or this evening. That sounds terrible, but I cannot tell you how many times I myself has fallen into that type of temptation. So what do we need? Well, we need to have our hearts, whatever side of the temptation you fall into, We need to have our hearts reinfused with hope and joy, and this comes as we meditate on the gospel. Consider Jesus. Jesus' motivation as he died for us on the cross, the book of Hebrews says, he did it because there was joy in front of him. He endured the cross for the joy that was set before him. He too wept for the spiritual state of the ones he loved in Jerusalem. Jesus was heartbroken because the people of Jerusalem rejected their Messiah. Jesus was obedient to his father. And just like Jesus trusted his sovereign father to bring his people to faith, we can trust God to do the same thing. So just like Jesus, we should trust that God will give us that heart. I have another question for you. In light of the idea of young people who you love not walking with the Lord, have you ever considered when you enter glory and you meet the young people who you mentored? Maybe you'll meet someone and they'll say and you'll say, I didn't think you'd be here. You seemed like you had completely wandered away from the Lord. Or maybe you'll meet someone and and you and you'll barely remember them and they'll say, I remember you. You loved me when I was a child. You taught me about Jesus when I was a child. And I walked away from Christ for ten years, but when I came back I remembered your love and your patience and that was instrumental in my return to Christ. I know for sure that gentleman at that youth rally who told me about Doritos and Mountain Dew doesn't know I think about that all the time. But I think about that all the time. And now you'll be thinking about that all the time too. And then one more encouragement. Why don't we share our joys with each other? Noah is great at this. All the time, after I wana in particular, I'll hear Noah say, Can you pray for this clubber? There, there's I see spiritual fruit. in their life. Can you pray for this person? I had this conversation with so and so. They're walking with the Lord. This person's really sensitive to Christ. It's so encouraging to me and I'm sure most of you who know Noah from Iwana have had this experience. Isn't it so encouraging when Noah shares with us the spiritual fruit that's happening in the lives of children? So let's share with each other what's happening in our discipleship to encourage each other. But we trust that God is wise, and Jesus, who wept for the city of Jerusalem, is heartbroken with us for those who walk away from the gospel. But Jesus did not hold back from giving us his heart. And so let us continue to pour our hearts into discipling these children and teens, because there is great joy for us in doing so. Finally, motivation number three: sharing Christ brings great glory to God as we share Christ. with the younger generations. Will you turn with me finally to 1 Corinthians, back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 18 to 31. I'll begin reading. The Apostle Paul says, For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has God not made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For Jews Request a sign, and Greeks, Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ, crucified to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Then he talks about us. For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and remote. Redemption. That it is written, that as it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Let's focus in just on verses twenty-six through twenty-nine. This is what the Apostle Paul says to us this morning. Are you weak? Do you feel tired? Maybe you feel insufficient. Perfect. God has chosen people exactly like that to be his messengers. Do you feel strong? Wise? Do you feel like you are really good at this parenting thing? This teaching? thing, this discipleship thing, well then I will pray for you that the Lord will give you true perspective and humility. Because God uses what is humble. And as he uses what is humble and weak in people, God receives great glory showing off his true wisdom that's revealed in the gospel. And God will do this. Because it's his work, not ours. God will make sure one hundred percent that this life-giving, joy-giving gospel. Is passed to each next generation. So let me leave you with this encouragement. It is the delight of Almighty God. to use weak people, just like you and me, to bring the gospel to the next generation. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful that you have chosen us who are weak. Who are foolish, who are feeble, to spread the gospel to the precious children and teenagers who you love so much. God, we ask that you will help us to treasure and steward this wonderful opportunity. God, we are so grateful that we can serve these who you love so much. and who we love so much, God, as we come through the summer into another year of ministry. We just ask that you will give us motivations of joy and love and your glory as we seek to disciple them towards the God who loves them and who offers them true and abundant life. We pray all this giving thanks to Jesus Christ. Amen