Well it feels a little like Christmas, doesn't it? Well that may be a good thing because who knows by Christmas time You may have a new pastor and I won't be here, so uh I'll get my Christmas message in early. How about that It's great to be here with you. By the way, please say hi to the nickels for me next week, Dan and Melody. Remember them well. Um just uh trust that uh they'll have a wonderful time of ministry with you folks. Last time I was uh with you, we looked at Isaiah chapter 7. Where we saw Ahaz, remember, rejecting the Lord's words of comfort and his reassurance. Instead, he made his own feeble pleas to solve the nation's crisis. And we noted that lots of times you and I tend to do the same thing. We tend to uh uh uh look at our the near-term rather than the long uh term uh solution And we tend to take matters into our own hands instead of simply trusting in the Lord. But the Lord's promises and his plans are amazing. And uh they're far better than anything that you or I could uh come up with. And that surely should not come as a surprise to us because he's the creator of the universe and he is infinite. God's ways and his plans are far better uh than you and I could devise. Hopefully the older that we get, the more we recognize that that indeed is true. And uh that's what we're gonna see this week uh as well and and in even greater detail. You remember that in chapter seven though Ahaz rejected the Lord's uh reissurance Israel and a mission uh sign. Uh uh and uh in fact uh regardless of what Ahaz uh uh had uh um uh believed. Uh he the sign that God gave him was that he would be with them no matter what. Uh and uh uh of course that uh Emmanuel that we just uh uh sang of, and you're not gonna forget, I hope Uh even though I'm uh you know gone and out of your memory banks, hopefully you'll remember that Emmanuel is there right there, not just of course in Matthew, but of course first In Isaiah 7 as the name of this child, Emmanuel, God with us. A virgin being with child, given this comforting name, Emmanuel, that promised ultimate deliverance, not simply a short-term fix. And in chapter 8, the Lord promised that even though Assyria would do tremendous damage to Judah and in fact the um the uh imagery that's used in the verses uh uh six and seven and eight would be Uh sadly, something that we would uh uh see in the news in the Carolinas, what? This week when when the floodwaters go right up until the what? To to the very neck. And so uh almost uh wiping out Judah, but not quite And so even though Assyria would do tremendous damage to Judah, she would not overcome her because Emmanuel God with us was indeed the one who owned the land, and he's the one that would uh frustrate the plans of those who opposed Israel. And that is in the end of verse 8, Fulfill the breadth of your land, O Emmanuel. But wouldn't uh overrun the land because God was with them Verse 10, take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak the word, but it will not stand for Emmanuel. Same word, even though our English translations there have God is with us. It is, of course, Emmanuel once again. So this morning we'll pick up our study in chapter 8 and verse 11 as we look first at Isaiah's response to the situation in chapter 8 and verses And then the darkness and the gloom surrounding Israel in verses 19 to 22. And finally glorious light that dispels the darkness. in chapter 9 and verses 1 to 7. So we saw what Ahaz's position was: no trust whatsoever in the Lord, and rejection of his reassurance and promise of deliverance. But what about Isaiah? What was his response to this crisis? Our first point in in chapter 8 and verses 11 to 18 Is Isaiah's trust in the Lord rather than fear of people or circumstances? Isaiah's trust in the Lord rather than fear of people or circumstances. And I think I could reword that point somehow and make it a little um more uh I don't know easy to roll off the totem, but that's that's what I've got. Um and maybe one of you can come up with a better suggestion. The Lord tried to reassure Ahaz, but Ahaz wouldn't listen. And here in verses 11 to 15, the Lord gives Isaiah instruction. And unlike Ahaz, Isaiah listens to the Lord, as we see in verses 16 to 18. The Lord tells Isaiah in verse 11 not to walk in the way of this people. And why is explained further in verse 12. It was the way of worrying about everything and seeing conspiracies everywhere. He says, do not say a conspiracy concerning all of this people call a conspiracy. Nor be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled. You know, boy, is there enough uh room for us to be worried about things today? Uh absolutely Um there you know, it seems like uh in so many parts of the world things are uncertain. Um we're gonna have a nice trade war with uh China. Um that's uh fantastic news. Num well, not to me, maybe to some people it is, uh, but uh you know, all kinds of uh uh situations, and we can be worried about every one of them And uh I uh must admit I tend to be a warrior. I know that's not biblically a good thing uh to be, but that's uh that that's uh my nature. If there's something out there I'm gonna worry about it. Last night I'm thinking about all these things that I need to do. We're going on a nice trip uh on Tuesday. But I'm thinking about this, that, the other thing, and finally it got so bad I just got up and wrote it all down. That's what it's It works sometimes for me, uh, but then uh praying to the Lord and saying, Okay, Lord, you know, hear these things. And these are uh just normal aspects Um but uh in in the time that uh he's talking about there were very real threats uh of course from Assyria So these weren't just imagined problems. They were real problems. But the Lord tells Isaiah, don't focus on the people Don't focus on the circumstances and fear them, you see. Don't be afraid of them, verse 12. Instead, verse 13 says, fear me. The Lord of hosts, him you shall hallow. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. In other words, the one we should see set apart or sanctify is the Lord, and be concerned with him. In the New Testament, Peter cites the end of verse 12 and the beginning of verse 13 in the context of the persecution of believers. And of course that persecution is going on uh to this very day in many countries as we well know. 1 Peter 3 verse 13. Who is he who will harm you if you become followers of that which is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. And do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts That's of course, even that part is uh from Isaiah here, our passage, and always be ready to give a defense of everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Well, the important thing for both Isaiah and believers in Peter's day and our day is to set God apart in our thinking, to exalt him. instead of making him insignificant by focusing on every single event or possible plot or even threat against ourselves. And so often I think that we can be worried about various things and we forget that the Lord knows all about them. He knows everything. We forget uh that Emmanuel is there and he's taking care of it. Uh it uh the Lord has uh numbered every hair on our heads and For s some of us it wouldn't maybe take all that many. My wife keeps reminding me that I've got fewer up there than I used to. Uh but uh certainly he numbers every hair uh on our heads. For And uh if he does that, I think he knows what you and I are going through right now. But often we make the mistake of focusing our attention on the wrong thing. And I already told you I'm pretty guilty of that. And so for me, some of my most worn verses in the Bible. are Philippians 4, 6 and 7. Be anxious for nothing, right? For nothing. That doesn't give me a lot of wiggle room, does it? But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds through Christ Jesus. What a fantastic promise if we simply trust in him And that's exactly what the Lord was telling Isaiah to do. Now verses 14 and 15 bring up an ancillary truth. Yes, we should sanctify the Lord. We should set him apart, since he is our sanctuary, our hallowed place of refuge, as the beginning of verse 14 says But he isn't that to everyone, to those who don't believe, verses uh the end of verse 14 and the beginning of And verse 15 says he's a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, and he would be a snare and a trap to the unbelieving in Israel. with the result that they would be taken captive. There's just absolutely beautiful in Hebrew. I don't I don't usually mention the Hebrew very much, but I have to hear it's so beautiful. When Naphalou, when Nishparu, Wenokushu, Wenilkadu. I mean you have to I think that's Pretty. Anyway, there's a ooh and well, never mind all the different things. There's a n sound and the oo sound and all of that. In other words It's both uh I mean it's beautiful poetically, but it's giving us a a truth which says that they are going to stumble and be captured as a result of their unbelief. Not as a result of anything that an enemy would do, but as a result of their unbelief. Both Paul and Peter actually use verse 14 to refer to those who reject Christ. Paul combines this verse with Isaiah 28, verse 16, and Romans 9, 32 and 33, to indicate that Israel stumbled over accepting Christ. And Peter writes that Christ is a precious stone to those who believed, but a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense to those who were disobedient. 1 Peter 2, verses 6 to 8. So you and I shouldn't be so surprised, and I think sometimes we tend to be, that the world is so divided over Christ. He is our refuge, our sanctuary, but not for those who don't believe and reject the Lord and all of his teachings. As Jesus reminds us in Luke twelve, fifty-one, he says, I came to bring division, and sadly he does. There is an antagonism to Christianity today among many people. uh even in this country and I'd say almost especially in this country that is truly amazing and it's deep seated. It's gotten uh far worse in my brief uh lifetime. It seems that if you're a Christian, that's automatically a strike against you in many people's minds. Isaiah's response in verses 16 to 18 is clear. And by the way, if that's true for us here, that's been true for many people. around the world for years. So we're just getting a little taste of what many have endured over the years. And I'm not saying I welcome that. Of course I think it's very, very sad. But it comes as no shock to God, and it's not exactly uh something that uh believers haven't experienced before. Isaiah's response in verses 16 to 18 is clear. He's sealed up God's word, the source of his revelation, and he will wait on the Lord. He says, bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples, and I will wait on the Lord, you see, who hides his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him. Verse 18 says that Isaiah and his children are signs of the Lord's plan. The name Isaiah means the Lord is salvation. Speaking of his deliverance, Mahershal Hashbaz, hasten the booty, hasten the spoil, underscores the certainty of Judah's deliverance from the Syrian and northern kingdom crisis. And Shah Yashuv, a remnant shall return, indicates the ultimate hope of the nation despite the intervening judgment. In a sense, I think Isaiah is saying, my whole life, my whole family, everything that is dear to me is squarely on the side of trusting in the Lord and in his word. I'm all in, Isaiah says. I'm not going to focus on all the different situations that people are worried about. You know, when I think about Isaiah's response, I have to also think about another prophet, Jeremiah, uh, who also was all in. But he was always complaining to the Lord, Lord, I'm getting persecuted because of this. Lord, I'm losing all my friends. Lord this, Lord that. Isaiah just seems to say, nope, I'm all in. And that's it. I am uh uh I am uh I stand for your word and I'm not going to back down. Uh I'm focusing on the Lord and on his word alone. And I hope that you and I are all in. And we're all in, or we kind of hedging our bets. With one uh foot in Christianity and another foot in the world. And uh you know, sometimes I think even as believers we can be uh more concerned about our bank accounts than we can about following Christ. And that's something, at least I think, it can be a temptation for all of us to say, well, you know. What are we hoping in? And by the way, if you're a retirement manager or planner or something like that, I'm not saying I think that's a wonderful occupation. I think that people should be looking to uh uh to all these things to some degree As long as we put everything, what, in their proper place. Ultimately, we look to the Lord because um Again, it's so uh easy to be fooled by things that are only transitory and not things that are eternal. Jesus said in Matthew 6. 24, I love the way he puts this, no one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he'll be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon or money. Interesting. I mean that's pretty clear, isn't it? I think it's clear. Uh and yet so often um there can be a temptation to serving mammon. Well, you know, I'm sorry that my job requires uh you know m me to me me to work, you know, a thousand hours a week slightly Exaggeration there. But after all, I've got to m make the money, right? And that's the most important thing. Not that it may disrupt the family, may disrupt the worship, etc. But I mean I'm making a lot of money. Well, what are we putting first? You see. Um anyway. All right, I'm done meddling. Now, our second point in verses uh 19 to 22 is the darkness and the gloom of those that reject God. The darkness and the gloom of those who reject God. Isaiah's trust was in the Lord, but that was hardly the case for most of Israel, the northern kingdom, or Judah, the southern kingdom. Just like many people today, they were seeking revelation elsewhere, uh someplace else, rather than accepting the signs and the wonders given by God through the prophet, verse 18 Verse 19 says they were telling people to consult the mediums and spiritus. You see, when they say to you, seek those who are the mediums and withers who whisper and mutter, should not a people seek their God? Should they seek the dead on behalf of the li living? How foolish is that, you see. Um similar to the witch of Endor in 1 Samuel twenty eight. Some people were actually attempting to call up the dead. uh to somehow provide guidance to the living. And uh I think the last part of verse 19 that I just read expro exposes the irony of that situation. Why in the world should they seek the dead on behalf of the living? They can't uh do anything. Uh the spiritists must mutter and chirp and do all kinds of things to receive their revelation. Contrast this with the open, declarative message of the Lord through his prophets. In verse 20, Isaiah reaffirms there's nothing hidden about God's revelation. It may be shouted out among people everywhere. So those who don't speak according to God's word would be doomed to the darkness of their own making. There would be no dawn for them, because they have rejected the light. And verses 21 and 22 give the tragic plight. of those who have rejected the Lord. It says they'll pass through a hard pressed and hungry. It shall happen when they are hungry. They'll be enraged and curse their king and their God and look upward. Then they'll look to the earth and see trouble and darkness, gloom of anguish. and they will be driven into darkness. You know, I don't ever remember hearing a message that actually included these words. We just don't like the negative parts, do we, of scripture. Um Isaiah gives them both, I think, freely. And so uh there's no real trust in the Lord. So when it says they'll be look upward but give no answer, The point is there's no real trust in the Lord there. Similar to the situation actually with Saul, you remember in 1 Samuel 28 Uh the Lord didn't answer him because he wasn't really interested in following the Lord in the first place. And their lurk look earthward in verse twenty-two wouldn't help any uh either because there's only trouble and darkness and gloom. Now Isaiah here does not specify an exact time period When these words will hold hold true. They well could have uh been uh true certainly for the captivity of the northern kingdom by Assyria. in seven twenty-two BC, possibly also the captivity of the southern uh kingdom uh by Assyria in uh I'm sorry, by Babylon in five eighty-six BC And that would begin a time of defeat for the nation as a whole that would last all the way until the time of the birth of Christ. And so if you think that those who reject the Lord are happy and that you're sort of missing out on all that fun, Well, that happiness is only temporary. Eventually, there will be darkness and gloom, just as Isaiah poignantly states here. Well thankfully though our English chapter uh ends with verse uh twenty-two. Isaiah's train of thought doesn't end with this darkness and gloom. And actually there's a difference in the English uh chapter and the Hebrew chapter here because the Hebrew chapter actually continues uh uh with our uh verse one of the next chapter Our third point in chapter 9, verses 1 to 6, is the light that dispels the darkness and causes great joy. The light that dispels the darkness and causes great joy. One of the things that actually I always have appreciated so much about Christmas is the emphasis on light. You know, all the different lights, and of course you can talk about candlelight, you can talk about lights on Christmas trees. We are one of those houses that, yes, we decorate. the front of the house with lights and and uh um you know i why? Why what does it uh um uh specify? Well it it talks about of course uh joy but it also t uh to me I think um immediately of the light of the world. Uh and uh what a tremendous thing it is to sing about that and to um And to contemplate that not only around Christmas but uh every uh single day. When John wrote in John one five of Jesus as the light that shines in the darkness And the darkness did not overcome it, he could well have been reflecting on this portion of Isaiah The context of 9-1 is that same darkness that was described in verse 22. 9-1 explains that at first the Lord humiliated Israel. Represented here by Zebulun and Naphtali, the tribes that were surrounding the Sea of Galilee on the north and west. And I'm giving you one of my imaginary maps. So you have to consider, okay, you've got the Sea of Galilee up here, right? And the Jordan River, the Dead Sea down here. All right? These Tribes are right up there in the north. Got that? Okay, good. I didn't think I mean Steve, we could have printed a map something, but that would have required a little extra work on my part and on yours. Well, uh those are the those are the tribes you see uh at first who in the Lord humiliated, and in fact When Assyria came, that is the first area that was conquered, you see. But he says later he will cause the same region to be honored. And sadly, and I say sadly, because I'm the my Bible of choice is a new King James And uh sadly, both the New King James and the King James missed this one. Okay, I'm sorry. There no infallible there's no infallible translation, not even the New King James. And they miss it because there's a Hebrew word caved which can mean both to be burdensome and to be glorious. The root is to be heavy. When you think of something heavy, if you're carrying it, it's what? It's a burden. But heavy can be something what? Weighty and good All right. Well, unfortunately, because they saw the first part of this a uh when at first, you see, he lightly esteemed, the translators thought, well, this must be something negative, but it's a contrast. It's a contrast. So uh in in my Bible, I I I cross out the words But and but afterward more heavily oppressed her and instead, you see, but afterward make her glorious. is the idea. So that same area that was what? Oppressed afterwards is the site of great glory, you see. And what area is that Well, it's by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, in Galilee of the Gentiles. And when Jesus, of course, began his ministry, where did he begin? The Sea of Galilee, right? 2 Kings 15, 29, by the way, records that the region of Galilee was indeed the first place that was dealt with. uh by Tiglath Pelezir in 733 BC, mentioning Galilee and Napoli by name. And uh in fact, uh uh even the annals of uh Tiglath Pelezer mentions exactly the same thing. It's one of those places where we have external uh confirmation of that biblical fact. But the prophecy doesn't end with Galilee's humiliation, but with its future exaltation. So it's the place of thickest darkness where the redemption actually dawns first. As one commentator says, as a result, the magnitude of God's wonderful Work springs the more sharply into view, and it becomes vividly plain that he alone is the author. Because the one that would end that darkness and that gloom brought about by Gentile oppression would make Galilee the focal point of his ministry, beginning to fulfill this scripture. 750 years later. And Matthew 4, 12 to 16 points to this and actually mentions if the scripture would be fulfilled that is given here by Isaiah. What a fantastic verse. And hopefully, you see, we understand the context of this verse. We don't simply go on to the party. of light, but we see the the great doom and gloom that was experienced. Um I don't think one of the things that in America I don't think we can You take the Middle East, you take s parts of Africa, other places where there's continual war and problems and when one country overruns another, what is that like? That's what they experience. They basically cease to exist as a nation. First of all, the Northern Kingdom, seven twenty-two, then the Southern Kingdom, five eighty-six. And they weren't in fact they didn't become a uh uh In i in in any real sense, uh Israel was lost as being a nation until the the middle of the twentieth twentieth century Always somebody was what? Was ruling over them, you see. But of course when Christ came, uh had they accepted Christ as as their savior, that would have been an entirely different picture. In verse 2, Isaiah explains that those walking in darkness, that is in this context, the Galileans, but by extension all Israel, those walking in darkness have seen a great light. Isaiah uses the past tense because the prophecy is so vivid and certain in his mind that it's as if it's already been accomplished The light of salvation had dawned on these people, the remnant, who formerly lived in the land of the shadow of death. The source of the great change is given in verse 3. It is God Himself who has multiplied the nation and increased its joy. The Lord is the only true source of lasting joy. And just in case you missed it, there are four references to joy or rejoicing in verse 3. You have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. They rejoiced it before you according to the joy of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. Kinda hard to miss the joy. uh in that verse, isn't it? The light doesn't simply dispel the darkness, it causes great joy. What else, of course, do we um do we celebrate at Christmas? The joy. of the coming of our Savior. Well, verses four to six then explain exactly what uh uh God was going to do to warrant all of this rejoicing And each verse begins with an explanatory word. In Hebrew it's key. In Hebrew, in English, it's for Right? Four. So you've got a four in verse four. You've got a four that starts verse five, and a four that starts verse six. And that gives the climax, the final uh four. In verse four, the example of Midian is given, where the Lord accomplished a mighty deliverance through Gideon and his small band of of uh three hundred men. Judges chapter seven explains that. Following the victory described in verse four Verse five describes the inauguration of a new age, as the accoutrements of warfare would no longer be needed, and that thus the warrior's boot and garments and weapons along with it could be destroyed. used for kindling. It's a uh almost exactly like the picture we already have seen in chapter two, verse four. And the time period I would say is likewise the same, the millennium When we're they're gonna remember, beat their swords into file shares. Not gonna need any more of this warfare or equipment for that, because the Lord is going to reign And at that time, there's not going to be any war, and this indeed will be a cause for great rejoicing. The ruler who would accomplish all of this is now climactically introduced in verses six and seven with the third and final four clause There would indeed be a time of rejoicing, for a child would be born to us. Interesting. Isaiah includes himself with all those who would rejoice in the child's birth. And again, the name Emmanuel is what? God with us, you see, comes along with this. The emphasis in this verse is on The child. In fact, the Hebrew word for child comes very next after four. I'm sorry to get so particular here, but it's really exciting to me. Whoops. So exciting that I'm going to Um my hands are going to go right into the microphone. But a child is born. In other words, uh the unto us Isn't the next thing. It's for a child. Why all of this rejoicing? It's because of a child. Does that make any sense? No, not apart from the incarnation, it makes no sense. Not apart from Isaiah chapter 7 and verse 14. You know W who do you expect? You've got all this great warrior imagery, etc. You expect a king. You expect a mighty one, you know? Uh a I was gonna say a Goliath type, but that's probably not the right word. But you get the idea, some mighty fierce warrior. Instead you gotta yell it, a child. Has been born to us. A son has been given to us. You see? Again, this is the mystery of the incarnation. Okay, so it connects this, I think, right back to the prophecy of 714, but it ultimately indicates the mystery of the incarnation, a king human yet divine. And uh it's the ultimate paradox that God is going to uh deliver his people from the ravages of war and oppression through a Gideon-like deliverance A child will be the deliverer. You know, sometimes we're so used to the story. that we i i it it loses its awe and its wonder, but it's amazing. Paul says in 1 Corinthians uh chapter 1 and verse 27 and I've thought of this a lot of times And uh I love these verses. He says, God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not to bring to nothing the things that are. When I think of that it's just amazing. God's ways are not our ways. And so the people that are on the front of Time magazine or People magazine or I don't care what magazine. Are are they the important ones to God? Probably not. Probably people you've never heard of. uh are the ones that are important in God's eyes. That's how God can use you and God can use me. Right? It's not because we're terrific. He uses what? The weak things of the world, the people that recognize that they have no strength apart from the the Lord and Him working through them. God delights in things such as the cross and the incarnation, which make no sense, their foolishness. to the human mind. But God delights in these things, and it's part of the delight and the wonder that we celebrate with the coming of Christ. Now my fourth and fifth points on your outline sheet are really a subset of the third point. I could have just had the third point and then these uh subpoints, because they're all a part of the light that dispels the darkness and causes great joy But in verse uh in the second part of verse six, we have what I called my fourth point, the amazing names of the Messiah. Just as we saw last month in Isaiah 7. 14, we have a divine name given to this child, but here we have not one name, Emmanuel, but four names. The names given to him are extraordinary. There are some people that try to uh they try to say, well, this references to King Hezekiah. That not only ignores the chronology of Hezekiah's birth Because he was already born at this time. But the the names are so extraordinary they couldn't possibly refer to Hezekiah As one commentator says, although some commentators have expended a great deal of energy attempting to make these titles appear normal, they are not. Okay, the first name is Wonderworking Counselor. I know we say wonderful counselor. And that was fine in 1611, when wonderful meant what? Full of wonder, full of awe, right? If I say something today, oh that's awesome. What does that mean to most people? Oh, that's great. It doesn't mean full of awe the way it used to, right? So I prefer using wonder-working counsel, miracle working. Counselor is the word that's actually used. It refers to the acts of God, the miracles of God. Used in Judges 13, 18, where the angel of the Lord tells Manoah that his name is Peleh. Wonderful. Same uh word. The second uh term uh counselor is found also in chapter eleven and verse two as one of the qualities of the Messiah. A counselor is one who has great power, I'm sorry, great wisdom. and gives uh correct advice. And uh, you know, how wonderful when you have what? Both of these together. You have wonder working and you have counselor, because the counselor is wise and the other part is the one that gives the power to enact these things. The second name, uh uh Mighty God, is a further clear delineation of deity. In Isaiah, the term that's used here, ail for God, is used only of God. And uh everywhere this phrase occurs in Scripture, it clearly refers to God. And the quality of might is another one of the attributes that's given to the Messiah in chapter eleven and verse two. And so what a tremendous thing again to have this combination of wise counsel and might and wonder working And so what a tremendous uh combination all of that is. Then the third name, Father of Eternity, denotes one who is eternally a father. He always acts toward his people as a father should, guarding and nurturing them. And it's very similar to the concept of the good shepherd that we see in John 10. And this second, it means that he is eternal. And some people get really hung up over this because they say, wait a minute, how can the second person of the Trinity be a father? Well, uh that's kind of a silly question in one sense. Uh for example, and most of us are in the same boat, I am a son, right, of my father, and yet I am a father of my son. Why is that so unusual to figure out? But some people get all hung up. Well the second person of the Trinity has all the attributes of God as well, including eternity. And so the term is used to designate Messiah's relationship to time, not his relationship to other members of of the Trinity. And when we think of that term, Father of Eternity, used to describe a child and a son, Again, that's a paradox that we couldn't possibly understand, but it's something a part of the mystery of the incarnation. And the final name is Prince of Peace. He's the one who'll be the head of providing peace to the world. Peace and the cessation of warfare are continual themes in this book. We already saw that in chapter two and verses one to four. And we see it here in uh in chapter nine as well. The word shalom, which is one word I think most of you know, right, is a um Hebrew word meaning uh uh peace or well-being is really what it means. Uh in fact it's usually a greeting uh that's used that way. In modern Hebrew, and it occurs uh twenty-eight times in the book of Isaiah, and this is the first occurrence right here. And so God provided our peace, reconciliation. between God and man. And it's in the millennium that he will establish true peace on the earth. You and I want peace in In our world, you know, where do we get lasting peace? It's not going to come until the Lord Jesus Christ comes again. the Prince of Peace. Now certainly we're all uh in favor of uh peace in our world today as much as possible, but it's not going to happen completely until Christ comes again. What a joy to know, the King of Kings and the Prince of Peace. Then my final point in verse 7 is the righteous and peaceful government of the Messiah. The righteous and peaceful government of the Messiah. His government is mentioned briefly at the end of verse 6. the government will be upon his shoulder, but it's more extensively uh mentioned in verse seven. This isn't any mere human king with a reign of uh twenty or even fifty or sixty years, his kingdom, it says, would have no end. Verse uh seven says, Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end upon the throne of David and over his kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and justice, even from that time forward, even forever. Is that going to happen? The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Absolutely. It's guaranteed to happen. The righteous aspect of the Messiah's rule is also stressed in Isaiah 11, verses 3 to 5. And if I do come back and preach again later, hopefully we will look at that wonderful chapter, how important it is to act with what? Justice and righteousness and fairness. You know, not justice to the what? The highest bidder. or the one that can afford it, but justice for the poor and the meek of the earth, it says. And of course, will it happen? Absolutely. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. The coming of the millennial reign, like the incarnation in the first place, is not dependent upon Israel or any other human being but upon God himself. Therefore, it's certain there's nothing that can happen that can uh uh that cause this not to come to pass. What an amazing section As I close, I want us again to go back to that contrast between Ahaz and Isaiah, a man of unbelief and a man of trust. And I would ask, and I ask myself the same question. I need reminders often, and I'm sure you do as well. Do you and I fear circumstances? Do we fear what might happen? Even if I think about losing my home to a flood, uh does that cause fear? Uh ultimately that shouldn't cause great fear because our eternity is set. And I'm not saying that that's anything that any of us would welcome. But what do we fear? Sometimes people uh will fear what others say uh about us if we take a stand for the Lord. Well, I don't really want to tell my neighbor about Christ because after all, they'll think I'm one of these kooks. Well you are. So just get used to it, okay? You're I'm sorry, but the the from the rest of the world's thinking you are. But hopefully your lifestyle will demonstrate those words and those words will be in love uh and uh and people will listen. And if they don't less listen, they are rejecting the message Not the messenger. So don't take it personally. Yet sometimes we say, no, I don't really want to do this because, you know, what will people think of me? Well, that's not Acting in the fear of the Lord, it's acting in the fear of people. We need to do what Isaiah did as he and his family Put their trust in the Lord, fearing him and resting in him instead of fearing circumstances or people. We know the darkness and the gloom of those who reject the Lord, but more importantly, we know the light. The Lord Jesus Christ, who in his first advent began to dispel the darkness and cause great joy, whose death on the cross and his resurrection provided the way for our salvation and in his second advent is going to usher in a time of peace and righteous government that the world has never seen. We know him, the wonderworking counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father of eternity, the Prince of Peace. We know the end of the story. We may not know all the details. We may not know all the intervening trials and tribulations, but we know the glorious end for those who have trusted in the glorious light of the world. As the psalmist says in Psalm 118, verse 6, the Lord is for me, I will not fear. What can man do to fear? Me. May we live in light of that certain hope this week and for the rest of our lives. Let's pray. Father, we marvel at your word. This passage to me is so amazing. I thank you, Lord, that we have the privilege of knowing the light of the world. The light of the world that causes all darkness to go away. Father, thankfully we have this light within ourselves. If we've trusted in Christ as our Savior, If we have uh recognized that we cannot come to you except through trusting in Christ, who on the cross was our substitute, Lord. Lord, for our sins. And he rose again that we might have eternal life and forgiveness of sins. If we simply trust in Him. Lord, I would pray if there's anyone here this morning that's never trusted in Christ, that they would do so. That they would be sure of their eternal destiny. But for the rest of us, Lord, help us again to act in accordance with what we believe. That Christ is the light of the world. That light is in us and it needs to shine through us. Lord, help us not to be afraid. There's nothing to be afraid of when we're going to be able to do that. We're in your hands. You care for us more than anyone else, Lord. Help us again to rejoice in that, to rest in that, and then to proclaim the light of the world to those. Around us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. A