I want to begin with sort of what I ended last week. You may recall in the last few weeks that I made some comments about evolution. I've said that this theory is incompatible with biblical creationism, and I hope I was clear yet gracious as I would make those remarks. As I draw these conclusions, I want you to know something that I don't hold to such convictions because I've only studied the Bible and read conservative scholars. No, it's because I try my best to listen to evolutionists and what they have to say. So here's an example It was the spring of last year when that prominent scientist Daniel Dennett died. The New York Times called him, quote, one of the most widely read and debated American philosophers. He was among the four horsemen of New Atheism, they say, alongside Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, and Christopher Hitchens. I heard about his passing on, you know, some of you guys listened to the briefing podcast, that's where I heard it. Al Moller had an interesting summary of his ideas. Back in the 90s, Daniel Dennett wrote a book called Darwin's Dangerous Idea. He began with a parable, a powerful illustration. Then it said when he was a young teenager, he imagined something like a science fiction horror. He thought of something like a Universal acid created by a mad scientist. This acid so powerful it dissolves the test tube Dissolves the laboratory, dissolves the scientists, dissolves the city, dissolves the planet, dissolves the cosmos. A few years later, Dennett encountered the theory of evolution. He reflected that it was, quote, Darwin's idea bearing an unmistakable likeness. The universal acid. It eats through just about every traditional concept and leaves in its wake. a revolutionized worldview with most of the old landmarks still recognizable, but transformed in fundamental ways. So take for example the idea that human dignity is above the value of other creatures. Gone The endearing love between a mother and a child, gone. Anything beyond the material nature of man, such as the soul, the spirit, gone. What about our precious faith in God? Where did that come from? Then it would say that most religious beliefs are an instance of when evolution goes astray. We must be aware of them. Such convictions must be treated like uh the wild grizzly bears and the wolves in the woods. If faith should become a public menace, whatever that means, it must go extinct or adapt to the changing times. Now, all this may sound ridiculous to true Christians, but I'll give Daniel Dennett credit in this. He aimed to be a thoroughly consistent thinker. He truly believed the physical things are all that exist in the universe, and that's his materialism, they say He was convinced that evolution explains why we're all here, and he stuck with that idea. Evolution does away with all traditional spiritual beliefs. It's that universal asset. But like Denner, we need to consider carefully what evolutionists say about evolution before we try a compromise. Not just oil and water you're trying to mix here. Your soul and universal acid is probably what we're trying to mix here. But it's not a compromise or a mixture. What do we do in face of a destructive worldview, right? Eating away everything we hold dear. Well, we must also stand firm. We have to be consistent thinkers as well. You know, consistent in our stri scriptural convictions. We too have an explanation of the origins. We have a life-giving message, not one that melts away everything in the universe. Starts in Genesis. I sometimes wonder whether atheists know Darwin better than theists know Moses. That would be a shame. Let's make sure we here at Faith Bible know what Genesis says. Let's live up to our church thing, you know, faith and the Bible, right? Great chapter, Hebrews 11 speaks of both the faith. And God's word, it begins like this. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders obtained the good testimony. By faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God. So that the things which are seen were not made of things which are visible. And we nourish our faith and boost confidence in the Word, if we remind ourselves. or those earliest portions of scripture. So let's turn now to Genesis 124 to 31. That's the end of the chapter. Genesis one, twenty four to thirty-one Then God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature according to its kind, cattle and creeping thing, and beasts of the earth, each according to its kind. And God made the beast of the earth according to its kind, cattle according to its kind, and everything that creeps on the earth according to its own. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, according to our likeness. the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created Him, male and female, he created them. Then God blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea. Over the birds of the air and over every living thing that creeps on uh moves on the earth. And God said, See, I have given you every herb that yields seed, which is on the face of all the earth, and every tree whose fruit yields seed to you it shall be for food. Also to every beast of the earth, to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, in which there is life, I have given Every green earth for food, and it was so. Then God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening and the morning were the sixth day So that's the first Friday of the universe. And there's a lot of reasons to thank God it's Friday. God speaks more on this day than other days. Notice all the quotation marks. See if you can locate God said which occurs four times. Also, not only did he see what he made was good as he did most other days, not only did he see that it was good twice, as he did on day three, on day six, he saw everything he had made, and indeed it was. Very good. You see why day six deserves our special attention You see why in the next chapter we're giving more details of this day, but in this chapter we're giving more of a broad summary of it. Structurally speaking, I think it helps to divide up this passage into three parts, verses twenty-four to twenty-five, twenty-six to twenty-five. 28 and 29 to 31. First you see in verses 24 to 25 how Friday begins similar to Thursday. There are many parallels. Elohim speaks on both days to populate our planet. As a result, there's a great variety of living creatures of each kind, and God saw that it was good. And had God blessed these land creatures and called it a day, then Friday would not be so different from Thursday. But that's not how day six ends. Go on to verses 26 to 28. We learn there that the blessing of this day is reserved for mankind, not the cattle kind, not the creeping kind, not the beast kind. That's because humans, male and female, are created in God's image. They're destined to rule over lesser creatures. Finally, after this monumental event, God speaks again in verses 29 to 31. Creator Elohim speaks concerning his provision of food. He receiv uh he reviews the six days of work, he sees his work completed as very good, he closes the day. So corresponding to this three-part division, I got three reasons to thank God is Friday. God brought forth the diversity of life on land. That's verses twenty-four to twenty-five God made in his image humanity to rule life on earth. Verses 26 to 28. God supplied food for the vitality of life on earth. That's 29 to 25. The first were grateful, God brought forth the diversity of life on land. I'll reread the first half. Verse 24, let the earth bring forth a living creature according to its kind. Land creatures are like the grass, herbs, and trees. And that they come from earth. By the way, the original word behind bring forth in verse 11 is different than the word behind bring forth in verse 24, but the idea is the same. Vegetation and animals both come from earth. Another trait they share is that they reproduce. They reproduce according to their kind. In the animal world, the word kind most closely approximates to genus. Back in you know day five, among the fish, there's the carassias with the goldfish and some carps. Among the birds, there's the falconiforms with falcons, hawks, eagles, and vultures. Now on day six on dry land, there's the canines with dogs and wolves, pantera with lions and tigers So both animals and plants within their kinds, right, there's both unity and diversity. That God made animals to be distinct from plants, right? Animals are superior because they are called living creatures, right? We discussed last time how a living creature is Nefeshkaya in the original. Nefeshkaya is who they are. Nefeshkayah is what's in them. Life, as it says in verse 30. Life is in their blood, the breath of life is in their flesh. Fueled by that life in them, they freely roam, move. Swim, fly, just as it was in the sky and the seas. God brought forth the diversity of life on land Now go on to the second part of verse 24 and see the three major divisions of land creatures. There's one cattle, two creeping things, and two Three beasts of the earth. These three can be distinguished based on their relative distance to us humans. Here's what I mean. Begin with the cattle. Cattle in the original is the hemma It sounds similar to the behemoth of Job 4015. Now that may sound a little bit scary, but in reality, these animals are closest to us. They're domesticated animals, right? Oxen, sheep, horses, beasts of burden that make our lives easier. When I say domesticated, I don't mean like husbands and fathers, right? But but You know, it's better than being um better than being wild at heart, whatever that means. Um next up are creeping things. We're talking about reptiles underground, right? And worms underground. To me, creeping things are creepy things. You know, crawling things make my skin crawl. When I visited New Orleans one time, I was thinking to myself, the grass is moving. Well, it turns out there are just these little green and brown lizards called anoles. Apparently they're good for pest control. Speaking of which, before I get to the beast, I do think that bugs and insects were created on day six. Some argue that the flying bugs were created on day five based on their function and classification scheme in Leviticus 11. But more important than when is why. This is where my faith in God is tested. Lord, what good are bugs and insects for us? Why did you put wings on some of them? Why do we have to deal with cicadas that invade and screech all day? Why I trust they only serve God's good purposes before the fall They still have their purpose today, obviously. I'm not a entomologist, whatever they call them. Not a good career for me. Um They just don't have a purpose in my home. Otherwise it will face the wrath of my bug zapper. Okay, onto less creepy things. The beasts of the earth are somewhat redundantly called kayat haets. It's redundant because kayat is the same word as kayat in Lepesh kayat, except in construct form. It's likely that there's some emphasis on vigor, right? Energy with these creatures. They're meant to be wild, free, undomesticated, unbound, relatively speaking. These are animals like lions, tigers, and bears, oh my, you know. All this to say God brought forth the diversity of life on land It's a tall task to subdue such great and many creatures, but God did not leave it to the giraffe. This job wasn't for any creature already existing. You'll see who gets the job in verses 26 to 28. God made in his image humanity to rule life on earth. That's another reason to thank God is Friday. We hear from God again in verse 26, and here's just the first part up to the semicolon. Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. There are many peculiar things going on here from the very first word. Let us make is one word in Hebrew. It stands out from the other ways Creator Elohim spoke things into existence. Existence. Sometimes he say, Let there be this, let there be that, let there be light, let there be lights, let there be a firmament. Other times he commanded material things, let the waters be gathered, let the waters swarm, let the dry land appear. Let the earth bring forth. Now here there's some kind of internal dialogue. I do think there's a here's a foreshadowing of the doctrine of Trinity. One might argue against that, saying God consulted with angels before creating man. That sounds off, going too far in our imagination, saying too much Angels are good cheerleaders, right? Job 38, 7. And they're good messengers. That's what their purpose is, right? But they're not God's advisors. As Isaiah reminds us in Isaiah 40, 13 to 14, who has directed the Spirit of the Lord, or as his counselor has taught him? With whom did he take counsel, and who instructed him? Not any creature, not even angels. Others say that this let us is another case of the majestic plural, and that's a better option, but I think it's probably saying a little too little, right? It's best to say there's some kind of inner dialogue within the Godhead. There's some allowance here for a later development of the Trinitarian doctrine. How much? Not too much of course, but enough, like a seed that grows into a mighty tree. The focus is more on man, so we don't have to dwell on this too much. And man will be no different than his fellow land creatures, except that he's made in God's image and likeness. Now we have to park here for a few moments to discuss years of debate. The early church fathers studied these details carefully. One peculiar move was sharply differentiating between image and likeness. Image. They see that as separate from likeness. For example, Erinus of Leon interprets image as natural reasoning, likeness as a supernatural gift. Origin says the image is the inherent trait in us now. Likeness is a future accomplishment achieved through pious imitation of Christ. Augustine says, image is the intellect, likeness the morals. All these are interesting, interesting thoughts, but unnecessary. The fact is image, Selem, and likeness the mood are referring to the one and the same thing. This is an example of Hebrew parallelism, or if that sounds complicated, it's just word variety. Image and likeness are interchangeable. That's why in verse 27, Moses can Use just one of these terms, image Selem, to report that God created mankind. But then later in chapter 5, verse 1, Moses can use the other term, likeness, the mood, to again recount the creation of man. Equating the two words makes our study easier, right? But we still have to define what it is. Okay? What exactly is this image? Or likeness. Some say it's the relationship between human and God, human with the fellow human, or both. We'll call this the relational view. There's some warrant for this. According to verse 26, man is obviously created In relation to God, right? According to verse 27, man is created male and female, both image-bearers in relation to each other. But this raises some questions. Do Christians have more of this image than the unsaved? How would man be different from angels? Did they not also relate with God and fellow angels? When Adam was by himself for a few hours on Friday, was he not quite made in God's image? Another option is to say God's image is man's dominance. This is some call it the functional view. There's some warm for this as well. In the second half of verse twenty-six and in all of twenty-eight, the Lord creates, blesses, and commands humanity to subdue all life on this planet. It's evident that there's a connection between image and rule, right? It's a close connection, but close does not mean the same in essence. The function of dominion could be separate from the image. It could be a consequence of the image. If the image and reign are one and the same, why did God give a separate imperative to be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it and have dominion? Also, think of Psalm 8. There, David, like Moses, speaks of man's privilege, rule over the rest of creation. And there you'd expect some mention of God's image, but you don't find it. So now there's one more view, the substantial view or substantive. Proponents say that this image is some part of human essence. I mean, not exactly sure where you're not gonna find it in your CAT scan or X-ray, but it's something within us, right? But even within this broad agreement, there's a great diversity of opinions. Some might say this image is personality. But again, what makes us say angels don't have personality? And some humans definitely have more personality than others. So I don't actually say personality is a good definition of this. My personal view is that some kind is some kind of a hybrid between relationship view and the substantial view. So I call it and I obviously made it longer than what we see there. I say that God's image in us is the universal human relatability to God. Mouthful there. It's the ability within us for relationship beyond us. I think that Jesus alluded to this relatability. When he was asked about paying taxes to Caesar. This is in Mark 12, 13 to 17. Here's the context. Christ knew his enemies Laid a trap. They want to frame him either as a rebel or unpopular. Pay taxes. His followers would hate him. Don't pay taxes. His rulers would hate him. But he wisely asked him to bring a coin, a denarius. He asked, Whose image and inscription is this? They said to him, Caesar's. He responded, rendered to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. I know that's not the main point, but there's a bit of an analogy here that's interesting. For our discussion. Just as a currency belongs to the ruler because it has his image and inscription on it, we belong to God because we are made in his image and likeness. It's like how in Toy Story Andy's name is written on Woody's foot. I'll come back to this offness or obligation to give ourselves to God. But for now, no matter what your view is on the image, we can agree on this. God made in his image humanity to rule life on earth. Yet this despite this great authority we possess, we still were still very much dependent creatures. It's the neediness we share with others. So we go on to the less uh the last three verses of Genesis 1. And there we learn the third lesson, third reason to thank God. It's Friday. God supplied food. For the vitality of life on earth. I'll be quick on this point. We close day six with one more word from Elohim. God the Creator is also God the provider. Verse 29, he commands mankind to eat herbs and fruits. You see, next chapter there is one tree that's forbidden, but there's plenty and there's variety of food for sustenance. In verse 30, he gives lesser beings essentially the same permission to eat the greens. Finally, the busy day comes to an end, but not before God saw that everything that he had made, and he saw it as very good. The work week is now done. One more day remains, the seventh, the Sabbath, but we'll talk about that next week as we turn to Chapter 2, Lord willing. For now, we should probably end our discussion of day six with some applications. I have two sets of applications. For both, we have to bring up the image of God in man again. The first set of applications has to do with ethical implications. Under this broad heading Are the following topics: sanctity of life, respectful speech, and apologetics. First, as we'll see later, after the ruinous fall and the entrance of sin and death, there's a special need to protect life. God institutes capital punishment later in Genesis 9. He grounds this work of justice on the image of God and man. It says in Genesis 9, verse 6, Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed, for in the image of God he made man. Whatever your thoughts, we can all agree, every image bearer is precious, must be protected. Sadly, it should not be controversial that this protection of light extends to the unborn. God wants his image bears in the womb, and they're made fearfully and wonderfully to praise him. As Psalm one thirty-nine tells us. The second ethical issue has to do with respectful speech. Now we turn to New Testament to James. We read parts of chapter 3 earlier in the service. James argues how the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity, a pollutant, untamable, unruly, poisonous. It's shameful when those called to be saints cannot control their tongues. As one example, James writes in verse 9: With it, the tongue, we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the similitude of God. In other words, it's not only for self-control and personal holiness that we hold our tongue. We must not insult those made in God's image. So, you know, all this talk like Drake and Kendrick Lamar fighting each other I don't think he's there listening to this sermon, but you know, you gotta see each other as God's image bearers, right? I don't think anyone got that one. Maybe a few people here. Anyway, going on to speech, speaking respectfully, but also speaking with non Christians, right? Third ethical issue has to do with apologetics, and hopefully I can explain that. Apologetics is just trying to talk with the unchrist non-Christian about the faith, right? And defending our faith as well. You know, it's part of facing the daunting task of evangelizing the loss. You know, we don't when we do that though, we don't start nowhere or anywhere. We have this truth. Right? We believers already share a bond with fellow humans, all of them, even the unregenerate ones. That's because saved or not, all of us are made in God's image. As I said earlier, we all share this relatability to him. So even if a non-Christian appears really difficult to reach, and we probably face that, right? Whether it's a neighbor, a friend, even a family member, we can always preach the word and pray for fruit. Cornelius Van Til, a prominent theologian, says the following. The natural man is by virtue of his creation in the image of God always accessible to the truth. Accessible to the penetration of the truth by the Spirit of God. There's a good segue to the other set of implications concerning God's image in man. It concerns the gospel. This is what we need to preach to our fellow image bearers. It's about the creation fall redemption arc, and we start with the bad news. If the world of animals and plants can talk, I wonder what they say about how we humans are doing running this planet. Sadly, we took a very good world and messed it up. As a result, there are thorns and thistles, futility and bondage of corruption. Their groanings, extinctions, and pollutions. What's worst of all is how we treat others and ourselves. I'll just mention how we curse each other verbally. We even mutilate ourselves and distort male and female boundaries. Instead of worshiping God as his image-bearers, we make and worship images of four-footed animals, we bow down before creeping things. As a result, we're justly condemned by our Creator. We're meant to be his crown of glory and honor, but we've tarnished his image We've dishonored his reputation. We deserve nothing but eternity apart from God in hell. But the Lord did not leave us like this. The Father sent his son Jesus. John calls them the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through Him. And without Him, nothing was made that was made. Similarly, Paul calls them the image of the invisible God, the firstborn overall creation. Jesus declares and reveals God uniquely in ways we can never do. That's because Jesus is God Himself. He existed before Adam, He existed before angels, even before even time existed. No one else can claim to have the firstborn rights to inherit all things. The God who made us in his image became one of his image-bearers. God became man. Jesus, the brightness of God's glory, the express image of his person, shared in our flesh and blood, he lived a perfect life. But he gave himself over to death to save us from the power of death and the fear of death. of that. On the very first, very good Friday, God created man after he said, let us make man. On another later Good Friday, God redeemed man, after Pilate said, Behold the man. So Jesus went to the Cross. There as a substitute he paid for the penalty of sins we committed. He paid it in full and declared it is finished. He was buried in a grave. But as he promised, on the third day he rose again. He presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs. He was seen by his disciples for forty years. days he ascended to heaven and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. In the kingdom Which is coming will see all things put under his feet. He'll be exalted as the second greater Adam. He'll be given the name above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. It's the glory of God the Father. Before that day, all must repent. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in them only. Cannot earn or deserve eternal life. It is a gift. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. This is the grand plan of God from the Bible: creation, fall, redemption. There's a story of a young boy who bought a toy kit and spent weeks carefully constructing a sailboat. He finally finished it. He treasured it. He took it down to the lake. It worked so well and sailed beautifully, but it kept going and going and eventually out of sight. Despite all his efforts, the boy could not find the boat. Weeks later, he walked past a store window, and amazingly, he saw that lost boat. But now it had an expensive price tag on it. He went in and explained to the shopkeeper. But the owner said, I'm sorry, but I paid a great deal of money for this toy boat and I cannot give it to you for free. But the boy did not give up. He took up jobs. He worked and worked until he finally gathered enough money to buy back his boat. Finally, he walked out of the store with the boat in his hand and he said, Now you are twice mine. Once because I made you, and once because I bought you. Those saved in Christ are twice God's We were created in God's image, so we rightfully belonged to Him, but we wandered astray, and at a great cost, God redeemed us with the blood of His Son. We are twice his, first through creation, secondly through the cross. And if I may add to the illustration, there's even more to come as we're being come born into the image of his son. So let's celebrate this truth now. Thy blood had pardoned both for me, and I am now complete in thee. Thy blood hath heard and thought for me, and glorified I too shall be. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for your word. Thank you for creating us with a purpose. We're not accidents. We're not just Product of some natural process over time. Lord, you created us Lord, in fact, we are the culmination of a week full of creative activity. You made us in your image, and what great privilege we have. We enjoy as we serve you. Lord uh we know that even as we are saved, there's difficulty. The besetting sin, our sin nature is still there. We do look forward to that day when we can serve you without any sinful hindrance. But until that day, help us to love you. Help us to love our fellow men who do not know you, who do not realize the purpose for which they've been created Lord, may we take the gospel to them. May we encourage them to repent and realize their full purpose for living. We thank you that we do know these truths. Help us to live upon According to your word this week. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.