My days are numbered. I don't know about the physical lifespan, but uh my days here as uh coming every well fourth or third uh Sunday and um bringing the word are numbered and that is exciting to me. I'm delighted to uh be retired from that position. Uh And uh just rejoicing in the Lord's uh provision. Encourage you to be uh patient with uh your new pastor who is just a little younger than you've been used to, just perhaps, uh which means uh Um you know, there's some differences uh in store. I'm just saying it doesn't matter who it is, it's we we've got a you know, a couple uh at least a what a generation difference. So um be patient, be nice, be loving, okay? And I think things will work out great. And by the way, I'm giving him Somewhat similar advice. So uh you know, well th there's a quirk here and there, he has a quirk, you have a quirk, you don't even know you have quirks. It's kinda like a marriage. You only find out what? Once you get married. Okay, that I hope that was a good my wife and I have been married for forty years, so I hope this is a good uh illustration there and not a painful one. Okay, I'm done uh with that. Well this morning we're gonna continue in our uh sermon series in Isaiah. If I'd been a little smart, I probably would have just said Hey, you know, it's Thanksgiving. We should have a message on Thanksgiving. There's plenty of uh wonderful passages, but no, I'm not that smart. And so we're just going uh continuing in Isaiah. I don't have many more uh times after all, uh so uh I'm gonna make the most of them Anyway, we're going to be looking specifically at Isaiah 29, verses 9 to 24. The first, I think I think six messages that we've had in Isaiah were taken from chapters in the first portion of the book, uh, chapters one to twelve. And they uh prophesied uh primarily concerning Concerning Judah and Jerusalem, and already in those chapters we saw an emphasis on the nation's sin and the Lord's displeasure and yet his deliverance through the Messiah. And we also saw what I consider to be one of the main themes in the book, namely, in whom do you trust? Ahaz, if you remember, refused to trust in the Lord for his deliverance and the consequences were dire. Uh of course we saw uh the uh glorious uh uh uh millen millennial reign of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ in the last message uh in Isaiah uh eleven and what a what a difference that will be when the right leader is in place, uh a leader that uh indeed does things in the right way. And yet still the point is that God desires his people uh to trust in him. He has refused to do that, uh, and so he had to pay the consequences. Well, chapters 13 to 23 speak primarily of the judgment against the nations, if the Lord was going to inflict judgment upon on his people, he was also uh going to inflict judgment on the other uh nations who were also exceedingly uh sinful and they would also And then in chapters 24 to 27, the Lord speaks of a time in the future, uh end time judgment upon the whole world And that culminates in a time of blessing in the millennium. And that brings us then to the fourth section in the book of of Isaiah, Isaiah 28-35, which on your outline sheets I've entitled The Book of Woes and Deliverance. There are six woes given in this uh in these chapters. The first woe in chapter twenty-eight deals with the northern kingdom that would go into captivity in 722 BC because of their pride. And then beginning in uh chapter twenty-eight and verse uh fourteen, Isaiah turns to the southern kingdom, Judah. And the time frame of these prophecies is in in Isaiah twenty-eight, fourteen to twenty-nine, twenty-four. is after the fall of the Northern Kingdom to Assyria, but before Assyria's full-scale invasion of Judah, which would happen in 701 BC. Don't worry about that. I'm almost done with the history lesson. You can wake up now. Remember in Isaiah chapter 7 how Ahaz turned to Assyria for help instead of turning to the Lord. Well here in these chapters the tables were turned and in fact now the leaders of Judah were afraid of the military threat from Isaiah. If you remember back in chapter seven And that's what God told him was going to happen. But Ahaz wasn't listening. He was worried about the near-term threat instead of the far-term. Instead of trusting in God to deliver them, even Even here in these chapters they were seeking to ally themselves with Egypt. They really weren't considering the Lord in their thoughts or their plans except to give lip service to him through the offerings and the religious feasts. So the Lord had to pronounce a woe against his own city, Jerusalem, David's city The city is called Ariel in this chapter, which means hearth of God or lion of God. It was the city which symbolized God's presence with his people. But sadly, Isaiah's point in this chapter, especially in verses 1 to 4 of chapter 29, is that though it was the Lord's city, he would also have to deal harshly with the city because of their unbelief. and their hypocrisy. But as verses five to eight make plain, the Lord would ultimately fight against Jerusalem, uh against uh fight for Jerusalem against those who would go up against it. And that will happen, I believe, in the Battle of Armageddon, when as Revelation 19 describes it, the nations will be gathered together against Jerusalem, as we see the uh the nations aligning. Um even in uh our day we wonder, you know, maybe that's not gonna be too far away when all of the nations are gathered against uh Jerusalem and uh Yet the Lord Jesus Christ will intervene at that time. He will come again and win the battle and usher in his glorious thousand-year reign. Interesting to me. how many times in the book of Isaiah and all the prophets we go from the near-term situation to the glorious end. And that's because that is where uh ultimately uh uh our confidence uh lies. It's not going to be in near term. The near term things are going to be messy. They're going to be difficult. But when the Lord comes again, what a joy that will be. Well, verses 9 to 24 of chapter 29, the verses we want to focus on in our time together this morning. Return again to the reasons why God would have to judge his own people. In these verses, Isaiah describes the failure of the people and especially the leaders of Judah to trust in the Lord with their whole heart. And he scorns their superficiality of their faith. And as we look at these verses this morning, I hope that we will see how relevant uh they are to us today and uh I think even to each of us here this morning. Now, my outline points are a little wordy. I think w I could use somebody to condense them, um, but apparently my brain cells, there weren't enough of them around, um maybe you can give me some suggestions because it's about, you know, a sentence and a half each. Well at any rate, now that I've apologized for these rotten points, I think the I think the essence of the points Is good. Uh I'm my own worst critic. Uh the first point, because Judah's spiritual leaders are blind, the people are unable to receive God's word. Because Judah's spiritual leaders are blind, the people are unable to receive God's word. Isaiah had just told the leaders of what God was going to do to their beloved Jerusalem. Clearly, they don't believe him. So Isaiah here taunts the leaders. He says, go ahead, stop and be amazed. Don't uh believe what I have just said. Told you. Keep on blinding yourselves to the truth. There's beautiful Hebrew alliteration here. I won't uh bother uh uh um i' trying to uh give it to you but it's just beautifully said even though the message is pretty strong. So Isaiah uh uh goes on to say that the leaders are staggering around. He says uh they are drunk but not with wine. They sta stagger but not with intoxicating drink. So they're staggering around as if they've had too much uh alcohol. Uh but they're not drunk. They're so mixed up that this is their normal behavior. I mean it's bad enough to be staggering around if you've had too much to drink. But if you haven't and And you're staggering around, that's actually, in a sense, even worse. And that's what was going on here. Well, it's a tragic thing when the leaders are blind. That's exactly what the religious leaders of Isaiah's time were. They were blind to God's truth, and they had instead substituted their own brand. The same thing was true of the Pharisees in Jesus' day. In Matthew 15, 15, Jesus said that they were blind leaders of the blind. And the miracle of the man born blind, one of my uh favorite chapters in all of scripture, John chapter nine. I have a lot of favorite chapters, usually the one I'm preaching on is my favorite, and there are many of those. But uh John chapter nine is just the funniest chapter. I I I think It's funny. Anyway, uh it's a beautiful paradox of how the man who is born blind turned out to be not blind at all, neither uh physically, because Jesus healed him. But more importantly, spiritually, because of course he accepted Christ as his Savior. Yet at the same time, the Pharisees were the ones who were really blind spiritually, after all. Well, Isaiah continues in verse 10 to say that because the leaders had rejected God's revelation for so long, the Lord had closed up the avenues of revelation To them. It says, For the Lord has poured out on you the spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes, namely the prophets, and he has covered your heads, namely the seers. And you know, the prophets would no longer give the people the revelation that they needed. This is the same truth that we see in Romans chapter 1, uh, which is eventually if people do not heed the truth, God gives them up to their own devices, which is actually the worst thing that they can do. You know, uh sometimes if we sin, um and we all do sin Sometimes, right? But hopefully, when we sin, our conscience really kicks into action, right? And uh and convicts us Um you know, w when we have to worry especially is it when that doesn't happen. In other words, we sin so often that we're used to it and our conscience says, Oh yeah, yeah, same That's not good. And that's what Romans one talks about. Uh we must be careful not to harden ourselves to the truth of God's revelation, or there may come a time. when the Lord simply says, all right, you reject my revelation, I'll no longer try to lead you to faith. There may be some here even this morning who've never trusted uh Christ as Savior. Maybe you're putting it off saying, well, you know, I've I've got a while to go yet, I'll you know live my life the way I want to and then eventually I'll give it over to the Lord or something like that. Well the point is we don't know, no not one of us knows how long we're going to live. Uh so to do that is uh is unwise in the first place, but the longer you refuse to accept Christ as your Savior, frankly, the more likely you are to become Hardened to do it. And that's the sad truth. As one man put it, there can be no more frightening motivation to listen to God than this. The thought that if you refuse to hear today, one day you might no longer be able to hear. God may simply leave us. uh in our blindness. Well Isaiah brings home that uh tr the tragic situation of blind leaders of the blind in a poignant way by means of an analogy in verses 11 and 12. He says, the whole vision has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. Which men deliver to the one who is literate, saying, Read this, please. And he says, I cannot, for it's sealed. Then the book is delivered to one who is illiterate, saying, Read this, please, and he says, I'm not literate. Well What does that mean? Well, God's word, given through the true prophets such as Isaiah, had become to the religious leaders of Judah like the words of a sealed book. These seminary professors, like I like to call them, are asked to read the words of this book, and they say they can't because it's a sealed revelation. It's sealed because they've blindly refused to hear the message for so long they no longer have any spiritual discernment. They no longer are in touch with the one who wrote and sealed the book in the first place. They are educated enough to read the words, yes, but they can't discern the meaning. The tragedy is exacerbated in verse twelve when the book is given to the illiterate Nasses, who are unable to read and thus are unable to understand the message, even if they would have the spiritual discernment that it was needed. They are dependent on their educated leaders for spiritual food, but their leaders have woefully led them down. And that was exactly the reason that the Protestant Reformation in the 1500s took place. The people were not able or encouraged to read the Bible further. themselves. We take that for granted today. We shouldn't, because that hasn't always been the case. Instead, the people were dependent upon their religious leaders who themselves were corrupt. Even today, most of Christianity depends solely on their pastors for their spiritual nourishment, and the tragedy is. that most of our religious leaders today who are able to read, who are educated, yes, unfortunately the book is sealed to them. They have no spiritual discernment whatsoever. I hope you realize that seminaries where people are being trained for future ministry and where the inerrancy of Scripture is taught and upheld are a rarity today. They are the exception, not the rule. I attended this last week, the uh Evangelical Theological Society conference. I'll have something more to say about that a little bit later in the message. But there's another gathering happening, in fact, in Denver where I was A much larger gathering, probably ten times as large as the ETS group, the Society for Biblical Literature began Friday. Uh began Saturday and continues through Tuesday. Meetings all through Sunday, by the way, which I always thought was rather interesting and intriguing Didn't really care about church. They had their own little meetings. What do they need church for? At any rate, these are folks, uh uh, I would say probably ninety percent not evangelical. Who teach in schools of religion, seminaries, etc. , all across not only America. but the world. And most of them are brilliant people, but lost. Isn't that exciting? It's exactly what is being talked about right here. Most uh but not all denominational seminaries are doctrinally deficient. And that's where our future pastors are being trained. And that's why I've invested the past 41 years of my life in seminary teaching. I think it's absolutely pi uh pivotal, first at Capital and now uh at Liberty and Masters, uh, because it's essential that our leaders be equipped to open the sealed book with spiritual understanding. It's important, yes, to have uh smart people, but uh more important than that is to have godly people who are interested in following the word of God. What a privilege you and I have today that we are able to read the Bible for ourselves. Even the Catholic Church no longer conducts services in Latin, so they're making a lot of the Catholics. A little bit of progress, uh, making the scriptures available to only to an elite clergy, which was true, of course, in Luther's day. Yet do you and I take advantage of this fact? Uh many people are are still much too dependent upon others to read and interpret the scriptures when really what you and I ought to be doing doing is to encourage people and give them the means to study the scriptures for themselves so that it is not a closed book. I would encourage you, I don't know all the different things you guys have got going on here, but to join a shepherding group, a Bible study group participate in an adult uh uh Sunday school class or do whatever you can so you might better equip yourself to read, study and most important, live the truths of this There is no excuse for spiritual illiteracy. So that's my first point. The blindness of Judah's spiritual leaders results in the inability of the people to receive God's word. My second point found in verses 13 and 14 is this. Because the people's faith is superficial, God will do something amazing. But they won't even see it. Because the people's faith is superficial. God's going to do something amazing, but they won't even see it. This point had been made in the first verse of the chapter as well. They were regularly observing the feast days and also the so-called religious things that they were supposed to do. The lips said the right things, but that's as far as it went. Their hearts were far from the Lord. Here's what these verses say Uh therefore the Lord says, Inasmuch as these people draw near with their mouths and honor me with their lips, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the commandment of men, therefore For behold, I will again do a marvelous work among this people, a marvelous work and a wonder, for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, the understanding of their prudent men shall be hidden. Well, instead of the obeying the Lord, they were following the Lord the man's commandments, just like the Pharisees in Jesus' day. In a word, they were hypocrites. And that's exactly what Jesus says in Matthew 15 in verses 4 to 9 as he quotes from this portion of Isaiah. For God could Jesus says for God commanded saying, Honor your father and your mother, and he who curses father and mother, let him be put to death. But you say, whoever says to his father and mother, Whatever prophet you may have received from me is a gift from God, then he need not honor his father or mother. Thus you have made the commandment of God of no effect by your tradition hypocrite. Well did Isaiah prophesy about you, saying, These people draw near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me, and in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines. the commandments of men. Well, sad to say, this is true of much of Judaism and even Catholicism today. Legalism without the heart of faith The rituals and the traditions are there, but they are empty of real spiritual significance. Uh when uh Sharon and I uh visited uh Ireland uh uh a while back actually uh staying with uh some uh uh former students, alumni, uh one uh who uh who lived with us for uh uh almost three years before she got married to an Irishman and uh so we w uh went to Ireland uh Ireland, it was a joy, but I was struck by the fact that every town had a beautiful Catholic Cathedral. Absolutely stunning. Catholic tradition is so strong there that when a person becomes a believer, he or she becomes ostracized from the family. Uh many of the devout Catholics, in fact, go to Mass every single day. And they think that by doing these things, by their own human works, they will be saved. But it's not simply Catholics who can go through outward rituals and tradition without any inward spiritual significance. You and I can do it as well. It's often too easy for us to give lip service to God, but not our heart. We go to church on Sunday. Maybe if we're really spiritual, we go twice, and if we're super spiritual, we go on Wednesday nights as well. But is that the basis on which the Lord judges us? Have we done our duty to God for the week by going to church once or twice or three times? If we think that this is all that Christianity is about, we are kidding ourselves. How many times have you and I, and I hope The answer is never, uh sung the kims or the praise songs, but not really looked at the words. That's being a lip service Christian. And by the way, I must say I love the women's group, I love the music here in the church so that one of the things that I'm gonna miss by not being here once a month is the the the music which I think is absolutely fantastic and one of the reasons I say that is because you pay attention to what the words say. And uh that is absolutely in my thinking uh paramount. Okay, and of praise. I've got to give you some praise after all. Um I I do, I love it. I mean I Some miracles are tougher to get going than others. Okay. Well, hopefully you have you have looked at the words and you continually look at the words the words. I remember even when I was a back in my Lutheran days and the liturgies that they had uh and and people say, Oh, you know, those liturgies they're just road and people Well I never thought that they were rote. I was thinking about 'em every time I sing 'em. I think that's what we oughta do. We should never just be singing things just because we've sung it before. Uh even especially In fact, Christmas carols. Look at the words. I mean those carols are amazing, some of them, uh the better ones. Uh, you know, in terms of uh you know, fa la la la la. Yeah, you know, maybe not that one. Anyway, but some of the deeper uh Christmas carols, uh look at those words as you're saying them because uh they're just fantastic. Fantastic. Well, you know, uh being a lip service uh uh Christian is easy and and I confess sometimes, you know, somebody comes up on on Sunday and they say, Oh, how are you doing? Oh we're doing fine, just great and then you know, you get back home and you're Continuing the argument with your spouse or your children that you started before you came into the service. I mean, I hope that's never true, of course, of people here, but I I just you know it just we have to be on guard that we're not simply lip service Christians. It's easy Because well we've always done this and we always continue and we sort of forget why we're doing it. God wants nothing less than our total commitment, our con total love and our total honor all of the time Not simply on Sunday morning or in our Christian service or whenever. So I would ask, how do you and I measure up in this regard? The sad thing is that those who are only professing believers, as the religious leaders in Isaiah's or Jesus' day were, miss out on all the real blessings. And that's what Isaiah speaks about. Uh in verse 14. They're gonna miss the wonderful work which God is doing. In verse 14, the word wonderful or literally miracle working Remember that word is used three times. It's the same word that was used as one of the glorious titles of the Messiah. You remember in Isaiah 9, 6, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Miracle Working Counselor. Remember? Remember? Miracle working. Wonderful is fine, but it's not good enough because it it used to mean it was great in sixteen eleven, used to mean what? Full of wonder. Now it means oh great. No. Miracle working, counselor. Got that? Okay. Good. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. God is going to do a miracle. That's what it says here in verse 14. But not everybody is going to see it You know, it's easy when we are too busy to miss the miracles of God. And sometimes, I confess, I get that way. I'm so busy with some things, I don't see the miracles of God Around me. Those who think that they are wise in the world's eyes will perish, and they'll be unable to understand the spiritual work which the Lord will do. The Apostle Paul quotes from this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, another one of my favorite chapters, verses 18 to 31, and he explains that the ultimate fulfillment of this wonderful, miracle-working thing that the Lord would do would be to save us through the cross of Christ. He says in 1 Corinthians 1, beginning in verse 18. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Hasn't God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God. It pleased God through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are the called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God because Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. See, the cross doesn't make any sense From a human perspective. We can't figure it out. The most educated person in the world can't comprehend it or deduce it from natural logic So if we're simply following the commandments and traditions of men rather than the ways of the Lord, we will miss out completely on his wonders. What a glorious thing it it is, as uh The hymn writer and like the river gloria says, to trust the Lord wholly and to find him wholly true. It's an adventure that leads us sometimes through suffering, the way of the cross, yes, but ultimately it leads to the great blessing of the resurrection and new everlasting life. And so I hope that you and I won't be Sunday lip service Christians, but that we'll give him our whole heart all of the time. Well the third point I see in this passage is contained in verses fifteen through twenty-four Because these people are all mixed up about God, they won't be aware of how God is going to mix things up in the future. Because these people are all mixed up about God, they won't be aware of how God is going to mix things up in the future. God has got a wonderful plan for the future, but those who avoid or ignore God and his power will never see it. In verse 15, Isaiah pronounces another woe, this time to those who seek to hide their plans from God, saying, Who sees us or who knows us? Their view of God is so tiny, so limited, they think they can hide from God just as Adam and Eve did in the garden after they had sinned. And I hope that our view of God isn't so small that we think we can get away with some sin in our lives and it won't bother him or he won't notice it. Do we say, well, God is not involved in this part of my life, in our work, and how we treat other people and so forth? No, God sees absolutely Absolutely everything that we do, and he knows all about us. There is no such thing as a secret sin. With respect to God. We may be able to hide it from people around us. We're pretty good at doing that, but we can't hide it from God. Isaiah's response to these people in verse 16 literally is your perversity. That's what it says. You have turned things upside down. It says, surely you've turned things around. Shall the potter be esteemed as the clay? For shall the thing made say of him who made it, he didn't make it make me. Or shall the thing born say of him who formed it, he has no understanding. Well, that's exactly what they've done. They've confused the potter and the clay. The clay is trying to tell the potter that he didn't make it. That's pretty good, isn't it? The creation is trying to take tell the creator that he doesn't know what he is doing. How absurd How does the creation, man himself, think that he got the mind to think such thoughts as these in the first place? If I didn't know better, I would have thought that these words were written to describe not Isaiah's day, but our own. If ever we lived in a mixed-up world, it is now people calling the bad good, the perverse behavior, such unnatural and perverse things as Homer. homosexuality is now being called okay. And those who attempt to say otherwise are called narrow-minded. I don't think I think we need to uh uh go into all of that. I remembered when the Supreme Court in 2000 uh uh three uh declared a Texas law against uh homosexual sodomy is unconstitutional. The court uh said uh and I read the whole thirty-one page single space are most relevant here. Well, they actually aren't. What's most relevant is uh the um Judeo Christian ethic upon uh which this uh country was based as was already uh prayed about uh this morning. And this ruling makes no sense if there's truly a a God and a definite moral code. But it makes perfect sense in a society where there are no moral. Absolutes. Well, these verses describe the secularist who says that religion really doesn't have any relevance in our society. It's all right to have your religion. As long as it doesn't interfere with anything important. The seculars may not deny God Himself, as atheism does, but that only makes this philosophy more dangerous. The secularist says, yes, God may exist, but he isn't relevant. In the words of verse 15, the secularist is God, can't see, and doesn't know what's going on. The secularist says that human reason, not divine revelation, is supreme. And further, the secularist says that evolution is absolutely true This eliminates the need for a creator or any divine intervention in the natural world. Uh how convenient. Uh very, very uh sad uh this week. Uh I attend As I said, the uh Evangelical Theological Society conference. I um I read a paper on uh Genesis chapter two to defending uh the uh um uh the uh standard creation view. Of course there was somebody with the other opinion and we had a nice little debate. Well that was well enough, but then later on in the and by the way there are like hundreds and hundreds of meetings and all going on at the same time. But there's one that I attended on Wednesday afternoon called the Creation Project. The first paper was given by James Hoffmeyer, and it says, Can we believe in creation and evolution? A preliminary report on an ongoing research project. And the second one was by a speaker, and these are from good schools, one Trinity Evangelical Divinity School. Another the King's College. Does Genesis one to eleven contain a critique of theistic evolution? I would say, well, it absolutely contains a critique. But this dear person didn't say that. Um what's even sadder is that this entire section, and there were four different papers here uh on this creation project, it was all funded. Now my papers They're not funded. Nobody gives me any money. I I cover my own traveling costs to get there, my own hotel costs. There's nothing funded about it. These dear folks, they're all funded. It's a part of a research grant that was given to them through the Templeton Foundation Which has tons of money. And they sponsor this uh Bialagos or organization, which uh this organization says that Christians should embrace evolution. They present what they call an evolutionary understanding of God's creation. So now instead of calling, by the way, theistic evolution, they they they cover they cover Remember, you know, we're not pro abortion, we're, you know, uh pro choice. Sounds much better. Well, they're doing the same thing now with uh uh evolution. Uh and so for the last seven years, I just looked this up last night. Last night I started getting us going on this. The last seven years, uh, the Templeton Foundation has donated ten million dollars. to biologos to basically brainwash Christians into saying evolution is fine and it's compatible with your faith. Oh no it isn't Genesis one to eleven proves that, as does Psalm one hundred four and many other uh places. And that's exactly so you know the point is then man is able to do exactly what he pleases without any qu consequences or any accountability to a creator. And that's exactly what verse 16 says. The thing made is denying the very fact of creation and a creator. We are back to Romans chapter 1 once again. Because God says in Romans 1, another of my favorite chapter. Uh but those who fail to acknowledge this obvious fact ultimately end up with verse twenty-five serving the creature rather than the creator, and they end up, Paul says in Romans Romans 1 in all kinds of immorality, including homosexuality and lesbianism, specifically mentioned. Now, in that process, by the way, since I have I haven't said one word about thanksgiving. Here it is in Romans 1. Study Romans 1 again, and they he says they didn't acknowledge him as God, neither were thankful. But then went their own way. And so my encouragement to you and to myself is continually remind ourselves of God's goodness. And be thankful in everything, so that we don't end up like one of these folks saying, I know better than God, I am not thankful, and go and descend into the road of Romans one, which is not a very pretty picture. So this whole idea of being thankful. I remember staying in one person's house. It was a older, uh quite older pastor, um, and uh he had quite a lot of quirks. He was more fruitful. frugal than I am, and boy, that's frugal. Uh he he he would he yelled at his wife because she was they had a big banquet and she was cutting up the butter and she was using the two much you know the the butter slices were too much and he he yelled at him so he had his little issues to say the least but what I really was uh uh amazed at is just he He was sta i every morning we would we would pray together. I was staying at his house, I was speaking at a conference, a week long conference, and we would pray together. And he would thank the Lord for the electricity, for the lights, for the things. I think, wow. You know, I need to do more of that. I just sort of take it for granted and let it govern work and then I complain. Right? Aren't you guys okay, you guys are worried spiritual that I am. All right, that's fine. Okay, that's great. Okay. No problem. But it you know, it is we need to be thankful because otherwise we go down that Romans one road and that is not a great road. uh to go down in. As Christians, you and I need to realize and to combat the perverse thinking about this of this generation which seeks to exclude God From any relevance in our lives. God is relevant in our governments, in our law, in our schools, in our homes, in all of society. And we must beware ourselves of compartmentalized thinking where we compartmentalize God to only one or two areas of our life but leave the rest to the perverted thinking of the world. God is interested in In everything we think and in everything we do, in what we do, at our jobs, in our homes, in our families, in everything. We must continually involve the Lord in everything which we do and not just allow him in. Well, quickly summarizing verses uh seventeen to twenty-four of this uh chapter. The Lord explains that those who exhibit such mixed up turned around thinking will not see that the Lord Himself is going to turn things around in a big way very soon. No, he's not a little god somewhere up there who is not interested in the affairs of men and who is not able to see or understand their plans. Far from it. He is the creator of the universe, and he will turn things around so that as verse 17 says, Lebanon's forest will become a fruitful field and the field of forests. And verse 18 says that the deaf will hear the words of the book, it says, certainly a slap in the face to the leaders, remember, who didn't hear and acted as if the books were sealed. And the blind will see how ironic it is that Isaiah comes back to that same image of blindness and says that it is the leaders that are actually blind. Like the man born blind in John chapter nine. Those who are blind will see when the Lord turns things around. My uh grandson is legally blind. He's he's learning Braille at the age of four and walking with a cane, etcetera. But he sees so much. He's one of the smartest kids you've el you ever see. And when I think about this these verses I think Think about him. And uh it's not just physical sight that's important. There's a whole lot more after that. And of course, those who are blind will see when the Lord returns, and he turns things on Around. And that will happen after Armageddon, when the Lord defeats his enemies and lifts up the humble, the poor, the blind, and the deaf, and he reigns for a glorious thousand years. How much you and I have to look forward to in the ultimate redemption, when we all have new resurrection bodies. And whenever I travel, I am more and more aware of this frail, feeble, miserable body that I happen to have. Uh I don't think that was a complaint. Maybe it was. Let me think about that. But at any rate, I I need to be thankful, and I am thankful, uh, but man, I'm gonna be even more thankful with that new version, Resurrection Body, where everything's gonna work just right. Just uh terrifically, I'm gonna be able to play the piano again, Steve, which I'm really looking forward to. Uh and uh what a fantastic thing that is. Do you think about that, new resurrection body? And if you if you do, then you've probably had your share of some ailments along the way. If you don't, well just Wait, you probably will. Uh but those whose God is too small won't see any of this. So in closing, I hope we keep these things clearly in mind. First, let's not be blinded. By rejecting the light which God has given us, or by remaining spiritually illiterate. There is no excuse in this country for spiritual illiteracy. All kinds of opportunities are available for us to learn and to study, and of course, more importantly, to apply the Word of God. Second, let's not be lip service or Sunday only Christians. Instead, let's give the Lord our whole heart all of the time. Otherwise, we're simply being hypocrites. And third, let's beware of those mixed-up people who try to limit God or exclude him from society or from his rightful role as our creator. And let's take care ourselves not to compartmentalize God, thinking that He doesn't need to be involved in this or that area of our life. He needs to be at the the center of every aspect of our lives, of every decision that you and I make. I'd like to close this message with the words of the last two stanzas of Life A River Cross. Glorious, uh by Francis Havergell. Hidden in the hollow of his blessed hand, never foe can follow, never trade traders stand, not a surge of worry. I always stop at that one Because boy I tend to worry. Um left on my own. I'm a worrier. Not a surge of worry, not a shade of care, not a blast of hurry. Touch the spirit there. Every joy or trial falleth from above, traced upon our dial by the Son of Love. We may trust Him fully all for us to do. They who trust him wholly find him wholly true. May each of us trust him wholly in everything that we do. Let's pray Father, as we do uh think about uh Thanksgiving Day on Thursday, how thankful we are We are Lord for all of your goodness toward us, for your loving kindness toward us, for your long suffering at our failures and sins Lord. We just thank you, Lord, for all that you have done for us, and above all, we thank you for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ Who lived a perfect life, died on the cross for our sins in our place, Lord, and rose again that we might have eternal Eternal life and forgiveness of sins and new resurrection bodies, Lord, if only we would trust in Him. I pray, Lord, if there's anyone here that's morning that's never trusted in Christ if they would do it today, to realize that it's foolish thinking, to say, well I'll put it off and do it. another day. Lord, uh what a joy it is to know you and to trust in you, Lord. And I would pray if anyone has not done that, that they would do something Even today. What a joy it is to rest in you, to rejoice in you. Lord, continue to help us day by day. um in every decision we make, in every thought that we think, uh to uh uh put them as a as uh uh as the scriptures say it it's a captivity uh of Christ to think what would Christ want me to do or say or think in that situation. What decision I should make, Lord. Help us to put you at the center of everything we do. And Lord, help us to trust you fully. everything. Thank you, Lord, for all that you have done for us and help us to be a grateful people. We pray this in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen