You have seen the question flash up there, but um it has to do with life model, right? Do you have a life model? Do you lean on a pithy principle to make big and small decisions? Now before you dismiss them, remember life models are stuff of advertisements. They're on motivational posters in our rooms and locker rooms. We may be uh influenced by them more than we think. They're engraved on gravestone epitaphs, so it could define your own life. Okay. So I read a blog listing 35 popular life models, not in any particular order. I want to share a few with you. Now as you listen, ask yourself whether you agree with them or not. Maybe you can literally or mentally give a thumbs up or a thumbs down If you like one, perhaps you can search a proof text from the Bible to back it up. So here we go. Alright, let's see if it works Oh, it's not working anymore. Okay, well I'll just let me try again One at a time. When life gives you lemons, make lemonade. Okay, so what do you think? Yay or nay? Or how about live every day like it's your last? That's pretty good, right? Or maybe even biblical to some degree. Okay, one more. Be the change you wish to see in the world. Okay, not that in pushing us to take responsibility for ourselves and our actions. Now whether you agree with these or not, you have to admit models are catchy because they're short and memorable. And it turns out that Apostle Paul was fond of short sayings too. In his three letters to Timothy and Titus, five times Paul used this formula. This is a faithful saying, pistos hologos. I've listed the references for you on this slide, 1 Timothy 1:15, 3. 1, 4, 8, 29, 2 Timothy 2. 11. eleven to thirteen and Titus three four to eight. One is simple and personal. First Timothy one fifteen. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. Another is practical and ecclesial. That's 1 Timothy 3:1. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. Yet another faithful saying is devotional and inspirational. This is still in First Timothy four eight. Bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things. Having promise of the life that is now is, and of that which is to come. And then the final two faithful sayings are poetic and doctrinal. Second Timothy 2, 11 to 13, for if we die with him, we shall also live with him. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. There's much in there to exposit, but maybe another time. The last one in Titus takes us back to last week's passage and on the brink of today's passage. The faithful saying mentioned at the beginning of verse 8 refers back to what Paul just wrote in verses 4 to 7. It's worth rereading. When the kindness and the love of God, our Savior, toward man, appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. And having been justified by His grace, we shall become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This faithful saying is beautiful because it's all about God's kindness and love. It's wonderful because our words not based, uh, worth is not based on our works. Mercy triumphs over judgment. It's powerful because we're reminded God regenerates us, cleansing our filth, and justifies us, pardoning our guilt. I like to call Titus 3, 4 to 7 the gospel motto. It may not be concise enough to fit inside like a bumper sticker or something, but But we should hide it in our hearts, meditate on it, live and die by it. It should be our life model that guides our key decisions. So now that we've reread verses 4 to 7, let's go on to Titus 3, 8 to 11. There we'll see implications derived from the faithful saint. This is a faithful saying, and these things I want you to affirm constantly that those who have believed in God should be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to men. But avoid foolish disputes, genealogies, contentions, and strivings about the law, for they are unprofitable and useless. Reject the divisive man after the first and second admonition, knowing that such a person is worse than sinning, being self-condemned. As we pause here and reflect on what we covered thus far in Titus 3, and I'd like to talk about outlines, I suggest In thinking of an outline, we picture a door hinge. The two parts of a hinge are the two leaves. What holds together the two leaves is a hinge pin. Without that central hinge pin, the leaves do not pivot and function as one unit. Hopefully you got the picture in your head. Now let me apply this image to Titus 3 1 to 11. Picture the two leaves of the hinge as titus 3 123 And verses 8 to 11. What holds together the two parts is Paul's faithful saying of verses 4 to 7. Without this hinge pin, the two leaves do not pivot and function as one unit as they should. In plain language, without the faithful word of the gospel in its central place, pinning down Paul's message here, his demands for Christian living do not function properly. Without the indicatives, the imperatives make no sense. Reminders to behave are pointless without the good news. Without God working in us, there's no difference between profitable and unprofitable. There's no value in uniting in the gospel without the gospel. Just moralism. That's not what we're here to promote. But with the hinge pin of Titus 3, 427 in its place, firm and secure, we can pivot. Again, picture the sermon text as one of the leaves of a wing, leaves or wing of a hinge. Furthermore I've got to go continue to go with this picture. Um picture three screw holes in it, right? The three holes are like the three wishes of Paul. The first one's in the form of a verb and is complementary infinitive in the middle of verse 8. I want you to affirm constantly, that's in verse 8. The other two imperatives. Uh other two are imperatives in verses nine and ten, avoid and reject. All that to say, I suggest now three pivotal reinforcements for gospel-centered living. First, affirm devotion to the good news that promotes good works. That's verse eight. Secondly, avoid distractions that do not edify and profit all, verse nine. Thirdly, reject divisions in the church that persist after warnings, verses ten to eleven. First, affirm devotion to the good news that promotes good works There are two sentences in verse 8. The first sentence, I'll call it 8A. It's more complex than the second, 8B. 8A is composed of three parts divided by two commas. Let's look at it one phrase at a time. I've already explained how the first phrase, this is a faithful saying, refers to what comes before it. In verses 4 to 7, we have a beautiful summary of gospel truths. Paul speaks of divine initiative and human inability. He extols God's mercy. We have glorious doctrines, regeneration through the Spirit, and justification by grace to secure our heavenly inheritance. Next in verse 8A, there's the main idea of the verse. And these things I want you to affirm constantly. Again, these things pertain to the promises of the good news in the earlier verses, and to affirm them constantly, we must talk about the gospel again and again. Right. It's reinforcing. It's repeating. Here's some words of wisdom from John Piper. You never outgrow your need for the gospel. You never graduate to a course where the gospel should not be the center of the curriculum. There's no post-gospel graduate school in the Christian life. The center of every ongoing growth in knowledge has Christ crucified, risen, received by faith alone like a little child, at the center of the curriculum. So as Paul tells Titus, we affirm devotion to the good news, but there's more, right? Belief in the good news promotes good works. Look at the third and final phrase of verse 8a. That those who have believed in God should be careful to maintain good works. That word dat at the beginning is henna in Greek. It introduces a purpose clause. To put it all together The faithful saying of verses 4 to 7 must be affirmed continually so that in order that for the purpose of fruitful living in believers That means while we're grateful and excited to hear someone has believed in God, we need to see if that profession of faith is genuine. The way to know is make sure he or she's careful to maintain good works. If there's ever a good kind of anxiety, a holy worry, it's here in the verb be careful. As for the word maintain, in most other contexts, the original word is translated as lead or rule. So to be careful to maintain good works does not allow us to be passive. We gotta be on top of things. Ahead of schedule. My wife likes to say, chop chop, you know, let's get things going, you know We should be anticipating, preparing, considering one another to stir up love and good works. It's pivotal to affirm devotion to the good news that promotes good works. As we'll see next time in Titus 3:14, such devotions learn through the teaching and example of pastors. As a result, God's people are productive. and fruitful. But there's even a wider impact beyond our church walls. Come back to the second sentence of verse 8, 8B. Devotion to good news that promotes good works is good and profitable. To men, that's all men, right? Referring to mankind in general. There's a lot to cover in one verse, but verse 8 is not your typical verse. Before I move on to verse 9, let me offer a few applications. First, be clear on the relationship between the good news and good works. I often get questions about it when talking with our Roman Catholic friends and neighbors They push back and argue that I'm wrong about the doctrines of grace alone and faith alone. As Protestant evangelicals, we must know what we believe about the good news and good works before we affirm it. The Bible teaches that our good works add nothing to salvation. Recall verse 5 from last time, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Or look at Ephesians 2, 8 through 9, which says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. But then go on to verse 10 in Ephesians 2, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. For good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. There's a place for good works in the Christian life, but they're not at the root of our faith. They are fruit of our faith. Since I cite Westminster a lot, and let me cite um something else this time. Here's a good summary from 17th century Baptists. It's from the uh yeah 1689 Second London Baptist Confession of Faith, chapter 16, verse uh paragraph 2. Good works done in obedience to God's commandments are the fruits and evidences of a true and lively faith. And by them believers manifest their thankfulness, strengthen their assurance, edify their brethren, adorn the profession of the gospel, stop the mouths of the adversaries. And glorify God, whose workmanship they are, created in Christ Jesus thereunto, and having their fruit unto holiness, they may have the end eternal life. There's a lot to discuss here. But for now, I'll just highlight that good works are fruits and evidences of a true and lively faith. That's what we need to find in those who say they believe in God. We need evidence. We need to see fruit. To paraphrase the reformers, we are justified by faith alone, but the faith that justifies is never alone. There's another application from verse 8. There's nothing better or more profitable for humanity than sharing the good news with the lost. You may not be a politician, a CEO, or an influencer. Say you're not an evangelist out on the streets or a missionary abroad. But today and this week, you can do what's good and profitable for society by talking to someone about Jesus. Simple as that. Look for gospel opportunities among family, friends, and neighbors. There are many good methods of evangelism, but the essentials are the same. One method is to use the four-part outline of God, man, Christ and response. Start with God who is sovereign, self-existent, eternal, perfect, and powerful. He created all things in his good pleasure. He made us male and female in his image to represent him, to glorify him, to make him look good. But we turned away from our Maker. This is the man part. We've sinned. We've broken his laws, doing what we shouldn't do, and not doing what we should do. We coveted, made idols of things, lusted with our eyes. We blaspheme taking the Lord's name in vain, using words to hurt others. For all these reasons and more, we're separated from the presence of the holy and just God. We face eternal punishment and are on the brink of hell. God being gracious, kind, and loving, did not leave us like this. Our God won in three persons, gave us himself. The Father sent his son. conceived of the Holy Spirit, we're talking about Jesus now, right? Christ. God and man at the same time. He's the Messiah, the promised King of Israel, the King of the whole world. Unlike us, he lived a perfect life. But to save us from sin, he gave up his life. He willingly went to Jerusalem. He was betrayed. He suffered at the hands of sinners. He was crucified. At the cross, he paid the penalty of our sin that we should pay. He bled and died in our place, as our substitute. He faced and endured the wrath of God that should have fallen on us. His life became the ransom for the moral death we owe to God. Then Jesus declared his work finished and breeded his last. He was buried, but on the third day, having completed his work of redemption, he rose from the grave. He showed many proofs of his resurrection for forty days. Then he ascended to heaven. And someday he'll return to judge the living and the dead. Now we get to the response The gospel is not a legend, it's all truth, and it's not just a feel-good story for our entertainment. All who hear must decide whether they'll repent and believe. Repenting means you turn away from sin and self. Believing means you trust in Jesus. Put all your hope of heaven on Him. Acknowledge that you add nothing to the effort Right? E eternal life's God's gift, undeserved and unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So that's God, man, Christ's response. Hopefully that's easy enough for you to share with others. For those who do not believe yet, please Please make the decision carefully, but do so urgently. And for most of us here who already believe, affirm devotion to the good news that promotes good works, such as the work of evangelism. Again, share the good news with others. This is what's good and profitable for men. Prepare your feet to go forward with the gospel of peace. Open your mouths boldly to make it known. Now, while we rehearse, testify, speak, share, talk, beware of some pitfalls in our conversations. What are they? Well, thankfully, Paul specifies them in verse nine. That gets us to the second reinforcement, pivotal for gospel-centered living. Avoid distractions that do not edify and profit all. Verse 9 is an immediate contrast to verse 8. Look at how each verse ends. Verse 8, on one hand, there are those Things that are good and profitable to men. Verse 9, on the other end, on other hand, there are those things that are unprofitable, useless. So affirm the best things, we can affirm the best things when we avoid the worst things. Paul lists four such bad things in particular. First Titus must stay clear of foolish disputes. Keep in mind, not all disputes are foolish. The disciples of John the Baptist and Jews debated on matters of purification. Paul and Barnabas argued against false teachers concerning the law and the gospel. Paul was on trial and his accusers questioned them concerning the Jewish religion and Jesus. These are not trivial or frivolous topics. Some disputes are worth your time and energy. Some disputes are worth your blood pressurizing a bit. Some disputes even lead to biblical separation. But not so the foolish disputes. Foolish disputes do not cause godly edification, which is in the faith. From them come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, and strife. I believe one way to avoid foolish disputes is to put less emphasis on disputable matters. Pretty simple, right? So unless we're discussing first tier and second tier levels of doctrine, those that are relate to our eternal life. In heaven through the gospel and our life together as a church, let's not get too riled up. The third-tier issues need to be identified, of course. There are other things we do have to talk about. Sure, we have to decide what the color of the drapes would be or the carpet on the floor. But they shall not be given too much attention Related to foolish disputes, they are genealogies. I'm not talking about those lists of names in the inspired scriptures. Appropriate to say this time of the year. I'm not saying discard your Jesse tree this year, right? Don't skip over Matthew 1 and Luke 3 in your advent devotions. Details and names do matter to God and to us. But in 1 Timothy 1:4, Paul warns against endless genealogies. Biblical genealogies have definite beginnings and endings. Sometimes they even skip over names, right? There's a bigger point to be made tracing the line of Jesus through David, Judah, the patron. Patriarchs and Noah until we get to Adam. We learn that Jesus fulfills the ancient prophecies. We sang about of Jesse's lineage coming as uh as men of old have sung. See the true and better Adam come to save the hellbound man. That's the point. Okay? So the next time someone name drops thousands of names, be sure to point to the name above all names, Jesus, right? What's the point of all these genealogies? Next, another way we avoid distractions that do not edify and profit all is to avoid contentions. Maybe there's some contentions back there, but um can't avoid those, right? I uh I don't know. But um we're talking about contentions among adults, okay? So um contention is eris in Greek, Anglicans as E R I S into a little bit of Greek mythology. In Homer's Iliad, Eris is the goddess of strife and discord. She's the She's the sister of God of war. Now we don't believe in Greek myths, but we should agree strife and wars are related. In the New Testament, this word contention is often translated as strife. So we want to talk about friendly banters here. Okay. We're talking about heated debates, full of outbursts, resulting in dissensions. I'm not saying suspend all emotions while talking. I've been told repeatedly, I think I need to show more emotion. Okay. But while you do speak, watch your tone and vocabulary. Finally, Paul says to avoid strivings about the law. It's not clear whether he's talking about Roman civil law or Jewish religious laws. Are we talking about lawyers that Jesus condemned in the Gospels or are we talking about lawyers that might help Paul? during his trials before Caesar. My interpretation is that he's dealing with matters of Old Testament law. Right. It's like likely the same sort of false teachings Timothy encountered at Ephesus. I'm not gonna read it all, but you can look at in First Timothy one Paul warned against those who stray from the faith, turned aside to idle talk. It says here, designed to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor the things which they affirm. They also do not understand how to use the law lawfully, how it fits with sound doctrine and the gospel. In other words, we kind of talked about this earlier, they don't know how to harmonize the law with the gospel. As a result, their arguments are confused, misguided at best. Their strivings are unprofitable, useless. So that's the second reinforcement pivotal for gospel-centered living. Avoid distractions that do not edify and profit all. But at times you just can't avoid distractions. That's because some distractions are rooted in distracting people They keep bringing up topics you rather avoid. What do we do then? Well we see in the rest of the passage. The third reinforcement pivotal for gospel center living is this reject divisions in the church that persist after warnings. As Paul continues, we learn what to do when disruptions come from difficult people. I guess you can literally put a muzzle on them, but that'll probably cause some legal problems. Kind of a weird sight at a church, but um Instead Paul commands reject. The word reject is elsewhere translated as be excused, object, or reject. Refuse. That means if divisive folks will not excuse themselves out of the room. They must be escorted outside, I guess. They must be refused reentry if they refuse to listen to the warnings of leaders and the church. This parallels the disciplinary steps outlined in Matthew 18. It's interesting that the word divisive in this verse in Greek is Hiereticos from where we get the word heretical and heretic. But that's probably we probably have a different idea when we think of the word heretic As Chris Anderson, who visited our church once and wrote this book, The Scandal of Schism said, however, the English term oh let me see if I got that However, the English term heretic connotes one guilty of heresy or false teaching, and it's unlikely that that's what's happening in Titus three. Instead, the person in question is one who is sinfully divisive. This is a character problem, not merely a spiritual misstep. Whereas we conceive of church discipline as a button we push only for scandals such as adultery, Scripture commands us to exercise it when a person is stirring up division. As ironic as it may sound, unbiblical separation, schism may necessitate biblical separation. Talk about church discipline. Were we to obey scripture on this point, schism would be far less common. But for us to obey scripture on this point, at times we must practice church discipline. Discern through the process whether the divisive person displays the qualities listed in verse eleven. Is he or she warped, twisted, corrupted, and perverted? Is there outward and visible sin? Is the person self-condemned? That is, reasons for their rejection are self-evident, plain insight, right there in his or her conduct, his family life, his work life So you gotta take a closer peek at a person before rejection. But we'll know over time whether we have to reject such ones because we'll know them by their fruits That's another reinforcement. Pivotal for gospel-centered living. Reject divisions in the church that persist after warnings. Now I realize that these principles are fairly straightforward, even easy to apply, at least understanding how to apply them. So more than clarity, I think we need two other things. We need conviction and courage. First, conviction wise, if we're going to affirm truth constantly and maintain good works, We need to be convinced ourselves that God is faithful. If we're to avoid certain kinds of talk, keep the gospel at the center, keep the main thing, the main thing, we need conviction. Similar to conviction is courage. That relates especially to this last point about rejecting the device of man. Ammonitions, confrontations, church discipline, removal of membership. exclusion from the Lord's table. These are not fun topics. And you can't just leave the hard stuff up to the elders. To follow Bible's commands like Matthew 18 Courage to call out sin, condemn divisive behavior and speech. So would you pray this week that God would grant you conviction and courage And not only pray, return to where today's passage hinges, revisit God's faithful saints, like we saw in Titus 3:4-7. rehearse his truthful promises, reinforce these things with conviction and courage. Affirm constantly even if the world disapproves of you and your life model Take a stand this week for the Lord. Maybe make this last song your prayer. Whatever my God ordains is right, here shall my stand be taken. Though sorrow, need, or death be mine, yet I am not forsaken. Let's go to the Lord and prayer. Lord, we thank you that you've given us your word. We look at some of these commands and imperatives and Lord, they seem daunting. They seem difficult. We may not be very confrontational. We don't want to reject anybody. We don't want to avoid certain kinds of talk We don't like affirming things. We don't like many of these commands, but that's the flesh talking, that's our sin nature talking. But when we lack motivation at times, help us to remember the gospel. That how you made the initiative, you've transformed us, you gave us good standing before you, giving your son, Jesus, to die on the cross for us. Lord, based on that, motivated by that, centered by that, help us to live our lives to glorify you. Help us to maintain unity here. Help us to watch our speech so that it'll be filled with Truths that glorify you, that edifies our fellow believers, and is profitable for all people. So we just thank you for Your word that is clear to us. And now help us by your Spirit to obey them. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.