How are you doing this doing all this evening? If I can talk? We'll get there. We'll be back in Colossians. Colossians 2 verse 6. Then we'll make our way through chapter 3 verse 4. That's the goal. As we get into Colossians, let's first start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for who you are. We thank you that you have done so much for us in bringing us into a relationship with you. To be found in Christ is such a blessing. To go from an enemy to a son. To a daughter. We praise you for that transformation that you have worked in us. I pray that as we come to Colossians, I pray that you would give me grace as I speak That I would speak only words that would be true and words that would be used for the edification of all present. I pray that you'd be honored and that you'd be glorified. In your holy and precious name we pray. Amen. Our identity is something very important to us A lot about our life is structured around who we are. This is especially true when we come to face with with people who are doing cons in uh stealing identities. It becomes incredibly important who you are. There is this movie, Catch Me If You Can. if any of you have seen it, where it explores this based on a life a true life story of this individual who was an expert con. He could become anybody he wanted to be. He became an air pro air um plane pilot pilot without ever getting a license. He just conned his way onto that plane to fly it. He became a lawyer. He became a doctor. The man just became who he wanted to be. But it he assumed identities without actually being the identity. He was assumed. Well, this worked for a while until he got caught and thrown in a French prison and went through lots of trials and struggles as the consequence of his actions. He was a man who was using others' identities without actually being what he said he was. For us, we look at that and we think he got what he deserved. He probably did. We look at that sometimes a little afraid, thinking, what if someone does that to me? We understand this importance of our identity. We are afraid of it being taken away. And sometimes, in another sense, we look in ourselves and we wonder, who are we? There are many people who have that struggle They look they seek psychologists. There are many in this day and age who are wondering if they're a man or a woman. There's lots of uncertainty about identity, particularly in this day and age. What the gospel provides for us is an answer to this question of our identity. Who are we actually? It presents both a solution. And yet also a conflict. Because our relationship with Christ both identifies us with Christ, but also creates this conflict between who we are now and who we used to be. And from this point, Colossians 2 to Colossians 3, Paul is discussing this idea of our identity with Christ and the conflict that results because of who we are. And because of our identity in Christ Jesus, we must live out the gospel. And that's the point in which Paul is getting at in the So we're going to look at that in three different areas. We must live gospel-infused lives, we must live gospel-transformed lives, and we must live gospel-liberated lives. All because of identity in Christ Jesus. If you look here in Colossians chapter 2, you'll look down At verse two. Actually let's go back to It talks in verse w chapter one, verse twenty-seven, is where he begins his discussion on our identity. He says, To them God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles. Which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. And in verse 2 of chapter 2, He talks about our hearts being encouraged, being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom. and knowledge. Then in verse 6, as ye therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. And we talked about how this walk last time we were here about walking in Christ. Christ. I talked about how that mystery of Jews and Gentiles coming into Christ. That Christ redeemed us and brought us into a relationship with Christ, both Jew and Gentile. And we just explored a little bit of the Old Testament and how it pointed towards that. There's another aspect of the mystery that we didn't explore. which we're going to talk about today, and that's this aspect of Christ being in us, of us being in Christ. What does it mean in that respect? Well verse seven gives us some answers to that. In verse seven, we are rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. So, Paul gives us about four action points on what it means to be in Christ. So, first, we must live a gospel-infused life. What is a gospel-infused life? It's a life that is rooted in Christ. Rooted and built up in him. It's a life that has its foundation in Jesus Christ. Paul talks about this elsewhere in Ephesians 2, 19 and 20, where he says, Now therefore you no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. So being rooted in Christ is to have one's foundation on Christ. Not only are we rooted in Christ, but our life is built up in Christ. Again in Ephesians, here in Colossians 2, it talks about that being built up in Him. And then in Ephesians two, verse twenty-one, in whom the whole building being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you all are also being built together for a dwelling place of God in his spirit. Spirit. So we are rooted and we are founded in Jesus Christ, and then we're built up in Christ as well. And this being rooted and being built up in Christ leads to the third, and that is being established in the Spirit. faith. Something that has root or it has a good foundation, who the structure has been built on top of that foundation. It is we would call it an established structure. It has what it needs to be sustainable and to be And again in Ephesians 4, Paul talks about this necessity of being established in the faith. And verse 4, 11 to 16. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, that we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men and the cunning craftiness of the secret. But speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share. Causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. So Paul talks again about this being established in the faith. That as a church, we are established in the faith, and we see evidence of our establishment in the faith by the gifts that are shared in the body of Christ. The gifts that Christ gave to us through the Holy Spirit, gifts that mentioned in 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans 12 as well. And by using these gifts and by encouraging each other with these gifts, based on the foundation of Christ, based on being built up in Christ. We become established and not tossed to and fro because we are on the secure foundation being built together in the structure Being established in who we are, in our identity as children of God. This then leads to a life abounding in thanksgiving. Where it says in verse 7, abounding in it with thanksgiving. So being rooted and established and built up, all of this leads to This idea of abounding in thanksgiving for what God has been doing in us and how He is transforming us. So by gospel infused, it means that our whole entire life is infused, is is permeated with the gospel and how it has changed us from the inside out. And thus this leads to the second point in which the gospel transforms our life. The transformation of the gospel begins with the transformation of our identity. We are transferred from the domain of darkness in Adam to the kingdom of light in Christ Jesus. And Colossians, Paul already referred to that in chapter 1. Down In verse 13. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son. We talked about that in detail about the gospel. Colossians 1 is all about who Christ is and what Christ. has done for us. This transformation then begins with us going from darkness to light. We are then placed in a relationship with Christ Jesus. So to be in Christ means that our identity is gone from that of Adam. Our being in Christ and Adam's identity brought us into the regime of death. So before we knew Christ, before we brought into Christ, we were in Adam, as it says in Corinthians, where it talks about being in Adam and being in Christ. Romans 5 also gives us a picture, verses 12 through 21, of that same scenario. So who we are has been fundamentally changed by what God has done inside of us. This relationship that we have with Christ. Changes everything about who we are. It changes our desires. It changes our actions. It changes the course of our life And we see this in in in daily life. But you can see the course of a life changed by God, and you can see a course of a life not changed by God. We see some pretty drastic examples where you see someone who's caught in in drug addiction and is and they they have no desire to get out of that. We see people who are just running headlong after wickedness and it doesn't bother them. They're totally against God and that is exactly how they want to be. They're not forced to be against God. They're just pursuing their nature as they are, enemies of God And then we see other people who've been transformed, whose life has been totally altered by the power of God. We've experienced that as we've come to know Christ through faith. And Paul begins to talk more about this, this transfer trans um transformation in Colossians 2, verses 9 to 15. He says Is this. For in him all dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. Buried with him in baptism, in which also you were raised with him through faith and the working of God who raised him from the dead. And you being dead in your trespasses in the uncircumcision of your flesh He has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, having wiped out the handwritten writing of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. So as Paul talks about having been Placed in Christ, he first talks about spiritual circumcision. And then he links this spiritual circumcision with baptism And verse 11, in him you were also circumcised with the circumcision, made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. This point is also made in in Romans two, twenty-eight to twenty-nine, where Paul in Romans talks about the necessity of being changed using the same uh He says, For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God. So in both places, Paul is pointing out that there is a it is a radical change that is occurring. And that this circumcision points to a change. That must occur. And he links that with that of baptism. In verse 12, buried with him in baptism. And the question is: what is the relationship between being circumcised in Christ and being baptized? Here, when you look at it grammatically, being buried with him by baptism connects with being circumcised. So the way grammar works is that when you have a verb and you have a participle, the participle is linked to the verb. So in this case, in him you were also circumcised. This is the main verb. We're circumcised. Circumcised, and buried with him in baptism is the participle that is giving us information about the verb circumcised, what it means to be circumcised. So what Paul is pointing out here is that baptism of the Spirit is the means by which we are spiritually circumcised That to be served, we are circumcised by being baptized is another way that you could say that. Well, how does this work? Well, if you go to Romans 6. 4, We see that Paul, in telling us about what happens in baptism, he's pointing out the spiritual aspect of it Romans 6, 4, therefore we are buried with him through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life So in baptism is picturing what is spiritually happening inside of us. So we're all aware that the water doesn't do anything for us, the water isn't actually cleansing us, we're not getting a We're not getting a bath when we get baptized. I'm sure some dirt may fall off, but that's not the point. The point is w it's a picture of the vital change that's occurred inside. That what has happened is the Spirit of God has transformed our identity, and we have become something entirely new. The point being that we are there's newness of life. Because by going into the water it's symbolizing our death to sin, and by being raised, it's symbolizing our change of identity from From the regime of death to the kingdom of light through faith in Jesus Christ. And this occurs in regeneration, where the Spirit of God comes in and we are born again, as stated in John 3. 3. Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, you cannot see the kingdom. So Paul begins talking about this drastic change by talking about regeneration, talking about the the work of God in our heart to spiritually change who we are. And then Paul moves into justification. He says in verse 13, you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of the flesh, he has made alive together with them, having forgiven you all trespasses, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which is contrary to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. So Paul goes from being spiritually changed and what how baptism pictures that inward spiritual change and regeneration to the f to the result of justification. That we have now been justified, our sins have been taken away, forgiven, and the law has been satisfied. The requirements that were against us, which is We were required legally to obey the law of God. As stated in Matthew 5, therefore, you must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. perfect. So the requirement was that we would be perfect like God is perfect. Obviously being unable to meet that requirement We were condemned. But that requirement has been wiped away. That requirement has been nailed to the cross because in the cross Jesus gave his blood, and his blood then washed away our sins, freeing us from the guilt that we incurred by not keeping the law. And thus through our faith in Jesus Christ and his substitution on our behalf, we then are forgiven and Allah is satisfied. And then Paul moves quickly into how the Christ has disarmed principalities and powers. He made a public spectacle of them, trying triumphing over it. Well clearly a reference to the resurrection and where Christ triumphed over sin and death. That's where it talks about Christ leading captives. In his way, that his triumph over sin and death, his victory, and his resurrection showed completely and finally that death no more had power. Because Christ could die and then live. He had broken the power of death, thus the defeat of death was final, and he had the power and the authority to broken bring life. And so as Paul is discussing regeneration and justification and his triumph over the domain of darkness, he's bringing it all together. They're all connected. It's not like you're regenerated and five minutes later. you're justified and then ten minutes later you you you triumph over over sin and death. It occurs Together. It's a package. It happens simultaneously. When you put your faith in Jesus Christ, all of these things are going on. We can't separate them. We can't try to parse them to see when they happened. What happened is that you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he has made alive together with me Christ has made us alive. And he does that through this spiritual regeneration in our hearts that leads to our justification through the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. And gives us the triumph over death. This is our transformation from the inside. And because of this transformation, because of our identity having been changed, From that of sin and death to that of life and righteousness. We must, and third, we must live gospel-liberated life This is what Paul's been getting to throughout these first two chapters. He's reiterated over and over the power of the gospel. He's been focusing on what Christ has done in delivering us from the domain of darkness. He's been focusing on justification, how we've been forgiven and redeemed and reconciled. And now he begins to say, now what? You've talked about who God is, he's talked about what God has done for us. Now he's beginning to say, this is what God has done in us. And that because of what Christ has done, because we are in Christ, we are liberated. And what does that mean? There are many different theories out there about what it means to be freed by Christ. What is the Christian life supposed to look like? Well, Paul gives us some guidance here. First, he says we are liberated from a self-made religion through a death in Christ. If you look to verse 8. Of Colossians 2. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. Self-made religion. It was abounding in Colossae, where Paul was writing to. There were a lot of factors involved. in the Colossians, a lot of heresies that were floating around. You had people who denied the deity of Christ, apparently had people who weren't so sure about the humanity of Christ through Paul's referencing That Christ, the flesh of Christ. You see him definitely talking about the deity of Christ again in chapter one. It's a large emphasis. That Christ, that it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell. That Christ is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. And verse 22, he references in the body of his flesh through death. So the person of Christ apparently was under attack, or there were People spreading errors about it. And we're we're gaining a lot of our understanding of the errors in Colossians from the points that Paul's making. And in the midst of this confusion, theological confusion, Paul says we are liberated from self-made religion. Philosophy, empty deceit, the traditions of men. He goes on to talk about some of these traditions. If you look down at verse 16. So let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbath, which are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance is a shadow. So this first point that he's making is directed specifically to the Jewish errors of that time. So Colossians being a very the city was very multi-ethnic. It was a trade city, marketplace type environment. So you had people traveling in and out and in and out. You had Jews coming in, Pharisees, Pharisaical sects who would come in and try to say you had to follow the whole entire law of Moses to be We see this in Acts fifteen, where there's a whole Jerusalem council over the this very issue of do Gentiles have to be circumcised, do they have to follow the law? In what way are Gentiles part of of the commun of the of the covenant through faith. And the the obvious conclusion was that Gentiles are part of that through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ, and faith in Jesus Christ alone, not the law of God as described in the Old Testament, particularly the ceremonial part. That is all the sacrificial rules and regulations. And this is what Paul is bringing up here. That what what you eat, what you choose to drink, what spiritual festivals or ceremonies or What whether what you desire to observe in your own spiritual walk is not to be judged by other Christians. You can make personal decisions on how you want to live your life spiritually. You're not constrained by specific feasts or holy days that are described in the Old Testament. There's an important distinction to make here, and that is there is a distinction between the Sabbath of the ceremonial law and the Sabbath of the moral law. Some conclude that because of this statement here by Paul, that we no longer have any obligation to have any type of Sabbath period. And so they take the Sabbath of the Ten Commandments, they wrap it up in this statement, and they say, we only have to follow nine of the commandments, the tenth one has been abrogated The problem with that is even in the Old Testament law there are two types of Sabbaths. There was the Sabbath of the Ten Commandments, and then there were the Sabbaths specifically associated with feast days. with holy days. And they weren't necessarily connected with the Ten Commandments, the Sabbath. Example of this being In Leviticus 16, 29-34. Leviticus 16, 29 to 34. This shall be a statute forever for you. In the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls and do no work at all. Whether a native of your own country or a stranger who dwells among you, for on that day the priest shall make atonement for you to cleanse you, that you may be clean from all your sins before the Lord. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest for you. And you shall afflict your souls. It is a statute forever. And the priest who is anointed and consecrated to minister as a priest in his father's place shall make atonement and put on the linen clothes, the holy garments, then he shall make atonement for the holies. Sanctuary. We see there that this is not talking about the Saturday Sabbath every week. This is specifically the seventh month on the tenth day of the month. And specific in relation to this particular holy day. These are the Sabbaths that Paul is saying that you're not obligated to do. This way of speaking, festival or new moon or set or sabbath, was a stock phrase from the Old Testament to refer to Jewish holy days. Second Chronicles two four. Behold I am building a temple for the name of the Lord my God to dedicate to him, to burn before him sweet incest for the continual showbread for the burnt offerings, morning and evening, on the Sabbath, on the new moons, and on the set feast of the Lord our God. God, this is an ordinance forever to Israel. And then you have other instances where that's phrases used, Sabbath new moons, and So within the ceremonial law, you had that particular Sabbath associated with the Sabbath new moons and Sabbath at feasts. But then there's the moral law of the Ten Commandments. There's a Sabbath of the Ten Commandments. Well this Sabbath precedes the institution of the sacrifice. spiritual system. This precedes the ceremonial law entirely. We see that the moral law itself as as a unit is definitely definitely precedes The people of Israel. It's been ever since the beginning of time. Killing people has always been wrong. There's never been a time before or after the giving of the Ten Commandments in which killing people is acceptable in in reference to murder. We see Cain and Abel, there was no Ten Commandments during Cain and Abel's time, but it was definitely wrong for Cain to take Abel's life. That was made fairly Clear. We see also in the testimony of the conscience of the moral lull is well and alive today and is not something to be dismissed. Romans 2, 14 to 15. For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do the things in the law, these, although not having the law, are a law to themselves who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and being themselves, their thoughts accusing or else excusing them. So within in our conscience, we have the work of the law written on our hearts. So every single human being knows the law of God, whether he's Seen the Ten Commandments or heard the Ten Commandments or not, the law of God, the Ten Commandments, are written on the heart of man. This explains why among most cultures, killing is considered a bad thing to do. Most cultures Lying is considered a bad thing to do. Even cultures that do it a lot and are just looking to get ahead, and lying is part of the culture, if you They know instinctively whether they deny it, because it in certain cultures I had been in lying was a a way of life. But you would talk to people and there were there were people who knew, even within that culture, that nah probably shouldn't be doing that. But they didn't care because they just wanted to get head. It wasn't like they were sorry about it. They're like, yeah, probably not the best thing to do, but I made money, so it's all good, right? But they know. You go throughout the list of Ten Commandments, cheating on someone's wife, adultery. Um most people instinctively know that's not a good idea. Well why is this the case? Why whether you well someone has seen the type of Frames or not, why do people migrate to certain things being wrong and certain things being right? Because of the conscience being written on the heart. Of man. This is something placed in man from the beginning. Then we have the testimony of the law in Matthew 22, 37 to 40, when A lawyer comes to Jesus and begins asking Jesus what he should do to inherit eternal life. He asks Jesus questions about the law. Jesus says to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Nowhere in the new in the New Testament do we have Jesus explicitly saying Oh, the Ten Commandments no longer matter. He upholds Ten Commandments and he says they matter. He says they us falling them does not bring us salvation But the law of God is vital to our sanctification. This is seen in Ezekiel 36. 26 and 27. Here in Ezekiel 36, talking about the work of the Spirit, Ezekiel prophesies And I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will keep my judgments and do them. So the prophet prophesies that the Spirit of God in regenerating us and bringing us life, that was not an excuse to take the lull and put it aside and no longer have to fall. Oh, the lull is gone. I'm free from the law. Clearly, the idea was that being transformed meant the Spirit of God would cause you to actually do what you couldn't do before. And that is please God by following him. Point made in in Romans six as well, where it says shall we live and sin because grace abounds? And God forbid. Grace is not an excuse that we sin. The law still, we are still required to obey God, and the law is still functions as our As our compass, that we might know what is right and what is wrong. This then brings us to the point of if nine of the ten are good, what's wrong with the What's wrong with the Sabbath one? Why pull out the Sabbath one arbitrarily and say, Well the Sabbath one doesn't apply? Jesus never said the Sabbath didn't apply. You can take this verse if you want and make it mean that, but is that consistent with The whole teaching of the New Testament. I would say, no, it is not. The Sabbath principle remains as a picture of the coming rest that will come to us in the new heavens and the new earth. In Hebrews 4. It clearly says that the rest has not, I mean the rest is still alive for us. In Hebrews 4, 9 to 11. For if Joshua had given them rest, Then he would not have afterward have spoken of another day. So earlier in Hebrews 4, he talked about how entering the promised land was a picture Of salvation. It was a picture of having rest in God, having faith in Christ. But because of their lack of faith, they did not go into the promised land. They were kept from the promised land because they lacked. Thus they had no rest because they had no faith, and the promised land was not given to them. And so he says in verse 9, there remains therefore a rest for the people of God. For he who has entered his rest has himself also ceased from his works as God did from his. Let us therefore be diligent to enter that rest, lest anyone fall according to the same example of disobedience. So clearly the writing of Hebrews has in front of us that we enter the rest through faith. And part of the picture of the Sabbath is we rest from our works through faith in Jesus Christ and what he has done for us. us. And this picture is the final rest in which sin is completely removed and we experience the fullness of rest and that is the new Heavens and new earth, where God reigns victoriously, and there is an absence of sin and death. Because the picture still remains, I would argue that the Sabbath therefore still remains. The difference between that and the ceremonial Sabbath is that the ceremonial Sabbath has been completed in Christ. Because the Sabbath Ceremonial law was connected to the sufferings of Christ and was pointing to what Christ would do on our behalf. fulfilled the ceremonial part of the law, the sacrificial part of the law through his sacrifice. But he's not removed our obligation to have faith in him and to worship God. This is further seen in the fact that the New Testament believers recognized that there was still a need. To observe the Sabbath. They took it from the sixth day of the week, seventh day of the week, and put it to the first We see examples of this in 1 Corinthians 16, 2. Paul is talking to the Corinthians, and he says, On the first day of the week, let each one of you lay something aside, storing up as he may prosper. That there be no collections when I come. Well, why did he randomly choose the first day of the week? Well, because that was their habit to meet on the first day of the week, so that's that's the most obvious day in which to collect. the gift that he would take to the other church to Jerusalem. We see this in Acts twenty Now on the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul, ready to depart the next day, spoke to them and continued his message until midnight. So we have again the first day of the week. The church is meeting together and Paul is preaching a very long message. And the that particular passage Goes on to narrate how a poor little boy got tired of sitting in the wrong place and fell out the window. Because Paul went on for such a long time. So clearly, what's happening here is they're meeting together, and it's meeting together for worship, and they're specifically doing it as is pointed out by Luke and Acts. It's happening on the first day of the week. Well, why the first day of the week? What is this? That the New Testament believers would put that day aside for long messages from apostles, would meet together for collecting things, gifts to be given to other churches. Well clearly it's because the first day of the week is when Christ rose again, where we were liberated from From sin and from death, where our new life has begun in Christ. That is the day in which salvation has come. So if one were to pick a day to worship God, that would probably be the same. And again, if you go to the law of God in Deuteronomy and Exodus, the two different givings of the law of God, they have two read they give two Different reasons for Sabbath observance, interestingly. One of them gives the reason because of the seventh day in creation. So because God rested on the seventh day, so we should also rest. The other one gives That because they were redeemed from the land of slavery, they should set aside this day as a day of worship, uh because they And redeemed from sin. Pictured by Egypt as a picture of sin and death. When the New Testament believers then or seeking a day to observe that that theology transfer easily over. What is the day in which we experience redemption? That would be the first day of the week. So for the Israelites, they observe the seventh for that reason. And for the church, the same reason, but to switch the day. But the reason for it remains the same. And we see that this is not merely two isolated instances that don't reflect the whole church, because if you go to Revelation 1:10, we see that John says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's church. Lord's Day. So he went from the first day of the week, and then Revelation is probably the last book written in the New Testament. It has gone from Accustomed to uh even has a phrase to identify it. So the first day so worshiping on the first day of the week was now by the time of Revelation, so a It has become a specific day in the in the church, phraseology for the church, the Lord's Day So you see the sat the church, the early church, definitely saw the Sabbath principle as still in play. We see that they observed it on the first day of the week. And they even changed the name from Sabbath to Lord's Day to reflect the change from Saturday to Sunday. But they were still the they were still an observer Of worship on that day. So, how do we observe underneath New covenant guidelines. Clearly, what clearly we're not supposed to go back and then find all the ways in which they did it under the Old Testament and then just put that into the new covenant. Because the Old Covenant had a way to observe the Sabbath, and so does The new covenant, but they're not the same. We must recognize the difference in covenant and recognize that different administration requires different laws So according to Acts 27, and we can see that there should be a priority of worship on this day. And that's easily transferable. What we do. We meet together on Sundays. Have Sunday morning service, Sunday evening service. And the point is that on this day, that we are setting aside time to make it a priority to worship. God. Now there's freedom in how one decides to do that. The New Testament gives no stipulations on how. It doesn't say you must meet at eleven o'clock or you must Meet at 1045, or you must meet at this certain time. All it talks about is worshiping, coming together, and long messages from apostles. Such. So we see that there's there's guidelines given, but this is not a strict. You must do it this way and no other way. There is wisdom involved in how. go about fulfilling this command. There's a priority on kingdom service to others. In Matthew 12, 10 to 12, the the um Jews were trying, the Pharisees are trying to say that you don't help people out on the Sabbath. Because you know On the day we're supposed to worship God, I'm not supposed to do any work at all. We're supposed to be resting, and it'll be a violation of the Sabbath. And Jesus says What man is there among you who has one sheep and that falls on the pet on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep? Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. They were accusing Jesus to be healed someone on the Sabbath. He was committing some great crime against the Sabbath. Jesus points out their inconsistencies. And then the point is that you can do good on the Sabbath, even if that means you have to do a little work. Might have to break a sweat and that's okay. Because the point is not that we get, you know, two hour naps every single Sunday. That's not Sabbath observance. Sabbath observance is we worship God, and if we see someone needs help, then we're obligated to help them. If we see a sheep in the way, help them The sheep out. If you see somebody on the road who needs water, you give them a drink of water. You're not worried about am I working or am I not working? You're worried about am I worshiping God or am I not worshiping God. That becomes the necessary. point. And then there is an idea of rest there as well. It's not meaning you can't rest. There are some that would like to that have very strict rules about what you can do. For instance, the Puritans are are famous for their very strict ways of of observing the Sabbath. Well, the New Testament doesn't give us any such strict regimen for how we're supposed to do it. It tells us to rest, do good. And worship God. And if you're resting, doing good, and worshiping God, then you're fulfilling the Sabbath. Each man can choose for himself how he wants to do that. The important point is That we're doing that. So it's not supposed to be a harsh law. It's not supposed to be a heavily regulated law. It's supposed to be a freeing law. In which we can come into the presence of God, worshiping God, and giving him our strength, and giving him our best, and loving ourselves. Loving ourselves, loving others, and loving ourselves in the context of being redeemed in Christ. We are also liberated not merely from The man-made religion, self-made religion, but we are liberated from slavery to works-based systems of In Colossians two, Paul goes on to talk in verse eighteen. To those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, and not holding fast to the head. We see this idea of false humility. Worship of angels. In verse 20, therefore, if you died without Christ from the basic principles of the world, why is the living in the world do you submit yourself to regulations? Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle. Which which all concern things which perish with the using, according to the commandments and doctrines of men. These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom and self-imposed religion, false humility, and neglect of the body, but have no value against the indulgence. Of the flesh. Paul begins to attack various different ways in which people incorrectly seek to worship God. He goes against asceticism. We see that in false religions as well. We see that in extreme sex. in uh some in Catholicism as well, where people are intentionally hurting themselves, taking extreme diets or doing extreme things to show their religious observance. But But uniting your body is not at all necessarily going to help you be more holy in the inside. You can do whatever you want to the outside, but holiness is not about what we look like on the outside. Or who we are on the outside. Holiness is about what is happening inside of us, the change by the Spirit. Another emphasis of these false religions, these work-based religions, systems was worship of angels. That was very popular during that time. Uh those looking at the Jewish virtual library, wondering what are some things that were going on within the Jewish under understanding of angels. And I came up with some really interesting things, so I'll share some with you. The apocalyptic wisdom teachers imparted the knowledge that they had secretly acquired through their contact with angels. But only to a narrow circle of the specially initiated. Consequently, the doctrine of angels found its widest distribution among the secret societies of the Essenes. These are the the that sect the the the Dead Sea Scrolls that came from. The latter carefully guarded the secret list of angels' names so that the Essenes, they carefully guarded the secret list of angels' names. Among Jewish magicians and sorcerers, and the concept of angels was particularly confused. Influenced as they were by the pagan literature on the subject, for the angels usually appear in the company of pagan gods. To combat disease, and some literary sources, biblical figures, such as Solomon, are mentioned as having been in possession of secret formulas or means whereby they were able to induce angels to come to man's So there were lots of really strange things concerning angels that was within Jewish belief systems. We see these in cults as well. For instance, Mormonism would be a popular example of angels. Islam, again, the angel comes and gives Muhammad, this this truth supposedly. But again, in both Joseph Smith and Muhammad's case, there's no way there to verify that any angel actually came to them, much less that it was actually true. True, it was only their story of what they said they saw. Again, it's this narrow circle of specially initiated people in reference to Angels and the secret information they were given. This is nothing new. It's been happening ever since the day of fall. And earlier in Jewish systems. You have extravagant visions were involved here as well. Talks about a worship of angels and shooting into those things which she has not seen. seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind. So we see many different ways in which people seek to experience spirituality in which they they seek this relationship with God. We have personality driven leadership as well, showing in itself up here, the customs, traditions of men that are populated but are not rooted in Christ or In Scripture. So we see that we are liberated from slavery to works-based religion. And last we are liberated from slavery to rigorism. from slavery to rigorous. What is rigorous? Well it's it's it's a a term that's not widely used, but it is referencing This idea of adding to Scripture a stricter standard of obedience. What the f uh is very similar to what the Pharisees were doing But not restricted to them. It's the idea that we need to have a better standard than Scripture gives. We need to be holier than what the Bible actually calls us to be. So we add things to Scripture, and then once we added something to Scripture, we judge others for not meeting our standards, which have been added. To what Scripture says. This has been done again for a long period of time. The Pharisees originally go back to the history of Israel, in which Israel was sent to slavery and conquered because of their idolatry primarily. They were forever worshipping Baal or Ashkaroth. You name the idol and were involved in in worshiping it. Well, after the their removal from the land, the the several deportations, they got the idea that probably worshiping idols It's not a good idea. But fortunately, they didn't go to faith in Christ as the answer, which is what would have been the proper response. Instead they They said, well, our problem is we're worshiping idols. So then the Pharisees, who originally were called the word Pharisee comes from holy one. These holy ones decided we just need to be more holy. Our problem is we're not holy. We're worshiping idols, we're not following the law carefully enough. So then they decided to come up with, you know, over time, six hundred some laws in which they could be holy. And they use the term of of making fences. So they would they would say, okay, there's the cliff. And The cliff represents sinning. Well, if we put the fence before the cliff, so we make a we make a standard before the actual sin that if we break If we go through the fence, we haven't actually sinned yet. So they come up with all these barriers in between their tradition and the actual sin. And so you have you have these Sabbath rules, for instance. You can go this distance, because the Bible says, for example, you can't go go four miles. So we're gonna say you can't go two and a half miles. Therefore if you go like three miles, you've broken our standard but you don't have sandy yet so you're s still holy. And so they would do all these, make, make all these standards a little stricter than the Bible, in order to try to keep themselves From sin. And originally it was good. They weren't trying to create a system which they were which which it became. They were simply trying to follow the law of God in the best way. They knew how. They were trying to keep themselves from sin. But the problem was that their trust was not Christ. Their trust was in their ability to Be holding their ability to make standards that would keep them from sinning. And then once they had succeeded In setting out these standards, and once they began to behave in certain ways that fulfilled these standards, they forgot that their standards weren't scripture. They began to equate their standards with scripture. Dust by time. Jesus comes along about 400 or so years later. It's full-born Pharisaism, where you can't distinguish between the standard they set up to keep one from sinning and from What is actually said in Scripture. We are liberated from that. That's the point in a verse. 23 Where it says, These indeed have an appearance of wisdom and self-imposed religion, false humility and neglect of the body, but have no value against the indulgence of the flesh. Because there's only one thing that can keep us from sinning. And that is one person that is, and that is the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God is our strength against sin. We are liberated. We are freed because of Christ. And our strength to live in Christ is the work of the Holy Spirit. Spirit within us, the transformative work of the Holy Spirit, as He causes us to walk in the law of God, to fulfill what the New Testament lays out for us. For us to walk in Christ. Because of our identity in Christ Jesus, we must live out the gospel. We must live gospel-infused lives We do this by rooting our life in Christ, being built up in Christ, being established in the faith, and abounding in thanksgiving. Second, we must live gospel-transformed lives through the transformation of our identity from the inside out And third, we must live gospel-liberated lives by putting death the demands of the ceremonial law, works-based systems of religion, and rigorism through the death of Christ. And we live as freedmen. We live as those who have been liberated from self-imposed means of following Christ, to follow Christ in the Spirit. So I encourage us all today to live as freedmen by dying to this world and living for Christ through the gospel. We are no longer dead in Adam, but we are alive in Christ. We have a new identity. Let's walk in it. Go to God in the Word.