To fight sin and death, it must be the work of the Spirit in us. We must be relying on the strength of the Spirit And the change that the Spirit brings inside of us. As Paul states in Romans 6, 16 to 18. Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one slaves whom you obey, whether of sin leading to death or obedience leading to righteousness? So he gives these two alternatives for us. If we who we're slaves if to sin and death if we obey sin and death, and we're slaves to righteousness if we obey God. So it almost looks like it's one of the two. We're just going back between these these two as actions. But then verse 17, but God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine to which you were delivered And having been set free from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. So Paul is not saying that we're del We're some kind of bipolar schizophrenic identity in which there are two equal powers within us that are vying for the control of the of the the person that we are What Paul is saying is we've been fundamentally changed through the work of God. That once we were slaves of sin, but we've now been set free from the slavery of sin, and we have become the slaves of slave of righteousness. The fundamental identity of who we are has been changed because of Christ. And now we are being renewed. That new spirit that was put within us, the new heart that was put within us, is being renewed daily, as promised in Ezekiel 36, 26. Or the promise of the new covenant was that God would put the spirit within our hearts and cause us to walk in the way of God. So first, as freedmen, we rely on the strength of the Spirit to change us from the inside out. Second, as freedmen, we through the Spirit renew our desires to seek the things of the kingdom. of God. In Colossians 3 verse 1. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. So as we are being renewed in our hearts, we must seek the things that are above. Our desires begin to change. In Matthew 6, Jesus speaking to his disciples in the Beatitudes says, But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. As we seek to be renewed and to renew our minds, we first begin with seeking the right things. Looking for At that which is going to promote holiness, that is going to promote our walk in Christ. The things that are above. And he specifically says, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. He reminds us again Of what Christ has done. This idea of being seated at the right hand of God is a posture of victory. The one who has completed the victory is the one who sits on the throne. This is the throne room image. He's talking about the ascension of Christ, where after Christ died and he rose again, he ascended into heaven and he sat down at the right hand of the throne room. of God. He's the judge now. He's the ruler. God, the Father has given the kingdom to the Son. And he rules as king, as prophesied in Psalm 2. Where he warns, kiss the sun lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. Because the son is the king. Jesus has been raised and because he has been raised he rose again and see that the right hand of God he's the king now And as he directs, so we should desire. We should desire the things that he desires. We should look for the things that he desires He is looking for. Third, as freedmen, we through the Spirit renew our minds to thought patterns of the kingdom of God. He goes on. He talks about our desires, seeking things that are above. Then in verse 2, set your mind on things that are above, not on things that are on earth, for you have died. He reminds us again, you have died to the old ways of living. That old mindset of sin and death no longer controls how we think. So how do we adjust our mind or how do we renew our minds to these thought patterns that are right and that are good? Paul is going to give us some ideas here in verses 12 through 16. Colossians 3, verses 12 through 16. Paul continues this thought. This renewing of our minds. He says, Put on men as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you. So you also must forgive, and above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you are called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom and singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts. To God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Paul highlights several things in this section. I'm going to jump down to verse 16, where he says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. As Paul talks about renewing our minds, he emphasizes the role of the Word of God. He says that the Word of God should dwell in us, take up residence. This is not that it should just be a part of our life. We should have the the Word of God part. There's we should have you have our life and we have the the God closet or maybe we even give them a whole little Living room. Maybe we give okay, we'll give them all the upstairs. The idea is that God is everything in this scenario. He has taken up residence. in our hearts. The word of Christ. So what does that mean? How do how does the word of Christ dwell in us? There are several ways that this can happen. Well first, very basically we need to at least read the word of Christ. It's very hard for the Word of God to dwell in us if we don't make a significant practice of reading it. But we should obviously go farther than just reading the Word of God. We should delve into studying the Word of God as well. Seeking to understand what the Word of God says, comparing scripture with Scripture. A tracing themes that that go throughout the Word of God, like the theme of sacrifice that begins all the way in the Old Testament and will find its fulfillment in God. Christ. Tracing the promises that go throughout the Bible, where we can have the assurance of Christ. There are many themes in the Bible that we can trace out and we can study. To know the Word of God. And as we trace out these themes and as we study the Word of God, it begins to make patterns in our mind. Give us thoughts that we can perceive That are good and that are right. And then after we read and we study, we should also be meditating on the Word of God. Letting the Word of God begin to really sink into who we are. Read a portion of scripture maybe in the morning or in the evening, whatever you do. And then as you're walking out throughout the day, letting just thinking about, reflecting as you have moments of time. I know we can't all be walking around constantly thinking about the But we do have jobs and there are things that we have put our mind to. But as time allows, when you have those moments when you're driving or when you're doing things where you can you can Think also about the Word of God. Let the passages that you read keep them in your mind. Think about them. And then obey the directions that the Word of God gives you. It doesn't help to read and to study and to meditate if that's as far as we go. We must go into action, go into obedience. Then it will begin to change who we are. Paul points out also that the Spirit renews our minds to the fellowship of the church. We see this as he talks about let the word of Christ do only richly in verse 16, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. We're thankful. Thankfulness in your hearts to God. The Spirit works through the teaching ministry of the church. Again, the context in which he's saying this is the church. We see this in verse 15. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you are called in one body. We were called in one body. And together we are renewed. Sometimes we can become very focused on the individual aspect of the renewing of the mind. And it's important to have individual study patterns of the Word of God and your individual times of prayer. And these things are good and wholesome in a in a dedicated lives. But we must not neglect the fact that the renewing process is not merely an individual process, but it it is furthered and deepened in the local Church. This process of being renewed is a corporate action. We're to be renewed as the body of Christ. And it's one of the major reasons why God called us into a body is to strengthen each other. It's for the strong to strengthen the weak and the weak to in some way strengthen the strong. Because we're all weak and strong. So it's not like there's there's there's a strong guy who's or woman who's who does everything. And there's the weak ones that are just kinda, you know, they're just trying to keep up. We're all weak in some areas and we're all strong in others. And the whole point of having a body is that The weak in one area helps the s the strong in one area helps the weak in one area. But then that same person could they could be helping each other out simultaneously with the strength of one and the weakness of one. Is working together to better the whole entire body. And that's really the point of what Paul is trying to get at. He highlights the teaching Ministry of the church here, teaching, admonishing one another. The Spirit works through the correcting ministry of the church. We have a ministry to correct each other. That's Not the most pleasant of the of of the experiences that we have in church, but it's a necessary one. For if no one tells us we're doing something wrong, it's very hard to fix. I've had this discussion recently where With the I and B there were some things they wanted me to work on, but they were s they were very nervous about it. And so I just emailed them and I said, you know, I I I'm sure there are things I need to work on, but it's really hard to work on something. If I don't know what it is. And thankfully they got back to me and they told me some things. I was like, okay, there we go. But it's really, really hard if there's no correcting going on or if the correcting is very nebulous. So we need to be open to this idea that people are supposed to be correcting us, and we're supposed to be correcting others. But Paul is very clear in the way in which we're supposed to do it. He says in verse 14, and above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. We're not supposed to be picking at each other. be an incorrect way of correcting. But we're supposed to be correcting each other out of love for the purpose of building each other up. Admonishing, correcting, in all wisdom, singing songs and hymns and spiritual songs. So you have the music ministry in a Church. That we are to be singing to each other. As we sing, we're reflecting on the doctrine that's being sung, and we're agreeing with one another that these are true. And I don't know how and you're singing and different thoughts come to your mind and you and there may be something that you're struggling with one day. You come in Sunday morning and there's particular struggle in your in your soul and you sing a song it just speaks to that struggle that you had. And these are things that we're supposed to be doing. The Spirit works in all of these. The Spirit renews our minds through our thankfulness to Christ. Again, thankfulness pops up here in several places In verse 15, and be thankful. In verse 16, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Christ has given us so much. The blessings of being in Christ should cause us to be thankful even when times aren't as we want them. Because it's easy to be thankful when things are going well. I generally don't have a problem being thankful when I had a plan and the plan worked. Then it's it's it's much easier at that point. But when you have a plan and it falls apart, that's when being thankful becomes a little more difficult. But that's also the point at which Christ works in us. the most. The trials and the struggles that we experience are there not just to cause our life misery and ruin, but the strials and the troubles are there that we must might become stronger and grow in Christ. The Spirit works through our training practices, as I'm going to put them. And verse 17. And whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Paul expects us to be doing things, he expects us to be, number one, putting to death sin. And that requires there to be some training involved in our life. We're supposed to be training ourselves. We see this also in Titus 2. 11 and 12. For the grace of God to bring salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age. That word teaching is actually training. The grace of God is training us. We're involved in this training process And that requires discipline. We talked about that a couple weeks ago, so I'm not going to go into it. But these things don't just happen naturally Naturally. Forgiving each other, for instance, doesn't just happen. It's something that we have to work at. Paul mentions here also compassionate hearts. Most of us are not naturally very compassionate. We have to work on being compassionate. Kindness, humility, meekness, patience. You can go to Galatians 5, and there's a whole list there in Galatians 5 as well. In the fruits of the Spirit. But these habits that are good and that are godly and that are holy, they require us to work on them. We are to train ourselves in these patterns. of behavior. Always remembering that it's not us who's actually providing the power to do it. That in all our work and all our striving and all our laboring to follow Christ and to live in Him, our power and energy must flow. From Christ. He alone can make us holy. And that's why Paul reminds us in Colossians 3, verse 3, that as freedmen, we live our lives hidden in Christ. Verse 3 of chapter 3. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. We confess that we are strangers and pilgrims in this world. Our life is hidden in Christ. We're not looking for glamour. We're not looking for failure. Often when you talk to people in this world, that's what people in the world are looking for. They're looking for fame. They're looking to be the 1% that has a lot of all the money. They're looking to be the most beautiful at at the beauty pageant. The world runs after things that are are shiny and glittery, that that bring up our status in some way. But as those who have been renewed in Christ, who've been fundamentally changed from the inside out, our life is hidden with Christ and God. We're looking for the big lights. We're hiding from the big lights. We're hiding from the center stage. Because Christ is our all. Not us. We are strangers and we are pilgrims in this world. We live for the next. We're living for the time when Christ appears because Christ is Our glory. Our work is that Christ is the one on center stage. And we're hidden. Only pointing, only showing others. The true hero, and that is Christ. The hero of the story. The king who has conquered. Our glory, our life Because your identity has been changed in Christ, you must walk in Christ. The fantas fantasy of Star Wars reveals the deception of Satan that good and evil are morally equal forces that must exist in the proper balance to achieve. Peace. In reality, good and evil are morally incompatible forces in a cosmic conflict between God and Satan. The arena of this conflict fiercely rages in the heart of man. The Spirit has changed our identity from the ranks of death to the service of the King Jesus. Because your identity has been changed, you must live a changed life And the practices of death that seek to enslave you and bring you under the judgment of God. Because your identity has been changed, you must live for Christ through the resurrection of Christ As a freedman, rely on the strength of Christ to change you. Renew your desires to seek the things of the kingdom of God. Renew your mind to thought patterns of the kingdom of God. And live your life hidden in Christ. Let's pray.