Good morning. Linda, thank you all for the opportunity to come here today and to be able to preach the Word of God. And before we get started, I'd like to go in a word of prayer and ask for the blessing of the Holy Spirit. Dear Father, thank you so much for who you are. I thank you for the many ways in which you have worked in our lives. I praise you. For how you have shown us yourself through creation that you have made around us, and specifically through the gospel of your Son Jesus Christ. I pray that as I preach your word today, I pray your Holy Spirit would be with my words, would work through my understanding, and that what I say would be true and accurate. I pray that your people would be sanctified, be growing further in their faith. And those who have not believed, I pray that they would hear, that they would listen. In your holy and precious name I pray. Amen. Please turn to Colossians chapter 1. Colossians chapter 1. We're going to focus today on verses 9 through 12 of Colossians chapter 1. And I'm going to go ahead and read that right now. Colossians 1, 9 to 12. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long-suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. Paul is continuing a prayer that he began in verse 3, where he said, We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ praying for you always. And Paul went on to talk about his prayer being s es central to the hope of the gospel. And this phrase, the hope of the gospel, is repeated twice in Colossians 1, and it tells us the main theme. We see it in verse 5. Since we have heard, starting in verse 4, since we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. And then down in verse 23 of Colossians 1, if indeed you continue in the faith grounded and steadfast, and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard. So the hope of the gospel This repetition in the beginning and in the end of the chapter toward the end of the chapter tell us the point what Paul is trying to communicate. In verses 1 to 8, Paul focuses on the hope of the gospel, and he's focusing on the results of faith in the gospel, that faith produces Love for the saints and love for all the nations. He talks about bearing forth fruit. And Paul picks up on this verph this phrase again, bearing fruit. In verse nine, where Paul says, For this reason we also, since David heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will, and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Verse ten, that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him. Being fruitful in every good work. So Paul is emphasizing this idea of bearing fruit. And so today we're going to discuss in verses 9 to 12 there are four participles that Paul uses. And he brings together this list of bearing fruit specifically for the purpose of walking in a manner worthy of the Lord. So the reason for false prayer in verse 9. He states his reason in verse 10 that you may work, walk worthy of the Lord. That's why he's praying, and that is the purpose for what he's trying to communicate. And so what we're going to explore today is how do we do that? How do we walk in a manner worthy of the Lord? Well, because of the hope of the gospel, we must live at our faith by walking in a manner worthy of the Lord. Lord, and that is the point of the following discourse. So first, because of the hope of the gospel, we must live out our faith by bearing fruit in every good work. That's the first way in which we walk worthy of the Lord by bearing fruit. We talked about this last Sunday a little bit, but this idea of bearing fruit is not just an option. among those who profess faith in Jesus Christ. It is in fact a necessity. In Matthew chapter 7, verses 15 to 20 Paul, in this case it's Jesus, he says this: Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thornbushes or figs from thistles? Even so every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. How do you know whether someone who is professing faith is truly a believer? Well, you will know this, according to Jesus, by the fruit that they bear, their actions, their behavior. What follows from this profession of faith? Merely saying I have faith is not an indication that you actually have faith inside of you. Something must happen inside the heart that will bring forth this fruit that is necessary. That is, the Holy Spirit must work inside of us in order for us to bear fruit. This is seen in John 3:3, where Jesus talking to Nicodemus, who was part of the the priesthood of the Jews, the religious leaders of the Jews. And Jesus says this to him. Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom. of God. To bear fruit, there must be a prior experience of being born again through the Holy Spirit. Well, why is this the case? Why must there be a work of the Holy Spirit in our heart before we can bear any fruit? Well, the reason is, is because we need to be willing to accept the gospel. And the Spirit works in us so that we are willing. The problem with the natural man or the person who does not know Jesus is that he doesn't desire Jesus Christ to be his substitute. We are naturally born into this world not caring a whole lot about who Jesus is. You talk to the average person about who Jesus is to them, and you're probably not going to get a very long answer. Most people and around here don't really care. They don't think about it too often. Some people really don't like the idea, and they have lots of words for you. But the reality is that most people simply don't have a desire for Jesus to save them from their sins. It's not something they want. For example, I am a little bit picky when it comes to eating food. Now, if you're around me, you notice. I have a very specific palate. I go to very specific stores and eat very specific things. In fact, if you go to a restaurant here, Pizzani's, I frequent there often. And the cashier, I know him personally, he knows me personally, and I do not have to tell him really what I want to eat. He pretty much can rel can speak back to me the exact contents of what I want. I go up to them and I say, well, I want a steak and cheese sub with provolone cheese, light mayonnaise, and everything else they call comes with it. He pretty much repeats that back to me before he even like starts saying anything. So he knows what I want. Why? Because I I have a certain taste for a steak and cheese sauce. Once in a while I'll grape from the north and I'll get a piece of pizza. But usually I'm sticking within the Italian the Italian taste When we went to China, it was no different. I can't speak very much Chinese. I was there for eight months and I was teaching English as a second language in a a college, a Tianjin Vocational Institute And you know, you I thought you would think I would have learned some Chinese being in eight months, but I spent my time speaking English, not speaking Chinese. And I was there for other purposes for which didn't lend itself. to learning Chinese for my specific purpose for being there. But I would go to the the, they call it the canteen. Basically we're the food court for the university there. And I learned a couple of phrases that I could get by with ordering food. Just learned the essentials of what I needed to know. Now again, my specific thought was helpful to me because I didn't have to learn a whole lot. to get what I wanted. I just needed a few keywords and I got the same thing every time. In fact, the person would repeat to me in Chinese what I wanted, I had no idea what she was saying. But it always came out the right thing because I mean I forgot the same thing. And apparently other people would translate for me saying, she's saying it's the same thing you get every time. I'm like, oh yeah. She picks up on things But the point is, it doesn't matter where I go apparently in the world, I find something I like and I stick to eating that one thing. Why? Because I have a taste for it. I just have a taste for that thing and I'm not gonna strengthen my taste for what I have Well, in the natural realm, that's what we do as people. We're born into this world with a taste for sin. That's what we like. That's what's normal. That is our taste. What the Holy Spirit works in us is he gives us a different taste. He gives us the taste of Jesus Christ, the desire for something different. Because the natural person, apart from the Spirit of God, is a slave to his desire of sin. This is repeated in Romans 6. 20 to 21. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regards to righteousness. What fruit did you have then in the things of which you were now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. There was a point in time when all of us here were slaves to sin. We had no taste for sin Jesus. Paul describes it this way in Romans 3, 10-12, as it is written, there is none righteous, nor not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good, no, not one. So we see that the natural man, the person who was born into this life, is born into a world in which he has no desire for Jesus. Doesn't want Jesus, has no taste for spiritual things, and is enslaved to the very sin that he desires. That paints a very bleak picture. But thankfully, that is not the end of the story. Because the gospel teaches us. that slavery can be ended. Sin can be destroyed through faith in Jesus Christ. That is the hope of the gospel. The gospel is the person and work of Jesus Christ that reconciles and redeems man from his sin. It's stated this way in 2 Corinthians 5, 17 to 21. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. Now all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ and has given us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. not imputing or counting their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God were pleading through us, we implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. What Jesus does in the gospel is he supplies the righteousness that we lack. Our problem is we desire sin and we don't desire Jesus This sin enslaves us and entraps us, so we cannot be righteous. But Jesus He was righteous. He lived a perfect life when he came to this earth. He obeyed God in every way possible. He supplied the righteousness that we lack. He not only did that, but Jesus took the punishment that we deserve. We see this in 2 Corinthians 5, 17, that he, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself What is this word reconciliation referring to? Well reconciliation is this bringing two people together. Reconciliation happened in the Civil War when the South admitted defeat to the North And then over that time there was this reconciliation. The North and the South became reconciled into one nation that we call the United States of America. That was a form of reconciliation. When it comes to the Father, the Father is the perfect righteous one. We, those who have offended him. You see, our sin is a great offense because the Father created a world in which he was king. And what did we do? We very quickly decided we did not want him as our king. There in the Garden of Eden, Eden, Adam as an ex who was a man, And we would all make the same decision he would make, because we were all men. So whether it was Adam or whoever you can put in there, humankind made a decision. We made the decision to turn against the Father. We went out from under his rule, and we decided that we would do a much better job ruling the creation. The world, his creation. We were rebels. We committed treason. So, therefore, between the father and man, there is a deep divide We are at war with one another. We started this war. We picked a fight that we could not win when we turned against God. God. But what Christ does is He reconciles us to the Father. He brings together what had been torn apart. And he does this through his death on the cross. By dying on the cross and giving his life, he took the punishment that we deserved. The Bible says, for the wages of sin is death. The payment for our sin is death. We deserve death. We're the ones that rebelled. We're the ones that refused to be under the authority of our King. And yet Jesus, the Son of God, came to earth, took on humanity. He became human, yet also maintained but also being God. And he did for us what no human could do. He died as a human so he could take our place as humans. But as God, he did not have the very sin that we had. He was perfect. He was sinless. His life was indestructible, unable to be destroyed. So as man, he could identify with man and take the punishment for our sins. And as God, he could not be destroyed, but was risen from the grave. And that uniquely as the Son of God and the Son of Man, Jesus Christ could redeem us. And take our sins away. That's why it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, for he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus took our sin. He took our death. And then Jesus conquered death that we might live. In 1 Corinthians 15, 55 to 57, O death, where is your sting? Oh Hades, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. When Jesus Christ rose again, he gave us the victory over sin and over death. He gave us the righteousness that we lack. He took the punishment that we deserved. And that is the hope of the gospel. That sin has been conquered within. And we've been given an inheritance, which we'll talk about a little bit later. But not only have we been delivered from sin, But we've been given an inheritance with God. So the Spirit of God works in us. To bring us to the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Spirit of God also sanctifies our hearts. So when we put our faith in Jesus Christ, and once again where we come back to God and say, God, yes, you are my King. When you return to Jesus and ask him to take your sins away and ask him for his righteousness When you do this, you begin this process called sanctification, this process of the renewal of who you are. And this produces inner conflict. Now at first you're thinking, wait a minute, I thought this was supposed to be like really good. It is really good. But you also must realize that before you came to know Jesus as your Savior, you were enslaved to sinful desires. Your taste was for sin. You had no inner conflict between sin and righteousness. There was nothing inside of you. There may have been you have a conscience, so there may have been You had ideas in your mind, you knew things were right and things were wrong, but you weren't terribly torn when you sinned, because you had a taste for sin So when you did something wrong, you weren't really sorry that you did something wrong. You were more sorry that you got caught or that it made you feel bad or that it made you look bad. That that's where your your sorrow or grief or sin would normally But you weren't sorry that you offended an eternal God and then you deserve punishment for your sin. You weren't sorry for that because you You had no taste for it. But now that the Spirit of God has come inside of you, and now that you've been changed and you're a new creation through faith and the gospel Now you have two sets of desires in your heart. You have the desire for sin that still remains, but now you have the desire for Jesus Christ. And so now you have an intense spiritual warfare existing within your soul. There is a new conflict. And we see this in Galatians 5, 16 to 25. I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one another, so that you do not do the things that you wish. Then Paul lists a list of things that you should not do, these works of the flesh, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies. outbursts of wrath, selfish ambition, dissensions, heresies, envies, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like. You could go on and on about the many sins in which we as humans Have committed against each other and against God. But in verse 22, it gives us the new set of desires. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is no law And those who are Christ's have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. You see what the Spirit of God does inside of us is he changes us and we begin to replace the old desires With the new desires of the fruit, which then translate and grow into the fruit of the Holy Spirit And the great thing is that this is not an unending battle in which there is no hope of victory. There is victory in this conflict between our old self and our new self, again, because of the Holy Spirit. Romans 6, 22-23. But now having been set free from sin. And having become slaves of God, you have your fruit of holiness and the end everlasting life. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Lord. You see, through the Spirit, we have been set free from sin. The old desires have been crucified with Christ. And slowly throughout this life, this process of growth is that we are putting to death the old desires of sin, and we are putting into practice the new desires of the Spirit. We call this sanctification. It's what is happening within us. It's that first fruit of life that we see that comes from our belief in the gospel, is this bearing fruit. This changing of who we are to be, what we were supposed to be, what we were created to be in the very beginning, but which we forfeited through Adam when he sinned. And we forfeit it through us when we sinned. But the hope of the gospel is that we have victory through the life, death, and resurrection. Of Jesus Christ, the gospel. So our first point, because of the hope of the gospel, we must live at our faith by bearing fruit in every good work. Secondly, because of the hope of the gospel, we must live our faith by increasing in the knowledge of God. So verse 10, that you may work worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Knowledge is important. A very quick read through the New Testament and the Old Testament will show that we need to know things. Specifically about God, that that is important. We see in 2 Timothy 2. 15 that not is more is required than merely reading the text of Scripture 2 Timothy 2. 15, be diligent to present yourself, approved to God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. This would be the reason for Awana. That's why we we come on Friday nights. We just finished this, so I know maybe I'm bringing up a subject that we're trying to have healing over. Maybe I shouldn't talk about it quite yet, too soon, maybe But for those of us who worked in Oana, we're very familiar with this verse. Every single Friday, we repeated this verse as a group with the kids. Well, why? Because we understand that knowledge is important. If we are to grow and be who Christ commands us to be, we must have knowledge. And we must know how to understand where true knowledge comes, and that is the scriptures. So it requires that we study, that we come to the Bible, recognizing that the Bible is God's word for us. Teaching us how we are to live. So we must be diligent. We must study. Where in 2 Timothy 2:15, where it says, be diligent to present yourself approved to God. That's a slightly different translation. It can be present yourself or study to show yourself approved from the God. Either way, It's it's translated both ways, but the point is the same. To be diligent, to present yourself and approved to God requires rightly dividing the word of truth, which requires that we study. So you can translate it either way, the meaning is exactly the same. We should be studying that we might know God. Increasing in the knowledge of God requires discernment. In Philippians 1:19 to 20. And what is, and this I pray, I'm sorry, Philippians 1-9. And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. In another prayer in Philippians Paul is praying for not only knowledge, but he adds there discernment. Why would he add discernment? Well, knowledge is absolutely, well, I shouldn't say not helpful. Knowledge is less helpful if you never use it. I mean if if our head is merely a data bank where we have absorbed lots and lots of facts or ideas, but that has no bearing on how we act, we intuitively recognize that there is an issue. If someone is a computer genius but never gets on the computer, it's of little help to him that he knows all the history of computers It's of little help to him that he knows all these different computer languages if he never gets on the computer and does anything about it. If a surgeon knows the human body in a very precise way and has gone and studied the great lengths on how to be a great surgeon, but he never actually takes the tools and never actually performs surgery. His knowledge has not actually done anything. What Paul wants is not a mere knowledge, not a mere treating of facts. But he wants a knowledge that produces discernment, a knowledge that is used in our daily activities, in our daily life. That produces something. And for us, it's producing a walking worthily in the Lord. Thirdly, because of the hope of the gospel, we must live our faith by being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. Ephesians 1, 19-20 And what is the exceeding greatness of his power for those who believe? According to the working of his mighty power, which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, what is the power that we have? To be strengthened with. Well, it is the same power that raised Christ from the dead That is the power that is at work within us who have believed in Jesus Christ, that is transforming us through the work of the Holy Spirit to produce every good work. That is an intense power. Now some people would question this. They'd be like, well, I'm not really seeing all this power And some people will turn to, well, this power must be miracles. We must have to do great miracles. We must have to do great signs. We must have to do great things to show the power of God. And yes, sometimes God does miracles, for sure. Sometimes God does great things. We see this in Scripture. Where Jesus healed the blind, made the deaf to hear, made the lame to walk. We see where Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead. Jesus showed great power throughout his earthly ministry. But there's a greater power than merely the outward power that we like to see and experience. And that's the power that doesn't work within the human heart. It is harder to change a human life from the inside than to perform a miracle that everybody can see. Jesus often didn't like doing miracles. Jesus would say things like, I'm not going to do a miracle here. Why? Because Jesus didn't want people to trust in the outward display of power. What Jesus wanted people to experience was the inner transformation of spiritual life. Because that's where the power is. The power of a changed life. And we know this. We know that one person transformed by God Can make great change for people, for large numbers of people. Adonairam Judson was a missionary to Burma. He performed, he didn't perform any miracles. He didn't have great rallies, great revival services. His plan was very simple. He translated the Bible into the Burmese language. That was a big part of his plan, so the people could read the Bible for themselves. The second thing he did was Preached the gospel. He translated the Bible and he preached the gospel. Not big fanfares, not big displays of supernatural power. The word of the hope of the gospel. The first 20 or so years, people would say it wasn't very effective. Now, granting, he spent a lot of time in prison being tortured. But he had eight people. It's a handful of people that had followed Jesus Christ through his teaching. Adnaiv Judson was about to give up. He thought he was a complete failure because not much had happened. He'd spent translating the Bible. Years and years translating the Bible. Years and years preaching the hope of the gospel. And what he all he had experienced was persecution. He was put in jail. He was hung from his feet upside down during the night. And I won't get into the all the details that happened in those Burmese prisons. Atrocities occurred against him. And this is all he could see as the fruit of his labors there And he wanted to give up. And so he told these eight people that had followed Jesus because he had preached the word to them that he was going to leave to a different part of Burma, to where these where it was an international part. We wouldn't experience so much persecution. We thought maybe they'll listen better because they were French and Spanish in this little part of Burma. So maybe we could relate better Because it just wasn't working as you can see it there. And these eight people, they begged Adonai of Judson to stay. They begged him to stay, and they said, We will go out. And we will spread the gospel too. Don't give up on us. And so Adam and Adam Judson stayed. And he stayed for many years after that. And on his death, they looked back. There were over 200 churches. After his death, years later, people look back, and there are over 200 churches that could go back to Adnan Judson, and there's eight men who followed Jesus Christ originally. And they produced great fruit, over 200 churches, and many, many believers. And he did not perform one miracle or do one great and amazing thing. All he did, he was faithful to Jesus Christ. He translated the Bible into a language they could understood, and he preached the hope of the gospel. It didn't happen immediately. But what happened was the power of God was displayed in the way in which the hearts of men and women were changed. And the old habits of sin that were destroying the Burmese were replaced with new habits of righteousness that produced people who actually began to love each other. Because of the transforming work of the Holy Spirit through the gospel. That is the power of the gospel. And that power is what lives inside of us and is strengthening us. The early believers for uh they had a very simple format to live out their faith. In Acts 2 42, it describes What is the very original people who who believed in Jesus Christ right after Jesus left this earth? Says in Acts 2. 42, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship in the breaking of bread and in prayers. They had a really simple formula, which again didn't involve a lot of miracles and powerful displays of supernatural things. They continued it in the teaching of the apostles. That is, they studied the Word of God. They knew and understood knowledge and doctrine. They fellowshipped With each other. They met together all over Acts. They were always meeting together in different homes, in different places, and they were meeting together to encourage each other in order to share the gifts of the Holy Spirit. The gifts of kindness and mercy and teaching and administration. And you go through the different lists in Romans and 1 Corinthians, and they were building each other up, encouraging each other through the gifts that the Holy Spirit had given to them. And then the breaking of bread talks about communion, another aspect of their fellowship, and in prayers. So three simple things. They were reading and studying and knowing the Word of God. They were meeting together and sharing. The gifts of the Holy Spirit, and they were praying. And what did God do? God used that to change the entire world. You look through the different emperors in the Roman Empire, and what brought down the Roman Empire? Some would say Christianity Someone said that in a negative sense, we'd say it in a positive sense. Because the gospel went throughout the whole entire empire. And thousands and millions of people who would go to temples and a part of their religious ceremony was prostitution. These people would live and what did they do? Gladiator games. Their taste was for what? Seeing people kill each other or animals tear people apart limb for limb. This was their games. This was the culture and the society of the Roman Empire. And what did Christianity do? What did the hope of the gospel? These three simple things that that was practiced in these churches, it transformed the society. People came together because of the hope of the gospel and the work of the gospel in their heart, and they began to say, you know what, I think it's not a good idea that people tear each other apart limb for limb. I think it's not a good idea. That we perform religious sacr ceremonies in which we commit fornication. They began to see That their old self was actually tearing them apart. And they saw the hope of the gospel, which brought reconciliation and brought redemption from their sin. You see that picture of redemption. It's a picture of a slave market. That was back in the Roman Empire, a slave market was a very common thing. The vast majority of people living in the Roman Empire were slaves. A slave market would not have brought any shock to anyone. When people read in the New Testament in those days, when they saw redemption, they could vividly see what this was picturing. They could picture men and women and shackled and chains. And people buying and selling humans as if they were objects. They saw this on a daily basis. And what the hope of the gospel is, is that Jesus passes by and he sees, he sees you in your chains, enslaved to your sin, waiting for someone to buy and sell you with little worth. And Jesus says, I am giving you worth. And he frees you from the shackles of sin. He takes a key and he unlocks those bonds. And he gives you freedom in Jesus Christ. And that freedom then becomes this impetus for the transformation of the human heart. And this is what ended the slave markets of the Roman Empire. What ended the rampant fornication. That produced all sorts of conflict and sin. This is what brought about a change. Ended the gladiator games. Ended the devaluing of human life. This is the power of the gospel. And lastly, because of the hope of the gospel, we must live at our faith by giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. It is not only that you have been freed From the slave market of sin, in which you were enslaved to sin. But you've been saved to something glorious. You've been giving an inheritance. The Father has qualified you. So the problem before is we lacked qualifications. We know this in in in trying to find a job If I went to Boeing, for instance, and wanted to be an engineer, they would look at my resume, and very quickly they would say, you do not meet the qualifications. Because I don't have them. There's no way I'm going to go to Boeing and become an engineer anytime in the near future. Unless I want to go back to school and do a lot of studying, which I do not. But the point is, I don't have the qualifications. I can't do it. I'm not qualified. Neither is a sinner qualified for heaven. Because of a sin. What makes you qualified for heaven? And when I talk about heaven, I'm not talking about an angel in the clouds. I'm talking about an inheritance in which he live forever, reigning as kings and priests of God in an eternal world where there's no no sin, no pain, and no death. I'm talking about the Garden of Eden, the first kingdom, which which we left through our sin, which we despised. I'm talking about return. To the original, original plan in which God is setting us up as vice-regents over the world to rule and to dominate under his rule. That's the inheritance. And there's only one qualification for this inheritance. It's not how good of a person you are. It's not how mighty or powerful you are, or how good looking you are, or how much spain you have, or how much money you have in your bank account. None of these things are qualifications for the inheritance of the Show. Saints. You see, it's the Father who has to qualify you. And how does the Father qualify a sinner? He does that through the hope of the gospel In the gospel, Jesus gives you the qualifications for the inheritance of the saints. And that is through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the gospel. Christ gives you a righteousness that qualifies you to share an inheritance of the spirit. Saints. And that inheritance is guarded by the Father. In 1 Peter 1, 3 and 3 to 5. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. Who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Right now we can't see our inheritance It's something that is going to be revealed. That's why we have faith. We have faith that through the death and resurrection of Christ, we have faith. That Jesus supplied the righteousness that qualifies us for the inheritance. We have faith that Jesus took the punishment that we deserve. And we have faith that Jesus conquered death. That we might live. That faith is guarded by the power of God. Through that faith, that inheritance is sure. That is our living hope, the resurrection of Jesus, our Savior. That is our inheritance, incorruptible and undefiled, that does not fade away. We have a reservation. Because we are qualified. We are qualified because we have hope. And we have hope because Jesus lived, died, and rose again that we might have victory, that we might be qualified. That we might receive the inheritance of the saints. Because of the hope of the gospel, we must live out our faith by walking in a manner worthy of Christ. We live out our faith by bearing fruit in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, and by giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance. of the saints. The process of spiritual change is accomplished through our response to the work of the Holy Spirit in us. What the Holy Spirit works in us, we work out. Paul proclaims, therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only in my presence, but much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you, both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. So my question to you today is this. What disciplines are you practicing to bear fruit in every good work? What steps are you taking? To follow this prayer in which Paul is praying that this happens. But again, for this prayer to happen, it requires a cooperation. And putting the Spirit of God and the new desires that have been placed within us. So what are we doing? Are we producing fruit? We should be. And what ways are we planning to produce fruit? Because things just don't happen because you think about them. I think about a lot of things in my life, but I have found that the things that I actually plan to do are much more likely to happen. Now, I have many plans too, and they don't always come about either. But the point is it's more likely. But I'm going to do something I plan to do, then just to think about a good thing and just assume by nature of something, it's just going to happen naturally. Because we all know it's not. So what disciplines are we practicing? What plans are we making to bear fruit? Again, what is the fruit that we're talking about? Well, it's summed up very nicely in Galatians. The fruit of the Spirit being love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Do we have those? What disciplines are you practicing to increase in the knowledge of God? What study habits do you have? Do you have a plan when you read the Bible? Or do you just randomly flip through and decide, I'm going to do this one today? And you end up in Isaiah 27, which I love Isaiah, so that'll work too. But the point is, you have to plan in order for something to happen. So what's the study plan? Are you looking up words to find out meanings and definitions? Are you looking at a paragraph and thinking, how does this work together? What are some main themes and ideas that run through this section of scripture? Like what in Colossians 1, I I tried to give you an example of that in the very beginning when I talked about verse five, the hope of the gos talks about the hope of the gospel, and verse twenty-three talks about the hope of the gospel. So that should clue us in that what the point of Colossians 1, 3 to 23 is what? The hope of the gospel. Yeah. These are things that we need to be looking at as we see Scripture and studying and looking at connections. What disciplines are we practicing to be strengthened with all power according to his glorious might? We're all practicing one of them right now. This would be fellowship of the saints. We're here. Uh you were singing together, you were encouraging each other through song, uh the instruments were encouraging through their gifts of the instruments. The Father has blessed me to preach here today. There are many experiences of the spirit, this power working that is happening within us. So are we praying? Are we reading the Word of God? Are we meeting together regularly? Are we making steps that this happens? And what disciplines are you practicing to give thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in this an inherit inheritance of the saints? Thanksgiving is an important part of who we are. Because everything that we have, all that we are as Christians, is based upon what somebody else has done for us. Thus, the need for thankfulness. Because who would we be without the work of the Holy Spirit within us? We would not be here today We would be enslaved to our sinful desires, but we have been freed through our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So what are you doing? What are we doing? What steps are we taking to walk worthy in a manner of the Lord? I have one word for those of you who may not know Jesus as your Savior. In that case, you are enslaved to your sin. You are enslaved to practices that are merely producing death within you. You have hope. You're not left in the state of death. You are not left in the slave market. You are not left in bondage to sin. Because Christ has made a way through his life, death, and resurrection that you might be freed, redeemed, taken from the slave market. And given an inheritance that is unfading, incorruptible, and reserved in heaven for you. So why not take Jesus? What is it that keeps you from Jesus? What lies within your heart are shielding you from thinking and accepting the grace of Jesus Christ. This is your opportunity. This life is your opportunity. What are you doing with what you know about Jesus Christ? The offer is there. In the end of Revelation, Jesus calls out to all those Who stand unsure of their future state, those enslaves in sin In Revelation 22, Jesus offers this. And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him who hears say, Come. And let him who thirst come. Whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely. The question then is this, do you desire Jesus? Do you have a taste for Jesus' life, death, and resurrection? Do you want to be freed from sin or are you happy in your sin? Do you want life? Not merely being saved from death, but life in the spirit in which you are being transformed as a person. In which you're being led to an inheritance that is great and that is glorious. Lastly, a question for all of us What are we going to do for what Jesus has told us today? I want us to take a couple minutes And I want us to have just a minute of reflection. If you know Jesus as your Savior, you've put your faith in Jesus, He's your King, your God, and your Lord. I want you to think of ways in which you can practice to bear fruit in every good work, in which you can increase in the knowledge of God and be strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints. Think of ways in which you can put these into practice in your life. If you do not know Jesus as your Savior and you've not put your faith in Him, I want you to think of why on earth you haven't. What is keeping you from accepting Jesus as your Lord and Savior? What is keeping you enslaved to sin? What is keeping you from freedom? And if you realize that there's really nothing. And if you have a desire for Jesus, I implore you. I implore you with Paul as he speaks And 2 Corinthians 5:17 to 21. That is that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to Himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. We implore you on Christ's behalf. Be reconciled to God. Let's take a moment for reflection. Dear Heavenly Father, we praise you. We praise you for who you are. We praise you for this glorious picture of your gospel, the hope of the gospel that we have. We praise you for your Holy Spirit and how He works in us, both the will and the do of your good pleasure. Allowing us to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, giving us the power and the strength that we don't naturally have. We pray. That you would strengthen us to bear fruit in every good work. We pray that we would increase in the knowledge of God. We pray that we be strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. We praise you and give thanks to the Father for qualifying us to share in the inheritance of the saints. We praise you. We thank you. for the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We were once slaves. Devalued. Tossed to the side. But we thank you that you have given us freedom. You've broken The change. You've led us to life. And you're transforming us. And for that we glorify you. And we humbly request, work in us We have no qualifications because of who we are. It matters not where we were born. It matters not. What talents or gifts that we have. What matters is you. You are the one that makes us qualified. And for that we praise you. And we praise Spirit of God. Please, please, bring life And abundant life in you. In your holy and precious name we pray. Amen.