What does it mean to have a heart for the lost? How can we live for the spread of the gospel? Perhaps it will look like speaking in front of thousands of people, going everywhere as an invited speaker Maybe it means going to a remote part of the earth to reach those who have never heard of Jesus. Or it could be That the extraordinary work of evangelism looks quite ordinary Edward Kimball was a dry goods salesman. He was no pastor or evangelist. He belonged to Mount Vernon Church in Boston as a layman, who volunteered his time as a Sunday school class teacher of teenage boys. But he wasn't content with meeting these kids once a week. He was determined to get to know them better individually throughout the week. Their interests, backgrounds. One day he felt burdened for one young man in particular, named Dwight, and decided to visit him Now, Kimball had his doubts and fears about this idea, but he concluded that the Holy Spirit was leading him to go visit Dwight at his workplace. So on April twenty-first, eighteen fifty-five, Kimball visited the Holton Shoe Store where Dwight worked. Found them in a stock room in the back, and there spoke to him of Christ's love. Shortly thereafter, the young man accepted the love of God and devoted his life to serving him. Now this Dwight is better known as D. L. Moody. We know very well what he went on to do. We may celebrate his life more than Edward Kimball's, but listen to Moody's later recollection of that encounter with Kimball at the back of the shoe store. When I was in Boston, I used to attend a school Sunday school class, and one day I recollect my teacher came around behind the counter of the shop I was at work in and put his hand upon my shoulder. And talk to me about Christ and my soul. I had not felt that I had a soul till then. I said to myself, this is a very strange thing. There is a man who never saw me till lately, and he is weeping over my sins, and I never shed a tear about him. But I understand it now and know what it is to have a passion for men's souls and weep over their sins. I don't remember what he said, but I can still feel the power of that man's hand on my shoulder tonight. How does the story of D. L. Moody, who went up and touched millions of lives all over the world, with the gospel message begin? It begins with Kimball, one obscure man who visited him at a shoe store, touched his life with the gospel message. We're thankful for Edward Kimball's and D. L. Moody's of the world. I'm sure you can speak of people like them who've touched your life personally. I have a feeling there are more Edwards and Dwight's in the world, but what's most important is that we too, like them, must have a heart for the lost. But there's someone even more qualified to speak about having a heart for the lost. Let's turn to Luke fifteen, one to ten, and see what Jesus has to say. Then all the tax collectors and the sinners drew near to him to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes complained, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he spoke this parable to them, saying, What man of you, having a hundred sheep? If he loses one of them, does not leave the ninety nine in the wilderness, and go after the one which is lost, until he finds it? And when he found it, when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep, which was lost. I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance. Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? And when she has found it, she calls her friends and neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I lost. Likewise I say to you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. To have a heart for the lost, we need to heed two principles from this passage 1. Receive sinners who listen to Jesus, verses 1 and 2. And 2. Rejoice when sinners repent. Verses 3 to 10. First received sinners who listen to Jesus. Last year, Dave Shive spoke at our church on August 16th. on the same passage and began by establishing the connection between this passage and what came before it In other words, as we begin chapter 15, it's helpful to look back at what just happened at the close of chapter fourteen. Recall in our study of chapter 14, 25 to 35, how Jesus explained the cost of following him. His disciples must deny themselves, forsake all things, and rely on him. Our Lord issued this challenge to the great multitude that went with him He who has ears to hear, let him hear. So who has those ears to hear? Who would rise to the occasion? As Jesus looked with his penetrating prophetic gaze into the mass of the people Who will emerge out of obscurity and out of nominalism? I think of that hymn from Francis Ridley Havergale. Which captures the gravitas of the moment? Who is on the Lord's side? Who will serve the king? Who will be his helpers? Other lives to bring Who will lead the world's side? Who will face the foe? Who is on the Lord's side? Who for him will go? We have the answers right at the beginning of this chapter. You might read these verses and think there was some kind of mistake. Luke, are you sure it wasn't the Pharisees? And scribes who drew near to listen. No mistake here. Indeed, it was the tax collectors and sinners who had ears to hear. Now, the category of sinners was of two main types. One, Jews who fell short of the law of Moses and its demands. And two, Gentiles who were without the law and thus without God. Tax collectors were of the first type, Jews who worked for the hated and oppressive Roman Empire. Many of them fleecing their customers by taking much more than required for their own pockets. No wonder they were classified alongside heathens, harlots. Extortioners, unjust, and adulterers But when tax collectors and sinners came to Christ in repentance and faith, Jesus would demand that they turn away from their dishonest practices. Though Jesus loves sinners as they are, he did not allow them to remain as they are. But even if they repented genuinely and left their past behind, Their reputation stuck with them. But that's why the religious elites could not believe that Jesus would receive sinners who listened to him. But as followers of Christ, we should not be surprised by this. If we've been reading Luke carefully, we'd be properly prepared for this incident. Earlier, Luke records specifically that tax collectors went to the Jordan to be baptized by John the Baptist. The forerunner of Jesus' ministry. That's in chapter 3. Later in chapter 5, Luke records the conversion of Levi or Matthew, the tax collector. Now, this event is not unique to the third gospel. But Luke highlights the greatness of the feast that he threw for his friends and associates. Luke showcases the tax collectors' charity and hospitality. And just as they were present in chapter 15, Pharisees were there in chapter 5, turned off by Jesus' reception of sinners Our Lord responded in chapter 5, verses 31 to 32. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Jesus received sinners who listened to him. One more event to prepare us for chapter 15. In chapter 7, John the Baptist sends messengers to ask whether Jesus is the prophesied Christ. He sends back an affirmative answer and then turns to the crowds to confirm John's ministry. Right then, Luke records the following in verses 29 to 30, chapter 7. And when all the people heard him, even the tax collectors justified God, having been baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees And lawyers rejected the will of God for themselves, not having been baptized by Him. As Jesus spoke good things about John the Baptist, those baptized by him spoke good things about God, declaring God to be righteous. Among them were tax collectors we saw earlier in chapter 3. Again, Jesus received sinners. So listen to it. But the religious leaders will not listen. They rejected God's will revealed through the Messiah and his forerunner. Now here we are again in chapter 15, with crowds of people listening to Jesus. But the crowds have split between those deemed unworthy of God's kingdom and those deemed worthy. It's as if the tax collectors and sinners heard and followed the words of that hymn: Let not conscience make you linger, nor of fitness fondly dream. All the fitness he required is to feel your need of him. These rejects and outcasts certainly felt their need for Christ. But the Pharisees and the scribes, though outwardly wise and mighty, they did not feel that desperation for Jesus. They're willing to share tables with Jesus Himself, but not with those tax collectors and sinners. We will see Jesus' reaction to them next. But before we go on, in application of the first principle I want to ask you whether you'd receive sinners who listen to Jesus. Would the proud religious hypocrites complain about you as they did with Jesus? This Christian man or woman receives sinners and eats with them. What our neighbors complain about us, those folks at Faith Bible Church receive the worst people and eat with them. Again, I'm not saying we should be lax on repentance or preach grace Remember, this gracious call to discipleship at the beginning of Luke 15 comes on the heels of the costly call to discipleship at the end of Luke 14. But we must stop looking at outward appearances. We must learn to receive sinners who listen to Jesus Okay, you may say to me, I'm ready to receive sinners, any of them who listen to Jesus. But where do I find them? In Evangelism Explosion, we have this process of finding and securing prospects. When I was part of EE in college, we were trained to look for prospects among visitors to our campus ministry meetings, dorm roommates, classmates, and friends from other student organizations. We'd get into panic mode if we couldn't find someone to meet for our weekly OJT, which is on-the-job training. Even if you don't know EE, you're not part of E, or you were never part of it, we all should be looking for prospects And a prospect is someone who we believe might want to draw near and listen to Jesus Once we identify them, we need to get them, whether it's our unbelieving family, friends, neighbors, in the earshot of Bible teaching Obviously, one way is to invite them out to our regular Sunday services or Bible studies. If they come, you can ask afterwards: what did you think about the lesson or the sermon? What are your thoughts about the good news that the pastor shared? Or if they're not ready to go to church. You can ask them whether they'd be interested in reading a book of the Bible together with you. You could use Christianity Explained or a basic introduction to our faith. You can teach that material at your home or at a cafe. I find that the phrase reading a book together is less condescending than and more welcoming. Then do you want me to teach you the Bible? That's just me. Whatever approach we follow or questions we ask, we need the Lord to help us. We need him to help us discern whether our prospects are genuinely seeking Jesus or not. They may have some reservations and questions for you. When they ask these, we must discern and figure out whether those inquiries are sincere questions or what E. E. calls smokescreens Smoke screens as in they're hiding their lifestyle of sin behind a barrage of questions. There are those out there because they're not ready to repent. Remember, unbelievers not only disbelieve from ignorance and lack of knowledge, but they also disbelieve because of moral corruption. John 3:19 says, And this is the condemnation: that the light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. But if they are drawn to the light of Christ, willing to leave behind the darkness and be ready to forsake their evil deeds We have reasons to celebrate. That leads to the second point. Rejoice when sinners repent. From verse 3 until the end of the chapter, we have three parables that communicate the same basic message. They are the parable of the lost sheep, the parable of the lost coin, and the parable of the lost son, better known as the parable of the prodigal son. John A. Martin summarizes the common idea God is vitally concerned with the repentance of sinners. All three speak of things or a person being lost and then found, and of rejoicing when the lost is found. There are commonalities even in details. Joe B. Green observes, quote, the three parables of Luke fifteen, through common structure and subject matter And repetition of key terms and phrases presents a cumulative response to the indictment of the Pharisees and legal experts in verse two. This fellow welcomes sinners and eats with them. You can see the repetition of key terms and phrases yourself woven throughout the three parables. There are the repeated mentions of friends, neighbors, and call together. More importantly, there are repetitions of lost eight times and find again eight times. Most importantly, nine times there are words related to joy and mirth. What connects the first two parables together is the introductory formula of what man or woman having, but if he or she loses one And then there are some common words at the end of the two parables, I say to you, likewise, over one sinner who repents. Putting it all together, we should rejoice when sinners repent. Yet, in spite of these observable parallels, there are some differences between the three stories. Again, Joel Green is helpful, quote: one may observe an escalation from one parable to the next. A shepherd suffers the loss of one sheep from a flock of one hundred, whereas the woman suffers the loss of one coin out of ten. This escalation will continue in the next parable with the loss of one of only two sons. So we will see how the two parables covered today builds up to the final one, which we'll cover next week, Lord willing. Today we just focus on the first two parables. Because these two are more like short anecdotes and less like lengthy novels. There's a limit of inferences we can draw from them. For example, we can't assume that the man in the first story doesn't care about the 99 sheep and left them exposed to predators and thieves. If danger equates to needing repentance, then we can conclude from verse 7 that the majority of the flock is safe throughout the story. But here are some inferences we can draw. The rhetorical questions in verses four and eight Reveal that while the parables are fictional, they are relatable, everyday concerns of everyday individuals. Jesus asks those questions as if the response will be, of course he leaves the 99 in the wilderness and goes after the one. And of course she lights a lamp, sweeps the house, and searches carefully. We also infer that the motif of losing and finding is well known among all social classes. Some commentators note how owning a hundred sheep implies the first man is pretty well off, but the woman who owns ten silver coins is relatively poor. But they both know the value of that lost one and seek it. Their joy in finding the lost is so great that they must invite others. They can't contain their excitement. The man invites his guy friends and neighbors, while the woman invites her lady friends and neighbors. One says, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. The other says, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I was which I lost. Such rejoicing In the earthly realm is a small reflection of the heavenly joy. We see at the end of both parables that the joy is celestial In heaven and in the presence of the angels of God. Now who exactly is celebrating here? Well, yes, I'm sure the saints in heaven are happy. Yes, the angels are also rejoicing. But heaven is joyful mainly because our God the Father is joyful. Now, if you don't believe me that our Father in heaven rejoices over the repentant, let me invite you to look at some passages. Zephaniah three sixteen to seventeen And it says concerning the restored Israel in the future In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Do not fear Zion, let not your hands be weak. The Lord your God in your midst, the mighty one, will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you with his love. He will rejoice over you with singing. We saw earlier in Luke 12. 32. Jesus himself assuring his disciples, do not fear little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Paul wrote concerning his own conversion in Galatians 1:15-16. It pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me through his grace. To reveal his son in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles. God rejoices, He has a good pleasure, and it pleases him. To see sinners turn to Him. In the household of God, how we understand our Heavenly Father is crucial. Do we see him as an angry, disappointed being, distant and cold? That was sort of my default, fleshly view of him. Because my earthly father was absent for most of my life. Of course, we know that God is loving and caring, even if our parents did not reflect His authority well. But we don't want to go to the other extreme and view him as light on sin either. C. S. Lewis lamented once, quote, We want in fact not so much a father in heaven as how a Grandfather in Heaven, a Sina benevolence who, as they say, like to see young people enjoying themselves, and whose plan for the universe was simply that it might be said at the end of the day A good time was had by all. This is a mistaken view of God. God who rejoices when sinners repent is perfect in power, in love, and purity. He will by no means clear the guilty, but he also justifies the ungodly. How? Look no further than the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes. You may not believe that you're in need of salvation, but let me tell you that you are that one lost sheep and that one lost coin. You ought to follow the example of tax collectors and sinners who drew near to Jesus to hear him Do not be, like the Pharisees and scribes, too proud to have fellowship with Jesus and those who don't meet their standards. The fact is, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But we can be justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Now we cannot be declared righteous before God by doing good works of the law. We inevitably fail. But there is the promise that the just shall live by faith, live forever in the presence of God. The way to be found is to repent. You must admit that you turned away, every one of us, to our own way. You must return to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. You must be laid on his shoulders to return to safety You must repent. We repent by turning away from ourselves, our self-indulgence and our self-righteousness. The tax collectors and sinners had to repent of their self-indulgence. The Pharisees and the scribes had to repent of their self-righteousness. Either way, we turn from ourselves and trust in the finished work of Jesus. Be the perfect God and perfect man at the same time, live the perfect life. Yet he suffered and died on the cross for our sins. He was punished for our sins of evil thought, word, and actions, sins of omission and commission. He then rose again from the dead and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to establish the promised kingdom on earth. Will you trust in Christ alone for your hope of salvation? It is all by grace, not works Every time a sinner repents and believes in the good news of Jesus, our Father in heaven rejoices. The fact that he knows in advance all who would believe does not at all dampen that joy. That may be a mystery to us, but here's what we know for sure. We can rejoice with the heavenly host at each conversion. We can rejoice when sinners repent. If God rejoices in the presence of angels in heaven, so should we in the presence of saints on earth I believe one way we celebrate together an individual's repentance is through the baptismal service. The believer's baptism is a joyful and festive occasion. But many can see that someone has given his or her life for Christ. Originally, these initiation events were out and open in rivers and other public places. In the days before baptismal pools and church buildings. Today I'm praying for growth in evangelism, conversions, and baptisms. That we would have many opportunities as a local church to rejoice when sinners repent. Please join the Group Committee and the Council in prayer for that joy of salvation to be a normal part of our church. That we will receive sinners who listen to Jesus and rejoice when they repent. Let's join heaven in celebration as our God says. Rejoice with me, for I have found that which was lost. Wouldn't that be a festive occasion? A wonderful sound in our church? Amazing grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found Was blind, but now I see. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you receive us Lord, help us to remember our calling. Not many of us were wise. Not many of us were mighty in the eyes of the world. You show us amazing grace because we are like the tax collectors and sinners. We thank you for the convicting work of the Spirit that opened our eyes to the depth of our sin. How we need your son. And we're thankful for the grace and mercy that receives us as sinners And now that we are part of the fold, now that we are destined for the kingdom of God, now that we are citizens of heaven. Help us to rejoice every time we see new believers, new converts, new commitments to be disciples of your Son. May we continually sing. Of your amazing grace. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.