Children have already been dismissed for children's church, I believe. So what if I told you your kid or your grandchildren or one of your grandchildren is going to be the next Einstein. Would you be excited about that? Well, a number of years ago, I heard a story that changed my mind about Einstein. While studying at Zurich, Einstein fell in love with the only woman enrolled in his physics classes, Mileba Maurich. The first few years were great, but then things got bad. Really bad. According to one biographer, Einstein said, I treat my wife as an employee who I cannot fire. He wasn't kidding. He wrote down a list of demands and said he'd only stay with her if she adhered to them Here were Einstein's conditions. A. You will make sure that my clothes and laundry are kept in good order, that I will receive my free meals regularly. in my room, that my bedroom and study are kept neat, and especially that my desk is left for my use only. B you will renounce all personal relations with me insofar as they are not completely necessary for social reasons Specifically, you will forgo my sitting at home with you, my going out or traveling with you. See, you will obey the borrowing points in your relations with me. You will not expect any intimacy from me Me, nor will you reproach me in any way. You will stop talking to me if I request it. You will leave my bedroom or study immediately without protest if I request it. Undertake not to belittle me in front of our children, either through words or behavior. It's a tragedy. The expert of relativities, a failure in relations. Here's a man whose natural gift is the envy of all. But what does it matter without love? Most will never match Einstein in his intellectual giftings, but many follow him in his lack of love. Yes, even Christians gifted by the Holy Spirit struggle in this area. That's why Paul had to devote more than a dozen verses to the topic of love while discussing spiritual gifts. Last time we stopped just short of the end of 1 Corinthians 12. The second sentence of the last verse of chapter 12, what I call 31B, flows right into chapter 13. When Paul speaks of a more excellent way, he moves past the best gifts just mentioned, no doubt apostleship, prophecy, and teachings. Are foundational. They're essential for the equipping of the saints for the work of the ministry and for the edifying of the body of Christ. But there's even something greater than that. It's love. It's supremely important. I like how one commentator A. T. Robertson puts it, quote, Christian love is that something without which everything else is nothing. Again, Christian love is that something without which everything else is nothing. So as uh as we read uh first Corinthians twelve thirty one B To the end of chapter 13. Know that love is central. We're not merely dealing with the parenthetical section. We're not just looking at a popular wedding sermon passage. It ought to be the charter document for the use of our gifts in the local church. Love makes the world go around. Love makes the church go around. So let's see why love is supreme. And yet I show you a more excellent way, though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, but have not love I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, but have not love, it profits me nothing. Love suffers long and is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not parade itself, is not puffed up, does not behave rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, thinks no evil, does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the Truth bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never fails. But whether there are prophecies, they will fail. Whether there are tongues, they will cease. Whether there is knowledge, it will vanish away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect has come, then that which is in part will be Faith. Now I know in part, but then I shall know, just as I also am known. And now abide faith, hope, love, these three. But the greatest of these is love. This is a sublime passage. We read it and take it all in and appreciate its powerful impact. We don't want to overanalyze it and butcher it. The great pastor and teacher G. Campbell Morgan compare the study of this chapter to dissecting a flower to understand it. If you tear it apart too much, you lose the beauty. I'll try not to do that. Still, I'll point out some patterns for analysis After the introductory sentence of 1231b, we have three verses and three sentences. They're hypothetical, hyperbolic statements. The refrain of each line is: but have not love. The conclusion of each is that without love, even the most gifted individual amounts to nothing. So 1 Corinthians 12 31b to 13. 3 deal with the absence of love. Next in verses 4 to 7, Paul teaches how with love everything's worthwhile. The style here is less poetic. the tones more assertive. The statements are terse, rapid fire with multiple descriptions of love packed into each verse. We're told what love does, we're told what love does not do. But the constant here is that love is virtue in action. It turns out that old adage from Steve R. Covey, love is a verb, has some validity. The verses 4 to 7 deal with the actions of love. So lastly, we see love outlasting all. We've seen the absence of love and actions of love. Finally, verses 8 to 13 deal with the advantage of love. Paul says in verse 8, Love never fails. What follow are supports for this argument. Love stands the test of time and stands above all. So putting it all together, Paul makes us makes a case that love is better than the best gifts or even all gifts combined. I believe three arguments support his case. One, without love, all spiritual gifts are meaningless. Without love, all spiritual gifts are meaningless. That's 1231 B to thirteen three Two, through love, our spiritual living is dynamic. Through love, our spiritual living is dynamic. Thus chapter thirteen, four to seven. The third point is that besides love, other spiritual aims are inadequate. Besides love, other spiritual aims are inadequate. First, without love, all spiritual gifts are meaningless. They say we don't truly appreciate what we have until it's gone. That's no less true when it comes to Christian love. There are churches with the finest programs, the nicest restrooms. The most competent administration, yet they're without love, devoid of love for God and love for each other. The stress here is on the ladder, the love for the brethren, the bond of perfection. As we look around here at Faith Bible, we must ask ourselves Do we have above all things love fervent love for one another? Is a question that the Corinthians should have asked. Paul is going to get them thinking in this direction in verses 1 to 3. He uses every method of persuasion at his disposal. First, he shows tact He inserts himself as a negative example of someone full of gifts but lacking love. He's really talking about the Corinthian church, isn't he? They're the ones, as we saw back in chapter 1, verse 5, enriched in everything by Christ in all utterance and all knowledge. But they failed in love. Now by inserting himself in these verses as I, he can be more assertive. He can afford to be a bit harsh. Even if he's eloquent in languages, a polyglot, without love he say, I have become sounding brass or clanging cymbal. Even if he's a know-it-all or do-it-all, he'd admit that without love, I am nothing. Even if he's the greatest philanthropist, he'd say my giving profits me nothing. Also let me back up and turn your focus to what's there before that refrain, but have not loved. In each line of verses 1 to 3, Paul progresses from what's most likely to what is far less likely, from probable to improbable. Let me try to show you here. Verse 1 says Paul speaks with the tongues of men. That's not controversial at all. In fact, later in chapter 14, verse 18, he says he can speak more languages than all the Corinthians But then he entertains the idea of speaking the tongues of angels. That's gotta be the peak of one's power of speech. Some claim this angelic language is The ecstatic speech we see in charismatic churches today. I'm not convinced such speech is language at all. But whether you agree with me or not, it's not controversial to say the tongues of men. Are more common than the tongues of angels. So here we move from the probable tongues of men to the improbable tongues of angels. The same pattern, probable to improbable, continues in verse 2. Paul's not only an apostle, he's a prophet In fact, some of his in-time prophecies are recorded in the New Testament, such as 1 Thessalonians 4, 13-18, and later in the same letter, 1 Corinthians 15. But as gifted as he is, improbable is the notion that Paul would ever grasp all mysteries and all knowledge. Also unlikely is possessing faith to remove mountains, right? Notice the plural. If it takes a mustard seed size faith to move one mountain, what's required to move many? A coconut seed size faith? I don't know, just there's a lot of faith there, but One more time we see the pattern of probable to improbable in verse 3. We're used to Paul's great generosity. He did gospel ministry without practicing his right to get paid, as we saw back in chapter nine. Later he testified before the elders of Ephesus how he coveted nothing, his hands provided for himself and his teachers He worked hard to give to those in need. That's in Acts 20. So the idea of him giving away everything doesn't shock us But even so, Paul has yet to pay the ultimate price. Yes, he'll die as a martyr later. But not like this, right? In the most dramatic act, literally going down in flames. So again in the big picture from left to right in verses 1 to 3 we move from move in four steps from probable to improbable to without love to without meaning. Okay. So let me review all that by rereading and marking these verses. Verse one, though I speak with the tongues of men, probable, and of angels, improbable, but have not love without love, I have become sounding grass or a clanging cymbal without meaning. 2. Verse 2, and though I have the gift of prophecy, probable, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, improbable, and though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains, improbable again But have not love, without love, I am nothing, without meaning. Verse 3, and though I bestow all my gifts to be the poor probable, and though I give my body to be burned improbable, but have not love, without love, it profits me nothing, without meaning. All this analysis amounts to this conclusion, though, without love, all spiritual gifts are meaningless. With that in mind, let's move on to the second reason love is better than the gifts. Through love, our spiritual living is dynamic. Paul leaves behind the long sentences of verses one to three And he goes on to shorter phrases of verses 4 to 7. Rhythmically speaking, it's as if we're moving from whole notes to eight notes. Poetically speaking, love is personified. And a person who loves like this will personify love. I'll stop to comment briefly on the descriptions. Paul begins with two positives, that is, telling us what love does. Love suffers long and is kind. You may recall seeing long suffering and kindness together in their noun forms. As the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5. A quick lesson is that Spirit empowers us to love, to act in love. That's what love can do. Yeah, for the most of this section, we're told what love does not do. In the rest of verse 4, we're told it does not envy, it does not parade itself. Unlike the knowledgeable yet arrogant Corinthians, love does not puff up, floated with pride. Move on to verse 5. Someone who acts in love does not behave rudely, that is, act improperly or shamefully toward others. Love strives to honor others. Love makes them look good. It also does not seek its own. This reminds me of what Paul says in Philippians two. 1 to 4. True unity in love leads each one to esteem others better than himself. We look out not only for our own interests, but also for the interest of others. Such is the way of love. It is not self-seeking, but others seeking. That helps us understand how love is not provoked. Now that doesn't mean our love is stoic or emotionless. Again, the love for our brethren should be fervent, as first Peter says. But the context here suggests that love is not provoked by evil temptation. It is not provoked to seek personal vengeance and self-interest. Similarly, the idea of think no evil is the refusal To resent or hold grudges. Things no evil, I think, is better translated in other places like U American Standard Bible as does not keep an account of a wrong suffered Instead of record keeping, there's covering. There's true forgiveness. This is in line with our identity as God's children. We imitate our Heavenly Father who forgives iniquity and remembers sin no more. The whole idea of forgive but never forget. I don't know where to get that idea. It's not in the Bible, right? Don't keep that record In verse 6, Paul continues to discuss the problem of evil. Verse, love does not rejoice in iniquity. This reminds me of wisdom of Proverbs. Wisdom preserves. This is based on In chapter 2 of Proverbs, preserves, keeps, and delivers us from those who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perversity of the wicked. Simply put, Christian love changes our attitude towards sin. It may even change our sense of humor. Just thinking back to the things I used to watch or like enjoy as and think is funny, right? When I was, you know, very immature. Funny anymore. I do not rejoice. If you have love, you do not rejoice in iniquity. Pair this thought with the idea of love, rejoicing in the truth. The two words for rejoice in verse 6. uh so interestingly are not the same. The second one has a prefix, S Y N, from where we get words like synonym, synthesizer, synchronize, symphony, sympathy. There's a meaningful fellowship love enjoys with truth. We love in truth, speak truth in love. We receive the love of truth to be saved. Of course the most important truth is the gospel, but we also care for all truths God has revealed. These days people just talk about one or the other, right? Is it all about the truth or it's all about love and ignore truth? And we can't make that same mistake. Love and truth have this perfect fellowship Now at the end of verse 6, Paul has broken the string of negative statements. He has stopped saying what love does not do. Now we're back to what love does do. Also, as Paul continues in verse 7, he employs a different poetic pattern. He says all things four times in the original language. There's an emphasis on this direct object, all things. As it stands before the verbs. Now there's another poetic feature that helps us understand the meaning here. It's often found in the Old Testament literature and it's called chiasm. I won't get to detail, but if you want, just label the four parts of verse 7 like this, and it's all divide by the comma, so that you get the following. A1 bears all things, B1 believes all things. B too hopes all things. A too endures all things. So A1 bears all things, B1 believes all things, B2 hopes all things, A2 endures all things. Now if you match the letters, you get A1 with A2 and B1 with B2 And that uses the following pairs, bears all things, relates to endures all things, while believes all things, relates to hopes all things. So, okay, so how does that help us? I'm bringing up A. T. Robertson again. I mentioned earlier. He has some good thoughts on this. Concerning A1 and A2, he says, while bears refers to present trials, endures covers the future also. It is that cheerful and loyal fortitude, which having done all without apparent success, still stands and endures, whether the ingratitude of friends or the persecution of foes. Concerning B1 and B2, Robertson says: when love has no evidence, it believes the best. When the evidence is adverse, it hopes for the best. I tend to agree with this interpretation of verse 7. Also, this means love moves from the present, bearing and believing all things, to the future, hoping and enduring all things. This flow of verse 7, from present to future, naturally leads us to the final portion of this chapter. But before we go on, let's reinforce this point, how through love our spiritual living is dynamic. I have two applications for us to consider. First, as we've just seen, true Christian love does not wane, but flourishes in difficult times. Go back and see how many times tough situations are assumed. Think of words like long suffering being provoked, bearing and enduring. Or tough situations are not just assumed but explicitly stated. Love thinks no evil, and it does not rejoice in iniquity. Love is not dependent on a perfect environment. If we're indeed entering a time of in history when lawlessness abounds and love of many grows cold. We must not waver in love. Rather, abound and multiply in love for God and love for each other and love for our neighbors. Here's another application. I'm thankful that nowhere do we find here that love is essentially a feeling. Already I've heard enough people say I don't feel loved. It's different now. There's no connection, spark, or chemistry anymore. Is love a scientific laboratory experiment? No, love is a labor. It's a series of deliberate choices we make to obey God. Love is established by the Father, exemplified by the Son, and empowered by the Spirit. So ask the Lord to free you from that trap of misunderstanding, misdefining what love is. Growing in Christian love, the means to a dynamic spiritual life. So make it your goal to pursue love. All other goals are secondary. That gets us to the third principle. Besides love, other spiritual aims are inadequate. We arrive at the final verses of this chapter. Verse 8 begins like most some of the earlier ones. Loves the subject. We're told once again what it does not do. But there's some extra emphasis with never, not a mere not. Then Paul takes time to explain how love never fails. He argues that not only does love outwork all else, it outlasts all else. Picture love as a runner in a competitive race. Love's like the tortoise. The so-called fancy gifts are the hairs. Everyone's excited about the cool gifts. No one expects much from love. But this is not a sprint, it's a marathon. Over time, even the greatest gifts trail behind love and fall out of the race. Love continues and finishes the race ahead of all others. Here, Paul highlights three gifts in particular as rivals to love. Now it's best to treat prophecy and knowledge together. Paul encourages that actually, as we see verses eight to ten. But first a word about the gift of tongues. It's interesting that Paul uses the one and the same word to describe in the prophecies and knowledge, but a different one for tongues. Fail and vanish away in verse 8 are from the same word, but with tongues we're told they will cease, a different word. We're not told exactly why, how, or when. We can make conjectures. Perhaps the Holy Spirit no longer sees the need for us to learn new languages supernaturally. My view is that this gift Has served this purpose in the early church era as the gospel rapidly went out to diverse parts of the world. But more on this later, as we continue in chapter 14, Lord willing. More immediately, Paul focuses on how prophecies and knowledge do not last forever. Verse 9 explains why. By definition, since we're not God and omniscient, any present knowledge or prediction of the future on our part is partial. Or as Paul says, we know in part and we prophesy in part. But there's something on the horizon, that which is perfect, as it says in verse 10. Whatever this perfect is, it puts an end to prophecies and knowledge. Some push for the idea that the perfect here refers to the Bible, the canon of scriptures formally recognized a little later in the early church. That seems like a tenuous argument to me, as much as I like that to be true. I have my cessationist arguments, but this interpretation of perfect as the closed canon of scriptures is not one of them. Rather, I think it's best to understand that which is perfect as Jesus' second coming. That's when all the partial insights find full explanations. All the pertinent questions are answered. Hunches become certainties, and predictions turn to fulfillments. But love will continue on and even grow. Sure, learning, predicting, and communicating are important goals in life. People make careers out of them. People exalt those kind of people. But besides love, other spiritual aims are inadequate To support this argument, Paul has two illustrations in verses 11 to 12. First, the most popular spiritual gifts in the grand scheme of things are like childhood toys. You grow out of them It's like my how my son no longer plays with the big squeeze blocks. He's into magnetiles now It's as if overnight my daughter no longer fits an infant clothes. It seems to be true. It's time to store them away. These early stages of life become memories. Precious memories, sure. The ways we talk then, the ways we learn, the ways we think, are now, for lack of a better word, childish. As a kid, you take in what's appropriate for your age, bite-sized, or simplified. That's one illustration of how gifts do not last forever. Here's another. Think of the image in the mirror. That reflection represents our limited knowledge. Keep in mind that the mirrors of Paul's time are not like ours today. Theirs were curved, not straight. Colored, not clear. That's why Paul says now we see in a mirror dimly. Compare that dull visage with the reality when we see Jesus Face to face. Second Corinthians talks about today we're beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord. In first John. But someday when Christ is revealed at his return, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is It's already true that anyone who loves God is known by him. Paul already said that in chapter 8. But there's even greater intimacy in store Now I know in part, but then I shall know just as I also am known. It's evident that at the final stretch of the marathon, prophecies, tongues, and knowledge drop out of the race. In the final lap, if you want to call it, look only has two competitors remaining, faith and hope. Who comes out on top? Chapter 13. Verse 13 announces the winner. Love. Why does love have the edge? David Gozik offers two reasons. First, when the end times arrive, faith and hope would have fulfilled their purpose, while love continues and grows. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Currently, we walk by faith, not by sight. We hope for what we do not see and we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. But once Jesus returns, faith becomes sight and hope is met. The only homework left when we're home is to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge. Secondly, love wins because love is an attribute of God. God is not faith, though he is obviously faithful. God does not hope like we do, though we surely hope in Him. But God is love. And we'll have eternity to grow in our love for God and for each other. All this is why, besides love, other spiritual aims are inadequate. Let me conclude with two applications. First, I ask you Christians, are you fixated on the ultimate aim to love? Or are you distracted? I'm not just talking about mentally distracted. We look around and see this corrupt world. We live in a divided country. But think about the power of Christian love. Think what it could do for you today. When you're overwhelmed by the news headlines, think upon what heaven will be like. Many imagine heaven to be a place of comfort and pleasures. But I think Jonathan Edwards got it right in his explanation of heaven. Heaven is a world of love. I encourage you to go read it. It's a bit long, like those old Puritan sermons, but That the title just gives you a hint of what's there. Secondly, I ask non Christians, those on the fence when it comes to God's love. Maybe you've been Disappointed. Your well of love has dried up. Your friends are gone. Your parents are absent. Your spouse is distant. Your children take you for granted. But hear God's words to his beloved through the scriptures. I have loved you with an everlasting love. Therefore, with loving kindness I have drawn you. You don't have to be good enough, pretty enough, smart enough to be loved by God. Listen to this. It's Romans 5, 6 to 8. While we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Weak, ungodly, unrighteous, evil, sinners, that's who we are apart from Christ. We break God's laws, we set up idols in place of God and take his name in vain. We covet, steal, murder with hate, commit adultery with lust. In some we do not love God, and we do not love our neighbors. But the good Lord did not leave us as we are. God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life Our heavenly Father sent His Son, God and man in one person, Jesus. He lived the perfect life of love. He displayed a love shared between the Father and Himself. The most dramatic display of that love was Christ's suffering. By this we know love, because Jesus laid down his life for us. He gave himself at the cross, dying in our place as our substitute, paying the penalty of sin that we should pay. Having paid it in full, he declared his work finished. That's how Christ loved us and gave himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. He was buried, rose again from the grave on the third day. Someday he'll return. And all of our faith and hope in him will be realized. You will not be disappointed. You haven't already, respond to God's offer of love. Don't wait too long. Repent from turn from sin. Turn from self-love and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Only trust in him for eternal life You cannot earn the love of God. It's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. As we reflect on the greatness of God's love, let's go to the Lord's table to observe the Holy Communion. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for something greater than us. Something greater than our busy schedules. Our careers, our desire for success, for family, for children For comforts. Lord, it's just great love. And just when we think, we understand it, Lord. You show us the greatness or you remind us. Just how much you have in store for us, for us, as we love you. Lord, our love cannot match what you've shown us already at the cross And show us daily as mercies are new every morning as we turn to you and find forgiveness, as we realize how undeserving we are of your goodness toward us. How miserable we are. We see this world in all its faults you have loved by sending your son Remind us of that truth each and every day. And Lord, as we in small ways Try to display that love, especially in the church. Teach us again what love does, the actions of love, how without it we are nothing. How it is what lasts for eternity. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.