Today we're going to be looking at Luke chapter 6, specifically verses 27 to 36. A couple of years ago, probably four or five years ago, I was watching a cat video. How many of you have ever seen a cat video on the internet? Just admit it. Raise your hand. Okay. I like dogs better than I like cats. But this cat video is extremely cute and one of you I think sent me a link to this. It was a cat. He was on a bed and like there was a an object in the middle, like a an apple or something and this cat was trying to attack this apple and it was it was jumping back and forth and acting like this object was was worthy of death I mean it was a a living apple. It was something that this little kitten just had to uh attack. And it was it was cute. And this was, like I said, four or five years ago. It might have even been before The internet had those little things called like or don't like, like the thumb up or the thumb down, you know what I'm talking about? Everybody knows what those things are now. They're everywhere on the internet. They're even in flyers that you get printed on paper. So you can watch a cat video and you can decide whether you like it Or you don't like it. And you can join the thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of other people who click that little thumb up. I like the cat video. We live in an age when we are given choices where we can vote whether we like something or don't like something. And every person in this room practices your freedom to choose. And we communicate this to one another. For example, you might say, I love shoe fly pie, but I do not like rhubarb. Pie. I don't like rhubarb pie. You might say, I love Brussels sprouts, but I really don't like carrots. And so you have and I have this way of communicating. How we sort of put things in categories. This I like and this I don't like. And evidently companies like Facebook and others capitalize on this for advertising purposes or whatever. Put it in a category, like or don't like. The problem is that sometimes we do this with people, and we all do it. If I were to mention to you the name of the nominee for the Democratic Party who you'll be voting on. Would you say don't answer out loud? Would you say like or don't like? Which thumb would you click if I said the nominee for the Republican Party? Which, don't answer out loud, which thumb would you click? You might say, I wish there was a third thumb. Well, there isn't. It's either like or don't like And so that's the way we live. And when one when someone says, I don't like carrots, what they're saying is, you know, when I eat a carrot, the taste is just not something I prefer. I kind of uh I just it I have this this instantaneous physical response of ugh carrot and so I don't do that. And if we say I don't like the presidential nominee for such and so a party or this Other nominee were saying I don't agree with their politics or their positions, and so I don't like them. But what we're looking at today in Luke chapter 6 is something that's at a level beyond liking. It's at the level of loving. Have you ever found yourself thinking, I really love that person, but I really don't love that person? Did you know when it comes to the kingdom of Jesus Christ, the kingdom of God, he has commanded us to be unconditional in the way we love. He is not commanding us to like carrots if we don't like carrots. He's not commanding us to to agree with political positions that we don't agree with, but what he is commanding us as citizens of his kingdom is to love Enemies, as well as our friends and brothers and sisters and family. He is telling us to be indiscriminate, to not discriminate with the practice of our love between friend and enemies. Look at this passage in Luke 6, verse 27, and I'll read some of it. But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you. To him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer the other also. And from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either Give to everyone who asks of you, and from him who takes away your goods, do not ask them back. And just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them likewise. This passage it breaks down kind of like this. If you look at verse 27, you have the imperative, love your enemies, do good. So there's the object of enemies, the object of those who hate you, and we're supposed to love them and do good to them He then moves from sort of the general imperative, the command to love enemies, to giving us examples, applications of this principle of indiscriminate or unconditioned love, unconditional love. And these applications involve, verse 28, what you say, how you respond with your words. They curse, but you bless. He applies it to what uh to physical things. What if there is a literal physical abuse? How do you respond? Do you retaliate? No, you uh don't retaliate What happens if uh if if they actually take away your cloak? Uh how do you respond when they do that? How do you respond if they ask you for something? I mean, how should you respond? So it's kind of like this love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, and this is what it means when it comes to your words. This is what it means when it comes to your actions. Here are some applications for you to think about. Why are we like this? Well, ultimately we are like this because verse 35 and 36 Love your enemies, do good and lend, hoping for nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore, be merciful just as your father also is merciful. There is sort of a two-pronged motivation for this. The first is, yes, you will be rewarded. You'll be rewarded for loving your enemies and doing good to those who hate you. And secondly, you are being like your father. That is the way God operates right now in this age of grace. There is a time when people have an opportunity to repent and put their trust in Christ. And he seeks the sinner to save them, and he is this physician who tries to find the sick. And he is seeking those who are lost. Because he loves them. God so loved the world, and there was no like or unlike category to this. It was the entire world. He so loved all That he gave his one and only unique Son, his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. When we act that way We're acting like our Father. As Paul wrote to the Ephesians, we're to be followers of God as beer children. When I was younger, 20 years ago, when all my kids, well, they're were younger, I should say 15 years ago And I would go out and mow the grass. Maybe some of you dads can relate to that. Maybe you had a child who had a little plastic push mower who would just follow behind you as you push mowed and they would just, mmm, that little push mower. That is a child being a follower of a father, as a dear child imitating the father. That's what we're to do because our father is merciful, we should be merciful. But this passage is confusing, isn't it? Let's admit it. It's maybe maybe confusing isn't the right word. Maybe troubling. I mean, are we To turn the cheek every time. Who is our enemy? How far do we let our enemy go? When it comes to using us, manipulating us, trying to treat us like a commodity, like a utility, to make, to utilize us for their own purpose. How far does this go? And so we're going to have to bring in some other passages and try to think this through and really sort of frame up this house. before we start putting the furniture inside of it and moving in. First, verse 27, he's addressing people who hear Now, this idea of those who hear has to do with those who are sensitive and willing to accept the instructions of Jesus. Now we are in sort of the Sermon on the Mount, and we've already looked at these beatitudes where he's pronounced blessing and woes, and they are very strident. There are those who are poor, hungry, and weeping, but the day is coming when they will be blessed. They are part of the kingdom of God. And then there are those who are rich presently and full, and they laugh, but the day is coming when they'll be judged. And so presently you can say, Woe to those people. The words of Christ are not the words of sort of this this weak philosopher who is sort he's just giving you platitudes that are non-divisive and make you feel good. The Lord does, Jesus Christ does not massage people's egos with his words. As a matter of fact, when he describes his message at different times in the Gospels, he says things like this. I have not come to bring peace. I've come to bring a sword. And you know what? Families are going to be divided over my message. And so there are always going to be people present in the life of Christ, and I'm talking about during the days of his incarnation, who will hear and those who will not hear. And so here is it one of these times when he says, but I say to you who hear In other words, you're willing to accept my words, ponder them, and think about them, because they are hard words. Let's face it, the things that Jesus asks his followers to do are not easy. It's easier to strike back. It's easier to curse back. It's easier to get revenge in a thousand ways. Whether it's something as simple as dumping your leaves on their yard, because they dump their leaves on your yard. It's just easier to give in to the flesh. than to cut across the grains of your natural inclinations to walk in the spirit and to love your enemy. So do you are you willing to hear this? Are there people in this room who will hear? Because it is difficult. Alright, so what are we saying here? The second thing I want you to notice all the way through. Is that fundamentally we're talking about responses to enemies. Alright? There are those who curse you. And spitefully use you, turn you into a utility for their own personal use. There are those who strike, there are those who take away a cloak, and there are those who ask. So he's talking about kingdom citizens who are living in the midst of a great deal of activity. And they're always having to decide how they're going to respond to all these people around them. Have you ever felt that way? Unless you're living on an ivory tower and you're Trying to sort of be a monk and get away from life. You and I are right down in the middle of life. And you remember what Jesus said in his high priestly prayer in the Gospel of John? I pray not that you would take them out of the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one. The Lord has left us implanted right in the middle of battle Do you remember in the last war in Iraq when the reporters would go in with the soldiers into different situations and And they would be, for lack I I know there was another word for it, I can't remember, but they were implanted in there right in the action so that they could write the story. And sometimes they died and they were often in dangerous situations. They were in enemy-occupied territory with a group of people, and it was dangerous. And you and I are in the same situation spiritually. It is true, we live in the midst of a wicked and perverse generation, and but for Christ, we would be right in there with them. These are not words to cause us to feel self-righteous, but it is Christ. Telling us that we are in this situation that is not the ideal situation. It is not heaven. It is a dangerous situation, and we have to know how to respond. And I'm sure that most of you remember what happened in Columbine, the very first, perhaps the first, uh, school shooting. And how those boys went into that group and they finally cornered some students in the library. And they asked the one girl, Are you a Christian? And she said yes, and they pulled the trigger and killed her after they asked her that question. And I believe that became a book. She said yes. Look it up and get yourself a copy, or maybe from the library if you're curious. It's a dangerous world that you and I live in. Did you know? That what they're saying is that Christianity will become extinct in the Middle East Within the next few years, if Islam continues on its current course of just annihilating Christians. And I can't remember the figure, and I should have written it down, but it it is dwindling down to nothing. So You and I live in occupied territory. It is a series of responses. What's the first? Well, you look here and there is verse 28. Bless those who curse you. and pray for those who spitefully use you. Now this this particular, these two phrases don't necessarily have to do with physical confrontation. The first verbal, they're cursing you. A curse could be belittling who you are as a kingdom citizen, as someone who's a Christian. It could be blaspheming the name by which you and I are called. It could be making light of some practice you have as a Christian. You don't go to the adult club with the guys on Friday night. So they're mocking you. You are faithful to your spouse, your husband, or your wife. And so they make fun of you. They, the curse, though, might even be further than that. Perhaps they are inviting you. to do something you shouldn't do, and you have to take such a stand against it that it just uh invigorates their anger and wrath against you. I mean you go back to the book of Proverbs. And you see Solomon writing to his son at the beginning of that book before it launches into a collection of all those hundreds of Proverbs And he talks about, he warns his son not to to follow in with a gang that lies in wait for innocent blood and and that has that that's saying, hey, we can have so much profit if we do this. It's And he's telling his son, don't do that, don't participate in that. And can you imagine what be what would happen if there's this young man and he has this temptation to belong to such and such So a group, and he says, no, I will not belong to that group. How that group will feel about him and what they will say about him. The words that we face right now in modern America are deafening from the homosexual agenda. I was reading an article not too long ago about a grandmother. Who went to one of these gay pride events in an effort to pick it, but she did it from a Christian perspective and kindly And she dared to raise her voice. They grabbed her stuff, threw it to the ground, trampled it, and they pointed their finger at her and said, shame, shame, shame, shame, shame. Aren't those the same words that they used in Washington, D. C. recently when someone dared to stand up against this gender-inclusive bathroom policy? And I don't remember the exact details, but there was a caveat on a bill that someone wasn't willing to put on there. And so there was this verbal shame, shame, shame in the halls. of Washington, D. C. and our lawmakers. Our enemies will curse us. It shouldn't surprise us. And you know what? It makes me mad. Does it make you mad? It makes me mad. I don't like being cursed. Do you like having your Lord blaspheme? Do you like What's happening in our culture right now? I don't. And the spiteful use That could be manipulation. That could be someone going in behind the scenes and somehow trying to mess your life up. How should we respond to someone like that? Look at verse 28 again and just let your eyes read it. Bless. Pray. Now this is the application of indiscriminate, unconditional love. Love your enemies. Do good. So when you get that lash of hatred coming your way, and it is hate speech, is it not? Those who hate you. You have to have the presence of mind. And you can only do this with the Spirit of God in your heart to say. I'm gonna love that person, that poor person. They're so confused about this issue or that. They don't understand the truth about life, and I would be the same if I didn't have Christ. And Lord, have mercy upon them. Please, Lord, save them Do something in their life. Bring them to the knowledge of their spiritual blindness. Draw them to Jesus Christ. Help them to say, to see Christ in me. It really is true that when you give in, and you and I give in to returning hate speech for hate speech, we are not above the situation. The Bible says not to be overcome with evil, but to overcome evil with good. And when you and I respond in kind, we're entering into the fray on the devil's terms. So we must be careful with what we say, what we blog, what we email, what we post on Facebook. What we tell our friends. You see what I'm saying? When it comes to our enemies, it's verbal. Then we see here in verse 29 that he moves into the physical realm. Here is someone who strikes us on one cheek, and we're supposed to offer the other as well. So This is where it gets even more difficult. The the response here typically would be an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. I mean, there is some justice in that. I want to be careful. That phrase is misused. In the Old Testament, that was intended to limit violence and to stop all of the retaliatory killings that would go on. You know, if if he hurts your leg, you can't take him out and kill him with your sword. I mean, this there's got to be a limit to this violence In our culture today, in popular media and movies, they take the phrase and turn it around as a demand for justice, an eye for an eye, and then they go out whatever they're gonna do, a tooth for a tooth. That's not the intent. But even with that, and then the theocracy of the Old Testament, the Hebrew nation is a completely different thing than the New Testament Church and the kingdom of God as it's expressed through the New Testament Church, you and I. If there is this moment when someone would dare be physical with us, We were allowed to get out of the way. We don't have to stand there per se and and just be bludgeoned to death. And I'm going to talk a little more about that in a second. But we do not get up off the ground swinging. We don't do that. We we don't retaliate. Vengeance is mine. I will repay. And perhaps I should bring this up. Up now. So in the book of Acts, and in a few minutes we're going to look at this, the Apostle Paul at times fled from physical danger. Paul lived out the principles that Christ taught, and he said, Follow my example to Timothy and others. You have a pattern of good works in the things I do. Paul was not perfect like Jesus was, but there were those times when the enemies of Paul tried to kill him and he did run away. So turning the other cheek does not mean always that you have to take the pain and allow someone to harm you or your family. That's why I'm bringing that passage. For now. But it is the principle of unconditional love. Rather than vengeance, rather than coming up swinging, you're willing to take the punch For the sake of the other person. And then it goes the same with taking away your goods. Let's say that you have someone and they ask for your cloak. They ask, they want to borrow your chainsaw or some object that you have, and you ask for it back, and they all of a sudden become, I'm never giving that back to you. I'm never giving that back to you. Now I've never had this happen. Have you? It'd be kind of odd for a neighbor to say that. But they make themselves your enemy and they say, I don't care what you do. Well, your response is not fine. And then you go break into their shed and get your chainsaw back. You say, Look, I know you took that and it's wrong, but I want you to know that I'm your neighbor. And you don't have to say I love you. That might come across strange, but this is but you're saying to them, I I'm not going to retaliate against you, and I want you to know that that I do care about you. And if you need something, you come to me and I'll I'll see if I can help you. See, it's the spirit of love, it's the unconditional love that Jesus is applying here. Now Let's turn to a couple other passages and add some more wood to the frame of this building. And let's start with looking at the life of Jesus because do you think Jesus lived the principles that he taught? If Jesus said, Love your enemies, did he exhibit the example? Was he the perfect example of someone who loved his enemies? And by looking at the example of Jesus, And starting there, it clears up some of the confusion that you and I naturally have on how to apply this. And so let me get you to turn back a few pages And look at Luke chapter 4. What does doing loving your enemies and doing good to those who hate you mean or not mean? Well, if you remember from Luke chapter 4, he went to his hometown, and he was rejected by his hometown. He reads from Isaiah in verse 18, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, and it is his job description as the Messiah. He closes the book, verse 20, and he gives it back to the attendant, and he sits down, and the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he says today, this is verse twenty thro 21, to-day this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. So all bore witness to him and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth, and they but they said this. Is this not Joseph's son? He said to them, You will surely say this proverb to me, physician, heal yourself. Whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in your country. They said, Then he said, Assuredly, I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. And then he proceeded to rebuke them by telling them a story from their Old Testament in which Gentiles were blessed with God's blessing, and the Hebrews were excluded from the equation. They were rather upset. Look at verse 28. So all those in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath. And so They rose up and thrust him out of the city, and they led him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw him down over the cliff. Then passing through the midst of them, he went his way. Now this is the uh first example here of rejection for Jesus Christ that the Gospel of Luke presents to us, and Dr. Luke wants us to know up front that Christ was. rejected and by his own hometown. When someone is attempting to murder you, they are your enemy. Agree? They're trying to kill you. They're your enemy. Jesus does not allow the threat of violence to stop him from rebuking potential enemies. When you are loving your enemies and doing good to those who hate you, here's clarification. That does not mean that you do not rebuke them For their sin and unbelief. Now it wasn't Jesus' time to die, and he knew that So even though they ushered him out and they were going to kill him, God miraculously preserved his life, and he passed through the midst of them and went his way. And I believe this is an example of a miracle. But here is Christ, and he is willing to rebuke his enemies. Does this go further, even in the short portion of Luke that we have traveled through so far? It does, because if you remember. There are other incidents, and I'll just summarize, there are other incidents in which Jesus begins to face the growing wrath of his enemies, who in the Gospels happen to be the Pharisees. And the Sadducees, but primarily the Pharisees. Would you agree that they were his enemies in the Gospels? Yes, they were. They were the ones at the end shouting, Crucify you. They led in his death. He consistently, Jesus consistently does not back down. I should say never, when it is necessary to rebuke his enemies publicly. And house to house. You have Jesus sitting with Levi. You have Jesus responding to the criticism of him eating with sinners You have Jesus when this woman comes in and washes his feet and he he rebukes the host for the way he's being treated. This woman has not ceased to wash my feet with her tears, and you haven't even helped me out with my feet since I've come in here. You have Jesus pronouncing woes on the Pharisees, calling them hypocrites. And that reminds you probably of John the Baptist, who also was not afraid to rebuke his enemies all the way up the food chain to the king. And that is what caused John the Baptist to be thrown in jail. So here is something from the life of Jesus. He does not back down from rebuking. his enemies, publicly or privately. If you love your enemy, that doesn't stop you from telling them the truth. What else does it mean? Well Here's now I'm going to ask you to turn to Romans 13 to try to provide more wood for the frame of this house. Turn to Romans 13 first. Here is our passage that you should be familiar with. Folks, let me ask you this just as Your friend and pastor, and if you're visiting with us today, just consider me a Christian friend in this. Please study and learn Romans 13. This is going to be a passage as well as one that Peter wrote. And others that are going to hold the Church of Jesus together in the decades ahead in this country. When you study what happened in Canada to religious freedom after they legalized same-gender marriage, When you study what happened to the ability to have freedom of speech, and you look at the lawsuits and what happened, that very well will happen here. It's already happening here. You need to know your Bible. You need to have a Christian understanding of how to respond to government when it at points makes itself your enemy. We have in Romans 13 the general command, verse 1, that we are supposed to subject ourselves to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authority that exists are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. And those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good And you will have praise from me, saying, For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is God's minister and avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. All right, now Uh we looked at Jesus and the fact that, among other things, he was willing to rebuke his enemies. Now let's think about this. What other uh Does loving your enemies and doing good to those who hate you, does that nullify the God-given function of government? The answer to that question is no. Now try to stay with me. I'm being a little confusing here. I don't want to do that. In this passage, God established government. He established it from among other things. If you look down at your Bible again. Verse 2, those who resist the authority resist the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves, for rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. The fact that we have police officers and an army and a rule of law in the United States of America Is God's intention for government so that when you dial 911, you have someone there and you can get some help if someone is breaking into your house. If someone is going to harm your family, if there is an invasion by whatever country, we have a response to protect the citizens of the United States of America. So, loving your enemies and doing good to those who hate you does not erase God's ordained purpose for lawful government. Now, there's some confusion about this among Christians, I think. For example, there is a story told of a man who is a pacifist. And he had a gun in his house that was a rifle. And he used it for hunting purposes only. And someone broke into his house. And the person was about to harm his wife, and he had his gun, and he pulled his gun out and pointed it at the the the uh criminal. And the criminal knew that he was a pacifist, and the criminal said, Ah, you're not going to shoot me. I know you don't believe in in this. You believe in turning the other cheek. And then the man said something like, Yes, I do believe that, but right now I'm shooting at that at that spot right behind you on the wall, and if you don't move, you're going to be in trouble. And so he just sort of got around it by whatever he said. But there's a misunderstanding there. It's completely within the will of God. for you to get help when someone comes into your life to harm you or to harm those you love. It is not disobedience to turning the other cheek if you if you call the police. Okay, that's what I'm saying here. So in dealing with our enemies as Christians, we are allowed to make use of lawful government. Now, where do we have examples of that? In the New Testament. Well, if you look to the book of Acts, you have the Apostle Paul, and the Jews are trying to kill him. And so where does he end up? Who ends up rescuing Paul from his Hebrew brothers and sisters who are trying to kill him? The Romans And so Paul is in the safe custody of the Romans for a time at the end of his ministry where he ends up, we all think, in Rome. And he got there safely because of the government that God at that time ordained. Now, God does not ordain the evil things that governments do through history. Okay? Hitler was an evil man that should have been resisted, and that's a conversation for another day. But for now, when we look at Jesus and what he taught, and we look at the Apostle Paul and how he lived and what he wrote for example. We know that we can make use of government when we're dealing with people like that, that it's not a violation of love your enemies to call the police. So, where does that take us then? Well, if you go back to Luke again, and we're going to have to wrap this up because we have the Lord's table in an ordination service here to get to. There's a lot more that can be said. For example, Peter, 1 Peter, the entire theme of the book has to do with suffering when you don't deserve to suffer. And it talks about slaves. be suffering for nothing they've done and how they need to bear with that patiently. And Peter looks to Christ as the example in suffering when he didn't deserve it and yet he was willing to suffer for doing what is good. But primarily there is this focus on the imperative in this passage in Luke 6 to love, to love, to love our enemies. So who are our enemies right now? Seriously, who who is your enemy? How many of you have enemies that you need to love Anybody? No one here has any enemies? This passage is irrelevant to you? Okay, so so you have people who take up the banner of this or that and they resist God and they Speak ill of you, and they make themselves your enemy through how they treat you. This could be at a national level or at a local level or a personal level. And your response is supposed to love them. And here is really the frame up. And look at verse 32. But if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. If you lend to those from whom you hope to receive back, what credit is that to you, for even sinners lend to sinners to receive as much back? But love your enemies, do good and land, hoping for nothing in return, and your reward will be great. The outstanding one of, if not the number one outstanding characteristic of you, is that you and I as Christians are committed to doing what no one else does. Treating people in a way they don't deserve They borrow and you can decide. Are you going to let them keep that? Is that how practicing your love is going to work out in that situation? There is tough love. There is a court system. And we can make use of it, but how is it best to treat that person for the other person's sake and for Christ's name? We can have this freedom to respond. And so I want to leave you with this before we transition into the Lord's table. We live in politically unstable and confusing times. Um in my this is just my opinion now, I'm not saying thus saith the Lord on it, but you think about this. Has America ever been more fractured in its ideology than it is now, with all these different conflicting groups disagreeing with one another? And so we have political figures rising to prominence that that perhaps we have never had before or for some time. It's a day of opportunity for you. You get to stand up and do what Democrats don't typically do to Republicans And Republicans typically don't do for Democrats. And what now I'm not saying you have to agree with political views you don't agree with. That's not what I'm saying. There's still the like and not like. We're talking in the realm of love. You stand as a beacon of light in a lost and dying world. You're the man, you're the woman, you're the teenager who's not gonna let all this this smog of sin, you're not going to inhale that. You're just going to stand there and you're going to love everyone. You're going to just be unconditional about it. And people are going to look at you and say, what is up with that guy? Because I know I just read a whole lot of hate speech over there. And I know I just saw this on television, but I'm talking to my neighbor, and I know that this other person basically he took advantage of him. And they didn't react in anger and rage. They responded calmly and they dealt with the situation in such an amazing way. Who is that person And folks, isn't it true that when it comes to change in America, isn't there a sense in which you and your life can have more effect just on loving your enemy than any politician could if If they're tied up in politics and they just can't move forward, you are lights in the midst of a wicked and perverse generation. You can make a difference right now in this country, perhaps in a way that your parents and grandparents couldn't because things were more stable back then. The love of the people who are part of the kingdom of God, what could it accomplish in the next weeks and months leading up to this election? What could it accomplish? So let your voice of blessing and prayer be heard. We're not going to hold up placards at a funeral of a serviceman. We're not going to go out there and hate people. We have views. We have things that we believe. But we have to let our voice of love be heard somehow. Are you doing that? Or have you just become a part of the grumbling undercurrent, sort of the people that shoot at the other side, and you enjoy doing that? Or are you trying to lift yourself above that? This is not our home. We're just passing through. Peter talked about that. We're pilgrims in a foreign land. Can you do that? Can you follow Christ's example? It's hard. I'm not saying stop being a citizen of the United States. I'm not saying stop have political views. But somehow rise above that and whoever you're talking to, and no matter how outlandish the things they're saying, love that individual, love their family, love their life for Christ's sake.