All right, open your Bibles this morning to Ephesians. Back to Ephesians. We will be looking at Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. Ephesians 5, 1 and 2. Why do we meet? Why are we here? Why are we sitting in these pews on a Sunday morning? Well, the context here is we. Why are we doing this? Why are we sitting? Why are we here? There is this idea that the church is an assembly. Coming out of the world to meet together for mutual edification, for the apostles' doctrine, and for prayer. That's why we're here. We're here so that we can be we. Because when you're sitting at home, you are you and you are your family. When we come together like this, we have opportunity, I do, of rubbing shoulders with the people I love. Jesus. When confronted by some people who came to him and said, Hey, your mother and your brethren are standing out there, turned to the crowds and said, Those who do the will of my father are my mother, my sister. my brothers. And so together we are a Christian family. I rub shoulders with all of you. You rub shoulders with one another And we grow together as a result. You know, the worst thing that could happen to you is for no one to ever challenge you to do anything. Would that be terrible? What if your parents had never challenged you to go to school? What if your friend never never confronted you about a sin in your life? What if You broke yourself off from every relationship and you just sort of tried to do the social media thing on Facebook. And that was all you did. There's nothing worse than someone who is cut off from the life of God. Now that was actually more than just the sermon before the sermon. Because today we're looking at Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. Let's read those two verses and then we'll pray together. It says, be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love As Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. Let's pray together for a moment. Father, before we enter into this text and others, we pray, Lord, help us. Help us to lift up our eyes and to just see one another. What great opportunity is the Lord's day to gather and to exhort, encourage, and comfort one another. Father, we don't receive Christian comfort from our secular workplace. Sometimes we might work with a Christian, but by coming into a local church, oh Lord, help us, deliver us from just another Sunday. Just another church service. Help us, Father, to look to one another and to look to you and to love you and each other. Father, thank you for what you're going to do. I pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Identity and context are very, very important. Sometimes it's easy to reduce the Bible to a series of commands which don't really rest in any meaningful context. Context is so important, for example. If I were to meet you at five o'clock at your house and say, look, I really want you to get your fists ready because you're going to hit some stuff. You might look at me like I am crazy. If you didn't know the context was going to the gym to punch some punching bags. Did you know there are workouts where you punch punching bags? I had no idea. I just learned this, but you go and you punch. And you do it the right way and you work out and you burn calories. What if I were to say to you, you know what? Get your purple paint ready. Get your face all painted up nice and purple. I'll meet you at two o'clock. We have someplace to go. Now some of you might already know the context to which I'm alluding too. That would be a Ravens football game. But what if you didn't know the context and your pastor says, hey, paint your face purple. You're going to look at me like I'm crazy. What if I said to you, all right? I've got my tuxedo on and I expect you to get yours on. You might think, what? Unless you knew it was a wedding we were going to? Or or what if I said to you, hey, I expect that cake to be ready by six o'clock? You know, this is really important. You don't want these people to be upset. Well, if you knew it was a birthday party and they were waiting on your birthday cake, that would be fine. But if I just randomly said to you, think of this, folks. If I randomly said, no context, I want your face painted purple, I want you dressed in that tuxedo, I expect you to get ready to hit somebody What? Context is very important. And yet we do that with the Bible all the time. Don't drink alcohol. You need to make sure that you dress modestly. It's very important that you don't go to that part of the city. Make sure you don't Say a cuss word or use God's name in vain. And we start to pile up these lists now. Taken at face value, they are good commands. Personally, I am a teetotaler. Maybe some of you aren't, but yes, the scriptures say you're not to get drunk. So there's a little argument there over, you know, how to take that. But Leaving that issue aside for a moment, the whole idea of having commands is good, but there must, folks, there must be context. We are not philosophers. We are not just people who ascribe to a methodology. We are not like Scientology or or health fitness people who we believe in doing certain things, and that's kind of what we do. We are primarily Christians. And folks, when you get to the letters that Paul writes, he reasons with people from their identity and from the context of their Christianity. He doesn't do this, he doesn't say to people, Now he sometimes he does. But primarily he doesn't do it like we do with our kids, where we say, children, do this or you will be punished. That's the reasoning of a parent to a very small child. The child is just beginning to understand relationships, so you have to say, hey, if you do this. You're going to go sit in that corner for half an hour. And they go, oh, I don't want that, so I will obey. Now there are there is Hebrews. There is, hey, we better obey, or we're going to be chastened. But primarily you have in Romans, 1 Corinthians, Ephesians, Galatians, Philippians, Colossians, you have Paul reasoning with Christian adults And telling them, this is the way you should act, because, for example, you are alive. You were dead, but now you're alive Or, you know what, you were darkness, but now you're light. And so we have here in Ephesians 5, verse 1, really in Ephesians 4, 32, and all the way back through Ephesians. Context hammered at us again and again. If you look at chapter 2, verse 1, there it is. You were dead. Ephesians 2 verse 1, you were dead in trespasses and sins. Ephesians 2, verse 5, but now, you who were dead, you were quickened together with Christ. You've been made alive You, my friend, verse 10, are God's workmanship. God is building you and working on you, and so How should we act? You, my friend, remember verse 11, in times past you were like the Gentiles. Now you are not like that. Now you are part of the household of God, verse 19. And because of this, because of this, you should walk worthy. Chapter 4, verse 1. And there's so much more there. I'm just picking out little identity signposts and context. I therefore the prisoner of the Lord, this is chapter 4, verse 1, but beg you that you walk worthy of the calling wherewith you are called. So here is, I'm alive. I should act according to this new life in Christ, not as I used to act, and I have a calling because I am now placed in this body with other believers. Jew and Gentiles alike in the same body, so I have such a calling as this, so I should act a certain way. And then to be a little more specific with chapter 4. You have here the putting off and the putting on because there is this new man, verse 24. This is chapter 4, verse 24. that you put on the new man which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. There's things you have to change about yourself. Stop lying. Tell the truth. Be angry. We all get angry, but don't sin. And this behavior is all wrapped up into this new creation. Folks, God reasons to us, if we could put it this way, adult to adult. He tells you who you are. And so he says in verse 30, don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God. Do these things because you don't want to grieve him And then in verse 32, be like God. And in chapter 5, verse 2, be like Christ. Folks, it comes down to this. When Adam and Eve fell into sin, the image of God and humanity was marred. God is love and light and truth and holiness. And when Adam and Eve fell into sin, as they were created in God's image, they were marred and they followed the devil, who is the father of lies. And so we were, in a sense, remade in our fallenness, more like the devil than God. And so humanity has followed through history and done all these bad things. But God, who is rich in mercy, when we were dead, he's given life, new life. And so you, if you're here today as a Christian, you have now Something completely different. Old things are passed away. There is a newness to you. I have to stop here. Comma. Sh. When's the last time? You identified yourself. What is your primary identity? Who are you? You see, this newness is so radical, Jesus said to Nicodemus, it's like being born again. Jesus described it in terms of having, well, Paul and others, and you have an Ezekiel, there's this stony heart, and now there's this heart of flesh, this feeling heart, this new soul that we were prophesied to get. And so it's like it is. If I could just draw this out a little bit further. You are called to be like Christ and like God because of who you are now. So folks, it comes down to this. You don't define your identity by your hobbies, not first, by your behaviors. By your likes or dislikes. Have you ever done that? You've gone on the internet. I haven't done this, but I've heard of this. You put like. When it comes to your primary identity, that is irrelevant. You are first A Christian, and that's why we are to be like God. As we do this, the image of God is created in us. As we become more like Christ, we become more like God. You become the real you, the you that God intended if there had been no fall. The process is not really going to be complete in this life, but it will be the day you stand perfect before God. That brings me then to this verse. Chapter 5, verse 1. The word for followers is imitators. Be therefore imitators of God as dear children. And we're supposed to have a walk that is in love. Now, in verse 2, this walk of love or in love is compared to Christ. This is similar if you look a little bit further in chapter 5 and you look at verse 25. Look at that for a moment. Husbands, love your wife, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself. Look at chapter 5, verse 2. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, loved us, and hath given himself. The idea is the same. The call for husbands to love their wives as Christ loved the church is the same as the general call to all Christians to have this willingness to sacrifice self. For one another. Husbands, you and I have heard many sermons about how we are to love our wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself. Well, here's the idea for all of us. To give ourselves in the same way that Christ also gave himself for us. Now in verse 2, there are primarily two ideas here. One is offering and sacrifice that was offered to God The other is this effect, the sweet smelling savor. Now that is an odd expression to our ears, but it is primarily the idea of something that that is accepted by God. When Jesus died on the cross for us, it was acceptable. It was pleasing to God. Now, did God enjoy his son's suffering? He turned away. It was painful to the Father, if we could put it that way. Nonetheless, the Father was completely satisfied with the sacrifice God gave. So on the one hand, there is, it is an offering, it is a sacrifice to God. On the other hand, it is satisfying to God to do this. So let's start there. How important is love? And what does it mean to you? I appreciated Tim this morning talking about love in our Sunday school class, and I don't want to uh reiterate what he said, but do you realize how important this is in your Bible, this whole idea of love? Stern rebuke to the Galatians for leaving the gospel behind. You know Galatians chapter 1. But he says this after he goes through all of his arguments as to why legalism is bad. And how we should accept Christ and the gospel as our basis before God. He says in Galatians 5. 13, here's liberty. For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And of course, who said that? Who talked about the priority of love? Jesus. The great command: love God with everything and love your neighbor as yourself. So Paul is just going through this again. Philippians, he was ministering to a divisive congregation. He has to exhort them to unity in chapter 2. We see that, and this is what he says in Philippians 2 2. Don't have to turn there. Listen, I'll get as quickly as I can. Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love. Being of one accord and of one mind. He's correcting their disunity again with love. In Colossians, we have the same thing. In Colossians 3, 14, and above all these things, okay, Colossians the theme is Christ and our completeness in Christ alone. And in his list of exhortations, he says in chapter 3, verse 14. And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness or unity. Folks, there are many other passages I could give. Turn back to Ephesians chapter 5. This is key. Now, I've started out this sermon with a pre-sermon. about how important it is for us to assemble. One of the reasons it's so important is because you can't, it's very difficult. Let me put it this way. It's a challenge to love someone when you don't have a relationship with them. Have you ever tried to do something for someone you don't know? You can do that sometimes. It's possible. For example, I heard uh on Friday from Dale Murray, pray for him, he's down in uh Virginia doing a reenactment in order to evangelize the uh reenactors and people that come. But he told the story of a Christian commission uh officer who Let's see, uh a a girl, a little girl, she was seven years old, and she wrote a letter to someone who was fighting in the Civil War And that gentleman was so grateful for that letter that he put it in his pocket. And when he died, he had his Bible and that letter in his pocket. From that seven-year-old girl. It's possible to love people we don't know. That was just a project, I guess, that her mother had her do. But for us in the local church, it becomes very difficult. Very difficult if we never see each other, to love each other and to serve one another. So, let's be really practical. How many people in this room right now do you know their first and last name? Now we have visitors today, and welcome, all of you who are visiting. But how many people that regularly come do you know their first and last name? Hmm. Alright. How many of the people in this room? Obviously these are rhetorical questions, sort of, so don't answer out loud. Just think about this. How many people in this room do you know Well, let's do an easy one. Their favorite food. Or the food that they can't stand. That's an easy one. We usually talk small talk. Hey, let's go eat. All right, how about this one? How many people in this room can you count on the hand on one hand someone in this room that's going through a trial that you're aware of and you're praying for them? You know what it is, maybe no one else does. Do you know someone like this? The Bible says to rejoice with those who rejoice. So how about this? How it can you think of one person in this room who had something really great happen and you would you could rejoice with them. Part of love is serving one another, is giving ourselves, chapter 5, verse 2. He, Christ, gave himself for us in order to help us, and we should give in order to help one another. And love is a priority, so love is based on knowledge. What do you know about one another? This is an offering, secondly, in chapter 5, verse 2, it is an offering to God that he is satisfied with. Now this brings up something that perhaps you struggle with. I know I do. Do you ever know, have you ever sat down and said, thought to yourself, do I really please God? I mean, I want to hear, well done, good and faithful servant. I really want to hear that. I know I'm going to heaven. The blood bought me. The cross was for me. I'm a Christian. But am I really pleasing God in the here and now? I mean, I'm doing all this church stuff. We've got this pulpit, we've got blue carpet. It's always important to have curtains. I'm not demeaning any of these things, but we're involved in all this stuff. But is it pleasing to God? I want to do something that pleases God. Do you ever feel that way? Am I pleasing God this week? Folks, here it is, chapter 5, verse 2. When you love in the way that Christ loved, giving yourself, it is a sweet smelling savor to God. It is something that pleases God. Now, isn't that good to think about? You know what you and I typically think about I don't know. I won't insert anything there. I don't want to confess your sins. I know what mine are. But as far as is it there a tendency to be self-centered but or or doubt this? What a wonderful thought. When you sent that card, when you prayed with that person, when you prayed for that person. When you plowed that person's driveway, when you took them a meal, when you put your, you know, did serve someone in this congregation, God enjoyed that. That was pleasing to him. That was acceptable. It was the sweet-smelling savor to God. What a statement. What an amazing thing to think about. If that doesn't put a smile on your face. I'm not sure what will. So it's convicting. Love is a priority. It's hard for us to think about sometimes, but it's also something that can please God. What is the opposite of love? What's a contrast to love? Have you ever stopped to think about what could be a contrast? Would it be hate? Would it be apathy? What would the contrast to love be? Well, I've used Samson as an illustration a couple of times recently, and I'm afraid I'm going to have to use him as an illustration again today. He was a man who followed his appetites wherever they went, whether it was His taste buds, which led to the carcass of a lion that he should not have eaten from when there was honey within it, whether it was his sexual desires, where he followed this woman or that woman Samson is a sad illustration of someone who pursued his own personal gratification, it appears, fairly consistently through his whole life. And we also find in the New Testament, when there are statements about love, there are this contrast, these contrasting statements that seem to be wedged up against the love statements to offer a stark. Contrast. Look at verse 3. But fornication, that's sexual immorality, and all uncleanness or covetousness. Let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, not suitable, not appropriate but rather giving a thanks. Now I don't have time to get into those two verses, but we'll save that for next week. But I'm just pointing out that the contrast to love here seems to be this sexual immorality, uncleanness, and covetousness. On the one hand, there is the giving of to serve others, and on the other hand, there is: I want that person and I want that thing. I don't care how dirty I have to be to get it. And that is not verse 3, becoming of saints. Alright, so where do you fit in here? It's hot. We're tired. We want to go home. What can you take home? All right. Two things. Number one: when you encounter a sermon like this, test yourself. You could be sliding into something you don't want to slide into. Go to God and say, Lord, am I loving other people like I should? That's sort of the exhortation. On the other hand, allow yourself to be comforted. Because if you are loving other people, you're pleasing God in that way. Exhortation, comfort