Good evening. We'll be back in Colossians. And the portion we'll focus on today is Colossians 3:18. Through chapter four, verse one. Before we get to that, I want to review the framework of Colossians, as we've been focusing on the different parts, we've seen that Paul lays out a framework for his letter in his beginning prayer. So he frames his this whole letter in the prayer in the beginning and he he gives us the clue as to the different parts of Colossians In Colossians 1, verse 4 and 5, Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth. So there are two parts of this book of Colossians that we have been going over. The first part we covered from chapters 1 to chapter 2, verse 5, and that was all about the gospel. That was the doctrinal section of Colossians. the underpinning of our faith. And then from Colossians 2, verse 6 through chapter 4, verse 6, the part we're in the middle now, the focus is on the fruit that the gospel produces. And in chapter two, verse six, we we kind of see both of these parts as this particular verse acts as a bridge between them. In Colossians 2, verse 6, as ye therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. So before that, the discussion was about how we received Christ through the gospel, specifically highlighting the preeminence of Christ. In the gospel. And then from six onward, it talks about how the gospel affects how we live. The fruit of the gospel that is produced in our lives. And Paul structures the second main idea of the results of the gospel in terms of our changed identity. So the past couple weeks we discussed the change of identity that we have in Christ. And Paul grounds this change identity. In the purposes of God, in that we are chosen by God and called into one body. The gospel then transforms the heart to renew not only our relationship to God, but also to renew our relationships to each other. Paul emphasizes the centering fruit of our renewed spirit as that of love for one another, which is derived from exalting Christ as our all-in-all. Love then undergirds all our renewed behaviors, including holiness, and love functions as a spring which leads to peace in the body of Christ and flourishing in the Word of Christ. Thus, Paul's main point in our section today is because of our identity in Christ, we should love Christ. And we're going to look at three aspects of loving Christ. First, we're going to see that we should love Christ as the centering motive of our life. Second, we should love Christ because of God's love for us. And third, we should love Christ in all of our relationships. Let's go to head a word of prayer before we get into the message today. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for who you are. We praise you that you are a God who loves us and you've shown us that love in the person of your son, Jesus Christ. We see that in his glory as the divine Son of God. We see that in his humility, in taking on humility. humanity and bringing redemption and reconciliation through the cross. We praise you for these great truths that we praise We've learned about in Colossians. And we pray that as we discuss the effects of the gospel and how that changes who we are and how we behave. I pray that you'd give me wisdom and knowledge and the ability to articulate the truth of your word, and that we all be grown in you. in some way because of what you have taught me, and I pray that what will be c what will be communicated this evening. In your holy and precious name we pray. Amen So the main point, because of our identity in Christ, we should love Christ. First, we should love Christ as the centering motive of our life. life. We see this coming up throughout the book. If you look at Colossians 1 verse 27, to them God will to make known what are the riches of a glory of this mystery among the Gentiles. Which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. In Colossians 3, verses 3 to 4. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. And then in again in chapter three, verses eleven through fourteen. Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and in all. So we see that this idea of Christ is our centering. motive. He is the all-in-all. He's the hope of glory. And he is Our life. These are descriptions showing the role that Christ has in us. And then Paul goes from that centering figure of Christ. To the idea of love. And in verses twelve to fourteen, Paul writes, Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long suffering, bearing with one another, and forgiving one another. If anyone has a c a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. But above all these, put on love, which is the bond of perfection. So we see Paul centers on this idea of love. He lifts love up above all these things. And what is it that we're supposed to be loving? This is a crucial point because there's many things in this world that we could love. There are many whether personalities or objects that are vying for our love. And what Paul is presenting here is that we should love Christ first and foremost. He's been leading us up to this Through wording of Christ is our all-and-all. Christ is our life. Christ is the hope of glory. And so our love for Christ, that is the bond of perfection. It's important that we don't think that love for each other is the bond of perfection. We're going to talk about how those two relate, but first we must have as our first principle that our love for Christ is. Is that motive that is the first motive in our life? Love for Christ is the fountain of all other virtues, as just stated here in verse 14. We see in 12 to 14 several different examples. Bearing with one another, forgiving one another, tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long suffering. And Paul kind of gives us his list of virtues. And he lists love as the one that is above all else. Holiness. Holiness apart from our love for Christ brings judgment. If we lift holiness above love, we have an imbalance. We see this imbalance in Revelation 2, 2 to 5, when Paul is talking, not Paul, in this case is John, is talking to the church of Ephesus. He says, I know your works, your labor, your patience, and you cannot bear those who are evil, and you have tested those who say they are apostles and are not, and have found them liars, and you have persevered and have patience and have laboured for my name's sake, and have not become weary. Nevertheless I have this against you. That you have left your first love. Remember, therefore, from where you have fallen, repent and do the first works, or else I will come to you quickly, and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. So what we have here is we have a first the list sounds pretty good when you look at this Ephesians church. We see that they have tested those who are not apostles. They have tested false doctrine and false teachers and found them to be false. They have persevered and they have had patience and they have great labors. And yet, what they forgot in all their activity is they forgot their first love. They forgot the love that is supposed to motivate and center all other loves, and that is their love for Christ. They've forgotten Colossians. 3. 14. That love for Christ is what is important, and all other loves are centered around that. We see that love for Christ is the binding principle of maturity. If you look to verse 14, and you're going to see that word. Bond of perfection, that phrase rather. The word bond there is that which brings various entities into a unified relationship, a uniting bond This word is used in several different word pictures in secular Greek. It was used for fastenings that hold the various parts of a ship together So that if you had a ship and you had the different parts that connect it together, this word would be used for that. A uniting bond. It brought together the different parts of the ship. that the ship would function as it was supposed to. It's also used for ligaments of the body. I think we're all pretty aware of how important ligaments are to our body. If we don't have ligaments in our body, we're we're gonna have trouble functioning in many different different ways. And so we see that what this love for Christ is, is it's like that a ship. And it connects things together so it can So as the body of Christ, love is that connecting bond that allows us to function in the way that we were created to function. And love for Christ is a mark of being in Christ. We see in John 13, 35, by this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. Another. That love for one another is an extension of our love for Christ. For we know that the concept of idolatry is something that we all struggle with. We don't bow down to physical idols. But the idolatry of loving someone else or something else apart from Christ or above Christ is definitely a real struggle in our hearts Like I said before, there are other different loves are vying for our attention. Different people have different weaknesses. I mean each have something that that that's seeking to bring us into it. love. Those who love sports, that can be a big problem. Sports can become the focus and love for sports can supersede It can be more exciting to think of listening to the next game or watching the next game or being involved in the next in the next sports activity, and that becomes more exciting than coming to church. That becomes more exciting than reading. reading the Bible. And that happens and there are times in my life where I've looked more for looked forward to a particular game and that has superseded my love for reading scripture, praying, and spiritual Spiritual activities. Other people have different weaknesses, whether it be food, whether it be movies, you you can just name the list of things in this world that the world puts in front of us and that calls out to us. But the setting motive of our life must be love for Christ. All sins flow from a misplaced. Love. Anger and frustration in life flow from this idea of misplaced love. Our love for something else is thwarted in some way until we become angry and frustrated. Envy flows from misplaced love. We begin to love an object or something calls us to become dissatisfied with our current state. And instead of loving Christ and being satisfied in Him, we become envious of what's of something someone else has. All sins can be boiled down to a misplaced love, where love for Christ is distorted and becomes secondary to our love of something else. So far as for Paul's first point is we should love Christ as a centering motive of our life. Second, we should love Christ because of God's love for us. This is referred to specifically in verse 12. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, longsuffering. And then referred to again in verse fifteen, let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful. These two words are referring to the love of God, the first being that of election, and the second one being that of called. in one body, referring to God's love for his people. He chose us to be his people. He called us into one body through the gospel. And Paul in Ephesians says, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Think of all the ways in which God organized your life so that you would know Him. You were born in a certain time and a certain place. You were given certain access to the gospel that other people in this world were not given. You're being included in Christ is not specifically your idea. You were loved by God, even when an enemy of God. Romans 5. 8. But God demonstrates his love toward us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Satan tries to make us fumble by trying to convince us that God has abandoned us or doesn't care about us or is just too busy to be bothered with us. He attacks how much Christ loves us. In our hearts and tries to get us to believe the lie that Christ has abandoned or let us down in some way. On the flip side, Satan wants us to believe that we had something to do with God loving us Like the song and sound of music, the familiar song, which reads, Perhaps I had a wicked childhood, perhaps I had a miserable youth. But somewhere in my wicked, miserable past, there must have been a moment of truth. For here you are standing there loving me, whether or not you should. So somewhere in my youth or childhood, I must have done something good. Nothing comes from nothing, nothing ever could. So somewhere in my youth or childhood, I must have done something. Something good. And that's the theology behind that song is the singer there Maria, she must have done something good for some for good things to happen to her. The blessings she was receiving are inherently coming to her because there's something she did. Some right choice or some right action had brought about the eventual blessing. In her life. Satan loves to get us either to doubt God's love or get us to believe that we had something to do with God loving us, some way of earning God's favor. In reality, God has never abandoned us, but has loved us from the beginning, and has worked the circumstances of life that we might know Him. Thus Paul writes in Romans eight twenty-eight. And we knew that all things work together for good, to those who love God, and to those who are the called according to his purpose. So we should love Christ because he loved us first. As it's stated in 1 John 4. 19, we love him because he first loved us Us. Not only should we love Christ above all else, not only should we love Christ because He first loved us, but third, we should love Christ in all of our relationships. So verses 18 to 4. 1 is an extensive list, ways in which we should love Christ in our relationships. Paul highlights several different relationships that we're going to go through. First, we should love Christ in our local fellowship. This is seen in several places in verses 9 to 17. But first I want us to see a point here that is important and we often, at least I for a long time had not considered seriously. The church functions as the foundational structure for the kingdom society. Let me explain what I mean. If you go to Colossians 1, verse 13. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of his love. So there are two kingdoms that are functioning in this world. We have the kingdom of this world. That the Bible talks extensively about, where Satan rules, where death rules, where sin has power. And then we have the kingdom of his son, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And both these kingdoms are are overlapping as we experience life in this present age. Either we are in the one kingdom of Satan, the kingdom of darkness, or we are transferred to the kingdom. Of Jesus Christ. In verse 215, in Colossians 2, verse 15, he talks about what it is to be in the kingdom of Christ. Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it, talking about in the cross. So at the cross, there was this decisive battle in which Christ defeats sin and the regime of death. He triumphs over the powers of darkness. When we are redeemed and reconciled and have faith in Christ, we enter into this state of victory in which Christ has vanquished our foes. This fundamentally transforms our identity, who we are. And how we are to act in this world because we have indeed switched kingdoms. And so as Paul is discussing the different relationships that we have We must remember who we are in Christ and who we are in the kingdom of God. As Paul talks about loving Christ above all else, He's speaking specifically in a framework of a changed life in the kingdom of God. Peter highlights this In 2 Peter 2, 9-10, Peter talks about us being a kingdom of priests, mediating the presence of God for the nations. 2 Peter 2, 9-10. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. That you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, who once were not a people, but now are the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but have now obtained mercy. We are in fact a world priesthood. We are a kingdom of priests. And our role in this world is to bring others into the kingdom, to bring others into this relationship with Christ. That together, as one body, as one kingdom, we might glorify God. We are called to be salt and light of this earth. To be ambassadors for the King of Kings who has conquered and vanquished the kingdom of darkness. But how do we do this practically? That's a lot of words being being thrown out there. How do we experience victory in the kingdom of God? And many times we think in terms of missions in this sense. We refer to the kingdom of God and the advance of the kingdom of God in in missional terms. We think of missionaries that go to different countries and spread the gospel, and that becomes how we think of the the kingdom of God expanding. But there's another way to understand the kingdom of God and how it relates to us. And not merely segregated to The other way to look at it is it's how we as a church function here in our mission in our local communities The church functions as a center for our growth in Christ. And all that we do and all the relationships that we have, they're founded upon who we are as the body of Christ. Christ. We are called into one body, as stated in verse 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body. This reign, this reign of peace. in the kingdom of God over us in the body transforms all the different experiences we have in life. It transforms our familial relationships. It transforms our societal relationships. It transforms our relationships within the local fellowship. We are not merely the church when we enter the building. We function as the church wherever we are. This is kind of the point that Jesus was making in John. And John 2 he talks about and he dwelt with us. Talking about Jesus, he tabernacled with us. We are the temple, but it's a movable temple. Unlike the Old Testament, where the temple was in one place. To experience the presence of God, you had to go to the temple, and you had to do specific things in the temple in which to relate to God. But now Christ has tabernacled, he's templed, he's brought the temple to us. Again, in John 4, talking to the the woman at the well, Jesus said, You shall worship me in spirit and in truth. In the context of a worship setting of John 4, where the woman at the well was wondering where to worship, in Jerusalem or or on the mountain in Samaria. Where was the place of worship? And Jesus specifically pulls her thinking away from a specific place. Away from the idea of a physical temple or a physical place of worship, but says that you are going to worship in spirit and in truth. Thus in the New Testament, we are called the temple of God. Because God's presence is no longer confined to a building, but has been transferred from a building to a Our hearts. And so as the body of Christ, we are the temple of God to all those around us. By pointing others to Christ, we mediate the presence of God as priests. This is a vital function of who we are. And we are to perform this function in all the different aspects of our lives. So Paul begins to point out different ways in which we do this. He first points out local fellowships. Churches meeting together like today, meeting together, gathering together to worship Him. This is seen in verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you, richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. These are the things that would happen with the assembly when they got together. the singing of hymns and spiritual songs, the teaching of scripture, the admonishing one another. These were particularly public activities that I talked about in Timothy And in Acts, things that the church is supposed to do when they gather together publicly. And so we are a part of the kingdom in our specific gathering together. As the body of Christ, as citizens of the kingdom. Second, we should love Christ in our familiar relationships So the identity as the local as the body of Christ extends to our family relationships. Thus, in verses 18 all the way through 21, he goes through different parts of the family and shows how we are to love Christ in the family, how we to express our identity. as citizens of the kingdom, how that transforms how we behave in our different roles within the family unit. So we see some specific exhortations and commands. In verse 18, wives submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Paul begins with the wives, commanding them to love their husbands by submitting to them. The word for submit is to follow instructions, obey, follow, be subject to. We're quite familiar with these exhortations. Well thought what was interesting was the second part of that. Submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Although what does exactly mean as is fitting in the Lord? Well, it basically means what is appropriate. So there is appropriate times to submit, and I guess, based on the wording of the word, there are inappropriate times in which submit Would occur. I think this is important to note because there are the misconceptions of of how the Christian church is supposed to function. One of them is That wives are just supposed to do whatever the husband says. And so you have abusive relationships that are defended by, supposedly defended, by words like this, by why submitting the husband. husbands. But that's not the biblical doctrine. Why are you just first to submit as is appropriate, not just to whatever demands. This is not a tyrannical relationship. But one in which there are rules that govern it to protect both the wife, the husband, the children, all within the family unit. Then Paul moves to the husbands. He commands them to love their wives by not causing them to become bitter. And verse 19: Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. The the the translation here is a little confusing to me because where it says, do not be bitter toward them, the meaning is to cause bitter feelings and bitter uh to make bitter. I think a better understanding would be the husbands are not to cause their wives to become bitter. Not necessarily for husbands not to be bitter against their wives. But the idea is they shouldn't act in such a way that causes their wives to become bitter toward them or have bitter feelings toward them. Now how is this to be accomplished? Well if we move over to Ephesians five real quick, because Ephesians five is more explicit in these regards. In Ephesians five we see three ways in which husbands are to love their wives. And we'll read from verses 25 to 33 in Ephesians chapter 5. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word. And he might present and present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing. But that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his wife, I'm sorry, for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Nevertheless, let each of you in particular should love his own wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. So we see the first way that Paul talks about how husbands are to love their wives is they are to love their wives as Christ loved the church. That's a pretty tall order. Because we all know exactly how Christ loved the church. That involved him making a sacrifice of his life. Life. And so it's a sacrificial love that is supposed to be present in the life of the husband. Again, a husband that is sacrificially loving his wife is unlikely to cause her to become bitter against him. And in such a case, it's likely that the wife would find it appropriate to submit to him Husbands are to love their wives as their own self. The second way that Paul brings up. He says in verse 28: so husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. And third, husbands are to love their wives in an understanding manner. This goes along with the first point of loving them, loving their wives as Christ loved the church. Peter brings this out specifically in 1 Peter 3 7. Husbands likewise dwell with them with understanding, giving honor to the wife as to the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. hindered. What Peter brings out here is is the spiritual connection between husband and wife. That becomes the foundation for understanding this unique relationship. The spiritual part is what undergirds and gives meaning to marriage. And so anything that occurs within marriage is primarily in first a spiritual matter. It is deep. And it is profound. It's a picture of how Christ loves the church. It's supposed to be a picture to the world of the gospel. Thus, husbands are to love in an understanding way, giving honor to the wife, as being heirs together of the grace of life So acting within the family unit, husband and wife, in a way that is not honoring to God, whether it be the wife, not submitting to the husband, not seeing the husband as the leader in the Home, or the husband being harsh or causing bitterness in the heart of the wife. Whichever position is taken, we must understand that as Christians, this is a spiritual. Deeply spiritual thing. And that conflict within the marriage will also create conflict with our relationship with Christ. He then goes on to talk about children. Children are commanded to love their parents by obeying them. This one is pretty simple, pretty straightforward. Verse 20 Children obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Lord. Growing up, I think I heard this command in scripture quite a lot. And all those who grow up in Christian households, it's a it's a well-repeated command by the parents. And it is supposed to be that way. Children are supposed to be brought up in the fear of the Lord. They're supposed to be taught to obey their parents. And so, children, they love Christ by loving. their parents by obeying their parents. But there's also a responsibility of parents in this relationship too. In verse 21, fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. So there's a responsibility of the fathers to behave in such a way that the children are not provoked. So we see again that within the family relationships, God has put together a system in which there are checks and balances. There's not tyranny here, but there is love in all aspects of the relationships. Love for Christ is the highlight. That is again, that's what connects the family unit is love for Christ. How does the wife love for Christ? She follows the lead of her husband and submits to him. How does the husband love Christ within the family unit? Well, he loves his wife. He sacrifices for his wife. He honors her. He behaves toward her in an understanding manner. How does the children show their love for Christ, they do that by obeying their parents. How do fathers show their love for Christ? They do that by bringing up the children in the in the in the fear of the Lord and not provoking them to anger or to sin by misusing their authority. Thus, we see how the kingdom of God should function in our families. And a third way that Paul talks about. How we are to behave in the kingdom of God and how being the body of Christ informs how we live within life. He focuses then we should love Christ in our societal relationships. And Paul doesn't leave anything to our imagination. He doesn't leave any part or any sphere of our life open to our own ideas of how we should rule that part of our life Paul speaks to all aspects of life. The assembly, local church, meeting together, the family, and our roles within society at large. He speaks of the relationship between servants and masters. This would be the primary relationship within the societal world of that time. Again, over 90% of the known world at that time were slaves. So by servants, he's referring mostly to slaves. In our context, it would be the the worker, the common worker. So, what are ways in which we love Christ in our society? In the different roles we play there. First, servants are to work. are to love Christ by obeying their masters. In verse 22 to 25, bondservants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh. Not with eye service as men pleasers, but in sincerity of heart fearing God. And whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord, not to men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance, for you serve the Lord Christ. But he who does wrong will be repaid for what he has done, and there is no partiality. Masters Give your bond servants what is just in fear, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. So servants are to work for Christ. They had to recognize their primary master is not their earthly boss, but their primary master is Christ. Servants within the kingdom, they work from a sincere heart and sincerity of heart. They work in the fear of the Lord. Servants receive the rewards of their service through Christ. Christ will reward good service, and Christ will judge poor service. I'm sure we've all experienced in this world as workers bosses or superiors that we're not ideal superiors. So if you've been fortunate to have a really good superior, this is much easier to follow. If you have really great benefits and it's just a great work environment and everybody's just chummy at work. It's easier to to obey this command. You have earthly incentives in order to work hard. If you can see if you work in a good environment or promotions are coming at a regular rate and you're being compensated for what you're doing, we we get we are easily motivated by these factors. But Paul doesn't make any distinguishing any distinguishing marks here. He doesn't say that all for the good was. should be motivated. But for the bad boss, it really doesn't matter. Just kind of do whatever, but don't be too overly concerned about it. Paul Paul does is he takes the human boss completely out of the picture and simply says, we serve Christ. Verse 24, for you serve the Lord Christ. Thus it doesn't matter who your earthly boss is, your earthly siblings Whether he's good or whether he's bad, whether he gives good benefits or no benefits, whether the pay is good or or rather poor, whether the working work environment is full of conflict or is stress-free. And in either scenario, we serve Christ. And so our work should reflect Christ. It should not fluctuate depending on who our superior is. Again, I say this because it's something I deal with a lot in my own life. And I'm struggling and working and praying in my own life how I ought to apply that. specific scenario. I know many of us have been in that situation before as well. But what about masters? What about those who are the superiors? And I'm sure some of you have also been superiors. I'm not sure exactly, but if you are, there are specific responsibilities in this role as well. The two master The master or the superior must understand that the true master over all masters is Christ. The true superior is Christ. Again, there's a limit then to his authority. The only one who possesses absolute authority is Christ. And all other authorities are limited by the authority that Christ has. Superiors under Christ ought to treat their servants justly and fairly. So again, from the superiors' perspective, whether the worker is a really great worker or a really poor worker. He ought to treat both fairly and justly. There are to be no favorites. And the rationale for that is the same We were to have the perspective that God has. That there are not favorites. There is not partiality. As in verse 25, but he who does wrong will be repaid for what he has done, and there is no partiality. Christ, as the perfect judge, is an impartial judge. As the perfect master or superior, he is impartial. And we are to emulate that as much as possible. If we have subordinates, we were to treat them fairly and justly without partiality. So we see, because of our identity in Christ, That we should love Christ. First, we should love Christ as the centering motive of our life. All other love should be subordinated to our love for Christ. And flow from our love to Christ. Second, we should love Christ because He first loved us. We've been called into the body of Christ. And the whole first portion of Colossians is spent in talking about how much Christ loved us. Through redemption and reconciliation by triumphing over the powers of darkness in the cross. And third, we should love Christ in all our relationships As we live in this world as citizens of the kingdom of God, having been transferred transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of His Son, we are to behave in ways that honor and glorify our King. Whatever sphere of life that we find ourselves in, whether we be in the local assembly, loving Christ should Be first and foremost. Whether we are in a family unit, we are to structure our family lives and roles and responsibilities as defined by Scripture, not defined by the world. As the world would like us to be. We are not of the world. We are of Christ. Christ is our master. He defines how we are to relate to each other in our family relationship And third, we should love Christ in our societal relationships. Whether you be a superior or whether you be the worker. Whatever scenario you find yourself, we are to work hard as the Lord because we serve Christ. Love for Christ should motivate us to be the best workers, the best superiors, the best citizens. Because Christ is our judge, not man. So let us love Christ first, and everyone and everything else second. Let us define our love for others by our love for Christ. Let us take confidence in Christ's love for us, knowing that He loves us and He's working in us. Let us love our families as commanded by the Lord If a wife, submit and follow the lead of your husband. If a husband, love your wife and dwell in a manner that is appropriate and that is a keeping With your knowledge of her. Children, obey your parents. Workers, work hard and submit to your earthly authorities, knowing that Christ is your ultimate authority And authorities, superiors, treat your subordinates justly and fairly, knowing that there is one judge who will judge you for how you interact and judge those under you.