This week I stumbled upon an article written by a therapist entitled Fear of Rejection: Behaviors and Consequences. We've all been there. Situations include interviews, business transactions. dating, marriage, pastoral search committee, dissertation defense. Those are some of my personal I found the behaviors that come from the beer more interesting. They include phoniness, people pleasing. Unassertiveness, passive aggressiveness, manipulation, frustration Now the world labels these issues mental health problems, but we know better than that We know that the fear of rejection begins in the Garden of Eden with the entrance of sin. Every human being save one has followed the pattern of Adam and Eve so that the alienating power of sin in our lives is real, not just the phobia. But we also know that Jesus, the better Adam, was rejected for our sake. He faced the consequences of our transgressions and evil. The wrath of hell, separation from the Father at the cross. Now with the veil torn and the tomb empty, as we celebrated last week, and as we celebrate every week. We find acceptance with God through faith in Jesus Christ. We don't have to earn or work for it. So, as Christians, we of all people should live in confidence and peace, not in fear of rejection, right? If God of the universe, the creator of the universe, accepts me, why should I care if the world rejects me? Why should I feel insecure if I'm secure in Christ? Well, we still live in our corruptible bodies and we live in a fallen world. And we're not there yet in the kingdom of God. Remember, God accepted us on the basis of Jesus' completed work, even though we are definitely a work in progress. And that's why we have the four gospels, not only as the basis of salvation, to stand on Jesus' works But also as the basis for our sanctification to follow after Jesus' example. Jesus is a man secure in his identity. who did not succumb to the fear of rejection. Now before you say to me, well Jesus is God, so he doesn't understand what I'm going through Remember that Luke wants to emphasize Jesus as the ideal man. We talked about that. Luke also emphasizes The operation of the Holy Spirit and prayer in Jesus' ministry more than Matthew and Mark. That means while we cannot match Jesus in his divinity, we can imitate him. In his humanity. And in one aspect of Jesus' life, we're going to talk about the manner in which he spoke. In spite of opposition and rejection. Obviously, we stumble in our word often, but if we imitate Christ, we can speak with confidence in the Holy Spirit and with loud of prayer. So last time we were in Luke, we looked at chapter 4, verses 1 to 15. Why don't you turn there as I talk about a little bit? We saw Jesus overcoming his temptations in the wilderness and returning to Galilee, the region where he grew up. He began his ministry in the power of the Spirit, teaching in synagogues of various towns in Galilee. Today we will look at Jesus' activity in two cities. And we just sang about them. Sang about one of them, Nazareth. And then we're going to talk about Coperna as well in Galilee. So let's turn to chapter 4, verse 16, and we will read from there to verse 37. Luke chapter 4. Verse sixteen, all the way to verse thirty seven So he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind. To set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. Then he closed the book and gave it back to the attendant and sat down And the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. So all bore witness to him and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is this not Joseph's son? He said to them, You will surely say this proverb to me, physician, heal yourself. Whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also hear in your country. Then he said, Assuredly I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you truly, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah. When the heaven was shut up three years and six months, and there was a great famine throughout all the land. But to none of them was Elijah sent except to Zarephath in the region of Sidon To a woman who was a widow. And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian. So all those in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath, and rose up and thrust them out of the city, and they led him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built. and th that they might throw him down over the cliff. Then passing through the midst of them he went his way. Then he went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and was teaching them on the Sabbath. And they were astonished at his teaching, for his word was with authority. Now in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon. And he cried out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the demon had thrown him in their midst, it came out of him and did not hurt him. Then they were all amazed and spoke among themselves, saying, What a word this is! For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out. And the report above him went out into every place in the surrounding region. Structurally speaking, we can divide up this passage into two or three parts. For the two part, as my sermon title suggests, we can say Jesus ministers. In two cities, Nazareth and Caperna. And we gather from verse 23 that Jesus had already begun his ministry in Capernaum before arriving in his hometown. So this incident at Nazareth did not happen until later. That's why Matthew records it in chapter 13 of his work and Mark in the chapter 6 of his. But Luke decided to narrate the Nazareth rejection first. That's because one of Luke's interests in telling the story of Jesus is to present him as the rejected prophet. He wanted to emphasize that right from the onset, Jesus was rejected by his own. So he knows what that feels like And we also understand, practically speaking, why Jesus chose Capernaum as his base of operations for his ministry. So as I was reflecting upon this passage, I thought it would be better to divide up the verses into three parts instead of two, with three interactions of the crowds who heard Jesus speak. So we read in the middle of verse 22 that the Nazarites marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. So I say that verses 16 to 22 is the first unit in which Jesus spoke with grace. And I have these points in the sermon, um sermon notes page. on your handout on your bulletin. In verses twenty-eight to thirty, Luke records the angry response of the same Nazarites when Jesus rebuked them. We have our second unit from verses 23 to verse 30. Jesus spoke with disapproval. Finally, in verses 36 and 37, residents of Capernaum are amazed at Jesus' exorcisms and spread the news of Jesus. So that means in Luke verses 31 to 37, chapter 4, Jesus spoke with authority. Three times Jesus spoke and three times people reacted and in no instance were they lukewarm in response. So let's look at each section. First, Jesus spoke with grace. So we learn from verse 16 that Jesus was a regular attendee of Saturday synagogue gathering in Nazareth. while he was growing up. So if you know anyone who doesn't attend worship services regularly, tell him or her that Jesus did. Okay? So Now, Jesus' reputation was already well known as a teacher, so the congregation was eager to listen to him speak. He reads from the scroll a portion of Isaiah sixty-one. You see in verses. 18 and 19, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted. To proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. After reading, Jesus returned the scroll, sat down, and that's how they taught, right? And began teaching. Luke captures The essence of Jesus' commentary on the words from Isaiah in verse 21 of Luke 4. Today the scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. Simple as that. In verse 22, the audience marvel at this message of grace. So how are Jesus' scripture reading and this very simple message? Gracious words, words of grace. Well, consider first the recipients of this message from Isaiah. In verse 18, Isaiah speaks of the poor, the brokenhearted, the captives, the blind, those who are oppressed. Jesus' words are for the worst victims of sin, and we should strategically take the gospel to such people. And as we talked about in the announcements, we can do that on multiple rescue missions. And there's people all around us who fit into those categories. Let's be aware of them. Because when people are acutely aware of sin and its damaging consequences, we have the wonderful opportunity to share the good news. Jesus is the one who ultimately cures the problem of evil. Give them the good news. Now, Jesus speaks with grace here, not only by what he says, but also by what he does not say. Consider how in verse 19 Jesus finishes his reading with to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. You might be like, well, that seems like a good place to end. But if you were reading Isaiah 61, you would notice that Jesus actually stopped mid-sentence. It's as if he read only a part of a verse. Turn with me to Isaiah 61 and I'll show you what I mean. Isaiah 61, and I'm just gonna read verses one and two. I'm gonna read um from there, okay The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted. To proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn. Now if you have the New King James Version, the King James Version, English Standard Version, or the Holman Christian Standard Bible. You see how in Isaiah 61 verse 2, Jesus stops at the comma. Even though the thought more naturally ends with the semicolon after and the day of vengeance of our God. Why didn't Jesus include that part? Was Jesus trying to be all about grace and leave out God's wrath? Hardly, just keep on reading the gospels and you'll see that our Lord never shied away from fire and brimstone preaching No, the reason Jesus didn't mention the day of vengeance of our God was because he was stressing the fulfillment of scriptures in his first advent More specifically, what was fulfilled that Saturday with this coming to that town. Between Jesus' first and second coming, we have this longer period of the acceptable year of the Lord. But when Jesus returns, unbelievers have every reason to fear the day of vengeance of our God. When Isaiah and other prophets in the Old Testament recorded their predictions about the Messiah, they did not know that the Messiah would come in two stages. We know as God progressively revealed his plan to us that Jesus has two advents and we're standing right in between. So that the fullness of Gentiles would come in, and what does fullness of Gentile mean? In other words, Jesus comes to earth twice. so that many people from all over the world and across many generations would have a chance to hear the gospel and enter the kingdom. If God desired, he could have just ended history in the first century. But he didn't. He wanted his kingdom packed. with people from all over the world and across twenty centuries and counting. Twenty twenty-one centuries. And there's still room for more And that's why we support missionaries. That's why we evangelize. There's still room in the kingdom. Praise God that Jesus' gracious words and the acceptable year of the Lord continues today. So that we can receive the words of grace and be accepted by the Lord and tell others to hear Jesus' words of grace. But in the second half of verse 22, we see that not everyone is excited about Jesus. Some question the authority of Jesus, as you say, familiarity breeds contempt. Is this not Joseph's son? They said. How could the neighborhood boy, the son of the ordinary carpenter, be speaking to us like this? Here we begin to see the rejection motif in the narrative. And that leads to the second point. Jesus spoke with disapproval. You know, since I'm such a passive, aggressive person, if I was Jesus, I think I would have just ignored the remark at the verse uh in the verse 22 and just kept on preaching. But thank God I'm not Jesus. And the real Messiah does not ignore our evil unbelief. He talks about it openly. In verses 23 to 27, Jesus directly addresses the unbelief of the crowds. Physician, heal yourself is an ancient Greek proverb cited in Aesop. And Jesus cites it here, it's essentially a sarcastic criticism of someone who can help others but can't help him or herself. Sure sounds like the mocking at the cross. If Jesus is the Messiah, they're thinking, he should benefit himself by performing some miracles in his hometown. But really if you think about it, they were the ones who really wanted to benefit. They were probably getting tired of Jesus preaching on and on and Like where's the miracle? You know, where's the wonders and signs? We want to see those. That's what we came out for They came to the synagogue for a show. Sadly, sounds like some many church attenders today. Worse, it sounds like the temptation of the devil in the wilderness. Do a little miracle. Promote yourself. Jesus straightforwardly tells the audience what they were thinking in their hearts. They have disapproved of Jesus, and now Jesus speaks to them with disapproval. He is unwelcome home. But Jesus is not discouraged. And he remembers, remember Jesus read us reads the Bible. The same rejection happened to two prophets in the Old Testament who performed many miracles. Now, when I think of Elijah and Elisha, I immediately think of the confrontation with the prophets of Baal at Mount Carmel. And then I think about with Elisha, the vision of the horses and chariots of fire. Those are some spectacular miracles. There are many miracles to choose from, but Jesus deliberately chose miracles performed for foreigners. He was a master teacher here. One miracle was for a widow in Zarephath, a town in Phoenicia. And remember, Phoenicia is the homeland of Jezebel, Arch nemesis. Through Elijah, God miraculously provided for this widow and revived her dead son. Similarly, Naaman was a respected commander of Syria, who at that time were in constant struggle with Israel in Elisha's days. These two foreign individuals were approved by God and his prophets because they believed in God and accepted his messengers. The Nazarites here, on the other hand, did not have genuine faith, and they rejected the prophet even greater than Elijah and Elisha combined. If we are going to talk like Jesus, we have to have courage that comes from the Spirit. We have to speak with disapproval of evil. If we are to be God pleasers, we can't be people pleasers. You know, some people think that being a prophet is primarily about suit saying. No, it's about truth saying. You know, I make it a practice to read through the gospel tracts in the lobby so that uh it not only contains the message of grace, the acceptable year of the Lord The invitation to eternal life, but also the message of disapproval of sin, of repentance, the day of the vengeance of our God, the condemnation to eternal death. We can't leave these parts out. The parts that may offend people. There's no hometown discount when it comes to the gospel. Right. Everyone must accept Jesus as more than a carpenter, right? As the Lord of all How do we speak with such boldness? I've hinted at this and we can see it in the context. Remember that Jesus began his ministry in Galilee in the power of the Holy Spirit. The same Holy Spirit that resides in us. And he testified to the anointing of the Spirit in the synagogue when he cited Isaiah 61. Consciously rely on the Spirit to give you both the words of grace and disapproval when you speak with your unsafe family members, friends, co-workers. And neighbors. Start with prayer. Lord, I need to talk with this person, this individual about the gospel. Lord, give me the boldness through the Spirit. Now if your tr audience transforms into a mob like what happened in verses twenty-eight to twenty-nine, know that you're in good company. Our Lord was rejected by his own. The apostles in the book of Acts celebrated when they were persecuted because they experienced the honor of suffering for Jesus. Since Jesus' time to die has not come yet, we see in verse 30 that he miraculously passed through their mist, like a mist, and went on his way. I'll probably take a long break after an incident like that, but Jesus is undeterred by rejection. Jesus continues his ministry in Capernaum. And just as he did in Nazareth, we see in verse thirty-one that Jesus speaks on the Sabbath. Note how in verse 32 and 36 there is an emphasis on his authority. That leads to the third point: Jesus spoke with authority. Now, the demon inside the man that was attending the synagogue was defiant but knew there was no escape, can only confess the truth of Jesus' identity. Note also that Jesus doesn't need to invoke someone else's name. He simply commands with his words in his own authority And the unclean demon departs from the man without harming him. Now, around the time of Jesus, there were various other exorcists. There's a historian named Josephus, and he he records one incident or one practice of a man named Eleazar, and here is a summary of the account. Quote, He put to the nose of the possessed man a ring which had under its seal one of the roots prescribed by Solomon And then, as the man smelled it, drew out the demon through his nostrils, and when the man at once fell down, adjured the demon never to come back into him Speaking Solomon's name and reciting the incantations which he had composed. Then wishing to convince the bystanders and prove to them that he had this power Eleazar placed a cup or foot basin full of water a little way off and commanded the demon as it went out of the man to overturn it and make known to the spectators that he had left the man. Jesus doesn't need uh charm nose rings, um, doesn't need composed incantations, He simply spoke. It's the same authority that created the universe. He doesn't need to speak in Solomon's name. His own name is enough. He didn't need to prove to the crowds that he succeeded as a demon departed. And we should not miss this without harming the host. See how Jesus' authority is powerful but controlled. It is precise like a surgeon's knife in attacking the demon, but preserving the health of the man. We can trust power in the hands or I should say in the lips of Jesus. We tend to destroy, harm, discourage, and tear down with our tongue. But Jesus doesn't do that. And the reason that Jesus can speak with such awesome authority It's not because he was a natural speaker. He could have been, or had the right tone of voice, I guess he could have. It is what we know as believers and even the demons confess Jesus is the Holy One of God. We gotta properly understand and define holiness in order to understand Jesus' authority. Holiness simply means separation from the rest or setting apart what is common for sacred use. That's the textbook definition. In the Bible, we see plenty of examples. Holy ground, holy nation, holy oil, etc. But all of these are made holy by something else, something outside of themselves. They're not holy in themselves. Only God is holy in Himself, and only He can make other things holy. Make people holy Only God, and the Son of God Jesus Christ, can take the hopelessly lost, the utterly sinful. the demonic, the commonplace, and consecrate, sanctify, transform into glorious saints. Because Jesus is the Son of God, He is the Holy One of God, who does just that with this possessed man. From Jesus' holiness comes his words of authority. Do you believe in the holy authority of Jesus? Just so many lessons here. I think about how do I become an authoritative speaker? How do I become an authoritative pastor? Do I go to this workshop? Do I say speak things with a certain inflection? Do I come up with the most awesome illustrations? Holiness. Holiness. I gotta get my life oriented in following Christ, the Holy One of God. I wish that all of us would come to Jesus in the same way this poor man did. Now I'm talking to you who may not be Christians here. Now we may not be demon-possessed, standing before Jesus in first century or in a synagogue on a Saturday, but without Christ, we are owned by the devil. Read Ephesians 2. If you are without Christ, he invites you, Christ invites you through this passage in 21st century, this Sunday, at this church. No. Anna, just there's grace, there's disapproval of your sin, and there's authority in Jesus' word. No, one of my favorite hymns is Joseph Hart's Comey Sinners, Poor and Needy. I think it's in 334, right? I looked it up in the green hymn, no? So I sound like Steve. But I love the way it captures all three points of this sermon. Grace is reflected All throughout, but especially in verse 1. Come ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sword, Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. Grace. The acceptable year of the Lord is still going on. And Jesus is ready, stands to save you. But there's also disapproval of shallow faith or spiritual consumerism. God desires truth in our inward parts, right? And that's reflected in verse 2, where it talks about true belief and true repentance. Come ye thirsty, come and welcome. God's free bounty glorified, but true belief and true repentance, every grace that brings you nigh Finally, we know that Jesus has authority. His command to the demon is only a taste of his full power. Someday, he will speak to you. Someday the acceptable year of the Lord will end, and the day of vengeance of our God will commence. There will be a day when he stands at the door of the kingdom of God with these chilling words to those casual churchgoers who never believe the gospel. I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. So urgently heed these words. Come to Christ, come ye weary, heavy laden, lost and ruined by the fall If you tarry till you're better, you will never come at all. We can't fix our ruins. We can't heal ourselves or better ourselves Jesus' words are inviting at the moment. But who knows when your heart will stop beating, when you stop reading. The door closes and the words of Jesus no longer brings in but keeps out. You have heard him today, so may today be the day of your salvation in the acceptable year of the Lord. For those of us who are saved already, let us follow Jesus' perfect example of speaking with grace, disapproval, and authority. Obviously, in our own strength, we will over- or under-emphasize grace. If we fear people more than God, we will only approve, not disapprove. In our simpleness, we have no holy authority, but we have the Spirit, we have the gospel inside of us. Let us speak as Jesus did this week. Lord, we just thank you for your word. We thank you for the gospels. We thank you for Luke, who has recorded for us so vividly the rejection of your son, Jesus Christ. Lord, it did not just happen at the cross, Lord. It happened throughout his ministry. And Lord, may we not be surprised when we look for you, when we read your scriptures, when we pray. That the world hates us. We are not better than the master. Lord, we are not better than the teacher. Lord, we ask that you'll give us the resolve. Lord, give our ministries. people in our ministries. Give us resolve as we just go out into our neighborhoods. Lord, go out into our workplace. Lord, may you bring us conversations this week, open doors where we can share with them the good news of your son Jesus Christ. And Lord, may we tell them clearly and without hesitation that they are sinners in need of grace. Lord, we know that it's not in our authority, in our own inherent authority, in our charm, in our persuasiveness. Lord, we know that it comes from the power of your word. It comes from the power of the one who spoke these words. From the one who died on the cross. Lord, the Holy One of God. And Lord, we want to be more and more like your Son Jesus Christ. And it is in His name we pray. Amen. Please turn to 206. We'll sing there as a redeemer. Let's stand as we sing.