Writing can change the world. The pen is mightier than the sword. Do you agree? I do. I spent about five years writing over 400 pages on three verses of the Bible. If writing isn't important, I wasted a lot of time and ink. If writing isn't important, what do we say about the day we celebrated this past Thursday? Of course I'm talking about Reformation Day. It's the day we remember Martin Luther's posting of 95 thesis on the door of All Saints Church. And other churches in Wittenberg. And where would we be without God preserving his word through his saints throughout history? For this writing, God's people have given their lives. Without this writing, we would not know about the deliverance of Israel in the Old Testament. The story of Jesus in the Gospels, guidance for our church from the letters, and assurance of a bright future from the book of Revelation. Praise God for writing and the writers God has used. We're going to learn about one writer today. Today we're starting a new series on the early life of Jesus, drawing from the first chapters of actually two writers, both Matthew and Luke. Earlier this year, I went through the ministry of adult Jesus, covering about eight chapters of Luke, from chapter 3 to 9. You might wonder why I'm going back to the beginning of Luke or why I didn't just start there in the first place. Well the simple answer is that I wanted to wait until we're near Christmas season to start a series on the early life of Jesus. But there's more. We have just finished a series on the Ten Commandments. I put you through the gauntlet of God's demands from the Bible The heavy burden of the law epitomized in what's called the Decalogue, the Ten Commandments, which of course understood properly, leads us to Christ. A true evangelist would spend time making sure that his or her prospect understands this. No one escapes the righteous sentence of judgment and help from God. Except the only the one who trusts in Jesus, Jesus who paid for our sins by dying on the cross, in our place as the sinless substitute. He then rose from the grave and ascended to heaven. Now Jesus offers you eternal life and reconciliation with the Father through faith in him and him alone, not in our good works or best efforts. We celebrate this gospel every week as we gather for corporate prayer and worship, and every month as we gather around the Lord's table for the Holy Communion. But every year around this time we could seize the chance to speak to the secular culture about Jesus' birth We may have opportunities to tell our neighbors and co-workers what Christmas means to us. Yes, we do reunite with our families. It's nice that we get gifts. But there's something much, much more wonderful. We were in bondage to sin, but when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. To redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. Galatians 4, 4 to 5 So now we're going to learn about how that fullness of time had come. Let's read the passage together. It's the first four verses of the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 1, verses 1-2. The prologue to the story of Jesus. You'll find the passage in this uh insert, or please turn to your Bibles Inasmuch as many have taken in hand to set in order a narrative of those things which have been fulfilled among us. Just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding understanding of all things from the very first, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus, that you may know the certainty of those things in which you were instructed. There are three principles from this short passage. First, learn from those who experienced Jesus, verses 1 and 2. Second, use your talents to tell others about Jesus. Verse 3. Third, strengthen your faith in Jesus. First, learn from those who experienced Jesus, verses 1 and 2. Now, before we get to Luke and Theophilus, we need to talk about these people who encountered Jesus firsthand Though Luke doesn't specify their identities or names, we are told they are many. Luke himself said that the earliest belief Gathered in Jerusalem just after Jesus departed, number one hundred twenty, Acts one fifteen. But there must have been many more Because Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15 verse 6 that Jesus appeared to over 500 brethren at once We see in verse 1 that from this large group many have compiled and set in order their testimonies of Jesus. In verse 2, we learn more. These are people who knew Jesus personally as eyewitnesses. Now, this isn't some forensic category, eyewitnesses. Eyewitnesses were those most devoted to Jesus, following him closely during his time on earth. They saw him perform miracles and teach. They confirmed that Jesus died on the cross. But soon afterward, they saw him alive, resurrected from the grave. They include men like Peter, James, John, and Andrew. Then these eyewitnesses became ministers of the word after Jesus departed to heaven. Their personal experience with Jesus led to the public ministry of the word for Jesus. Delivering the contents mentioned in verse 1, the things which have been fulfilled among us. That is, they not not only explain his words and acts, but also his significance. as he fulfilled the prophecies and the promises of the Old Testament, and his own promise to die on the cross and rise from the dead. As gospel ministers, they weren't preaching what they believed to be a cool story or fun fiction. They weren't presenting propositions or academic proposals They were passionately preaching a person, the word with a capital W. Here's how Apostle John, one of those ministers, described his message. In 1 John 1, 1-4. You may want to turn with me there. 1 John 1 1 to 4. Pay attention to how John transformed from a witness to a minister of the word. Says there in 1 John chapter 1, 1 to 4, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled. concerning the word of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness, and declare to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us, that which we have seen and heard, we declare to you. That you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And these things we write to you, that your joy may be full. These words represent well the passion of the eyewitnesses who became ministers of the word. Many of them just did it orally, speaking The truth, but there are people who wrote them down. Matthew is traditionally believed to be the first gospel writer. Mark, the second gospel writer, likely wanted to create an abridged version of the first. He is similar to Luke in that he wasn't one of the twelve apostles, but tradition says he basically wrote down Peter's version of Jesus' story. So Mark could be just said to be Peter's gospel. John, who wrote after Luke, heard Saul, touched Jesus, and wrote for the joy of others, as we saw in the passage we just read. So first, second, and fourth gospels in the New Testament essentially come straight from those who share lives with Jesus for three years. I'll explain how Luke is different from them in a moment. But first, a possible objection. So I might say these guys were way too close and so single-mindedly devoted to Jesus that they must have made up things about him. Well, there is a mistaken notion out there that the closer you get to a person, less objective and more subjective you become. The ones who know you best are most deluded concerning the truth about you. That's what some people believe. The great philosopher G. K. Chesterton opposes this underlying assumption by appealing to just simple common experiences of life Quote, the same women who are ready to defend their men through thick and thin are, in their personal intercourse with the man, almost morbidly lucid about the thinness of his excuses. or the thickness of his head. The devotee is entirely free to criticize. The fanatic can safely be a skeptic. Love is not blind. That is the last thing that it is. Love is bound, and the more it is bound, the less it is blind. Trust me, I know this by experience, and I'm sure that many of you too. My wife is the most objective person when it comes to my weaknesses and downfalls Because she is the most subjective person when it in her love for me. I'm sure you can say the same about your children, your best friends, your favorite co-workers. Yes, the earliest followers of Jesus loved him dearly, but they did not twist the backs about him, nor did they need to. I can tell you that if you truly behold the glory of Jesus, you will never be disappointed as you learn more truths about Him. You will draw from the endless depths of joy for eternity. And as you delve deeper into your relationship with Christ, you will be more and more sensitive to the truth, not less. You will worship him in spirit, subjective, and truth, objective. All that to say, let's follow the example of these gospel writers. Don't just know Jesus, experience Jesus. That's the difference between Judas Iscariot and Simon Peter. Don't keep Jesus at an arm's length. Embrace him with your arms. As you get a grip on Jesus, you will strengthen your grip on reality. We don't rely on the records of secular historians who boast in objectivity as they talk about Jesus. We rely on eyewitnesses and ministers of the word who were all in. They, for the sake of the witness and the word, placed their lives in peril and persecution. Let's imitate them. Though we we can't be true eyewitnesses of Jesus like the way they were, we can be witnesses and experience his glory through the word, prayer, and communion. Luke also does not count himself among these eyewitnesses, but he still has much to contribute to the church. That leads to the next point. Use your talents to tell Others about Jesus. Luke is the perfect embodiment of this principle. In one sense, we are able to relate with him better because he is what I call a second generation Christian. You see how Luke separates himself from those described in verses 1 and 2 as he himself did not follow Jesus during his earthly ministry. But he is no second rate Christian. If Paul did not write the letter to the Hebrews, which I think I think we can we can't be sure until we go to heaven. Luke, who is also responsible for the composition of Acts, has contributed more words to the New Testament than any other person. Once we understand his biographical information, we will see why he is so important to the early church. And to us today. Luke was I'm just gonna talk about four things about him a Gentile, physician. Christian and author of the third gospel, in that order. Because Luke is a Gentile It is not difficult to imagine that he heard the good news of Jesus after his ascension. Remember that while here, Jesus mainly focused on the ministry to the house of Israel, though at times he did interact with the Gentiles. We see that in Matthew 10, 5 to 6. The way we ascertain that Luke is a Gentile is by turning to Colossians 4. Let's go there now. I'm going to read from verses seven to fourteen But while I'm going to while I do that, I'm going to pause at verse 11 to make a point about Luke's identity. As usual, Paul is closing his letter with the rundown of brothers who are with him. Observe how Paul groups these brothers together into two groups. First, I'm going to read verses 7 to 11. Tychekus, a beloved brother, faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that he may know your circumstances and comfort your hearts, with Onisthumus, a faithful and beloved brother who is one of you. They will make known to you all things which are happening here. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, with Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, about whom you receive instructions. If he comes to you, welcome him, and Jesus, who is called Justice. These are my only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are of the circumcision. They are proved to be a comfort to me. Okay, so far we got Tychicus, Onesimus, Aristarchus, Mark the cousin of Barnabas, the author of the second gospel, and justice. We read there at verse 11 that these fellow workers are of the circumcision, that is, Jews. Now let's go on to the rest of this his company from verses twelve to fourteen. Hippophras, who is one of you, a bondservant of Christ, greets you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers that you may stand perfect and comfortable. Complete in all the will of God. For I bear have witness that He has great zeal for you, and those who are in Laodicea and those in Heracolis, Luke the beloved physician and Demos, preach you. If Luke was a Jew, he would have been listed among the Jewish friends in verses 7 to 11. Instead, we find his name in verse 14 in the Gentile Friends section with Epaphorus and Demos. So we have in Luke the only Gentile author of the Bible, and as I stated already, responsible for the biggest chunk of the New Testament. We also learn here in this passage that Luke is a physician. His education background is clearly evident in the vocabulary and the style of his Greek in both the Gospel and Acts. While not his primary vocation, Luke's rigorous history writing has drawn comparisons to more famous secular historians of his day. Verses 1 to 4 is made of one long sentence, highly ornate and articulate. Modern scholars note how it rivals the craft of the best contemporary Greek writings we have. Luke is a good Christian, as we can infer from his loyalty to Paul while imprisoned and at the brink of martyrdom. We see him in Philemon 24 and 2 Timothy 4. 11. But his ties to the apostle go further back. Luke accompanied Paul in some of his mission trips. There are various sections in Acts where the author includes himself in the narrative, switching from the third person. To the first person plural pronoun we. And we can even go back further. At least we can try. How did Luke first believe in the gospel? Scholars like A. T. Robertson note how there was a prominent university in Paul's hometown of Tarsus, including a medical school. You recall from Acts 9:30 that early in his Christian walk, Paul returned there. He was likely revisiting the scriptures in light of his recent encounter with Christ at Damascus Road. It's reasonable to believe that during this time he shared a gospel with the citizens and visitors to his city. I think that Luke, the medical student, at the University of Tarsus, was among those who heard Paul's message of Jesus. Jesus and believed. Luke would be valuable to Paul as he tended both to his physical needs and his spiritual needs We still benefit spiritually from his efforts as the writer of the third gospel. The assumption that Luke, the Gentile physician, wrote this one, is Pretty safe. Greek manuscripts from 4th century onwards have titles that establish him as the author. Many early Christian authorities from as early as second century confirm the same thing So then there are enough internal and ex external evidence to safely assume his authorship. Again, Luke was a Gentile, physician, Christian, and author of the third gospel. His background provided unique talents that will be used to tell others about Jesus. Now I want to highlight quickly three adverts that really that reveal Luke's talents. Okay, they all end with L Y, accurately, comprehensively, and orderly. Accurately, comprehensively and orderly. Luke's accuracy is expressed by the phrase perfect understanding. There's an old saying that a reporter is only good as his sources. Luke gathered reliable accurate sources such as Mary, the mother of Jesus, and records of the early church in Jerusalem. Luke is also comprehensive as he, like Matthew, covered the early life of Jesus. But Luke goes even further back than Matthew, recording the origin of John the Baptist. Jesus' forerunner. He starts from the top, from the very first, as he says there. He also proceeds further forward than all other gospel writers. Luke and Acts are meant to be a two-part work that extends all the way to the spread of Christianity in the Roman Empire. So from the pen of one author, we have both the life of Jesus and the life of the first Christians. Luke is also orderly. The order of the gospel is both chronological and topical, while Luke generally follows Mark in chronologically narrating the events of Jesus' life. He has a large section in the middle of his gospel, chapter 951, 9 verse 51 to chapter 19, 27, that arranges much of Jesus' teaching topically. Lord willing, I will return to that section sometime next year. In saying all this, Luke is not looking down on other gospels and exalting himself and his version as the best. He does, however, have confidence in his skills to compile an accurate, comprehensive, and orderly account of the Jesus story I am glad that we have all four gospels. We have people of different backgrounds, diverse ethnicities, and various occupations. Physician, fisherman, tax collector, all united in telling the good news of Jesus. There's no need to pick a favorite. I don't like those kind of questions. You know, what's your favorite verse, the Bible book? Read them all Matthew favors formal sermons and teachings. Mark mainly focuses on the miracles and acts of Jesus. John records extended conversations between Jesus and others. Luke likes parables. If you like parables, go to Luke. Applying that to us. Know that diversity and unity is healthy in our context too When it comes to our life together, we should stress substance over style, or at least preference of style, as we have various gifts and talents, even in our small church. I am glad that we all sign the same statement of faith, abide by the same membership covenant, and point back to the same believers' baptism That shows our unity. But we also celebrate diversity. Our testimonies, which I encourage you to write out, 500 words. Will look different while the source of the salvation is same. Jesus Christ who died on the cross and rose from the dead, of course, our common faith is in him and him alone But the sins that are forgiven, the journey we have taken to meet Jesus, and the journey we are traveling right now, the victories won for us, are also different. May the Lord use your unique backgrounds and talents to tell others about Jesus. And that makes us wonder about the recipient of this gospel, Theophilus. What kind of person was he? What gifts did he offer to the local church? We know very little about him except that his name appears again at the beginning of Acts, and he is a high public official of some kind. The superlative most excellent at the end of verse 3 is also found in Acts 23, 26, 24, verse 3. In chapter 26, verse 25, to describe Felix, the Roman procurator of Judea, and his successor, Festus. What is remarkable is that this high official has become like a child to follow Jesus. That leads to the third point: strengthen your faith in Jesus. Verse 4. This principle is from the perspective of Theophilus, not the gospel writers like Luke. In verse 4, we are told the reason why Luke went through all this work to write his gospel. That you may know the certainty of those things in which you were instructed. Commentator Alfred Plummer rephrases the verse like this: quote, Theophilus shall know that the faith which he has embraced has an impregnable historical foundation. It is through our uh our own reading of the Gospels that we too strengthen our faith in Jesus Because Jesus, his life, his teachings, miracles, death, resurrection, and ascension are really true. We can really believe. The last word in verse 4, instructed, is from the Greek word katekeo. I don't like to talk about foreign words too much, but observe how it sounds like catechism. If you're from mainline Protestant churches, you know about the question and answer format of teaching the foundations of faith. Examples include Westminster Short Shorter Catechism and the Heidelberg Catechism. Now we don't know exactly what kind of curriculum was used to catechize Theophilus, but it may have been a summary of doctrines and biblical truths that call for faith. Having that as basically basic Christianity 101, Luke has prepared an advanced course on Jesus' life. With over 37,000 words of Greek, he provides the meat for the bones, the particulars for the outline, the specifics for the headings. But don't think that the gospel is simply a biography of facts. As Theophilus reads, he realizes he must submit to his God. The Lord, the Master, Jesus. He, a high public official, must bow down to the carpenter from the lowly town of Nazareth. He might say to himself, Oh, Jesus said I need to do that. Wow, what Jesus demands is difficult. But I must follow him. He is my king. That's how his faith would grow. That's how our faith would grow as well. If you have never started a relationship with Jesus, you can do so today If you want another quick review of the gospel, as you're leaving, pick up some tracks like what is the gospel and who is Jesus? These are questions and matters that deal with eternal destiny, heaven or hell. Also, please listen and observe us carefully as we celebrate the Lord's Supper today. It is a symbolic demonstration of how Jesus' broken body and his shed blood benefits us as a local body of believers by securing eternal life for us. If you are already a follower of Christ, let's learn from those who experienced him. From Matthew to Revelation, we are connected to the eyewitnesses and ministers of the Word If you have never read the Bible cover to cover, it seems kind of daunting, frankly speaking. May I challenge you to read just the New Testament? If you read three chapters a day from the New Testament, you can finish it in less than 90 days. Let's also tell others about Jesus, using our talents, using our interests, using our backgrounds. Are you a meticulous person? Be meticulous in sharing the gospel. Are you a fireball of emotion? Fan the flame in evangelism. Do you thrive in smaller groups? Invite a few friends and neighbor over for a book discussion or a Bible study. We grow by strengthening our faith in God Let's pray. Lord, we are thankful for the promise that the church will prevail. The gates of Hades will not be able to withstand it. And Lord, it's because of the foundation on which it stands Lord, this confession that you are your son is the Messiah. And we're thankful that throughout church history we see the church um surviving, thriving, even in the midst of persecution. Or whether it happened two thousand years ago or whether it happens in year two thousand. We see the gospel spreading. But we see gifted men in the church using their gifts to spread the gospel through writing, through speaking, through one-on-one discipleship, through catechism, whatever it takes. To tell the story of Jesus. Lord, may you challenge us, those who believe in you, to proclaim you. Lord, give us opportunities. Open doors for us this week. May though may they be curious, our neighbors and friends who do not know you. What do you do on the weekends? What do you do on Sunday? Lord, may opportunities be open with our family members who do not know you. Lord, sometimes it's difficult to share with those who are closest to us. But I pray that conversations will come up. Where we can share the truth. Just as Luke did with Theophilus, may you give us many Theophilus who are curious, who want to learn more, who are saved and growing. And we pray that you will just um give us that opportunity and give us boldness. And may we be like Diopolis, we're wanting to grow in the story of Jesus as we follow Him to bear our cross. And to deny ourselves and follow him. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.