I want to invite you this morning to turn back to the Gospel of Luke. Open your Bibles to Luke. And we'll be we are still in Luke chapter 3. Luke chapter 3. Last week, we looked at the genealogies of the Bible sort of generally, okay? We didn't focus too much on the genealogy and Luke and its significance, but we did learn so far the definition of a genealogy, which is a history of the descent of a person or a group. From a common ancestor. We did learn that the Old Testament contains about two dozen genealogical lists. The New Testament contains only two. We did learn, for example, and I won't go through it again, but that there are specific purposes that the Old Testament writers had in mind when they recorded the genealogies And there certainly were specific reasons why those records were created within the life of Old Testament Israel. Among those reasons was the necessity of proving land ownership generation to generation, the necessity of establishing who the Hebrews were after they returned from captivity. And other things which necessitated the use of genealogies in the Old Testament. In the New Testament, we saw that there really is no purpose for the genealogies other than. Establishing the identity of Jesus, who he was, and how he connected to the Old Testament and to the line of David in the Old Testament. But we saw that many Christians, apparently, struggled with this and wanted to somehow make use of Old Testament genealogies. And so in two of the pastoral epistles, we saw that Paul Exhorts Timothy and Titus to exhort the people to stop arguing over endless genealogies and myths They seem to be really misusing the genealogies of the Old Testament. However, we did see last week that there is some record keeping going on because we have in the New Testament. The mention of the book of life, the fact that our names as Christians are in the book of life. And so we praise God that, in one sense, our names are recorded, but it has nothing to do with our ancestry. It only has to do with one thing. The people in the book, have they been born again? Have they accepted Christ as their personal Savior? Have they repented of their sins and put their cust their trust in Christ? That's the only reason why their names are there. Where they're from, the language they speak, their family background, it's irrelevant And so what a wonderful thing to be a child of Abraham, right? All of us in this room who have put our faith and trust in Christ, we are all children of Abraham by faith Because we have followed in his footsteps and we are justified by our faith in Jesus. I want us to look today, and we're not going to read through the whole genealogy again, don't worry, in Luke chapter 3, but I want us to look at The two main reasons why uh Luke writes his genealogy in the way that he does. So I want to let let's frame this up by uh let me let's talk for a second about the church and what you see. A couple of boy, it's been probably two months now, but when I was at the Baltimore Rescue Mission last, but how many of you have been to the Baltimore Rescue Mission or a Rescue Mission? Anywhere in the world. Alright, a lot of us in this room have been. How many of you have listened to Unshackled, the radio program from years ago that was on, is that still on? Might be, I don't know, but uh the mission up there in in Chicago. You know, uh the the the scriptures tell us That not many wise, not many noble, not many mighty are called. And we have grown, probably grown used to this, right? You and I go to a rescue mission And last time I was there as I was preaching and looking out at the people present, I noticed certain things about them. Many of them were very tired because they lived on the street all day. They'd been out on Baltimore on the sidewalk I don't know, walking around trying to scrounge for money, standing at the intersection. They're the guys standing there asking you for money when you drive by and try to figure out what what you can do. They were tired. They had very little belongings. The clothes they were wearing, most of many of them, were filthy. The expressions on their face. Have you ever met someone who was young and yet they had so many lines on their face, they looked very old? And you wondered what kind of drug abuse was in their background. Well, here's a room full of people, and I'm looking at them and I'm thinking this as I'm talking to them. And if this was a worldly endeavor, if I went to the Baltimore Rescue Mission to try to do a PEP club, Or to try to teach them the seven habits of highly effective people, I wouldn't have been there. Because there aren't very many effective people in that room. But the call of the gospel is a call to sinners, to people who are in need, to the people who are willing to humble themselves. And repent and put their faith in Christ. So you and I, when we're in that situation, we take hope because of such is the kingdom of God. These are the people God is interested in, people who may humble themselves because they are so low, and when they are gloriously saved, the glory rebounds to God. And they're not a catch. Have you ever heard that term? You know, you you have a daughter or a son or a relative, a cousin. Boy, they're they're dating someone, and he's quite a catch. She's quite a catch. They're not a catch. But we take hope because this is the kingdom of God. Because It's set up this way. God calls from the nations all the lowly. Now that is not to say that some mighty are not called, because some are There are some wealthy people, there are some famous people who've repented and put their faith in Christ, but they're few. And God calls in all these people, and they're gloriously saved from all over the world. And they gather around that throne, and this is one of the reasons one of, there's a list, but one of the reasons on that list why God does that is because he doesn't want any flesh to glory in his presence. He doesn't want anyone to think more highly of themselves, their position in life, their wealth, than they do of their God. And so we have this mindset about the kingdom of God. A lot of lowly people who put their faith in God and been gloriously saved, and now they're building their lives on the rock of their salvation. But what about the King? What about King Jesus? So he was born of a Virgin Mary who was just a regular person, not really anything unusual about her, except her faith. And she was someone who had a relationship with Jehovah. She was a faithful Jewish maid, if you could put it that way, maiden maybe be a better word of putting it that way. But folks, don't make the mistake. Never make the mistake of thinking that Jesus himself was just another ordinary man. Because he wasn't. As a matter of fact, Luke wants us to know, and Matthew wants us to know, that he was and truly in the line of the king. An heir to the throne, a very important person, not like you and I. We are servants of the king. And so we have here in Luke, if you look, turn back to Luke chapter 1, verse 32. We have here the angel coming, and the angel says in Luke 1. 32, he will be great. He's talking, of course. uh to Mary. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there will be no end. So here's this one who is coming, and he is going to be a very important person because his father, he is of the house and lineage of David. Luke hits on this again in verse 69 when he records, uh turn over a few pages to verse 69, uh to uh yeah, verse 69. Zacharias, when he's filled with the Holy Spirit, prophesies, and Luke records his words, and he says that and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets. So already two times in this gospel, Luke is calling forth the fact that Jesus was of the house of David. Who was David and what did God say to David? Well, there are two times in the Old Testament when God makes a covenant. say two separate times, but two separate times when we have the record here, turn to 2 Samuel chapter 7, where we have God speaking to David. It's also in 1 Chronicles 17, but we'll look at the Samuel passage, and it's good that some of you are reading through Samuel in your devotions. Now you know the story. Saul, King Saul was rejected by virtue of his unfaithfulness. He was unwilling to fully obey God. God asked him through the prophet to do certain things, and Saul only partially obeyed. And so God rejected King Saul and he sought out a man after his own heart He found David. David was a sinner, and he did some very bad things, but he was someone who truly believed in Christ. Now Having said he did some very bad things, that is not to encourage all of us to do bad things, even though most of us in this room are Christians. Don't take that step. But that is to say that in spite of the evil things David did, he was a follower of Jehovah and believed in the promises of Jehovah. And he had a relationship with him, and his belief went into more than just sort of the stoic affirmation of what the law of Moses said. Folks, David loved God. David delighted in God and God's character and attributes. David was a man after God's own heart. This, among other things, indicated He his heart was in sync with God's heart. His affections were in sync with God's affections, if we could put it that way. His emotional life was in sync with God's emotional life, although we have to be careful how we talk about these kind of things. But there is this, David thought like God, had God's priorities. He was after God's own heart. And this caused David to even reach out and to proactively love his God, to go beyond what God required. Have you ever given someone a gift that just was above and beyond what they deserved? Or what given them a gift that they just weren't expecting? When I was a kid, Christmas Day, and I'm sure in your household, Christmas Day was a great thing. And you did your best as a child to keep your hands off the presents and not to shake them like this. Anybody do that when you were growing up? You pick the present up. See what's in there? Have you ever given a present to a grandchild, and this is what they do? They're just all this anticipation, and they open it up. And they just have uh there are videos like this on YouTube where the little kid just dances with joy because he's got this thing that he's been waiting for six months to get. Well, what happens to that boy when you give him something else? And you go beyond that gift, you give them a second gift, and maybe it's even more than he could ever expect. I don't know. Some of these kids, when you watch them, they could almost seem like they'll pass out. They're so happy, and it's so funny to watch them. But you in your life, you and I know what it's like to love someone so much that we just want to do something for that person. And this was David's relationship with God. He loved God, and it wasn't just, tell me what I have to do, and I'll fulfill the letter of the law. It was a heart that just overflowed. 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 1. Look what happens. It came to pass when the king was dwelling in his house. And the Lord had given him rest from all his enemies all around. But the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells inside tent curtains. Then Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart, for the Lord is with you. But it happened that night that the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying All right, stop. What is happening here? David finally has the rest that God promised. God promised that David would conquer and be a great man in the land and that he would establish Israel. And David has his palace, he has his construction projects at least partially completed, the one that he is living in, and he starts thinking about God. And he realizes that it just doesn't seem right that he, a mortal man, a king, is in this beautiful this beautiful dwelling, and yet the ark of God is inside of a tent. So you know the story. So he wants to build God a temple. Nathan's immediate response to this is, Go ahead, do this. And God comes to Nathan in the night, and verse 5, it says, Go and tell my servant David, thus says the Lord, Would you build a house for me to dwell in? For I have not dwelt in a house since the time that I brought the children of Israel up from Egypt, even to this day, but have moved about in a tent and in a tabernacle. Wherever I have moved about with all the children of Israel, have I ever spoken a word to any one from the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? Now, therefore, thus shall you say to my servant David: Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you from the sheepfold from following the sheep to be ruler over my people over Israel. And I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you, and have made you a great name like the name of the great men who are on the earth Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people, Israel, and will plant them, and that they may dwell in a place of their own and move no more, nor shall the sons of wickedness oppress them any more as previously. Since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people, Israel, and have caused you to rest from all your enemies, also the Lord tells you that He will make you a house. And that word house is more than just a house-house like a wooden structure that you live in, is a reference to dynasty It's a word said from God to the king that he's going to establish a dynasty through David. Verse 12, when your days are fulfilled. And you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever, and I will be his father, and he shall be my son If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the blows of the sons of men. But my mercy shall not depart from him. As I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever. Wow, what's happening here? Okay, so here is God, and he's saying, Why? I've never said to anyone that I wanted a temple. It almost sounds like chiding, like, why would you even think of this, David? But that is not what's happening here. This is God responding as As you might respond, if your son did something completely unexpected to honor you that you have never asked for, because he loves you. He just did it out of the abundance of his heart and desire to please you, and you respond back. I've never asked anyone to do this, and you've done this for me. And so God takes this opportunity to promise David a dynasty. His son will build the house, and who built the temple? Solomon did. We know that. David did not get an opportunity to Construct a temple, but he collected all the supplies so that Solomon would have something to work with, to begin to work with. But he says here, I will set up your seed after you. And what kind of a throne is this? Is this a temporary thing? No, look at verse 16. Your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever. Now, this is unprecedented. Probably in the history of the world, has there ever been a king whose dynasty never ended? Who came to this place where it just went on and on and on and on and on. I can't prove that there never has not been one. But when you think about what's happening currently on this planet, the leadership of the various nations, I think you would be hard-pressed to find someone who's sitting on a throne. Whose ancestor was sitting on a throne a thousand years ago. This is an eternal dynasty. It's going to go through David. Now, there's a time when this dynasty was not being practiced. When Jesus is born, he did not go into Herod's household and sit on a throne, not yet. But the promise is here. And so we have, if you turn back to Luke, let me tell you, turn back to Luke chapter 3. The two most important things about this genealogical record. are found in verse 31 and in verse 38. In verse 31, we end up with Luke letting us know that Mary's line is all the way through David, the son of David, verse 32, the son of Jesse. Jesus was from the house and lineage of David through both Joseph, that is Matthew's genealogy. And Mary's, and that is this genealogy. Of course, Jesus was not Joseph's son, but he was legally Joseph's son. And so the ancestry goes through Joseph and Mary, and this is Mary's genealogy. And so he was the son of David, a king. Now folks, all the way back in the beginning, you wonder why, why, why a king, why He's not a judge. I mean God God decided that Jesus was going to to have a crown on his head and be the one with all authority. It's when Jesus was born in Luke 2, and he's there in Mary's arms, and the shepherds come. And you and I look at that baby, and we think, that is no ordinary baby. There's just this this perplexity In us when we see that He is the King. But Luke wants to make it ironclad sure to us that he indeed is the Son of David, just as he was predicted to be. Now, without I think that's almost enough said about him being the son of David. Matthew wants to prove the same point, but Luke does something kind of weird. Because he doesn't stop there, does he? You look at the genealogical record, and he keeps going all the way back To verse 38, the son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. And this is where Luke does something, I say weird, I just says Say distinct, unusual. Why? We should all ask: okay, he proved that Jesus was a son of David. Why in the world would he need to prove that Jesus was a son of Adam? Who else in this room is a son of Adam or a daughter of Adam? Every last one of us. It's kind of obvious. You know, we're all we all come from the the Bible teaches that we all come from this common ancestor, and we're all children of Noah's family as well, because the population of the whole planet was reduced down. But why, Luke? Why are you putting in here that he is the son of Adam when that is just such an obvious thing? The son of Adam, the son of God. And that is why a lot of theologians think that Luke really is one of the themes, one of the big themes of his gospel. Is to kind of establish the perfect humanity of Christ, to keep Christ rooted in humanity, to let us know that he was a man. It's important to him. Now, why should that be important to you and me that God that Jesus was actually a man Can I show you two other passages to tell you what does not happen if he is not a man? Can I get you to turn quickly to Romans? To Romans chapter five, and now we're going to look at Hebrews chapter two. So Luke wants us to know that he was a man. And in the rest of the New Testament, you have Other writers building theology on the humanity of Christ. It was so important that he actually had a human body That he was an ordinary man, albeit the God man, but he was a man. And here's one reason. If you turn to Romans 5 and look at verse 12, It says, therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world and death through Sin, and thus death spread to all men because all sinned. It was through the one man Adam That the human race became sinners. God told Adam that when he sinned, that he would die. Where is Adam today? He's dead. That was not the original intent of God that he would die, but when he sinned, he was punished and he died. And because Adam died, death is spread to all men, and we all sin, because every last one of us sins. The problem, the mess that we're in, goes all the way back to one man. So, what can God do about that? Because the wages of sin is death. Could he have sent an angel, someone without a human body, to come down here and die on a cross? Could he have sent the pre-incarnate Christ? And assume some form that was not humanity born of a virgin, a man? Well It actually takes another man to solve the problem that began with a man. The only way that God could redeem humanity was to punish humanity. The justice of God had to fall on a man, not an angel. And so we have here in this section a clear distinction drawn between Adam, one man, and Jesus, one man. Look at it again. It said, just skip to verse 14. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned according to the likeness of the transgression of Adam. But the free gift is not like the offense, for if now he's about to draw distinctions between Between the first Adam and the second Adam, Jesus. And he's going to say the second Adam and what he did is dissimilar to the first. And the second Adam, he's drawing a contrast. But he the only way he can do this is because it's a contrast between two individual people. Have you ever used the phrase that's like comparing apples to oranges? You're in an argument with someone or you're just discussing things politely and they make a point and you say, That's the bad comparison. That doesn't even work. I mean you're trying to argue on the basis of These three facts, and that's the foundation of your argument. Well, I'm I'm on a totally different page than you. It just doesn't work. In this situation, this is not apples and oranges, this is apples and apples. This is Adam the man and Jesus the man. And so when Jesus died in our place, he could take our place as a straight parallel. Everything that happened on that cross was possible because he was and even now is a man. Folks, in other words, if he had chosen If he had not been a man, he could not have been the second Adam. Look now at Hebrews. Let's build on this a little bit and turn over a few more pages. And let's expand this a little bit. And you turn to Hebrews chapter 2. And we'll try to do some applications here. Hang in there and look at Hebrews chapter 2 verse 5. For he had not put the world to come of which we speak in subjection to angels, but one testified in a certain place, saying, What is man that you are mindful of him? Or the Son of Man, that you take care of him. You have made him a little lower than the angels, and you have crowned him with glory and honor, and set him over the works of your hands. Look at ver well we'll keep reading. You have put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he hath Left nothing that is not put under him. But now we do not yet see all things put under him, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels. For the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, might taste death for everyone. Now we don't know the end of mankind, and we don't know in detail, I should say, how all the reign of mankind is going to work over creation. In the eternal state. We don't know everything, but we do see Jesus, and he was made a man a little lower than the angels, like us. And this was so, look at your Bible at verse 9 again, for the suffering of death. And look at verse 9 toward the end of it, by the grace of God might taste death for everyone. His humanity was necessary because, for the sake of his mortality. Folks, it really is true. Jesus was born to die. That really is true. He was born so that he could die. And when we read down through this passage and we see what else this humanity does. As the parallel continues, it just opens up, it just blooms to us in a wonderful way. If you look at verse 10, it was fitting for him. For whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. What does this mean? Well, this means that when Jesus was incarnate as a man, there was in his humanity Spiritual growth of some kind. There was a maturing process that took place. You say, Dan asked me to explain it. I can't How is it that he needed to learn to speak? How is it that when Jesus came out of the womb, he just didn't say, hello Mary, hello, Joseph, I have many things to do, let's get busy. No, he came out of the wound and he said, like that. Explain to me how Jesus, the baby, had to learn to speak and walk The God man, the God baby. I can't explain it, but there is this. When he had that body and he suffered, there was this maturing process in his humanity, and he's the captain of our salvation. Look at verse 11. For both he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of one, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren. Saying, I will declare your name to my brethren in the midst of the assembly. I will sing praise to you. Now, this is the amazing thing, folks. Is that when you die, or if we're raptured out of here, and you see Jesus face to face, you're looking at a man, a man. And you are, there is one part of your relationship is that you are his brother. You share in his humanity. It boggles the mind that our God would do this for us. Now they say that there are billions of insects on this planet, billions and billions, innumerable amount. How many are in your yard? You got any ant hills there? Uh we have some pretty big ant hills behind the parsonage. I've had them like this big, like building up a little metropolis of antems. Down there. I mean, it's just all these ants. They're everywhere. How much value do you place on an ant? Have you ever saved one's life? Have you ever? You know, I think the ants are hungry in my backyard. You know, we've got these table scraps. Let's just feed them to the ants today Or, you know what, honey, why don't you bake nice why don't you just cook a nice T bone on the grill? I think the ants. We look out at creation, we see the different forms of life that God has made, and we have a certain relationship with that life. Now, ants are not made in the image of anything. Like the our image that we can speak with them and they speak with us. But in our estimation, there is a huge gap between the intelligence of a man and the intelligence of an ant. Face it. And the value of a man is far greater than the value of an ant. That's why when you were a kid you took a magnifying glass and you burned bugs occasionally. Did you ever do that? Oh boy. I don't know. Maybe I'm confessing my sins. But when I was a kid, I used to burn ants with a magnifying glass. I don't do that today. I'm not a bad person. Don't judge me. I used to do that occasionally. But I don't but the point is there's this huge gap in the creative order between us and ants. Folks, it's not eternal though, is it? We might be able, if this were possible, to extract the brain of an ant and compare it to the brain of a human. And in some way form some type of mathematical equation that tries to capture the difference in complexity between those two organs. But God and us, when it comes to the mind of God and your mind, there's an infinite space between those two brains. There the the the distance is so great it cannot be mathematically put into an equation And that great mind who spins the planets out and calls forth the supernovas, he threw a couple rocks, I think, at Jupiter this past week. Any of you see that video online? Couple rocks. He put I can't explain this He came down and he became that baby, and he was willing to wrap his deity in human flesh, real human flesh, not fake, not just. You know, this strange facsimile, true humanity. Because he wanted to feel pain It was the purpose. I don't understand that, that kind of love. Do you I stub my toe and I whine. That it could be whipped. He wanted to feel the pain, but not without purpose. He wanted to do that so that he in his humanity would mature. So that one day, one day what? Well, look at verse 13. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, here am I and the children. Whom God has given me. Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same, that through death he might destroy him who Had the power of death, that is the devil, and released those who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. For indeed he does not give aid to angels, but he does give aid to the seed of Abraham. Therefore, in all things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. To make propitiation for the sins of the people, for in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to aid those who are tempted. Now there's a lot more here, and we don't have time to unpack this morning. But the first idea, you know, Luke's saying here, I want you to know he comes all the way from Adam. He is a man, not a spirit creature. And the writer to Hebrews is saying he he had that humanity so he could die. He was born to die. And in addition to that, he was born to suffer And to mature in his suffering. And this leads us kind of in his arguments here in verse 17 to the merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. And for the moment we skip over the rest of verse 17 and verse 18, in that he himself has suffered So we have this high priest, and he knows a whole lot about pain, and he is up there talking to God, God the Son, talking to God the Father, about you. And he is not saying things like, well, we know because we are God what pain is. We created it. He's saying no, what as he intercedes on our behalf, as he's up there for our sakes, he He speaks as one who has piercings in his hands and feet, and a scar in his side, and no doubt scars on his back. And he speaks in that body. It's resurrected, but it bears the marks that Thomas could put his fingers in. He speaks as the suffering savior for you and for me. And he was faithful, and he did this, and he took on flesh and blood for you and for me to satisfy the justice of God. If you go back to Luke chapter three It seems to be easier to understand that Luke wanted to establish that Jesus was the Son of David. A little bit harder maybe to figure out why he goes all the way back to Adam, but certainly he wants us to be reminded that Jesus was. a man. So what do we do to take this home this week? Alright, you've got a lot of people in this room in various ages, various stages of spiritual growth. Some of you walk with God for decades, some of you are relatively new Christians. Sometimes we struggle in our faith because we really don't appreciate who Jesus is. Or we misunderstand him. We have a high priest who is tired With the feelings of our infirmities, because folks, he can empathize with them. Do you know the difference between sympathy and empathy? Sympathy is, I don't know how you feel, but I will cry with you. I can't imagine what you're going through, but I'll do my best to cry with you and to comfort you. That's sympathy. Empathy is I know what you're going through because I've been there. That's what Jesus does for you and for me. He can empathize with our physical struggles and pain. And if I could expand the idea just a little bit, he was forsaken by his friends. He was betrayed by Judas. Everyone ran away. Peter denied him three times. He was tempted in all ways like we are. This is our Jesus. He was a son of Adam. He was not an angel. He was not impervious to physical pain and suffering and emotional lament. He was just a son of Man, and this should comfort you. Because sometimes the devil tries to drive a wedge between us and Jesus because he was and is God. He's so big and high up there. I mean, how can I even relate to him? And sometimes we need to be reminded that even though we can't always relate to him, he can relate to us He can relate to us. Jesus of Nazareth can relate to you and me. So that means when you pray, you are praying, among other things, you are praying to a God. Who's been there? I mean, can you can you imagine being there on the road to Emmaus, hearing all those things? And the reason you don't know this guy is because he looks, he's just a guy, a man. And Jesus has to open their eyes. Can you imagine walking with Jesus and you tell him your story? And Jesus doesn't say anything. He just puts his arm around your shoulder and says, Yeah, I know. He's been there. Isn't that amazing? God can do that for you And he wants to, folks. The exhortation from the Bible is come to the mercy seat. Come to the mercy seat. To find help in times of trouble, because this is the way Jesus is for us. And this is definitely what the gospel Writer wants to remind us of at the beginning, even before Christ is tempted, because that is Luke chapter 4. Now, in a second, we're going to transition our whole service into the Lord's table. And this is a time when we remember the Lord's death. And I invite you to kind of put your things away and transition with me in this. The wine and the bread that has no leaven in it is broken. It represents what? The physical body of Christ and the suffering that he went through. He did this for you and for me and to obey the Father. His first relationship with Christ was with the Father. But God's glory was our good in this. And as you take the elements and sit there and wait, Think about Jesus having that body and doing it for you, and think about how much It just keeps leading back to the love of God for sinners. Good and upright is the Lord, therefore he teaches sinners in the way. What an amazing God we have. Think about how much you're loved. And you know what? It doesn't have anything to do with the money in your bank account. How good all your relationships are. Whether your car is about to break down, or whether you have cancer, this has to do with Christ, and this proves that He does love you, regardless of what's going on in your life. So let me invite you to get your bulletins out.