It's good to be back. We've come here today to hear God's word as well as to speak truth and to speak his word. We've had scripture reading, and so our desire is that the word of God Would be something that we hear well and we pay attention to. And I fear that generally speaking, and I struggle with this myself, the Art of listening has become a dying art. It's a uh something that maybe we take for granted, but the capacity to listen with discernment is seems to be disappearing. That's my observation. And I'm constantly on guard to try to stir up my capacity to be a better listener. I am naturally not a good listener, and so I have to work extra hard at it, but to hear God's word requires a certain amount of determination. You know, we may actually be surprised uh to see who listens well. I don't know if you've ever pondered the question, who in my life is a good listener? Who's a good listener just for a moment of someone you know and say that person knows how to listen Well, we raised that question recently. Kathy and I have just returned a couple days ago from the Shoopy Sibling Reunion, which we do once a year for about three days And so one of the questions was, who is a good listener in your life? And I want you to think about that today because It's important that we identify that. We thrive when we are in conversation with a good listener. I remember last year. I was fortunate enough to be able to visit our former pastor from Arlington, Virginia, who performed our wedding. After many years, I was able to catch up with him. He was in failing health and in his late 80s, but he was very alert. And I remember having conversation with him, and it caught my attention when I realized this man knows how to listen. He made me feel as if whatever I said was really crucial. And I remember one thing that I said, I don't remember what it was, but I remember saying one thing that I thought was rather insignificant, but he hung on my every word. And he made me feel as if I was the only one that mattered. That's a good listener, isn't it, when someone can do that kind of thing. As if he's suggesting that you're really interesting. And no matter what you say to me, no matter how mundane or ridiculous, I'm going to find it interesting. Well, Jesus did this. And he did it to perfection. And a number of his audience as well were able to be good listeners. That leads me to our text for today, which is in Luke 15, which I want to read right now, verses 1 to 10. Follow along as I read. Then all the tax collectors and sinners drew near to him to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. And he spoke this parable to them, saying, What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he loses one of them, does not leave The ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the one which is lost until he finds it. And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders. Rejoicing, and when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep, which was lost. I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance. Or what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she loses one piece, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and seek diligently until she finds it? And when she has found it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me. For I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say to you, There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And Father, we thank you for your word and for this passage. May our eyes be opened and our ears attuned to hear and see with clarity. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So I just uh read that text, uh Luke 15, 1-10. We probably all read it before. Maybe you are even somewhat familiar with it. Two wonderful parables that Jesus tells, but what is going on here? Why is he prompted to tell these two particular parables? Well they're set in a context. You know that everything in Scripture has a context, a setting. Sometimes it's a chapter, sometimes it's a book, sometimes it's uh a paragraph, but there's always a setting. And the setting for this particular passage, which I just read, is in the last verse of the previous chapter. If you look back to chapter 14, we read, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. We should not dismiss that. You know, we got these chapter breaks, but sometimes, of course, they're not inspired, and so they are not part of the original text, and sometimes they just divide the passage at the wrong place and can mislead us. So don't think for a moment that the last line of the previous chapter is disconnected from chapter 15. And the proof that they are connected is that when he says, He who has ears to hear, let him hear, we find out in the next verse that tax collectors and sinners drew near to him to hear him. So we've got listening in both of these verses. So the end of chapter 14, and probably the whole context of chapter 14, I believe. is linked to what is happening in chapter 15. It's a context of warning in this chapter. This idea of uh he who has ears to hear, let him hear, shows up uh about seven or eight times in the Gospels and about the same amount of time in the book of Revelation. So it's a common expression. in the New Testament. That last part of it, let him hear, sounds kind of permissive. It's like an invitation And that doesn't really do justice to the idea. It's more of a command. It's an imperative. We might translate it as one version has done, the one who has ears to hear had better listen. That carries the idea of the imperative a little bit more, doesn't it? And makes it seem a little more urgent. So he's not granting permission, he's not inviting people to hear He is giving orders and a command in the imperative mood, which changes the way we read that. And so perhaps these tax collectors and sinners in chapter 15, verse 1, heard him. They may have heard him say that and thought, well, we better listen. We'll see about that. I don't know if it's if that's the case or not, but nevertheless, you see how important hearing is and listening. The Bible is full of admonitions to listen. We know that. You read the book of Deuteronomy, it's all over the place. Book of Proverbs, who you listen to. All of that is essential and significant. In chapter 14, verses 15 to 24, Jesus portrays God as quick to invite others, calling them to come. to his feast and some were not listening very well because they didn't show up. And so he invited others as well. And you notice there's these two groups. The group that was invited, but they didn't come to the feast. The group that was not originally invited, but who ended up coming to the feast. That plays into what's going on as well in chapter 15. So who is a good listener? The last verse of chapter 14 might raise our curiosity. And before we look at chapter 15, let me just say that I think there are some things about listening that we need to really understand because they not only apply to conversation in general in other lives, but specifically to listening to the Word of God. Let me suggest five things that are important to listening, to being a good listener. The first of which is to be aware of and to admit one's need or ignorance We have to know that we don't know everything. We have to know how desperate we are to hear with the speaker. We need to know that the speaker has something to say. And that's why we often tune people out. We all remember as we were kids and then our own children. How we found out as we were talking or as our parents were talking with us, well we really weren't listening and they realized it. Why did we not listen? Well, we perhaps were distracted, but we didn't think whatever they're saying was new or that important, so we didn't pay attention. And so our children did the same with us. So we have to be aware of and admit our need and ignorance. The second thing is we need to recognize that Jesus and his word is the source of all important wisdom. Jesus and His Word is the source of all important wisdom. So in our need and ignorance, we turn to a source to help us. And good listeners will turn to Jesus to watch him, to read the gospels and observe him, to want to be with him, near to him, hang out with him. And to listen to him. The third important element is to cultivate a healthy curiosity, a hunger for discernment and learning. To be hungry, spiritually hungry. Psalm 119, verse 18, the psalmist says, Open my eyes that I may behold wonderful things. out of your law. There he uses the term eyes to see. But he could equally, as is done elsewhere in Scripture, have said, Open my ears, that I might listen well to what you have to say to me. And so to have a healthy curiosity, a hunger for discernment and learning. The fourth thing is to clarify The information that we've acquired. After all, we're all sitting here, we probably all have Bibles, we've read the Bible, we have accumulated a mass of knowledge, and we've acquired information. But it doesn't stop there. Clarification is required, ongoing clarification. And the reason for that is because we want to make sure we're properly understanding and interpreting what we've heard from God's Word. And so we want to make sure we heard correctly so we clarify that information. Make sure we got it right. Then we the the fourth, the fifth element is to ask proving questions, to clarify even more fully and generate insight. And there is a sixth step, which is repeat the first five. Okay, so we've got really five steps, and the last step is repeat those, and that's the foundation for good listening. So good listening skills enable us to hear the words that are spoken and properly interpret and apply the words. Notice that word apply. We want to do what we're hearing. And for that reason, Jesus says, you better listen. He who has the ears to hear had better listen. Disciples want to watch and observe and understand, discern Jesus' purposes and motives in everything that He says and does. After all, Jesus' words always have far more depth than we could ever imagine. Have you ever learned a passage of Scripture and then went back to it and saw, oh, I missed that. Oh, there's an insight. You get new insights. Isn't that amazing with the stuff that we know that there's still no end to getting new insight into what we thought we knew so well? And so listening is vital. And that brings us then back into chapter 15 of Luke, where we read in verse 1: all the tax collectors and sinners drew near. to him, to listen to him. I was intrigued with one of the hymns that we was selected for today. Come, ye sinners, poor and needy. This is the audience of verse 1. Poor and needy sinners called tax collectors and sinners in our Bible And it seems as if the implication here is shocking. That is, the least likely to be good listeners may actually be the best listeners. Because it's the tax collectors and the sinners who seem to possess the necessary traits to be good listeners. I would say in Jesus' day, at least the religious leaders and probably the public at large would assume Pharisees, scribes, elders, Sadducees, those guys would be good listeners. Because they're so well educated. But the ones who have come to Jesus are tax collectors and sinners. And I think we see Jesus at his finest in these settings. He's on a mission. I would think that probably he's in his sweet spot, if we could call it that. His pulse quickens. Why? Because he's thinking, this is why I came. I came for these people who are hungry, who have questions, who are needy, who know that they are. The term sinners is kind of an intriguing one because it uh uh we we would say, well, we're all sinners. Yeah, everybody that gathers together So who am I speaking to today? Sinners. Who's speaking to you? A sinner. We could all agree with that, but that's not what this means. This is a specialized term that was used mostly by the religious elite to separate people from themselves. Such as the dishonorable murderers, robbers, liars. These would be the ones who would be called sinners, even though everybody's a sinner. This was like sinners with a capital S. But for Jesus, he likes that. Tax collectors and sinners sense that Jesus cares and has something to say to them. They come to him not trying to impress him. They have no hidden agenda to convince him of anything. to find a loophole in his argument. They have come to him out of desperate need. They are outcasts in society. They know that they're unpopular. They know that they're needy. And they've come to Jesus not trying to impress him, but because they sense his love and are hungry to hear the wisdom that he has to say to them. And this is the foundation for all good listening: to sense our spiritual need. We listen today, say to this sermon, based on our awareness of our spiritual need. We read our Bibles based on not duty. Well, I do this every day. It's the thing I'm supposed to do, but I read scripture because I sense my need. And Jesus would say, Please do that, because I love your company. I love it when you hang out with me. And so really the least likely may be the best listeners. And the least likely in this case are tax collectors and sinners. But the converse of that is found in verse 2. That is, the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So we notice two different actions: tax collectors and sinners, they're listening. Pharisees and scribes grumbling. Clear contrast there, isn't it, between the two. That would be a surprise to a lot of people who would probably think in Jesus' day, well, if anybody is listening to God, it must be the Pharisees and the scribes. Those guys know how to listen to God because they know the law of Moses and they know this and that, and so they must be the good listeners. But in fact, they're grumbling. Jesus is doing his thing, and they don't like it. This same term is used over in chapter 19 of Luke, verse 7, where Jesus affirmed a tax collector. You remember his story. His name was Zacchaeus. And he was going to go to Zacchaeus' house, a tax collector, to eat. And they grumbled about that as well. You see, while the tax collectors and sinners were soaking it in, trying to absorb all that they could from the lips of Jesus. in their need, in their hunger, and their ignorance, trying to get everything they could from him The Pharisees and the Sadducees were not listening to Jesus, but were watching his audience. They were looking around, watching others. Who's here? Who's in attendance? Who is Jesus paying special attention to? I hope it's the right people. And they are chagrined to discover he's not paying attention to them. He's paying attention to the ones who have actually come to listen to him. This is disturbing because the tax collectors and sinners are deemed unclean. They hang out with the wrong people. They do the wrong kinds of things. They don't devotedly follow the Mosaic customs and therefore they're unclean. And all of this makes the Pharisees and the scribes. feel pretty superior. You see, in all of this then we discover there's two audiences. An audience with no hidden agendas, no ulterior motives, no need to impress, who've come out of need and desperation and hunger because they believe Jesus is the one who has the answers and who can satisfy their need. as opposed to those who have hidden agendas and ulterior motives. They have no sense of personal need. They have the personal need, if they have one, to observe others and put them in their place and kind of categorize and sort people out. So, what we learn in these first two verses is that the most likely of listeners may actually be the worst listeners, and the least likely may be the best listeners. Everything gets turned around. And I think it's upsetting to the Pharisees and the scribes Now, this idea is common in Luke. I'm not going to take the time. There's several occasions where Jesus deals with tax collectors in Luke. He loves this topic Luke looks for every opportunity, it seems, to stick in the tax collectors and the sinners hanging out with Jesus. Back in chapter 5, Jesus called a tax collector named Levi. Why did he do it? Well, he was criticized for it, but he said, no, no, no, my priority is the sick, not the healthy. Then, two chapters later, chapter 7, the tax collectors and sinners are affirmatively responding to John the Baptist. Whereas the Pharisees and the scribes are not. And there we find out that the ones that we least expect To have a positive response to John the Baptist are the ones who have the best response, kind of like in Luke 15. We could go over to chapter 18 where you remember that the parable Jesus told of the Pharisee and the tax collector who both went into the temple to pray. And they prayed very different prayers, didn't they? The humble tax collector seemed to respond and listen carefully based on the fact that he knew how desperately needy he really was. Whereas the Pharisees and the scribes have an inflated sense of their spirituality and their importance, and are only focused upon how good they are. Tax collector, here's how bad I am. Pharisees, God, look how good I am. Very different approach. And finally, one more that I could just mention would be Zacchaeus in chapter 19. There Jesus on a mission, gladly. meets people in their need and is not put off by their sinful condition, even though the Pharisees and the scribes are really grumbling about that. So you see, this is not a coincidence what we have in Luke chapter fifteen. fifteen verses one and two. This is a model for us to think about how Jesus did ministry and what his ministry priorities really were, and how we as followers of Jesus need to think through our approach as well to those that might fit the category in the 21st century of tax collectors and sinners. All that is background or leading into a couple of parables that Jesus is going to tell. And so we go then back to Luke 15 and we look at these parables briefly. The first parable is the parable in verses 3. It's the parable of the lost coin. Or excuse me, the lost sheep. A man lost one out of a hundred sheep. And you'll notice that there's an emphasis on this idea of lost and found. I think it occurs about six times in this one parable If he loses one, verse four, and then the end of verse four. The one which is lost until he finds it. And then again in verse five, when he has found it. And then in verse 6, at the end of the verse, I have found my sheep which was lost. Notice that emphasis. So that repetition in that parable tells us that Jesus wants his listeners to be thinking about things that get lost and things that get found. A second emphasis is on the idea of the sinner. You'll notice that in verse 7. More joy in heaven over one sinner. And he specifically chooses that word because that's the term that the Pharisees and the scribes like to use to describe the others. And we it's a term that's used in verse 1, tax collectors and sinners drew near together. So Jesus talks about sinners who repent. So the first element in this parable is the lost and found idea. The second is that there are sinners. And the third is that there is joy in heaven. We see this in verse 5, rejoicing when he finds the sheep. Verse 6, he tells his friends, rejoice with me. And then again in verse 7, there will be more joy in heaven. So joy is a significant feature of this parable as well. Then we have a second parable, verse 8, 9, and 10. Very, very similar in content. In this parable, a woman loses a coin. Now you notice that in verse 4, that first parable was introduced with the phrase, what man of you? As if everyone knows, yeah, all of us understand the idea in this parable. You lose something of value, you go look for it. There's no implication in the parable, and the parable is not intended to suggest that the shepherd was careless, leaving 99 in the wilderness. That's not the point of the parable. Parables can't make all these extra points. And so we're not supposed to be pondering. Excuse me. too deeply uh what happened to these uh other ninety-nine, we assume that he because he cared about one, he cared about the other ninety-nine So we have then this woman, she's got ten pieces of silver. She too loses one. And notice the emphasis again on lost and found. Verse 8. If she lose one piece. End of verse 8. Until she finds it. Beginning of verse 9. When she has found it. In the verse 9, I found this which I had lost five times in three verses, this idea of loss and found. So we have the same basic thrust in both of these parables. And in addition, we have this idea of the sinner. Notice in verse 10. Join the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And the third element Found in verses 9 and 10 is the element of joy. Rejoice with me, verse 9. And then verse 10, I say to you, there is joy in the presence of angels. So we have lost and found six times in the first parable, and joy or rejoicing three times in the first parable. In the second parable, we have lost or found five times. And joy or rejoicing twice, and we have the sinners in both. So Jesus is not just randomly telling parables. We can see that very clearly, that there is some structure here to this. And finally, we didn't have time to read it, it's too long, and you're probably most familiar with this. This is followed by the parable of the prodigal son. Starting in verse 11 and running to the end of the chapter. Alright, so we actually have three parables. I only intended to focus on two because of time. And because of our familiarity with the parable of the prodigal son. But remember, the parable of the prodigal son is the third of three consecutive parables. The foundation for that third one, the prodigal son, is laid in the first two. The idea of lost and found, the idea of joy and rejoicing, and the idea of And we find that in this parable as well. If you look down to verse twenty-three, the Father says, Let us eat and be merry. That idea merry means to celebrate, to have great rejoicing. Then again in verse 24, he was lost and is found. And then the end of verse 24 They began to be merry, to celebrate. Verse 29, the last line: the son complains, Father, you never let me make merry with my friends. And the son doesn't really understand what it means to be Mary, apparently. And finally at the end, verse 32. The father says it was right that he sh we should make merry and be glad. Why? Your brother was dead and is alive again, was lost and is found. And the final words Of this chapter and of these three parables is the idea of lost and found. What's Jesus doing here? Well, clearly If we go back to the beginning, verses 1 and 2, we have a lost and a found audience. He never once in the Three parables mentions the Pharisees and the scribes, but he talks about those who were secure, or thought they were. And particularly the son who was angry, and the prodigal son, who was never lost, and who was very sure of himself and secure in his own self-righteousness. And so all three of these parables are building on this idea that there are these two audiences, the lost and the found, and the found may actually be lost. Pharisees and scribes considered themselves to be found, but Jesus is going to tell these parables in such a way that it's reasonable to conclude that they're actually lost. Whereas the tax collectors and sinners who know that they're lost, that's why they're listening, that's why they've come to Jesus, those know that they're lost and they can be found. So, what we have here then are these ideas of lost and found, where Jesus prioritizes the search for the lost, since the safe are found and secure. What a great picture of God, isn't it? Isn't that a wonderful picture? All of us who are parents here probably have our lost child story. I don't know if all of us do, but we sure do. And I remember it was 45 years ago or so, in the 40s anyway, our second oldest son had woken up early. We lived uh we had moved to Rehoba Beach, Delaware for ministry and we were living near the boardwalk, and so I had a habit of getting him up in the mornings uh or getting him a dress when he woke up early and taking him for a wagon ride w so my wife could sleep in and uh our other son could sleep sleep. So I would I would do that. And so we were out for a walk uh on a morning. It was in January. I had him all bundled up in his coat and his parka and he was about a year and a half old perhaps. And I walked for about an hour, bought a cup of coffee, ate a donut, read the paper while I was pulling the wagon behind me. He's back there And I just know he's as contented as he can be. And I got about, well, I got within the block of our house and I turned around and the wagon was empty. Alright, so that was jolt. That's a something you never forget, right, parents? You just never forget those kinds of things. And so it's as vivid today as it was then. And So I had an empty wagon and no sun and didn't know where he could possibly be. I've been walking for an hour And the wagon was noisy because it had loose nothing bolts. So if he had cried out or whatever, I may not have heard him when he fell out. So I immediately said, I'm in big trouble with my wife. I better go find him. And uh so I headed out. Now he was found. I'm not gonna tell you that whole story because I don't have time, but I'll tell you he was found. And I understand a little bit of this idea of losing something precious and finding it. I found him quickly. And there was great rejoicing, I assure you, as I took him in my arms and held him. And so for Jesus to tell this kind of story, to focus our attention on lost and found, everybody's thinking about that. You may not have lost a sheep. You may not have lost a coin. You lost something. Everybody has lost something. I lost my wallet in a gas station a couple years ago, and it was returned to me intact. You know, so it's it doesn't have to be a sheep or a coin, it can be all kinds of things. And that's to help us understand the mentality of God. And his son in his quest for those who are considered on the margins of society, the tax collectors and the sinners, those that religious people would consider unclean. Jesus uses this term sinner to accommodate the Pharisees. Interestingly enough, it doesn't show up in the third parable. The prodigal son, just the first two. But he uses this terminology to help bring home his point that a sinner has been found Picture angels in heaven. You ever just sit around and just take three minutes and think about angels rejoicing in heaven? What does that look like? How do angels rejoice? Do angels dance? Do they sing? Do they jump for joy? Do they do high fives? Do they bump elbows? I don't know what angels do when they rejoice, but I'd love to see it And Jesus thinks that's important enough to bring out at this point joy in heaven over sinners repenting. I don't know if that fits your model of heaven or not. C. S. Lewis once said, joy is the serious business of heaven. And I think his point was that we need to rethink our view of heaven because here we find out that the angels are rejoicing. Over one who repents. And angels don't even understand salvation like we do. And yet they know something has happened, and it's a big deal. So let me just conclude with an encouragement to us today Think about the tax collectors and sinners in your life, and think about the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And I know that when I think about the Pharisees and the Sadducees, I never want to put myself in that category. I always want to think, yeah, I would be like these other guys who want to hang out with Jesus, but sometimes we need to d take a ruthless look at ourselves and ask, what are the qualities of Pharisees and s and scribes, and would I be one of them? Do I have pharisaical tendencies? And perhaps I might isolate myself from the very people that God has targeted. For repentance, because I have a pharisaical attitude towards them. I love what I see of Jesus in this chapter And in the book of Luke, his comfort in being in the company of those despised by the religious leaders of his day. And it makes me want to be in that crowd that says, I'm listening. I'm coming to be in his presence. to sit at the table with him. I want to hear every single word he says. I want to see every facial expression, every body uh gesture that he makes. I want all of that because he has the answers and he's the one who cares for those who are marginalized We thank you, Lord Jesus, for the portrait that we see of you in your word in this passage. How wonderful it is to realize that the poor and the needy can come, That the tax collectors and sinners can be comfortable in the company of one like you. Oh, I want to be like that. I want tax collectors and sinners to want to hang out with me. And I want to to hang out with them like you would. Give us that kind of heart. Thank you for who you are. In Jesus' name. Amen.