We'll be looking this morning at the events surrounding the psalm or the of praise that Mary gave to her God after she found out that well. Well, we'll get to that. Let's go ahead and start with a word of prayer, and then we'll get into this morning's message. Father, this morning we thank you that you are the unchangeable God, that no event on this earth somehow causes you to become less than yourself. You are the one without imperfection, no shadow of turning. There is nothing in you. You cannot tell a lie. You are the rock that we run to, our high tower. Father, help us, because we have to say these things by faith, even when the events of life or in our country or in the world are constantly changing. Father, we rejoice that we have such a God, God of justice and faithfulness, a God of goodness, holiness, a God of mercy and grace. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of Adam and Eve, the God of Mary and Joseph. Help these people. Help us. No matter what discouraging circumstances might surround us, or even if sunshine shines on our path and things are going great, help us never to forget who you are. And to constantly go back to this answering this question. And now this morning as we look at this passage and consider The way that you led your people to the coming of the Messiah. Grant us grace, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Promises are an interesting concept, right? It's one individual telling another individual that they will do something for them, or that they will just do something, even if it's independently of the other individual. A promise can be big or small. You could say to someone, I'll meet you at 5 o'clock at Panera Bread for dinner. It's kind of a small promise. It's just more of a statement. I don't think anyone would say text to someone else and say, I promise to meet you at so-and-so or place. But that would be sort of a small promise. A big promise would be something like to have and to hold from this day forward till death do us part. I mean, that's a lot bigger of a promise than just saying I'll meet you at Panera Bread. at 5 o'clock. So there are these small promises or big promises, I guess if you want to sort of quantify it, one more weighty than the other. But then we can complicate our promises by making them in such a way that time is involved. And the greater the time element, the more complicated the promise can be. Have you ever said to someone, I will always be here for you? Wow, that is a huge time promise I mean, are you saying that you will be there for that person for the next 50, 60 years? I mean, what exactly do you mean by that? I mean, that is a weighty time promise. You could say to someone, no matter what happens, I'm gonna be I'll pay such and so a bill for the next year for you or or so on. You can we can complicate a promise by making one big or small, bigger. You can complicate a promise by making it further out into the future. But then there are also promises that involve more people. You could make a statement to a group of people that you're going to do something. And that kind of a promise is even perhaps more difficult. You could say, I'm going to take you to such and so a destination and we're going to organize this trip and it's going to happen on such and so a date and it's three months from now and suddenly you've got a fairly weighty promise that involves a lot of people and there's a time element involved as well. God's promises involve all these components, all these pieces. And the kind of promises that God makes are truly amazing. Take, for example, the promise that he made to Adam and Eve in the garden. Concerning the snake and the the seed of the woman. One day there is going to be this champion that comes and is able to dominate that snake and step on the head of the snake and bruise that head. Destroy what that snake represented in the Garden of Eden. That is an amazing promise. And Eve might have thought that her child Cain was the one who was going to fulfill that promise. But what did we find out about that promise? As you go through the pages of your Old Testament, you go from Adam and Eve. And then you have to go through Noah because God had to judge the world. And then you go you find Abram, God chooses him, and builds a nation. And then you have this nation finally get to the promised land. And by the time you are at Daniel trying to figure out when Israel can return from exile. And the coming nations that exist between the testaments, Alexander the Great and Rome and Greece, how all these things work out and the vision he had of that giant statue. We have had a promise that spans centuries. What if you had lived during the days of the Old Testament? And you trusted in the promise of the coming champion, the coming Messiah, the one who would take away the sins of the world. God required of his people a long wait. And you know what? I don't think they enjoyed it that much. Not only did you have an entire nation who was given promises at one point in the history of redemption, but you also had the fact that that nation turned away from God. So there was existing within Israel a remnant of people who still believed in the coming of the Messiah, and they had the double pressure of dealing with their whole theocracy, rejecting the Lord. While they were trying to maintain their faithfulness and keep believing in the Lord. So, how is it possible that Mary was such a woman of faith? After all those centuries, after going to her synagogue, listening to her rabbi teach from the Old Testament, reading those Hebrew scrolls. And waiting all that time, and now Israel is living under the heel of Rome. How is it that she responds with this hymn of praise in Luke 1, verse 46? She is like, she's a woman who is ready to believe. And she says after the angel, and we'll go into some of the details of what took place before. that explain her response, but she says, my soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. She just she responds to this Messiah who's going to come. Folks, I don't think you and I appreciate the kind of faith this woman had because so much time had passed and now this angel comes to her and tells her it's time And it's very possible that many, many of the people in Israel had given up on the Messiah. Had really come to this place where I don't even think this person is ever going to come. So I want us to look this morning at how the Lord led Mary to that point of praise. She says, My soul magnifies the Lord, my spirit has rejoiced. In God, my Savior. What brought her to that point? It's an amazing series of events. Let's go back and just look first. And this I'm hoping this won't just be a review, but just sort of point out some things that are stepping stones to God bringing her to that place of faith and belief. That she would bear the Messiah. First, there is the whole genesis of the forerunner and the way God did this in Mary's life. First, God went to the husband. That was last week. And I called him Zacchaeus. I'm sorry, it was a long week. I didn't mean to do that. But Zechariah is in the temple, the angel approaches him. The intent of God was for Zechariah to believe the angel and with his own voice to come out and say, We are going to have a special child. Say this to his wife. We are going to have a special child. And then the wife was to believe, and then they were to have that child in their old age. The husband failed. He should have believed and he didn't. So God made Zechariah into an object lesson. And also, by the way, helped Zachariah's unbelief because there was this miracle. He couldn't speak for nine months, and so there was no explanation except that God had done it to him. And so Zechariah leaves and he can't speak. And of course, when someone can't say something, everyone wants to know what they have to say. And so he is doing this, and everyone comes, and then the message is delivered. And so his wife then becomes pregnant in her old age. This is a miracle. This is unexpected, the angel being mute, the pregnancy. And then there's this connection point between The pregnancy of John and John the Baptist before he's born, and Mary. Now, I don't know if Mary had heard For some time, but it's probably fairly likely at some point, even before Elizabeth went to visit Mary, she heard, what She's pregnant? What would be Mary's response? Well, we have, look at your Bible, and let's look at Mary's visit with Elizabeth. And this is Luke 1:39. Oh, I'm sorry. Before we do that, let's look at what Gabriel told her in verse 35. Okay, first we have Gabriel, who's going to tell Mary of this miracle that took place in the life of Elizabeth. Verse 35, the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also That holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Now, indeed, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age. And this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren. For with God nothing will be impossible. Now here's what's happening here. You have this woman, Mary, and she's betrothed to Joseph, promised to another man. She's still a virgin She's been given a message from Gabriel that she's going to bear the Messiah who will have a kingdom with no end. She believes, and yet Gabriel wants to help her. He wants her to have something a little bit more to hang her faith on. And so God sends him, had already previously sent him to Elizabeth, and Gabriel brings that up and says, look, Elizabeth, your relative. And Mary's thinking, yes. She's conceived, and the angel tells her, in her old age. And in verse 37, with God nothing will be impossible. And so the angel is bringing up Elizabeth to help Mary with her faith. Mary believes. She doesn't need to be struck mute. But she still is wondering about all these things. We know she's wondering because if you turn back in your Bible in verse 29, She was troubled at his saying. That's the angel saying. She considered what manner of greeting this was. Verse 34, she does question it: how can this be, since I do not know a man? And so the angel is just pointing out a miracle has already taken place, Mary, and now a miracle is going to take place with you. And this is supposed to give Mary a sense of awe and a sense of I can believe in this because it's already taken place with Elizabeth. But this there's more that takes place. And now we're at verse thirty nine. Mary arose in those days and went Into the hill country with haste to a city of Judah. Now notice that. She goes with haste. There's something in her she wants to see for herself. Would you be like that? Have you ever seen a miracle? They still happen sometimes. If we had all heard that over at such and so a place in Baltimore at such and so a street a miracle had taken place, I'm sure many of us would want to go see if we thought it was real. But I'm not saying that people sell miracles today to make money. If it's a real miracle, it's likely it'll be free. But anyway, there was this desire to see if the angel's words were true. So, verse 39, she goes to Judah. She enters the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth. And it happened when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary that the babe leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Then she spoke out. With a loud voice. Okay, now here's Mary. She hears Gabriel. She rushes to see. She meets Elizabeth. And Elizabeth doesn't know that Mary had heard from Gabriel too. Like her husband had. As far as Mary knows, Elizabeth doesn't know a thing about what's happening with Mary And the first thing out of Elizabeth's mouth, loudly, filled with the Holy Spirit. Verse 42, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. Well, I'm engaged to Joseph. And yet here Elizabeth already knows? But why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. Blessed is she who believed. For there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told her from the Lord So we have Gabriel pointing back to Elizabeth, her old age, with God nothing's impossible. We have Mary getting up and in haste going to see Elizabeth, and before a word is out of Mary's mouth Blessed is the mother of my Lord, blessed is she who believes, the words will be fulfilled. So there is just this If I could put it this way, I want to be careful how I say this, but when we consider our God and who he is, I see this as God just leading Mary along. He is just give bringing her through this process where she'll come to firm acceptance that she is the one that God will bring the Messiah to the world. She is the one that will be the conduit for that. She will be the mother of the Messiah of the world. And so it is at this moment when she hears Elizabeth say these things that she breaks out in praise. This moment when she magnifies the Lord and she rejoices in God, her Savior. Isn't that amazing how God does that? He just He starts with this family and then he brings Mary along, who's related, and then builds it up to the place where Mary has faith and believes. Now, I'm not saying she didn't believe before, but there's the strengthening of Mary through this. So let's look at what she says. She says everything you would expect a good Jewish girl to say. You realize that this magnificant, as we sometimes call it, Is very similar to a number of praised Psalms in your Old Testament. The themes that we find on the lips of Mary as she praises God for choosing her to bring the Messiah into the world. Are the very same themes we see over and over again in the Psalms as the psalmists praise God. And they can be our themes today as New Testament believers who have put our faith and trust in Jesus. Let me point these out. First, the filling of her spirit, the desire to praise my soul, verse 46, my soul magnifies, my spirit rejoices. There is this response. I began the service by saying that truth, biblical truth is the kindling that fires the human heart, is what I should have said She had been brought through this process coming to accept the truth that she would bear the Messiah, and so her heart was Was on fire. It was full. It was a desire to rejoice and exalt the Lord. The Lord had showed himself To do certain things in her life, unexpected things, miraculous things, and show so her heart just poured forth this praise. This was, of course, common in the Old Testament. My soul magnifies the Lord. Let us exalt his name together. There are so many different phrases in the Psalms that bring this up as well. But notice her address in verse 47. God, my savior. Now, this word savior definitely is a reference to the fact That she knows his name. The name Jesus means he will save his people from their sin. It means savior And when she looks to this baby that she's going to deliver, and she knows his name is Savior, means Savior, and she calls God my Savior, it is an affirmation that she is someone who is in need of salvation. She puts herself in the same group as all the others who need God. Savior. God, my Savior. And this is one of a couple of texts in the New Testament that indicate that Mary was a sinner. And that she needed salvation through Jesus, just like you and I do. She wasn't in a different class of people like angels She wasn't God who is perfect. She was a person, just like all of us, in need of salvation. Mary called God her Savior. Now, there are two principal themes in what she says here in verses 48 to 55. Let me see if you can pick these out by me just calling out their words. Look at your Bible Verse 48, there is someone who is lowly. Verse 49, there are those who are, there is the person who is mighty, he who is mighty. Verse 51, there is, he has shown strength. Verse 51, there are the proud. Verse 52, there are those who have mighty, are mighty, and they have thrones, and they've been put down. Verse 52, there's the lowly. Verse 53, there are those who are hungry, but they've been filled. But there are the rich, and they've been sent away empty. Now taking God out of it for just a second thematically, what are the two themes here? Well, there are those who are humble. Lowly, and there are those who are mighty and rich, and then there's God, and God has done this He's lifted up the lowly and the humble, and he's pushed down the mighty and the rich. Let's read it. Verse 48. For he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant. For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength from his arm. He's scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He's put down the mighty from their thrones And exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. You see that? There is this expectation From God who brings down the mighty and the proud and the rich and lifts up the poor and the humble Now, we need to be careful when we interpret what she means. Is there something sinful about having possessions? No, Abraham was one of the richest men in his time. Is there something particularly spiritual about being hungry? Does that impress God? You're hungry? No. There were many who were hungry that do not impress God. Really none of us do, because we're all sinners in need of salvation. But there are people on this earth who are proud people. Think of 1 John defining the world, the cosmos, as the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh. and the pride of life. That pride came out all the way at the beginning in Cain. Who actually could talk to God? Imagine if you could talk to God and God would talk back to you. He did that. And he talked to God, and God gave him a specific way to do a sacrifice. And Cain didn't want to do it. Basically said no. How much pride does it take to look God in the face and say no? And God comes down and reasons with Cain, and Cain still is passively resistant and goes out and murders his brother. That is pride. That is the exaltation of self before the exaltation of God. You know, if if we had a state senator in here, I would probably be a little more careful about what I said around him because he had a place of authority in our state. If the governor of the state was here, And he said, excuse me, and he wanted to get through a group of people, I probably would move to the side and let him go. I mean, if if there were If the Supreme Court justices were here, even though we disagree with decisions they make, we would give them a place of honor, we would show them respect. What kind of person is going to look at the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords and just say, no? That's what God's going to resist. That's the kind of individual that God is primed and ready to push down. It's the disobedient self-exaltation of Cain. Take someone like Samson. You want another example? Here's someone who the miraculous was a routine part of his life. He was truly Superman. He could lift things that were too heavy for normal men to lift. He could grab the jawbone of an animal and kill hundreds and thousands. He had this unlimited strength when the Spirit of God came upon him. He was supposed to be a Nazirite from the womb. But all through his life. He misused his strength. He went out and he rebelled against his God. He chased wine, women, and song. The one who was to be the Nazarite, the holy one unto the Lord, rebelled, and in his pride he went off after prostitutes and problems. What did God do? How did he respond to Samson? God allowed Samson to have his eyes pulled out and put between two pillars. And Samson's way of rebellion became hard for Samson. God resisted Samson in his choices. And that is what God does. God resists the proud, but he draws near to the humble. This is our God. He wants no flesh to glory in his presence. He wants no one to go into the end zone, so to speak, and slam that football down and go, yeah, yeah, yeah, look at me, God. I'm better than you. God is gonna resist that. Now, folks, you have an entire Old Testament of examples, but perhaps the greatest example of how God lifts up the humble is Mary and Elizabeth. And the fact that we're going to read next week that angels split the sky wide open and put on a firework display that would be terror-filled to the rest of us. For shepherds, smelly shepherds watching sheep at night. Why not the king in his palace? Shepherds? And why not the Queen? Mary? This woman was she look at verse forty eight. She was regarded herself as a maidservant. Just a woman who serves the Lord. And now God was going to exalt this simple woman of faith. To a place where, verse 48, generations will call me blessed. Isn't that amazing? Aren't you glad that that is your God? Now you should be thinking of other texts in your New Testament such as First Corinthians, the first three chapters, that talk about how God re uh put down the pride of this world and the reasoning of this world and used revelation, given it to us so that we just accept it by faith. It's just the way God works constantly. Throughout all generations. And that is something that we can definitely think through right now. Look at your Bible. Verse 49, Mary says he is mighty and done great things for me. Now, in the context, Gabriel. A message and a messiah. And Mary says, He's done great things for me to put me right in the middle of this. Folks, can you say that this morning? You know what happens sometimes in our Christian experience? We live off the spiritual energy of other people. And we say, God certainly has done great things for them or for them. But here's Mary saying, God has done great things for me. And she's really rejoicing in this the series of events that led her to this place. Is there something in your life that is akin to this? Now, I don't obviously not angels and a messiah, but but certainly Jesus. And the cross. The fact that he died there on that hillside for you. Are you so convinced of the cross and those truths that you can say God has done great things for me? Can you say verse 50? He has shown, I'm sorry, and his mercy is on those who fear him? Can I show you something in a Psalm? Turn to Psalm 25 for a moment. Turn to Psalm 25. Let's explore this concept of mercy very, very quickly. Draw it out a little for our blessing. Psalm twenty-five, verse six. Remember, O Lord, your tender mercies and your loving kindnesses. For they are from of old. Do not remember the sins of my youth nor my transgressions. According to your mercy, remember me, for your goodness' sake, O Lord. Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore he teaches sinners in the way. The humble he guides in justice, and the humble he teaches his way. All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity, for it is great. Now look, I'm not going to go through every word here, but I want you, did you catch something that doesn't quite make sense in that passage? On the one hand, there is, don't remember the sins of my youth. So the guy is saying, I did some things in the past, as I'm a sinner, please don't remember those. He's saying all these statements about, you know, please remember your mercy. Remember your loving kindness. Don't remember my sins. But then he says in verse 8, Good and upright is the Lord, therefore he teaches sinners in the way. Say now, wait a minute. If God is good and God is upright, why is he going to go after a sinner and teach him the way? It doesn't quite make sense. You would think that God would find good people to teach, that he would find upright people to teach. But that's where the mercy comes in. The mercy is Jesus came. Bore the sins of the world on the cross. Jesus died in our place, and we can receive forgiveness when we look to Him. The mercy is the cross. We know that from the New Testament. And Mary, the sinner, received that mercy as well and viewed God as a God of mercy who is good and upright. And so he does this. He teaches sinners in the way. And so he's able to forget our sin because of this whole concept of mercy, mercy, mercy. Have you received the mercy of God? Are you someone this morning who knows that if you die tonight that you'll go to heaven when you die? Are you someone that's convinced Like Mary, that God has done great things for you, and that God is a God of mercy, that He's good and upright, and so this mercy, He teaches sinners and the cross. And have you given that much thought? When we go back to Mary's Psalm, turn quickly back to Luke 1, and we see these two themes of the exaltation of the humble and the putting down of the mighty. She ends it in verses 54 and 55 with a reference to Israel. Look at verse 54. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. What is she doing there? Well, remember when I started, I was talking about the Old Testament and promises. Here's a woman who is affirming her belief that this Jesus, who will save his people from their sin, is in fact what God spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy, and Mary believed that in her heart. That ge that he indeed was the one who was going to come and be the Messiah of the Jews. Look, what what can you take away this afternoon from from this passage that would be a help to Folks, God hasn't changed He has not changed the Jewish prayers of the Old Testament to Psalms, so similar in their themes and even their expressions to Mary. You and I watch how God dealt with Mary, strengthening her along the way in the way he led her to that place of praise. I believe he can do that in our lives too. I believe he's the same God, and he can come to us and lead us to a place of praise.