Christian author Kevin DeYoung shared in his book, Crazy Busy. I read an anecdote once about a woman from another culture. who came to the United States and began to introduce herself as busy. It was, after all, the first thing she heard when meeting any American. Hello, I'm busy. She figured it was part of our traditional greeting. I wonder if this immigrant came during this time of the year. A few decades ago I worked in retail at the family Christian store in Laurel, and I recall the late extended hours and the packed building. While back in Virginia, I went to Tyson's Corner one December day and turned right back when I saw a line of cars extending from the parking lot to the main road. I wonder how COVID restrictions will affect the shopping traffic this year. But here's a season in which I think we Christians have an opportunity to be distinct. Are we so busy that we don't have time for God and time for people? Have we lost our focus and messed up our priorities? Is our schedule full? And yet our souls empty. I believe today's passage can help us. So let's turn to the end of Luke 10. Luke 10, verses 38 to 42. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village And a certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she approached them and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore tell her to help me And Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. But one thing is needed. And Mary has chosen that good part, which will not be taken away from her. We'll get to our sermon points soon, but before we explore this passage further, I wanted to address right away two misreadings of it One, some say Mary is better than Martha spiritually. Two, some say Mary represents a better spiritual life. I'll explain each. First, Mary is not really better spiritually. If we trace the storylines of Mary and Martha in the Gospels, We'll see that Martha is quite spiritual too. Granted, Martha did receive rebuke from Jesus here and later at the tomb of Lazarus. But recall what happened earlier in John chapter 11 while Jesus was still on his way to the tomb. And you can look at it later, but it's John 11, 20 to 27. Here's what it says. Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him, but Mary was sitting in the house. Now Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is to come into the world. Take a look another look at that confession. Marta's words in verse 27. I'll reread it. Yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is to come into the world. Remember what Peter said as a representative of the twelve earlier at Capernaum? And Caesarea Philippi, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That's in Matthew 16 and John 6 Martha expresses essentially the same profession of faith as Peter. That means she's been paying attention. That's impressive. So instead of saying one sister is better than the other, we should recognize Martha for her unique strengths, such as her initiative, hospitality, and leadership. Here's another misreading. To some, Mary represents the superior contemplative life. Living distraction-free as an ascetic, monk, or a nun at a monastery Martha represents the inferior active life, living distracted and divided in devotion between the secular and the spiritual. But I think this is reading too much into the text. Even the Catholic scholar, Joseph Fitzmeier, writes, quote, To read this episode as a commendation of contemplative life over against active life is to allegorize it beyond recognition. And to introduce a distinction that was born only of later preoccupations. So then, what is going on in this passage? Earl Ellis, the Baptist theologian, comments, quote, The issue is not two kinds of Christian service, but religious busyness which distracts the Christian. Preacher or layman, from the Word of God upon which all effective service rests. End quote. Charles Spurgeon is helpful and practical quote: The way to get the revival is to begin at the master's feet. You must go there with Mary, and afterwards you may work with Martha. End quote. So that's a good application by itself. Revival, you gotta go to Jesus' speech with Mary, and then afterwards you gotta go to work with Martha. But let me go further and offer a few more. Following Jesus entails three principles. One, follow Jesus by serving hospitably, verse 38. Two. Listen to Jesus undistractedly, verses 39 to 40, and 3. Cherish Jesus intimately, verses 41 to 42. First, follow Jesus by serving hospitably Allow me to reread verse 38. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. Now before we apply this principle, we have to unpack a lot of background info, so bear with me. We know from the Gospel of John, which we read earlier, that Martha lived in a town called Bethany, about two miles away from Jerusalem. It appears that Jesus' itinerary during his last months and days was not a straight V-line from Galilee to the cross. He was waiting for the right time, specifically just before Passover, before entering Jerusalem It appears Jesus regularly dropped by Bethany to visit his followers, like Martha and her family. I believe the 12 disciples were there too, but Luke's focus here is on Jesus, Martha, and Mary. And it looks like Jesus had a loving relationship with Martha's family for a while. Martha's father was Simon, and we know him as Simon the Leper. I'm willing to bet Jesus cured Simon of leprosy, but the name stuck, especially since it would help the early Christians differentiate him between other Simons. Simon the Zealot, Simon the Pharisee, Simon from Cyrene, Simon the Tanner, and of course Simon Peter. There's no mention of a wife, so I'm guessing he's a widower. Sometime earlier the family dynamics probably shifted because of the disabled father and likely deceased mother. I'm guessing Martha as the oldest took over as the matriarch of the house. And Martha had at least two siblings, one we see in today's passage, Mary. Lazarus, their brother, is not mentioned in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. You may find that strange because Jesus raised them from the dead, and one could argue that this is Jesus' greatest miracle besides the resurrection, of course. Why wouldn't Matthew, Mark, and Luke publicize such a wonderful event in Jesus' ministry and spread his fame? Well in John chapter twelve we learn why after they took Lazarus out of the rafts, they kept them under wraps, pun intended. At the time of the miracle, many Jews nearby knew Jesus was spending time with Lazarus and came to see them at Bethan. We read in John 12, 9-11. Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, but and they came, not for Jesus' sake only. but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. Who wouldn't want to see him, right? But the chief priests plotted to put Lazarus to death also, because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. Jesus. Because Jesus was the number one target and Lazarus number two, it was necessary for the earliest believers to conceal Martha's brother's identity. Unlike Jesus, Lazarus can die again. So they probably moved him around and made no mention of him in the earliest three Gospels. After decades, once those antagonistics towards Lazarus died, andor Lazarus himself died, John felt that he could fully narrate the story. Until then it seemed prudent to make no mention of Lazarus and be very discreet about his siblings' location, as we see here, a certain village. With all that in mind, let's return to the main principle of verse 38. Follow Jesus by serving hospitably. Here, Martha demonstrates how to receive Christ just as earlier some received the 12 and the 70 sent out by Christ. This kind of hospitality would be crucial in the ongoing ministry of Jesus' followers. Christians must be givers of hospitable service and recipients of the same. This kind of welcome would be vital both in the early church and in the end times during the tribulation. And how about us in the present? Can we imitate Martha and follow Jesus by serving hospitably? You may not lead a victim on the road to an inn like the Good Samaritan, but you may lead someone to your home, like Martha. You are not Christ, so you cannot save sinners and bring them to the Lord's table, but you can imitate Christ and receive sinners and eat with them at your table. You may not revive the dead to life like Jesus, but you can refresh the hearts of the saints like Philemon. Now you may say to me, I don't have a nice spacious house or I'm too busy to host guests. I understand that everyone's application of this verse is not the same. Not everyone can show hospitality at home, but everyone can be hospitable. It's true that overseeing elders of the church should be especially hospitable as examples. But Peter tells all believers to be hospitable to one another in 1 Peter 4:9. And we can move beyond our church membership. Paul tells us in Romans 12. 13 that we should be distributing to the needs of the saints and given to hospitality. The original word for given is better translated as pursuing. Pursuing hospitality is not merely a tendency Or inclination, but literally active chasing after the love of strangers I think we're blessed with the resources to pursue the biblical goal of hospitable service. That means being hospitable to our church members and to guests of our Sunday services. It's a wonderful blessing for us to have live service in our building in this season Big enough to keep our distance and even though it's uncomfortable to keep our base coverings on, we're able to offer a meaningful alternative to the online experience. But once they're here, today experience our live hospitable service along with our live worship service. During worship, we may join the angels in heaven and be blessed as heirs of salvation. But would these same angels join us on earth and be entertained unawares as guests? Let's be worshipful and hospitable. Now, doing both is not easy. Doing both well, I mean. Just ask Martha, who was distracted, and that leads to the second point. Listen to Jesus undistractedly. In verses 39 and 40, we get a better understanding of the family dynamics. We got Mary sitting there at the feet of Jesus, soaking it all in, like a little child. There are two reasons this bothered Martha, one obvious and the one and the other less obvious. Obviously, because Mary is just sitting there and not helping with the food, what is less obvious, but nonetheless true, is that in first century Jewish context Men customarily sat at the foot of the rabbi as disciples, while women worked in the background to support them. But of course, Jesus is known to buck conventions. At this point, maybe Martha sent passive aggressive signals with loud pots clanging, audible sighs from the kitchen. She might tell you she's the only adult in the family. But when it comes to discipleship, being an adult does not always equate to spiritual maturity. We can be distracted with much serving and fail to listen to Jesus Now we need to be careful about how we talk to each other about serving, especially about Christian service. Essentially, service is a good thing, but excessively, service is a bad thing And what exactly is excessive? Personally, it could be different measures because one individual may have five talent, another have two, another one. If you can do many things well without distraction and listen to Jesus, more power to you. But when it comes to evaluating others' service, be slow to speak. If you're an empty nester and retired, don't judge someone busy with work and family and can't sign up for every ministry opportunity. If you're young and full of energy, don't look down on those slowing down because of age and can't chase around children anymore. Do a spiritual audit on yourself and see if you're not distracted with much serving. And what does distracted with much serving look like in a corporate church gathering? I know that this isn't an infallible measure, but when I visit churches, I try to count the number of minutes devoted to listening to God's Word, specifically the length of the sermon and the scripture readings. Last December, Pew Research Center published their analysis of 49,719 sermons delivered in April and May that were shared online by 6,431 churches. Here's a summary from Associated Press. Quote, according to Pugh, the median length of the sermons was 37 minutes. Catholic sermons were the shortest at a median of just 14 minutes, compared with 25 minutes for sermons in mainline Protestant congregations. And 39 minutes in evangelical Protestant congregations. End quote. We're not anywhere close to 14 minutes. We're way beyond that, so we're good. Often, short sermon length is symptomatic of distracting distraction in churches Sometimes distractions are found in music. I've been to modern style worship types where music portion lasts close to an hour and it's mostly music, not singing. And there's a lot of 7-Eleven songs, songs with seven words repeated eleven times. Now I might forgive them for that if the sermon lasts about the same length, but no, not even close. The sermon just becomes an add-on to the emotional concert experience. Lots of empty calories, if you ask me. Speaking of calories, some distractions could come from meal fellowships. I've also been to a church where some were so concerned about the potluck that followed the service that they missed the worship service entirely. I think they were in the kitchen finishing the food and heating it up. Perhaps in this case, it would be good to trim down the much service. And again, I want to reiterate, essentially service is a good thing, but excessively, service is a bad thing. If we're like Martha at all, being distracted with much serving is not just a surface issue. There could be self-centeredness underneath. Commentator Joel B. Green notes, quote, the nature of hospitality for which Jesus seeks is realized in attending to one's guest. Yet Martha's speech is centered on me talk three times. End quote. Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, tell her to help me. That's my sister. She has left me. Tell her to help me. Green continues, quote, though she refers to Jesus as Lord, she is concerned to engage his assistance in her plans, not to learn from him his. Have we found ourselves in such self contradiction? You say it's not about you, but you say me, me, me. You claim you want God's way, but you rather have your way. You call Jesus Lord, but you act like you're the Lord. You call yourself a follower of Jesus, but you're the one barking orders. Has your voice triumphed over the voice of Jesus? We can be distracted with much serving and fail to listen to Jesus. The solution to our distraction is found in the last two verses of chapter 10. Hear the words of Jesus again. Marta, Martha. You are worried and troubled about many things, but one thing is needed. And Mary has chosen that good part, which will not be taken away from her. The third principle is this cherish Jesus intimately If I were to ask each of you whether you cherish Jesus, I'm sure you'd say yes. But Jesus is not an impersonal checkbox on your to-do list. He's your personal savior. He deserves your attention, your ear, your intimacy. Jesus gently reprimands Martha. He repeats her name in an authoritative and urgent yet intimate way. Just as God called Abraham and Samuel, just as David grieved for Absalom, and just as Jesus will humble Peter later Here, he humbles Martha because she worries and she is troubled. I find it interesting that in the original languages grammar, worry is in the active voice and trouble is in the passive voice. Martha has actively worried, and now she's the passive troubled victim of her distractions She has forgotten what Jesus has taught on the Sermon on the Mount. Do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not light more than food and the body more than clothing Mary, on the other hand, has chosen the one thing needed, the good part, the sweet fellowship with Jesus, which will not be taken away I bet Mary would like the Fanny Crosby's line. Take the world but give me Jesus. She might repeat Will Thompson's lyrics. Jesus is all the world to me, my life, my joy, my all. I'm sure she would agree with Paul, who would count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus his Lord, for whom he has suffered the loss of all things. And count them as rubbish, that he may gain Christ. These are testimonies of men and women who cherish Jesus intimately. For those who do not have a relationship with Jesus Those who do not cherish Jesus at all, let alone intimately, I want to ask you this. What is heaven, and how do you get there? Maybe you came here precisely because you want to know the answer. And I could turn to passages in Isaiah and Revelation to give you a glimpse of heaven. But I'm here to say to you, the sight of Mary with Jesus, there's a taste of heaven. Yes, heaven will be breathtaking. The pearly gates, the streets of gold, the pure river of water of life But what would he without Jesus, without the Lamb? John Piper once asked this poignant question, quote, The critical question for our generation and for every generation is this. If you could have heaven with no sickness and with all the friends you ever had on earth and all the food you ever liked, and all the leisure activities you ever enjoyed, and all the natural beauties you ever saw. All the physical pleasures you ever tasted, and no human conflict or any natural disasters. Could you be satisfied with heaven if Christ were not there? All those nice things are distractions compared to the one thing that is needed. Everything else pales in comparison to the good part Mary has chosen. Do not love the world or the things in the world. Feast and drink in the love of Jesus and the Father. Like we sang earlier. Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus. 'Tis heaven of heavens to me. And it lifts me up to glory, for it lifts me up to thee. If you want to know this deep love of Jesus, you must know the gospel. God has created us in his image to enjoy him forever. But we've all sinned and turned away from him. The consequence of such decision is costly. Life away from God means eternal death. Wrath, damnation, loneliness. But God, our Creator, was merciful and sent his Son Jesus to earth Jesus lived a perfect life and paid for our sins with his life on the cross. He made a way for us to enjoy intimacy with God. He rose from the dead as proof that he indeed made a way to heaven and he ascended there. Now he awaits his return to earth so that we can be with him forever. To sit at the feet of Jesus and become his disciple, you must first repent and trust in him. You don't need to bring your much service to him to find acceptance. You can't earn God's gift of grace with good works. He will accept you as you are. Will you accept him as he is? Will you turn from your sins and self-reliance and trust in Him alone for eternal life? He loves you and wants an intimate relationship with you. Yes, it's sweet to trust in Jesus. Just from sin and self to cease, just from Jesus simply taking life and rest and joy and peace. Now to those who already have this relationship with Jesus. Have we served the saints too little? Failing in our hospitable service? Have we served the ministries too much? Failing to listen to Jesus. Without distraction. Have we cherished the Lord too little, failing to meet him intimately As we approach the Lord's table this morning, would you consider whether your heart resembles the humble posture of Mary or the frenetic pace of Martha? If we're honest with ourselves, I'm sure we've acted like Martha often. If that's true of you, join me in this prayer from the valley of vision. Entitled Vain Service. It's actually printed for you in the later pages. I'll pray this prayer as we close. Let's go to the Lord. O my Lord, forgive me for serving thee in simple ways. By glorying in my own strength, by forcing myself to minister through necessity, by accepting the applause of others by trusting in assumed grace and spiritual affection, by a faith that rests upon my hold on Christ, not on him alone. By having another foundation to stand upon besides thee. For thus I make flesh my arm. Help me to abhor myself in comparison of thee And keep me in a faith that works by love and serves by grace. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.