Luke chapter two, verses one to twenty And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Corinius was governing Syria, so all went to be registered, everyone to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swathering cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find the babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. So it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass. Which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger Now when they had seen him, they made blindly known the same which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. I believe there are three acts of God in this passage that are relevant for us. Relevant for us in that we can have a Merry Christmas. Because, first, God arranges circumstances to fulfill his plan. Verses 1 to 7. Second, God gives the sign of Jesus to confirm his gospel. Verses 8 to 14. Third, God invites the lowly to exalt his works. Verses 15 to 20. You'll find those points in the bulletin insert along with the passage. First, God arranges circumstances to fulfill his plan. Just as we saw in the previous chapter, chapter 1, verse 5. We're provided a marker to situate the birth of Jesus in the historical timeline. Luke does this by mentioning names of Caesars, rulers of the Roman Empire. We see the name of Augustus' successor, Tiberius, in the next chapter as we fast forward to the ministry of John the Baptist. In the second volume of Acts, he mentions a later Caesar named Claudius. There are even local rulers in Luke's detailed accounts including the Herod the Great, again mentioned in Luke 1, whose singular rule split into a hatrarchy. Now, the mention of Corinius in verse 2 requires some discussion of the apologetic type. Luke here is speaking of Publius Supitius Corinius, a Roman aristocrat who is known to hold the office of governor of Syria from AD 6 to 7. Now, that term period of 86 to 7, however, is about 10 years after the death of Herod, and around that time when birth of Jesus took place. So a lot of people attack the Bible at this point. So what gives? Did Luke make a mistake? Was he off by a decade on Jesus' birth year? contradicting himself and Matthew when he situates the date around the reign of Herod the Great I will summarize three attempts to solve this problem. First solution is that Luke made a mistake. As the Jesuit commentator Joseph Fitzmeier says, as much as I respect his scholarship, I do not share his Catholic views on Scripture. The second solution is that the word first in verse 2 should be translated as before or prior to. Then the verse would read something like this. This census took place before Corinius was governing Syria. The problem is that the word in question, which is prote in Greek, is separate from the phrase it supposedly modifies. That's a no-no, right? That violates conventional grammatical rules. It's kinda like saying I will before be back noon. That doesn't make sense, right? The ultimate answer is not found in discrediting Luke as a historian or bending grammatical rules. We have reasons to trust Luke's research. Corinius was governing Syria at the time of Jesus' birth. The famous secular Roman historian, Cornelius Tacitus. in his Annals, volume 3, chapter 48, confirms that Corinius held the position of rector prior to AD4, likely between BC4 to 1 AD. While this position of rector was not as high as his later status of legatus of Syria bestowed ten years later, he nevertheless held a government position around the time of Jesus' birth. And Luke confirms it was in Syria. He effectively helped Augustus bring order to the area and audit the government. of Herod the Great, who was who became gravely ill near the end of his life. So both grammar and history support this idea. The Greek verb for governing in verse 2 is general enough to encompass different levels of rule in Roman government. Luke's historical accuracy should not be questioned. Even early opponents of Christianity like Celsius and Porpuri do not impugn the evangelist. Was that how is that relevant to us? There's no need for us to distrust Luke's account. Each man was ordered to follow the dogma of Caesar Augustus, return to the city of your origins to be registered in a census. For Joseph, that meant packing his bags and transporting his very pregnant wife to Bethlehem, a trek of about 90 miles or a week-long trip. Joseph's actions in verse 4 confirms his knowledge of his own genealogy, which we studied back in Matthew 1, 1 to 17. In verse 5, Luke says that Mary is betrothed to Joseph, but he is simply speaking of their relationship from a Greco-Roman point of view for the sake of Theophilus, but we know they're already married now. Finally, in verses 6 and 7, Jesus is born. Caesar's decree has caused so much traffic in the roads and in the town of Bethlehem. So Joseph and Mary could not find lodging in time to give birth. Strenuous circumstances led to the newborn babe away from the inn in swaddling cloths, laying in a manger. This is a strange turn of events. How can the God of heaven rest in such a humble abode? You know, when Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to their third child, Prince Louis, she did so at the private Lindel Wing at St. Mary's Hospital at Paddington Where she enjoyed access to state-of-the-art equipment, Wi-Fi, modern decor, daily newspapers, meals prepared by on-site chefs, and of course, afternoon tea. Among other amenities, crowds of reporters and fans waited outside But media attention does not always correlate with the importance of someone's birth, does it? As one hymn writer wrote, Lo within us stable lies he who built the starry skies. He who throned in height sublime sits amid cherubim. Now this may seem downright offensive. John Calvin comments on the scene, quote, this was a revolting sight and was sufficient of itself to produce an aversion to Christ. But what could be more improbable than to believe that he was the king of the whole people, who was deemed unworthy to be ranked with the lowest of the multitude? But such revolting sight was exactly what God intended. If all things work together for the good of those who love God, how much more God's beloved Son. His plan to send his son cannot and would not fail. In a later sermon, I will go through a specific passage that relates to Bethlehem as the birthplace of the Messiah. But for now, take comfort in that God didn't just predict. He was at work, orchestrating to ordinary events of life. Marriages, births of Jesus' earthly ancestors. God was in sovereign control, seated upon the heavenly throne, as the Roman Republic declined and made way for the Roman Empire. Now I was thinking that all the politics and the logistical nightmare described in verses 1 to 7 do not seem so different than what's going on in our lives right now in this season. Amid the chaos, Joseph and Mary knew that God was in control and focused on the moment, their call to be parents of Christ, despite the inconvenience of travel. In a similar way, we must order our lives around Christ. And that leads to the next point. God gives the sign of Jesus to confirm his gospel. Just as God was arranging circumstances to bring Joseph and Mary from Galilee to Bethlehem. He was also arranging for shepherds to come from the fields to the city of David. Commentators observe from Jewish traditions that these shepherds near Bethlehem were responsible for animals used in temple sacrifices. It is entirely possible that these shepherds were living about one mile away from Bethlehem in a place called Bigdel Eder, or the Tower of the Flocks. Which is where Prophet Micah predicted the restoration of God's kingdom. Turn with me to Micah 4, 6-8 Says there, In that day, says the Lord, I will assemble the lame, I will gather the outcast, and those whom I have afflicted. I will make the lame a remnant, and the outcast a strong nation. So the Lord will reign over them in Mount Zion from now on, even forever. And you, O tower of the flock. The stronghold of the daughter of Zion, to you shall it come, even the former dominion shall come, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem. With with these shepherds, given the angelic uh vision and having the chance to worship Jesus, we're given a preview of the future kingdom. Gathering and strengthening of outcasts. It's important to note that the shepherds were considered social outcasts of the day Even if there were good ones, Leon Morris writes, quote, As a class, shepherds had a bad reputation. More regrettable was their habit of confusing mine with thine as they moved about the country. They were considered unreliable and were not allowed to give testimony in the law courts. Yet God would choose these poor shepherds in the skirts of the society. To be the first witnesses of God in flesh, aside from Joseph and Mary. That divine choice was displayed in the most dramatic way in verse 10. An angel of the Lord stood and the Lord's heavenly glory shone around him. That verb shown around is the same one, same verb found in Paul's description of the Damascus experience in Acts 26 verse 13. Now there's no record of Zacharias and Mary and Joseph experiencing such brilliant exhibition of God's glory. But like these three individuals, this pastoral group was instructed by an angel to not be afraid. The phrase, I bring you good tidings of great joy, is literally I evangelize to you a great joy. And this good news is for all people, even the lowly ones like the shepherds. If the cause for courage, to not be afraid, was the great joy in verse 10, then the cause for the great joy is the news in verse 11. Now it's a happy birthday indeed when any child is born, but more precious than any child is Christ the Lord, born in the city of David Bethlehem, because he is the Savior. Now last time I talked about how Jesus' name signifies salvation from sin for all time. This week, as we study Luke, we get to look at the title of Savior from a different perspective. And here's what I mean. Now, because Luke is fond of mentioning emperors, rulers, and governors, we can't avoid comparisons of Jesus with them. Take for example Caesar Augustus, whose name we saw earlier this chapter. This emperor himself was called God and Savior, and his birth good tidings for Greeks. About five years prior to Jesus' birth, an inscription found in Trien, now in modern Western Turkey, describes Augustus in lofty terms. Here's an excerpt. It seemed good to the Greeks of Asia, in the opinion of the high priest Apollonius, Menophilus, Azanitas. Since Providence, which has ordered all things and is deeply interested in our life, has set in most perfect order by giving us Augustus. whom she filled with virtue that he might benefit humankind, sending him as a savior, both for us and for our descendants. That he might end war and arrange all things, and since he, Caesar, by his appearance, excelled even our anticipations, surpassing all previous benefactors. And not even leaving to posterity any hope of surpassing what he has done. And since the birthday of the god Augustus was the beginning of the good tidings for the world that has come by reason of him, which Asia resolved in Smyrna. Well, I'm here to tell you that someone has surpassed Caesar Augustus, and that's Jesus. Now, it's hard to prove whether Luke was aware of this kind of language ascribed to Augustus or not, but I find the parallels fascinating and inevitable. We as followers of Christ should not have trouble understanding the significance here. While earthly rulers can provide temporary relief from invaders in life. Jesus provides eternal security in heaven. While Augustus can help with our physical well-being for some time, Jesus is the first fruits of resurrection and the savior of our souls. Even secular philosophers like Epictetus knew the limits of emperors. Even Augustus, who inaugurated the era of Pax Romana or Roman peace. This is what he says. While the emperor may give peace from war on land and sea, he is unable to give peace from passion, grief, envy He cannot give peace of heart, for which man years for more than even outward peace. But Jesus can give peace, eternal peace, both inward and outward. Jesus has accomplished what the greatest emperors of history could not He is the reason the good news we preach today is the greatest news of all time. He was born of a virgin and lived a perfect life without ever sinning. But then he died a terrible death reserved for the worst criminals. How is that possible? Just as you see in his verse, his death was a paradox. He died in our place as a substitute for our sins and rose from the dead. Because all of us have sinned in thought, speech, act, by sins of commission and omission. And we deserve eternal punishment. We deserve judgment of God in hell. Because God demands perfection. But that perfect score was achieved by Jesus and He freely offers it to us. All that we need to do is receive the gift of eternal life through faith. There's nothing we can do to earn or deserve heaven. God gives salvation to us through the Savior, Lord Jesus Christ. Will you make the choice to trust in Him today? We here have never beheld the object of our faith with our eyes of flesh, and that's okay because we have eyes of faith. But these shepherds got the chance to welcome God in flesh to our humble abode of earth. You know, later Simeon and Jesus himself will predict that Jesus will be a sign of condemnation, but on this night it's all joy. In verse 12, the shepherds are given the sign of the babe in swaddling cloths and manger to confirm the good news. In verse 13, these outcasts get a taste of heaven with a multitude of angels singing. Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace. Goodwill toward men. The two commas there in KJV and NKJV divide their lyrics into Three parts, while other translations like New American Standard Bible divide the lyrics into two parts. I think the three-part division is correct. And so Jesus' birth brings glory to God in heaven. Peace on earth, and goodwill toward men. Now that God has arranged circumstances to fulfill his plan and gave Jesus his son to confirm the gospel, What will the shepherds do in response? I've already mentioned the need to respond and saving faith in Jesus, but even that's not the end, but it's a means to an end. We are to worship God because of what He has done for us. And that leads to the third point. God invites the lowly to exalt his works. One pattern you'll see throughout the Bible is that faithful saints in every age have responded to divine revelation with worship. Where there is a call, there is a response. Where there is vision, there's action. These shepherds are no exception. They exhort one another in verse 15, let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. Then they followed through in the next verse, verse 16. Once they saw the confirmation sign, they were convinced of the glad tidings given in the angelic message. The conviction led to proclamation of Jesus in verse 17. I think in verses 18, 19, and 20, we have three responses to the gospel. And I think that we need to learn from all three to grow in our faith. Here's what I mean. In verse 18, we have the response of those who heard the report of the shepherds. They marveled at the amazing story of angels, their message to the shepherds, and the humility of Jesus' birth. But that cannot be the only response to the gospel. We must move beyond mere emotions to meditation. The great biblical scholar F. F. Bruce moves beyond the shepherds to Mary in verse 19. Even the difference of grammatical verb tenses in verses 18 and 19 teach us something. He writes, Bruce writes, quote, The wonder of the many was a transient emotion, erst. This recollecting and brooding of Mary was an abiding habit, imperfect. But the example of Mary's long-term contemplations does not prevent us from applying verse 20 in our lives. The shepherds probably understood less than Mary and Joseph about what just took place. But a full understanding of God's ways is not necessary to obey him. As I said last week, the incarnation of God's Son is a profound mystery, and we're going to sing about how it's a mystery. But it's not going to prevent us from singing and praising God. And yet the shepherds were not going to remain silent about it. Observe the manner of their return in verse 20, glorifying and praising God for all that they had heard and seen, as it was told them. Now putting it all together. It's not enough to have an emotional reaction to the gospel truths, like those who heard the shepherd's report. We must keep the gospel truths and ponder on them in our hearts like Mary. But even that's not all. We must glorify and praise God publicly through evangelism and corporate worship. Whether you are outcast or poor, like the shepherds, Joseph and Mary, God invites the lowly to exalt his works. We have every reason to praise God because He sent His Son to die for our sins and He rose from the dead I pray that as we finish here, your departure will resemble the scene of verse 20. I hope that you cannot get enough of glorifying God and praising him. And if that's true of you, join us in prayer tonight. Join us in Tuesday's celebration. Let's pray. As we close, I want to share a prayer from a book called The Valley of Vision. It's a Puritan prayer called The Gift of Gifts. Hope that it becomes a prayer for you. O source of all good What shall I render to thee for the gift of gifts? Thine own dear son, begotten, not created, my Redeemer, proxy, surety, substitute, his self-emptying, incomprehensible. His infinity of love beyond the heart's grasp. Herein is wonder of wonders. He came below to raise me above, was born like me that I might become like him Herein is love. When I cannot rise to him, he draws near on wings of grace to raise me to himself. Here in his power, when deity and humanity were infinitely apart, he united them in indissoluble unity. The uncreated and the created. Herein is wisdom, when I was undone, with no will to return to him, and no intellect to devise recovery He came, God incarnate, to save me to the uttermost, as a man to die my death, to shed satisfying blood on my behalf, to work out a perfect righteousness for me. O God, take me in spirit to the watchful shepherds and enlarge my mind. Let me hear good tidings of great joy. And hearing, believe, rejoice, praise, adore, my conscience bathed in an ocean of repose, my eyes uplifted to a reconciled father. Place me with ox, ass, camel, goat, to look with them upon my Redeemer's face, and in him account myself delivered from sin. Let me with Simeon clasp the newborn child to my heart, embrace him with undying faith, exalting that he is mine and I am his. In him, thou hast given me so much that heaven can give no more. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name