This upcoming Friday, you'll finally have the chance to play Christmas music without any guilt. Shame, or dirty looks from your loved ones. But before you turn to more recent hits like Jingle Bells and Home for Christmas Turn to the great Christmas hymns of the past, such as O come, O come Emmanuel, or Of the Father's Love Begotten. Here's another one from the fourth century by Ambrose of Milan, who was an opponent of Aryan heresy. It's called Come, Thou Redeemer of the Earth I don't like every verse, but here are a few I do. Maybe Steve can put it into a new tune because I'm not gonna sing it. Come thou redeemer of the earth, and manifest thy virgin birth. Let every age adoring fall. Such birth befit befits the God of all From God the Father he proceeds, to God the Father back he speeds, Runs out his course to death and hell, returns on God's high throne to dwell. Thy cradle here shall glitter bright, and darkness glow with newborn light. No more shall night extinguish day, where love's bright beams their power display. Good lyrics. What inspires such classics like this one is the Word of God, which provided their rich content. So a great way to get into the Christmas spirit is to look at passages like today's, which contains what's called Mary's Song. Though the Bible doesn't actually say that she sang the words, you can understand how they inspire musicians to put them in a tune. And I hope that you too will be inspired to sing praises to God as you hear the Word of God. Let's read the passage together. It's Luke 1, 39 to 56. You'll find the passage in your bulletin insert. Otherwise, turn with me to your Bibles. To Luke 1, 39 to 56 Now Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste, to a city of Judah, and entered the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth And it happened when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary that the babe leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Then she spoke out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. But why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told her from the Lord. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. For he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant. For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. As he spoke to our fathers To Abraham and to his seed forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her house. From this exchange between Mary the mother of Jesus and Elizabeth the mother of John, I think we can draw out three principles. And they're also in the insert. Trust God that his grace comes from Jesus. Verses 39 to 45. Praise God for his grace in your life. Verses 46 to 50. Praise God for his grace to his people. Verses 51 to 56. First, trust God that his grace comes from Jesus. Let's emphasize trust. The best way to understand this principle is to start from verse 45 and work backwards. So we begin with Elizabeth's declaration of blessing on Mary. But why is Mary blessed? She is blessed because she believed all that was said by the angel Gabriel back in verses 30 to 33 and verses 35 to 37. She believed that she will carry the child Jesus, though she's a virgin. She believed that her son will be great. Call the Son of the Highest, that the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, that he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. She believed that the Holy Spirit will operate in her womb to bring forth the Holy One, the Son of God, and that with God nothing will be impossible. It's Mary's ever-growing trust in the Lord that culminates in this wonderful scene where God the Spirit is at work. Because Mary believed all this about her baby Jesus, her voice revealed faith and made baby John joyfully leap in Elizabeth's womb. Verse 44 The reason for this reaction of John was set back in verse 15. He would be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. Even if the child cannot make a verbal profession of faith yet, he proves himself to be a real person with a real personality, made in the image of God even before birth. As for the mothers, the older felt privileged to host the younger who trusted in the words of Gabriel. Verse 43. Mary is blessed among women or above all women, because she knows that the fruit of her womb is blessed. Just as Elizabeth confirms in verse 42. In verse 41, it was Mary's faith that got her knocking at the door of Zacharias's home. Elizabeth must have received prophetic revelation about Mary's pregnancy through the Holy Spirit right there and then. Just as Mary earlier received hitherto unknown information about Elizabeth, who was secluded for five months Mary's faith moved her in haste from Nazareth in Galilee to city of Judah to a city of Judah in Jerusalem, a distance of somewhere between 80 to 100 miles. Verses thirty-nine to forty. What makes Mary and Elizabeth remarkable women is their common faith. This interaction is a beautiful image of unity and diversity. Though they are vastly different. And distant in their respective hometown, background, and age, they both trust God that his grace will come from Jesus, who is not born yet. Hometown, background, and age are so secondary and tertiary that the elder blesses the younger, the greater the lesser, and it doesn't matter What a wonderful picture of fellowship and peace among women of faith. What would happen if we as a local church were to really adhere to this principle together? Trust God that his grace will come from Jesus. How would that transform our ministries here? In what ways would our individual relationship with each other improve? We like Mary and Elizabeth, what looks stop looking at our differences of hometown, background, and age We would turn our eyes upon Jesus, look full in his wonderful face, and the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. We will bless each other for the growing faith that we observe in each other. We will count it a privilege to serve each other as we serve Christ together. That's what we can imitate from this fellowship of Mary and Elizabeth. The first step in this imitation is to trust individually in Jesus Christ Himself as the source of God's grace. These women looked forward to Jesus who would come from the Virgin's womb. We, however, look back in time to when the Son of God walked among men, the word who became flesh and dwelt among us. John one fourteen. Should know that Jesus lived a perfect, sinless, and stainless life which we could not live. We all sin in one way or another by thought, word, and deed. Through sins of omission, sins of commission. The punishment for our sin is separation from God, eternal damnation from uh eternal damnation in hell. But Jesus took upon himself voluntarily this terrible price of sin at the cross. He died for our sins in our place so that we could live forever with God. He rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. During her pregnancy, Mary would look down on her neighbor for her hope of salvation. We, however, look up into heaven towards that same hope at the right hand of God where he sits as we wait for Christ's return. If you have never asked Jesus to save you from sin and hell, know that he offers you eternal salvation right now. We can never work our way into heaven, not by our efforts. We can only enter it through faith as a gift from God. Repent and believe in Jesus today. And once you believe, be like Mary and express your faith. Now don't worship her as I warned you last week Mary's humble faith is in the unseen child, though doubt too early to detect, and that's what makes her special, the fact that she trusted in the Lord. It's not about Mary as the subject of faith, but Jesus as the object of faith. Because she is the maidservant of the Lord, she has the privilege of being the mother of the Lord. She would be the first one to tell you that her privilege comes from God Not her inherent goodness. If you don't believe me, you can look at her words in the rest of the passage. That leads to the second point. Praise God for His grace in your life. Up to this point, we have only heard Mary's voice in two verses, verse 34 and 38. The next ten verses all record the words of the Virgin. They reveal a lot about her character. For one, we see her deep knowledge of scriptures. Even if she was uneducated, poor, and young, you could not tell from her praise. One commentator counts 13 Old Testament passages from six different books. 1 Samuel, Psalms, Deuteronomy, Job, Isaiah, Micah. The greatest overlaps occur with 1 Samuel 2, 1 through 10, which is Hannah's response. To God's gift of Samuel, her son. But it's not just the borrowed language, but the way she weaves them together into a tapestry of worship. We do not know how she said these words, whether they were sung, chanted, or simply prayed, but we are blessed by them because her words echoed God's word. Her old song or canticle, whatever you want to call it, is often called by its Latin title, magnificat, which means magnifies. In Latin, the verb is at the front and the song title simply goes by the first word. But more important than the title is the internal structure. The influence of Hebrew poetry comes through as two lines or phrases with similar or contrasting thoughts are lined up consecutively. For example, verses 46 and 47, they contain an example of two lines with one, a foundational line, and two, a second line building upon the first. So Mary starts with, my soul magnifies the Lord. But she expands that idea with, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. Here, soul and spirit both represent the invisible and inner essence of Mary. What she's saying. Her worship is not merely an outward act of her body. Magnifying God means rejoicing in Him. Worship is not just something to do. It's not drudgery. It's not devoid of emotion. It should be full of joy. Also read that the Lord is God her savior. I repeat, Mary's Lord is God her savior. Do not miss the significance of this. Pay careful attention. With this confession in verse 47, Mary herself has provided a reputation reputation of all who would exalt her as sinless. Commentator Walter L. Leaf is helpful, quote Mary answered the Roman Catholic dogma of the Immaculate Conception, which holds that from the moment of her conception, Mary was, by God's grace, kept from all taint of original sin. But only sinners need a savior. And Mary has said her God is her savior Mary is indeed a sinner, save by grace, just like all other people of God. And like all other people of the world who are saved, her testimony is unique. We move on to verse 48 and see that she was taken from the state of humility. as a small town maidservant into intergenerational recognition and blessing. All the credit belongs to God, and we should follow in Mary's footsteps in verse 49, in praising God. God is mighty, not her. He has done great things for her. It's not that she has done great things for God. God's name is holy, not hers. We see in verse 50 that the same mercy that she is experiencing is available for all who fear him from every generation. Like Mary, we can extol God's attributes and titles just like we did this morning. Savior, mighty, holy, merciful. We can recount his great acts of salvation. We can designate ourselves as lowly servants who fear, magnify, and rejoice in God. As Elizabeth's baby would say as a grown adult. He must increase. I must decrease. John 3. 30. Now later today in the afternoon, we are going to have some chances to share how God has done great things for you. Why should I have all the time at the microphone, right? God is not only working in my life, but yours as well Now that can be done without writing words down on a piece of paper, but I'll tell you what, God uses recorded prayers and praises. I've been saying this for a few months now, but I encourage you to write out your personal testimony just around 500 words It's not because Allah is giving you homework to do. No, it's because testimonies are wonderful opportunities to worship God. The Bible itself contains prayers and praises of saints throughout the ages. Or think of the hymns we sing regularly here. Because someone thought to write their testimonies down, we are blessed by their content centuries and millennia hence. We respect Mary many generations after her because we have her quote song here. You don't know what kind of impact your writing can have. Perhaps your children, grandchildren, or great-grandchildren, or great-great-grandchildren will learn through your writing. Not only about you. But more importantly, about Jesus, about the gospel. Isn't that worth a few hours in one afternoon? Now one of the things that my wife Irei absolutely treasures in our home, other than me of course, is a letter from her father written when she was a child. It contains a prayer for God's blessing in her life. My father-in-law probably didn't think that that prayer for her blessing itself would become her blessing. I guess these days we can send emails and texts as prayers, but I don't think anything replaces something on paper. See, it is a time-tested method of communicating from generation to generation. And I'm glad that Luke found Mary and asked her to share what is deeply personal to her. I'm glad Luke took the time to record her account. Just a warning though, the Christian testimony is not just a personal testimony. The Christian testimony is also a corporate testimony. That means we not only celebrate what God has done, is doing, and will do in individuals, but we celebrate God's work in his chosen people. Right? The people. That leads to the third principle. Praise God for his grace to his people Mary is similar to Zacharias and Elizabeth and their child John the Baptist in that she belongs to that remnant of true Israel So her prophetic words about her Messiah child applies to the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God has made promises to them, and he will fulfill them for their descendants. We the Gentiles also benefit as God's blessings flow beyond Israel to us. Currently, however, Israel as a nation is in a state of blindness, as Paul tells us in Romans 11. But in the end times, just prior to Jesus' return, there will be a spiritual revival of Israel as they look upon him whom they have pierced. They will mourn for him as one mo mourns for his only son, and grieve for him as one grieves for a firstborn. Zechariah 12. 10 He will scatter the proud enemies of Israel and gather his elect among the Jews. The mighty will vacate their thrones for the lowly saints. Just as God has exalted, married the individual, he will do the same for Israel. So it makes sense that there's much parallel between verses 51 to 55 and verses 46 to 50. And here are some parallels. God has shown his power. In verse 49, Mary said, God is mighty. And she's talked about herself and how what God has done for her. In verse 51, he has shown strength with his arm to Israel. God also regards the humble, just as the Lord has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant Mary in verse 48. He has exalted the lowly in verse 52 and helped his servant Israel in verse 54. There's also a repetition of mercy. His mercy is on those who fear him, verse 50, and his aid of Israel is in remembrance of his mercy, verse 54. Finally, there is not only a broadening of perspective from an individual to the corporate, there's also a longer chronological perspective. From one epoch to another, one era of history to the next. Again, we go back to verse 50. His mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. And then we skip down to verse 55. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. These thematic and conceptual ties between the first half of Mary's song and the second half shows the intimate connection between the personal and the public, solo and social. Quiet time devotions and worship time piety. The Bible is not only about persons of God, but people of God. It's not about, it's not either individualism or collectivism. The biblical vision of his kingdom is individuals collectively making up his people. Now, don't get me wrong, of course, there cannot be unity in Christ without first having individual confessions of faith. But even a cursory look at the Bible shows the importance of community life. That is why I believe active church membership is so important. Now pastors may define membership differently. But my simple idea is this, that church members are true Christians who are one, counted and two, of counted. He or she is counted, that is, does not just merely exist in the universal church, but recognized and known by other believers. In other words, we know you exist and you are part of our number. In our church, we have 60 members in the count. Secondly, a member is also an accounted Christian. If a believer does not attach himself or herself to a church, how can that one obey the command to have fervent love for one another? 1 Peter 4. 8 Really, how can anyone fulfill any one another demands of the Bible? What right do I have as a pastor to correct or rebuke you when you can just say song's not my pastor? Mark's not my elder. I didn't sign up for Faith Bible Church. Without membership, there is no accountability. Now this kind of talk may sound strange to you. I invite you to test my words against the testimony of the scriptures, whether God wills that you become part of a local community or not. I also ask that you look deep within yourselves. I challenge you to see if maybe we as Americans are tainted by dominant Western ideologies. For example, Doug Ponder, a pastor who works for International Mission Board, considers how the individualism of the West has clouded our understanding of scriptures. We no longer think of planning churches for God's glory and church-wide discipleship, but focus more on what suits us as individuals. I was out walking my puppy one time around here and I asked a neighbor about uh the church that he attends. He told me that his pastor is Pastor Joel and he comes on TV every week. For many, Christianity has become exclusively a matter of personal devotion to be taken care of at their convenience. But really, it is a public commitment to other believers as well. What does an ideal Christian community look like? We get a glimpse in the final verse of today's passage. We do not know what happened exactly in the next three months with Mary and Elizabeth. We can only guess and read between the lines of verse 56, but it's not too far-fetched to suppose that the fellowship between them was like the covenant between Jonathan and David. The nobleman loved a humble shepherd as his own soul, 1 Samuel 18. 3 tells us. In Christ, a wife of a priest, a noble priest, can love a humble maidservant. It is also likely that Mary stuck to Elizabeth, just as Ruth clung to Naomi, with unwavering loyalty and faith in God. This is the kind of relationship we need here. Not only among the ladies of faith, with Paul's vision of Titus 2, 3 to 5. We need godly men and mature spiritual fathers to raise up true sons in faith, like Paul did with Timothy and Titus, 1 Timothy 1. 2 and Titus 1. 4. Thanksgiving and Christmas season is a time to gather together as family, friends, and church as you sit around the table this Thursday and next month. Let us imitate the homely, intimate, yet dynamic worship of Mary and Elizabeth. Their greeting and worship were full of fervor, not because they had a showy Christmas program. What they had were a filling of the Holy Spirit and a humble faith in Jesus, the source of God's grace As we gather at Faith Bible Church, let us celebrate the common faith that we share. If you have friends and family members who are not saved, ask the Lord to give you an opportunity to share your faith and the true meaning of Christmas. Pray that God will save them so that they can join us in praising Him for His grace in our lives individually and corporately. Let's pray.