Of the Bible or large portions of it in a series. And one is that I can in a sense dialogue with you on certain topics over weeks and even months at a time. So last week the thoughtful sister in Christ asked me a great question after my sermon on 1 Corinthians 10, 14 to 22. So dealing with you know, the eating of things offered to idols. And the question is this, you know, should Christians avoid eating halal meat? So here's some context to the question. Halal food is food that conforms to Islamic law. as explained in the Quran. The Arabic word halal means permissible, that's similar to kosher in Hebrew. The proper method of slaying the animal for halal is the following: a cut to the jugular vein, if I get this word right, kerotid artery and windpipe. All blood must be drained from the carcass and during the process the Muslim will recite a dedication known as Tasmiya. It's an invocation of Allah's name to secure his blessings. So since Allah's not the one and only triyun God of the Bible, but He's invoked, we ask now: would halal meat be forbidden to Christians? To Paul's warnings against food sacrificed to idols apply here. The answer is going to depend mostly on what we've already covered, and partly in today's passage. So here's my answer, but it's a bit long, so be patient with me. I believe, I'm going to answer broadly first, that the issue of things offered to idols is sensitive to two factors. The issue of things offered to idols is both conscience sensitive and location sensitive. Of course, when I say conscience sensitive, I mean that you should never violate your own conscience or the consciences of others by your eating choices. Start with yourself. Paul will write in Romans at the end of chapter fourteen, He who doubts is condemned if he eats, because he does not eat from faith, or whatever is not from faith is sin. So if you got some strong uneasy gut feeling about what you'll what will go into your gut, don't eat or drink it If you do, you may not damage your body, but you will damage your conscience. And then there's the more important focus on the conscience of others. Staying in Romans 14, we find in verses 19 to 21, therefore let us pursue the things which make for peace and the things by which one may edify another. Do not destroy the work of God for the sake of food Right? All things indeed are pure, but it is evil for the man who eats with offense. It is good neither to eat meat, nor drink wine, nor do anything by which your brother stumbles or is offended or is made weak So back to 1 Corinthians, Paul spoke similarly and back in chapter 8, verses 9 to 12, beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will not the conscience of him who is weakly emboldened to eat those things which offer to idols? And because of your knowledge shall the weak brother perish for whom Christ died. But when you thus sin against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, you sin against Christ. Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat meat lest I make my brother stumble. So that's the first point of sensitivity. When it comes to the issue of things offered to idols, we must be conscience-sensitive, both our consciences and the others' consciences. So that's all good, right? So you say you look inwardly, there are no personal qualms within you. You look around, there are no weaker brothers or sisters around, the coast is clear. But there's another point of sensitivity that has to do with location. There are obvious places, certain places in the world where by eating meat you sin against God We're talking about pagan temples and pagan altars. There's some kind of evil presence there. We've learned about that. Demons do haunt, it seems, specific locations It'd be wrong for you to fellowship with demons and then come to fellowship with the Lord at the Holy Communion. So now finally to get to the Halal meat question. With this location sensitivity in mind, I don't think halal meat fits the description of meat offered to an idol. At a temple. And the last part is key here. The Muslim butcher does invoke Allah while facing Mecca, but as far as I know, the location of the preparations, not at some sacred altar. Not where spirits might lurk. Also, the invocation I mentioned earlier, Cosmia, seems to be ubiquitous It's too broad an application to be restricted to sacrificial rituals. It's found in legal documents, non-worship contexts. It prefaces government documents. So preparing and processing halel meat appears to be different than say partaking in meat sacrificed during the pilgrimage month. So there you go, that's my position on Halomi. Now, if someone who's more learned in Islam is here, you think I'm wrong. Please talk to me afterwards. Still learning about this growing religion, right? Hopefully that wasn't a mind-numbing boring rant I did accomplish something with it. I mean I just checked off introduction, sort of like a listener's question, review, application all at once, right? But I think that's enough of a warm-up, so let's talk more about this matter after reading today's passage. 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 23. To chapter eleven, verse one. These chapter numberings and verse numberings are not inspired. So Sometimes misplaced in my opinion. So we're reading up to the first verse of chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 10, 23 to chapter 11, verse 1. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but not all things edify. Let no one seek his own, but each one the other's well-being. Eat whatever is sold in the meat market, asking no questions for conscience' sake, for the earth is the Lord's and all its fullness. If any of those who do not believe invites you to dinner and you desire to go, eat whatever is set before you, asking no question for conscience sake. But if anyone says to you, this was offered to idols, do not eat it for the sake of the one who told you and for conscience' sake, for the earth is the Lord's and all its fullness. Conscience I say not of your own, but that of the other. For why is my liberty judged by another man's conscience? But if I partake with thanks, why am I evil spoken of for the food over which I give thanks? Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give no offense either to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the Church of God, just as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. Imitate me, just as I also imitate Christ. Wrapping up June by wrapping up another big section of 1 Corinthians chapters 8 to 10 ish 11, 1, sorry, dealing with the eating of things offered to idols. Paul brings it all together in this last part of chapter 10 and in the first verse of chapter eleven. And what will benefit most here is highlighting some key general principles. I mean that more valuable than the specific eat or do not eat are the universal commands of verses 24, 31, and 32. Let no one seek his own, but each one. the others well being, do all to the glory of God, give no offence. Let's put more meat on that, pun intended. Paul speaks of three spiritual diets, right, that we as believers must follow. First, we have what I call a Sound a little cheesy, but good for others diet. Right? This is good for others diet, right? With illustrative examples in verses 23 to 30. That's the biggest section that I'm going to talk a lot about. Then Paul got us on a glory to God diet, right, in verse 31. Thirdly and finally we have a gospel sake diet in chapter 10, 32 to Chapter 11, verse 1. So, good for others diet, glory to God diet, gospel sake diet. So, first, let's sign up for a good for others diet. Now on my children's bookshelves is a work by the title, All the Things You Can Do That Are Good For You, and subtitled All About Staying Healthy. Now my wife doesn't need much prodding from Dr. Seuss to get our kids on a healthy lifestyle and diet. She's constantly looking for nutritious food options, even while she exhausts herself doing so. As for me, I just want a burger. You could say that our families on a good for kids diet. Paul, much to my chagrin. Well, this parental instinct finds parallel in Paul, right? He really learned his good for others instinct from Jesus. It behooves the Corinthians to do the same. Don't just think about what you eat, be considerate of others. No surprise the Corinthians were not doing that. To justify their selfishness, they've taken Paul's teaching out of context, and here's how he did it, how they did it. During his time with this church. The apostle taught them basic principles of Christian freedom when it comes to eating and drinking. He probably reinforced our Lord's teaching in Matthew 15 and Mark 7. He likely said, Paul likely said something similar to Colossians two, sixteen to seventeen, let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbath, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. Paul likely emphasized this principle using a memorable line: all things are lawful for me. But the cardinal Corinthians detached this axiom and mystified it. They took all things unlawful for me as a license to sin. So Paul had to clarify. He wrote back in chapter 6, verse 12 to 13: All things are lawful for me, but all things are not helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Foods for the stomach, and the stomach for foods. But God will destroy both it and them. Sure, but the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. Back in today's passage in chapter 10, Paul again cites himself twice. All things are lawful for me. He then adds some checks and balances. Sure, all things are lawful for me, but all things are not helpful. Not all things edify. Edify means to build up. Comes from edifice, right? Like we're talking strengthening, reinforcing, encouraging someone else in his or her faith. What's idealistic and what we should pursue is others edification, not self-edification. Yes, your personal, individual, spiritual nutrition is important. Don't get me wrong, but do think of others Consider a good for others' diet. Make Paul's joy complete, as he says in Philippians 2. Have the mind of Christ in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. This agrees with Paul says here in 1 Corinthians 10:24. Let no one seek his own but each one, the other's well-being. Next is as if Paul anticipates some questions from the audience. What about this scenario? What about that hypothetical case? While the apostle can't predict every situation, he can start with the common one as he does in verse 25. When Christians go out to get groceries, there's no need for them to be overly scrupulous about the meat's exact source. Often it's impossible to know that. A claim could be disputable. What is indisputable is this: ultimately, everything comes from the creator. Began the service with this psalm, right? The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness, as Psalm 24 teaches us And then another Psalm says, Every beast of the forest is his and the cattle on a thousand hills. Psalm fifty. Now I find Paul's easy going counsel In verses 25 to 26. Remarkable. So my personality, I don't know about your personality, tends toward a warning, flashing red light that says, you never know. I think besides saying I love you to my kids, the second most frequent thing I say to them is be careful, be careful. But I'm realizing going through life with a you never know attitude. Is well exhausting not just for yourself but for others. I'm going to look for the boogeyman under every bed, hidden agenda in every talk. Idolatry behind every meat. Such an approach will not help us walk properly and wisely toward those who are outside. There are better models for living than you never know. We should stand on what we know, right? Not what we don't know or might know Okay. So how about asking first, what does the Bible say say? And and if he doesn't speak if God doesn't speak directly on a given topic, admit, only God knows. Go on and live in freedom. We take that same approach from the marketplace to our homes. Say you're invited over for dinner at a neighbor's house. The neighbor's not a Christian. We'll call him Nick. Nick's not a priest who works at the altar of a pagan temple. You're not joining him in worship. You're a guest at a table at his home. Here, as was this was the case at the market, there's no need to ask questions for conscience sake. You don't have to ask the butcher or the host anything about the meat source. So there's one general principle for the two scenarios in three verses, 25 to 27. That's simple enough, but then beginning in verse 28, Paul adds a new wrinkle to the dinner scene to create a third scenario. Let's begin with the focus on the word anyone. This is the particular person who tells you that the meat's been offered to idols. It's hard to figure out the informant's identity here. Some think it's the unbelieving host, Nick in our imagined example. Others believe Paul's thinking of another Christian at the meal. uh the weaker brother, a newer believer say. I tend towards this latter view, so let's call this weaker brother Greg. Sorry if I'm offending Nick's or Greg's, but anyway. Um Greg somehow has this Inside information, right? He's a vigilant disciple, yet a polite guest. He waits until the host is away from the table, leans over to you, and whispers, this was offered to idols. What are we doing now? At this point you're already salivating. You smell the meat. You're tempted to put on blinders, ignore Greg. Eat whatever's in front of you and justify your choice by citing Psalm 24 verse 1, the earth is the Lord's and all its fullness. You just want to say that phrase and then just go on and eat. But this time the conscience of the weaker brother is a factor. If Greg mimics you, the supposedly more mature Christian, and Isad meets sacrificed to idols, his conscience being weak. Is defiled by your insensitive choice. You'd be blamed. Your actions would embolden Greg to eat those things offered to idols. You would have used your superior knowledge to hurt your brother, wound his conscience, sin against the brethren, sin against Christ. Saw all that in back in chapter 8. So only one option remains. For conscience' sake, not your own, but that of the other, Greg's, you should politely refuse the meat. the meat and make serves you, you must be your brother's keeper And Paul's got two rhetorical questions to back up this tough decision in the second half of verse 29. I think it's better to rephrase the first question this way. So why should I eat the meat and be and this is how I would rephrase it, why should I eat the meat and be judged by the Lord for misusing my liberty? Just don't do it. Remember what Paul says in Galatians 5. 13. You brethren have been called to liberty, only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. Verse 30 has the second question. The wording of this question reminds us of Romans 14:16, which says, Do not let your good be spoken of as evil. So maybe it should be rephrased as something like, sure, I covered this meal by saying grace, but why should I think I'd avoid blame for eating it, thereby offending Greg? Now it's true as 1 Timothy 4, 4 the Bible says, every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it's received with thanksgiving, for it is sanctified by the word of God. and prayer. But even if you close your eyes for meal prayer, you should not close your eyes to the weaker brother. You get what I'm saying? Just not only will God judge you for your insensitivity, others will speak ill of you for your insensitivity. So, all that to say, you can't only think of what's good for you. Go beyond that. All the things you can do that are good for others. Your actions and choices, yes, even your diet must be good for others. And if we take into account what's truly good for others, We're most likely on our way to bring glory to God. And that takes us to verse 31. Let me read it again. Therefore, whether you eat or drink, Or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. So here's this glory to God diet based on 1 Corinthians 10. 31. And I'll be quick on this point. Many of us know that parallel verse elsewhere, you know, Colossians 3:17, whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. But 1 Corinthians 10:31 is more specific and it spells out our most fundamental freedom, right? A right to eat and drink. The commandment binds our most basic privileges and directs them to God's purposes Also, if we take seriously the conjunction, therefore, and the immediate context of this verse, we're saying that what brings most glory to God is being sensitive to the needs of others. Have you thought about how God's glory involves your commitment to others' well-being? Briefly, let me talk to you about church membership. First, I want to address the non-members here, right? Those on the fence about joining us. You're always welcome here on Sunday worship. As noted in the bulletin, don't ever feel obligated to give financially. We don't seek regular contributions from guests. I hope you know we're not after your wallet. No, what we really want from you is you. Assuming you're committed to God, right? We want you to commit to us. Sign up to be part of this church and let's work together to bring maximum glory to God by seeking what's best for each other. Good for others and glory to God are group projects. They're community diet programs. Not an individual private plan. That's what church membership and covenant should be all about. Maybe that's a lot to ask for. for you, but I'll tell you what there's even more to Christian living. Sometimes I like to take our bylaws and remind everyone our mission And it's an excerpt of our official purpose statement, which says we are to spread the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ at home and to the uttermost parts of the world. Even our doctrinal statement reminds us, we believe that the gospel commission of Matthew 28, 18 to 20, is for the church today. So that takes us from a good for others diet and a glory to God diet to a gospel-sake diet in chapter 10, verse 32 to chapter 11. eleven verse one of first Corinthians. Not only is God glorified in the church, he is glorified as we obey him and go out into the world. We've already heard from Paul. The lens he'll go for the sake of the gospel, refusing ministry incomes, just one of his sacrifices There's more as we see as we saw actually in chapter nine, verse nineteen to twenty-three. Good uh verses to meditate on. 9, 19 to 23. For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a servant to all that I might win the more. And to the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might win Jews. To those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law. To those who are without law, as without law, not being without law toward God, but under law toward Christ, that I might win those who are without law. To the weak I became as weak, that I might win the weak I become all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. Now this I do for the gospel's sake, that I may be partaker of it with you So what was said back in chapter 9, verses 19 to 23 lines up nicely with chapter 10, verse 32 here. Paul is most familiar with and skilled at not offending Jews and those under the law. He knows the ins and outs of their lifestyles, right? Of course the gospel itself is offensive. but in other cases he knows how to skillfully navigate uh relationships with Jews and those under the law. But also as an apostle and teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth, Paul knows how to avoid offending the Greeks. And other non-Jews. And then finally, Paul sensitive to the weaker members of the church It's interesting. It turns out that our internal harmony does influence our external ministry and witness Paul's relational tact and strategy in all circumstances gives him or give him an edge or advantage in missionary work. Now to be clear, in all these efforts, great efforts to evangelize, Paul's first and foremost priority is to be a bondservant of Christ. And if we read the first phrase of verse 33 in context of all that follows, he's got Christ first, others second, and himself last. He's not seeking his own profit, but the profit of many. And by profit, he's not talking about financial gain, right? Health benefits. We're talking about the ultimate profit, salvation through Christ. Now we're at the last verse for today. Paul's not a perfect man, but as much as he strives to follow Jesus and lead others to follow Jesus, As much as he's pursuing a gospel-safe diet, by all means necessary lifestyle, he's worth imitating. Sometimes there's Bible verses like, could I dare to repeat it and really live according to it? Imitate me just as I also imitate Christ. Can you take Paul's place when you say that? Can I say that to you? To my wife? To my son and daughter. I mean with shame I tell you that even as a pastor I very often fail in that. At times I merely pay lip service to these ideas of seeking good for others and glorifying God and giving up rights for gospel's sake. Maybe you struggle with that as well. But that's when I look to Jesus and his perfect example and remember the good news, the gospel. It starts with the bad news, as I admit that many things I do are not helpful. I do not consistently pursue the things which make for peace The things by which one may edify another, please my neighbors for their good, for their edification. In my flesh I prefer to speak corrupt words and start disputes, not edifying words. My use of authority destroys rather than builds up. But such is not the way of Christ. Paul's impressive, but Jesus is a far greater servant. He was among his disciples as the one who serves We can back up and consider fully how much he gave up. He's God the holy other who became one of us. He made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, coming in the likeness of men. He lived a perfect life. The Son of God, who is also the Son of Man, did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. And when the time came, Jesus glorified the Father not only with this life, but with his death. He prayed in John 17, 1 to 3. Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. Next, Jesus was arrested, tried falsely, and crucified, but it was all part of the Lord's plan. Christ suffered not because he did anything wrong. At the cross, he died for our sins. Lawbreaking, idolatries, or lack of love for our neighbors. As our substitute, he paid the penalty of sin that we should pay, as the wrath of God was poured out on him. He paid it in full. He died, he was buried, he rose from the grave the third day. He supplied many proofs of his resurrection. He ascended to heaven, and he sits at the right hand of the Father. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. If you haven't already done so before it's too late, be saved through God's Son. Repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus and trust in Him only for eternal life. Heaven is a gift. It is not earned or deserved. You can be saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Christ Jesus shed his blood to cleanse your conscience, to serve the living God. We turn from our idols to the Father and we wait for his Son from heaven. So until that day we live for the Lord with a pure conscience, thanking him for his provision of sacrifice, and with gratitude, we can share the gospel with the lost. So make this last song your testimony. Maybe you can even share the lyrics with someone who doesn't know Christ. Looking at verse 3 there, not in me and page 12. No separation from the world, no work I do. No gift I give can cleanse my conscience, cleanse my hands. I cannot cause my soul to live. But Jesus died and rose again. The power of death is overthrown. My God is merciful to me and merciful in Christ alone. Let's pray. Your son is the church's foundation. He is the head of the church. We are the body. We are living stones. And Lord, we admit that This is a vision of the church that sometimes we forget. But Lord, remind us again what it means to be one body. Remind us again what it means to be To be on here on earth and until the consummation of the kingdom. Help us to live in harmony. Help us to live properly towards those who are outside. And Lord, may our unity, may our love for one another, may our care for each other, as we seek the good of others, as we seek ultimately your glory, as we seek Seek to share the good news with the lost. Pray that that would be just a beautiful witness that augments the message that we must clearly present. The message of the gospel. Just thank you for this privilege of gathering and worshiping you. Pray that just that you would comfort us through your word and encourage us. Christ's name we pray. Amen.