What we're going to do first this morning is just simply read Luke 3, 15 to 19. It's only a few verses, and then uh I'll introduce the passage. Luke 3, verse 15. Now, as the people were in expectation and all reasoned in their hearts about John, whether he was the Christ or not, John answered, saying to all, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His widowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his barn But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. And with many other exhortations he preached to the people But Herod the Tetrarch, being rebuked by him concerning Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done Also added this above all that he shut John up in prison. Now verses eighteen to twenty is sort of a summary of what happens much further down the line in John's life. This is actually out of chronological order. And in this section, we have Luke writing in sort of a topical sequence here. He wants us to know the ministry of John, what happens right before Christ comes, and eventually what happens in the end to John the Baptist. So it might appear a little out of order if you ever did a study of the Gospels, but this is Luke's emphasis, John the Baptist, sort of the topic of John the Baptist. If I put you in a room with an individual, let's say if I put you in the room with Albert Einstein. Ever seen a picture of Albert Einstein? The crazy hair, usually you see him with his mustache. When you think of Albert Einstein, typically you would think of intellect. You wouldn't think of cooking or origami or perhaps he's really good at driving race cars. The guy was a genius. And he was someone who came up with many theories, some of which definitely affect our lives today, even years after he is dead and gone. But if you were sitting with him in a room, just you and he at a round table eating breakfast together, and he talked about himself, and of course you knew his reputation, you had read some of his books, maybe you're even a scientist yourself. And he were to say, you know, we're going to have a visitor in a little while. And this visitor is also a scientist. You would go, hmm, that's that's interesting. And I wonder who he is. And he would tell you his name, and he would say, now I want you to know a few things about this person. He he's actually a greater scientist than me. And maybe you would go, oh, come on, this isn't possible. I mean, you're Albert Einstein, but he would he would just be vehement. No, I am telling you, this scientist who is about to walk in this room is a much more skilled. scientist than I. As a matter of fact, I'll tell you how great he is. He is so great that I am not worthy to wash the test tubes in his laboratory. I'm not even worthy to be his lab assistant. When it comes to him and me, I'm not even worthy to be in his presence. I'm so much lower in my skill as he is. Now, if he were to say that to you and you were to become convinced as you converse with Albert Einstein that he was dead serious, he was not joking. What would you expect to walk through that door? What kind of individual? He's greater than Albert Einstein. More intelligent? He's the genius of geniuses? I mean, you would have this person in front of you who you knew, Albert Einstein, who you had a high estimation of this person, and now you have him sort of as a benchmark. For the greatness of what is coming, what is about to come through that door. This is kind of a parable. You could put really anyone in a room with yourself. and use them as a benchmark, and they very well could use themselves as a benchmark of what is to come. But if you were in this room alone with no one, and someone walked in and said, A scientist is coming, and I think he's better than Albert Einstein, and he's really smart. It just wouldn't have the same impact. The mailman knocks on the door. Letter. Someone is coming. Oh, great scientist. Hmm. Just wouldn't have the same impact. John the Baptist functions that way in his ministry. He was someone who went before Christ to prepare the way for Christ, and he was this blazing beacon of light, and he was the benchmark for what was to come. He functioned that way. And in our passage this morning, we'll see that that is the way you function. He would say, You know me, but there's someone who's coming. There's someone who's coming and he is greater than I am. He is mightier. He is of more worth than I am. And that was to have the effect on the people that their eyeballs would kind of go burn. They knew John didn't lie. Who could possibly be mightier than John the Baptist? Who could possibly be more worthy than John the Baptist? I want you to see here, first of all, that there was the context of expectation. You look at your Bibles, it says in verse 15, now as the people were in expectation and all reasoned in their hearts, about John, whether he was the Christ or not. Now they uh they wanted to know Is this the Messiah that is prophesied in the Old Testament? There were a lot of people there. There was a lot of public ministry that had taken place. It was in the water, out of the water. There were, of course, we've already read the different groups of people who came, tax collectors and soldiers and others. There was all these things taking place and expectation grew and grew and grew. Now, why would they think this about John? Let me remind you. First It's probably so that he had a miraculous birth. His parents were very old. So it was a miraculous birth. Not only that, it was a birth that was prophesied. Zacharias is there ministering and There's this individual standing there. And this individual has a message. What is that message? Look back to Luke 1:13 to 17. Look there quickly. You only have to turn back a few pages. Here is the message. The angel says, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John And you shall have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. There's already expectation there before John is even born. For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, he shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. So there's this prophecy that Gabriel made to John, to Zacharias. But then in addition to this, there's also the prophecy that Zacharias made in Luke 1. 76. Look at the verses 76 to 79. Where he says, and you, child, this is after his tongue is loose and he can speak and John is born, you will be called the prophet of the highest. You will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, and so on. So there's this miraculous birth, this old couple. They shouldn't have kids. And then there's this prophecy of Gabriel. Do you think Zacharias was able to communicate that prophecy to everyone around him? He couldn't talk. I find it hard to believe he didn't say, Angel, Angel, Angel, Gabriel, Gabriel. I mean, I it's almost inconceivable to think that this man did not tell his wife Somehow, in some fashion, uh there was an angel in there, and now I can't talk. Of course, there was an explanation. And then there's Zechariah's prophecy. What else would lead the people to believe, to reason in their hearts? Is this the Messiah? Well, his prophetic message. He was someone who was a preacher. He had the demeanor of a prophet, the fearlessness, the courage. He was willing to call a spade a spade. This was no false prophet. This was no mealy-mouth man who was trying to buy favor with kings and pop politicians, was trying to give the right message, kind of the man who does this. He licks his finger and Tries to figure out where is the wind coming from, and then his message just follows along with what is the latest trend, the latest wind. He was a Hebrew prophet. Now, folks. These people knew about prophets, right? There's a whole Old Testament Hebrew Bible they had with stories of prophets And when Luke writes that John the Baptist is the forerunner of Christ, like Elijah, those people knew Elijah and Elisha. Those people knew Samuel, those people knew Isaiah and Jeremiah. And these good and holy men of God from the Old Testament were fearless fighters for the cause of truth. And they told it like it was. And that's why they were persecuted. That's why kings tracked them down and tried to kill them. That's why women like Jezebel wanted their death. Because of their fearless demeanor, miraculous birth, prophecies before him, his prophetic message and fearless demeanor, and then there was his unusual manner of life What was he like? Well, Luke only hints at it. In Luke 1 verse 80, you see there, after Zacharias Prophesies, Luke lets us know that the child grew and became strong in spirit and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation to Israel. He was in the deserts, living by himself. This was not a monastic life per se. I mean, he you knew what he wore You knew what he ate. It was all rather unusual. It was a man who was wholly dedicated to the Lord. And of course, Gabriel said that he would be a Nazirite from the womb, like Samson. So he had he had the miraculous birth, the prophetic message, the the unusual lifestyle, Nazarite seclusion until ministry. He was wholly dedicated unto the Lord. He was just this fearless fighting prophet. And you hear it from his message of repentance. And everyone wanted to know. And I think it was reasonable. Are you the Christ? Are you the one that's going to come and make things right? We want to know. And it was in that context, secondly, that he begins to speak. It wasn't in an empty context when people weren't wondering. It was when they were, we're back at Luke chapter 3, verse 15. They were in expectation, they were reasoning in their hearts about John, and that is when John answered, saying to all, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. Now, he speaks in terms of might and worth. The might is probably a reference to the man, his personal strength, the power of his preaching. What did that sound like? Brood of vipers who warned you to flee from the wrath to come This was a mighty man. Jesus later on says, Who did you think John was? He was a burning and a shining light. In the Old Testament, there's not a greater man, prophet, than John. That was Jesus' estimation of John and his strength. And so he says that there is someone who is mightier who is than me. Now you go back to what I said about Albert Einstein. What John is doing is he is saying there is someone Who is like me and yet mightier than me? There's an implication here. It would be one thing for Albert Einstein to say: yes, a really good gardener is about to come through the door. He is awesome. He does all these gardens in Washington, D. C. He's a horticulturalist. Okay, that's great. But no, that that would be a little different than him saying, a scientist. I'm a scientist. My estimation of this scientist. is great, mightier than my science is this man's science. And so John the Baptist in his ministry, he's saying, and really if you look at this And look at verse 18, I indeed baptize you with water. What we have there in that statement is sort of a A statement of affirmation. I indeed. He's affirming their perception of his ministry. You know me, I baptize with water, you know what I'm like. You know, you've observed it. You've observed my ministry of baptism. You've participated in my ministry via the baptism. You know what I'm like. You know what I'm about And this person is a prophet also, and he is mightier than I am. And secondly, there is this idea of worth What does John the Baptist say? Well, you know this passage well, but look at it in verse 16. He says One mightier than I is coming whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. Now, in the ancient world, you've heard this before, it was the sandal strap slaves who would take off the sandals of their masters and wash their feet. They were the lowest of the low. John the Baptist here is saying, by virtue of his might, by virtue of his ministry, I am lower than the lowest of the low. There's the master, there's the slave, and then there's me, and I am even below the slave. I am someone who am not even worthy to touch his feet. I am worthy. I am not worthy to be a slave of Jesus who unlooses his sandals. Now, this should have had a scandalous effect, if I could put it that way, on those people by that river listening to that man. It was intended to benchmark the coming one, to make him great in the eyes of the people. Just like you and I, if we knew a great man and he pointed to a greater man and in his estimation said, That man is greater, we would listen. And so John speaks in terms of might, he is mightier than I, and in terms of worth, I am not worthy, he uses a negative there, I am not of the great worth that he is. And he is coming. And what is he going to do? And this is what's remarkable about the whole ministry of John the Baptist. You heard me when I read. Verse 16, where it says, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. Now, put yourself in the sandals, if you would, of the people listening to John the Baptist. They and participating, literally participating. They're moving, they're getting in the water. I believe in immersion. They were somehow interacting with that water, being immersed in it John could pick that water up and cup it in his hands and drink it if he wanted to as it flowed down the river. The water was the mode. It was the not mode. It's not the right word, but the substance that was manipulated for the ritual of baptism, it was something that every- that John just used. There was nothing really miraculous about the water. It was part of what John did, John the Baptist He makes use of it, he puts it in his hands, he utilizes the water for spiritual ends and for spiritual ministry. It's just water. And to make the transition from I baptize with water, but the coming one, the coming one will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. The coming one will make use of the Holy Spirit as I make use of water. I don't mean to be disrespectful, and God knows I don't want to be make blasphemy to make common a holy thing. But it almost sounds like John is. But he's not. John the Baptist makes use of water as Jesus the Messiah makes use of the Spirit. Now I want to be careful You'll notice that the Holy Spirit is capitalized. The Holy Spirit is not a substance like water. He is a person, the third person of the Trinity. And Jesus does not make use of the Spirit of God apart from the will, the mind, and the person of the Spirit of God, like I will manipulate the Holy Spirit. But there is this connection between Jesus and the Spirit. And it is a ministry connection. And he is going to baptize the people that he knows with the Spirit. Now that had to be shocking to these people, like it is not shocking to us. Because we're standing on the other side of the book of Acts and the Epistles, and we're looking back at this moment of John the Baptist. But as they were shoulder to shoulder, crowded in by that body of water, listening to this prophet, it had to be shocking because their estimation of the Spirit of God was completely different than ours. How did they know the Spirit of God? Well, in the Old Testament, there was Psalm 51. Turn there. Listen to David speak of the Spirit of God. You know this passage. I'm picking one that you know well Psalm 51, verse 12. No, I'm sorry. Let's go back to verse 10. Psalm 51, 10, 11, and 12. David in the midst of his repentance, the context is the same as John the Baptist and similar He says in verse 11, Do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me by your generous spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners shall be converted to you. What we have here is a man who has sinned greatly and is genuinely concerned that the Spirit of God could leave him. Because in the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit came and went. Once he indwelled a prophet or a priest or a king or a judge, there was no guarantee he would always be there. How do we know this? Well, there's the famous story of Samson. You know this. He's lying on Delilah's lap, and he doesn't even know the Spirit of God had. Left him. And so he goes out, and there's no strength in his physical body, and he's carried away to judgment. But at the end What does the Spirit of God do? Returns, and he has the strength to push down those pillars and to be victorious. We also have the example in the Old Testament of King Saul. He is, he goes out and he meets these prophets, and the Spirit of God comes upon him, and he starts prophesying. And people see this. King Saul. And yet at another time a spirit is sent to him to agitate him and to anger him and to judge him. And so he calls David to come and play his harp and to Soothe his spirit. The Spirit of God comes upon him, and the Spirit of God leaves him. And so we see in the Old Testament, and surely the ones listening to John the Baptist, all they had was their Old Testament. What they heard in the synagogue week to week, what they memorized as children. Most folks did not have Hebrew scrolls in their homes. They would go to the synagogue and hear it read They knew these stories. They knew, in fact, that the in the Old Testament the Spirit of God was in his indwelling potentially temporary And that he indwelled not, secondly, not groups of people, not the entire nation of Israel. It wasn't the nation of Israel was formed, they're a family, okay, a tribe, if you were. looking at the whole nation and of course the twelve tribes within it. And as soon as you were born, a Hebrew, the Spirit of God came upon you. No. It was individuals that the Spirit of God indwelled and came upon. It was not the entire nation. So so stay with me now. These people would have looked at the Holy Spirit as being temporary and the one who indwells individuals. I believe they would have looked at him also as Jehovah Himself. And we don't have time this morning to look at Old Testament scriptures, which show the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament was the Lord. But this is the way they would have seen it. In the New Testament, here comes someone, and he is going to baptize. And by the way, how many people did John baptize? What were the requirements of his baptism? Just one, repentance. Can anyone repent? Yes. Anyone can repent. You don't even have to be a Jew to repent. The Roman soldiers are coming and repenting. And so he's saying, I'm baptizing with water, and here's someone who's going to baptize with the Spirit. So what's the implication there? Anyone. There's no longer going to be a prerequisite for this Holy Spirit association, indwelling. Like I baptize with water, he's going to baptize with the Spirit. Anyone who repents and believes in the coming one will be indwelled by the Spirit of God. And that is why, if you turn to Acts, who wrote Acts, look, turn to Acts 1. Luke wrote Acts, and this is one of the themes he wants us to see, is the fulfillment of what John the Baptist, of course there's more in Luke, but we're I I don't want to preach ahead of what I'm going to preach eventually. Acts chapter 1, 1, just to connect it with Luke, the former account I made, that's the gospel of Luke, O Theophilus, of all the things that Jesus both began, both to do and teach. And what does Jesus say? Well, you skip down verse 4. And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of God. Of the Father, which he said, You have heard from me. For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. All of them And you know in Acts chapter 2, the 130 are in the upper room, the flames of fire only went to Peter's head and Andrew's head. They weren't on anyone else's head. True or false? False. They were on everyone's head who was a believer in Jesus Christ. And so we have the fulfillment, and Luke points it out. He makes the connection right from Luke chapter 3 to Acts chapter 1. That's Luke drawing the line there, connecting the dots. Go back to Luke chapter 3 now. And so what we see here, it truly is amazing. It really is. From so many different theological vantage points, it's impossible to explore them all this morning. We have to limit ourselves to Luke's emphasis here. So, what do we have? We have the water and now the spirit. And secondly, you look at your Bible in verse 16, we have the issue of fire. Fire is is it consumes. And in the scriptures it is often used of judgment. And when you look at verse 17 as he explains more the issue of fire, there's a winnowing fan, which is a tool. That cleans the threshing floor and gathers wheat into a barn and chaff into the fire. So we have fire and it's dividing and it's judgment. So, on the one hand, there's this universal possibility that anyone who repents can be baptized by the Spirit. There's this mighty and worthy one who's coming, who's going to do this. And on the other hand, there is judgment. There's fire. And that is certainly in keeping with John's message, his hard message of judgment and repentance. Repent, or there is to be judgment it and it is coming. What does that judgment look like? Well, you and I know It's been given into the hands of Christ now that he has completed his ministry on that final day, the day of judgment. To decide who is not written in the book of life. Those who have not put their faith and trust in Christ, it's not by works which we have done But it's grace that he gives us salvation, and some will have it, and some will have rejected Christ and his message. And there is If I could put it this way, all right, there's Christ and the Spirit, and then there's sort of this final consequence. And the coming one is going to be, he's going to be sort of the subject of the sentence and the object of the sentence and the period of the sentence. He's going to be all through the story until the very end. He's the ultimate of the story. He's the penultimate. He's the in the final chapter, and he's the one. Who's going to make the decision between wheat and chaff? Wheat and chaff. It's a remarkable, it's it's a Well it's a surprisingly simple, isn't it? Simple and yet highly communicative description of Jesus, and it's only possible because John the Baptist was not a uh uh he he's not a system of th of thought. He's a person. He's a person. And so he could say, like me but not like me. Like me but greater than me. Prophet? Yes, like, but greater prophet. It's It's amazing the wisdom of God. You know, folks, it's hard not to make an application right here. When God wants something done, he creates people to do it. He raises up people. And sometimes they're quite amazing and unusual, like John the Baptist. What can we take away from a passage like this? Alright, just from what we have here. Now verse 18 and 19 is just sort of Luke wants us to know that there were many applications to what he said, and when it uses the word exhortations here in verse 18. and with many other exhortations he preached to the people, it lets us know Lucas is saying that there's this theme of repentance to his messages, but there were a whole lot of applications here that he gave. There were a whole lot of different exhortations. to change that he gave the people. And his exhortations reached all the way, verse 19, eventually, to Herod. And Herod didn't like it. He locked John up. So the character of his ministry was thematically repentance, applications many, all the way to the king, and he got locked up. And that's kind of what happened to John. What can we learn from this? Let me give you two vital applications for this that you can take home. Number one, Jesus and the Holy Spirit are connected and they can never be unconnected. John is telling us this right now at the very beginning of Christ's ministry. What we have after this, if you look at your Bible at Luke 3, verses 21 and 22, is Jesus coming and being baptized. He's identifying himself with sinners, even though he is not a sinner, and that's a fascinating passage to look at next week. But at the beginning, even before Jesus is baptized, John is saying he is involved with the Holy Spirit. He will baptize with the Holy Spirit. And that is something that you and I must accept. We must accept that. Say, okay, that's easy to accept. And I'm telling you, no, it's not really that easy to accept sometimes Because he is the what spirit? Holy Spirit. Let me let look back at Psalm 51, and let me just show you why this is not always easy. In the New Testament, as the Holy Spirit, the doctrine of pneumatology develops, we find out that the Holy Spirit can be quenched He can be grieved. We see that the Holy Spirit teaches the apostles. That implies he has a mind and an intellect. Quenched and grieved, quenched would imply he has a will. There's desires that he has for us, and yet we can push those down, we can quench that in our life Grieved implies emotion, teaching and comforting mind. So we derive from all these passages that he is a person, the Holy Spirit, capital H, capital S. And we know that he has a certain job because in Acts chapter 2 he comes upon every Christian, and of course later in Acts we see Gentiles as well, Jew and Gentiles. He comes upon us and he has a certain He has a certain will for us. And he can be affected by our behavior, and he affects our behavior. And I just want you to look at the same verses we already looked at in Psalm 51. He said in the 11, do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me Joy, the joy of your salvation, and uphold me by your generous spirit. The presence of the Spirit in David's life in some way influenced the joy that he experienced in his salvation. Salvation is only bought through the name of Jesus, whose name means Savior, because he will take away the sins of his people, our sins. Salvation, joy in salvation, connected to the Holy Spirit. David says, please don't take your Holy Spirit from me. There's this. Absence of spirit, absence of joy, presence of spirit, presence of joy. Why was he so worried about that? Well, if you back up a few more verses, in verse 7, purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. And this is not talking about the color of his skin, but the moral quality of his heart Make me hear joy and gladness, that the bones you have broken may rejoice. Not literal bones, but an expression to describe his spirit is broken. Hide your face from my Sins and blot out all my iniquities. We have a man who is saying, I want the spirit, I want the joy, and the enemy of the spirit and the joy is my sins. And Lord, cleanse me, clean me from the inside out, forgive me. If we are going to say that the Spirit of God, and Luke is saying this, is connected to the ministry of the coming Messiah. And Jesus and the Holy Spirit are always and forever connected in their work. We must accept that there will always be sort of a a moral quality to Christianity. It is always, always more than just coming to church and singing hymns. It is it is who we are and what we do in every area of our life. In Psalm 51, there's the Spirit and joy and cleansing. In Galatians 5, turn there, because you know this well. There's the fruit of the Spirit. In Galatians five, let's see, let's go ahead and just read Oh, let's just read verse 22. Galatians 5, 22. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Let me read that again. The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness. Christians are little Christs. They are little, they are like their master. Disciples are like their teacher. We seek to be filled with the Spirit and to have these things in our lives Now let me uh let me hone this a little bit, your ex your expectation. Okay, so maybe you're sitting there and saying, okay, so certain things are acceptable to God in his spirit and certain things are not. Galatians 5 indicates that when you have the Spirit in you, He's described as producing fruit. Now everyone here has eaten fruit, right? How many of you ate an orange or an apple this week? Alright? Grapes? Guava, is that a fruit? I think is the potato a fruit or a vegetable? Are you sure? I think it might be a fruit. I'm not sure. Google that when you get home. We all eat fruit, right? And it'd be really s we we would be shocked to go out into the field and just look at the ground and there's all this fruit just lying there everywhere. It's like wow fruit. I'm gonna get some and just go start picking it up like Easter eggs. Like, oh fruit, wow, look at this fruit on the sidewalk. I mean, it comes from somewhere, right? It doesn't just appear out of anywhere. And that somewhere is a natural process. Fruit is an expectation that comes from a tree. When you go to, when I was lived in South Carolina, one of the things we love to do is go to a peach orchard and pick the peaches right at the moment they were most ripe. Those peaches were bigger than softballs, some of them. It was like biting into heaven. I mean it was just that peach juice and we would just get those, load up on those, take them home. And never one time did we go to a peach orchard, look at the trees, and go, wow! Peaches on peach trees. How did this happen? This is amazing. And you've never done that when you go to pick apples. You never sit there for like half an hour and go, how did those apples get on that thing? I just can't don't get this No, why? Because it's a natural process. It's just what happens in and of itself, because by virtue of apple tree, there are apples. That's the illustration here that Paul uses when he writes to the Galatian Christians. By virtue of spirit within Christians. Fruit of spirit. By virtue of spirit within Christians, fruit of spirit. Joy, love, peace. And so there are times when you do absolutely nothing, and the Spirit of God does something for you. There are those times. And I've heard testimony of those. I give you a personal testimony. Not too long ago, I was praying. It was pretty late at night, and I was very burdened about something. And I was sad. Not happy, sad. And the Spirit of God just filled my heart, and something came to mind that I had forgotten And when I thought about it, I I was filled with joy. That is not me, that is the Spirit of God within me. Can you think back to when a loved one died that was close to you, but you knew they were a Christian, and that you are going to see them again one day? And at a moment of great sorrow, there was still this sprinkling of joy, of anticipation. And even though you still miss that person and there's this season of loss and grief, even though you still could cry. If you thought about that person and how much you miss them, you know you will see them again. And there's just this spark of joy in your heart that that day is coming. That's the Spirit of God within you. And so this is the great blessing that we have being baptized into the Spirit, if we could put it that way. But we have to accept that there is also sort of the other side of the coin. We can't just sit around and wait for the fruit of the Spirit to come upon us. us as it were to for silly but an apple to grow out of your fingertips you know it just happens we need to remember passages like 2 Peter 1 5 to 11 turn to there turn to there As the Spirit is at work in our hearts, and we expect Him to be it, be at work There is also exhortations for you and I to choose to be spiritual. So, on one side of the coin, there is the spirit within us always at work. And we have Romans 5 and Romans 8 that tell us that He sheds abroad the love of God in our heart. And in Romans 8, he's reminding us that we are the children of God. But then we have passages like this, and this isn't the only one, 2 Peter 1, 5 to 11, where Peter writes to these people and says, all right, all right, look. Let's pick the context. Well, alright, let's be chronological. Let's be a little more clear. Look back a few more verses. I was going to jump back to this. Look at verse 4. 2 Peter 1, verse 4. He says, look. by which, you know, by which we have been given to us exceedingly great and precious promises that through these you may be partakers of the divine nature, have an escape the corruption that is in the world through lust. Wow, promises. You and I have it. The coming one is going to baptize with the Spirit, just like I baptize with water. We're all baptized in the Spirit. We have the Spirit within us, indwelling us. That's a promise. But Peter next moves not to rest in the promise, sort of like this passive thing. You get home, there's your easy chair, it's there, it's dependable, you go and you just, ah, the promise of my easy chair. He doesn't do that, does he? Rather than promises moving us to a relative inactivity, he pushes us right out of the easy chair. It's kind of a kind of jarring, really, because you look at verse five and he makes the connection. Peter does this. Look at verse 5, but also for this very reason, giving all diligence. Add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge, to knowledge, self-control. But wait a minute, self-control is the fruit of the Spirit. Why do I have to do anything? Evidently, Peter's teaching here, you have to do something. Self-control, to self-control, perseverance, and to perseverance, godliness, and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, love. But that's one of the fruit of the Spirit. It is, but here give all diligence love. Practice love Because, verse 8, if these things are yours and abound, you will be neither barren nor unfruitful. Wait a minute. There's the Spirit and you. And you're being not unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ, for he who lacks these things is short-sighted, even to blindness, and has forgotten that he was cleansed from his old sins. Therefore, brethren. Be even more diligent to make your call and election sure, for if you do these things you will never stumble. For so an entrance will be supplied to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now we have to be careful with this passage. It is not teaching us that by adding diligence, be diligent, be more diligent, that somehow we get to go to heaven because of that. The key to this passage is found in an abundant entrance. You're calling an election sure How do you want to enter heaven? If you're a Christian here today, you're bought by the blood of Christ, do you want to enter heaven shamefully? Kind of like, oh man. I was really carnal when I was a Christian on the earth. Oh boy. Is that the way you want to enter? Or do you want to enter with a surety, with a confidence? Not in yourself, but not like, look at me, I'm glorying in God's presence. No, no, no, no, no, no. But where you are assured that you are a Christian and that you have the fruit of the Spirit in your life as evidence of that. And that so there's going to be this abundant entrance into the kingdom. There's not going to be you lying on your deathbed and fearful that you're not even a Christian. And in this passage, Peter's emphasis is on do this for this very reason. Be diligent. Add these things to your faith. So here's what I'm saying, folks. Luke, there's this connection between Jesus and the Spirit. There's the promise of the fruit of the Spirit. But there's a responsibility that you and I have, we must work out our own salvation. With fear and trembling, not a work that equals salvation, but a working out of what we already possess. With fear and trembling. There's effort there. W It's and if there's cleansing that we must go through as we confess our sins, there's the necessity of dealing with this. You can't be a Christian here today and not deal with the Holy Spirit. You can't do that. Bear with me secondly, and this is even now look, the tenor of this is kind of judgmental, and that is John the Baptist, right? Repent. That's John the Baptist speaking, not Dan Fox. I'm keeping with the context here because secondly, what do you see? You see that Jesus is connected with that ultimate consequence. There's Jesus. And judgment. Fire. And if you and I are going to go from John the Baptist To be followers of Jesus, the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world, we're going to have to just be okay with that. Folks, today in our society, in our culture, people are not okay with judgment. You stop judging me. What right do you have to tell me how I live my lifestyle? Well, I don't have any right. I'm not going to be the one who threshes the wheat. I'm not going to be the one who baptizes with fire, but my Savior is. And that's part of what it means to be a Christian, to believe that And to accept it. One day, one day, folks, fire. That's what evangelical Christians have always believed Even when the transition during the Protestant Reformation and the great Protestant reformers and all this church history, I mean, you've got Christians, and they've always accepted for the most part. You know, there's been heretics and wars and all that kind of thing. But there is this acceptance that Jesus is coming, and what is he going to do? Well, if I can get you to turn to one final passage. If you turn quickly to Second Thessalonians one. And this is Paul writing to these Christians. Second Thessalonians one. These Christians are suffering. Now get this. The context here is we know you're per being persecuted. That's verse 4. You're going through tribulations, you're enduring all this hard trouble. Let me comfort you. And listen to how he comforts these people. Look at verse. Look at verse 6. Since it is a righteous thing with God to repay with tribulation those who trouble you. And to give you who are troubled rest with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God. And on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he comes in that day to be glorified in his saints and to be admired among all those who believe. Because of our testimony among you, because our testimony among you was believed. Fire. Judgment. You can't really be a Christian if you don't accept passages like that. I mean, okay, you need the gospel to be saved. And as you grow in Christ, you learn new things. To be a Christian is to believe what the Bible teaches about Christ. And as you grow, you find this out, yes, there there is going to be this ultimate thing. And of course, part of the gospel is the bad news. If you don't repent and trust in Christ, There's hell. So, folks, all this to say, John the Baptist was the benchmark, and it was high. And he pointed to our Savior and said, One is coming. And you might be here today, and you might be reasoning in your heart and have an expectation when it comes to that coming one. I really want to encourage you. Match your expectation to John's. Accept what the scriptures say about Christ. And you will be blessed, because he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world.