Good morning for the third time. Good to see all of you. It's good to be back. I'm looking for my sister today who promised she would come. She's not here. Maybe she'll walk in at the invitation or something. It's good to be back with you on this chilly Sunday. How about Friday? Was it Friday where the promise of spring came? It was quite nice on Friday. Today we are continuing our study in James. We're just sort of working our way through James. My intention is simply. To help you understand the emphasis that James is placing and things he is saying. I'm reading chapter 1, verses 26 through chapter 2, verse 1. 126 through 2. 1. If anyone among you thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his own heart, this one's religion is useless. Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. My brethren, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with partiality. I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior at the age of seven. That's 68 years ago, but one of the things I can still remember is one change that it made in my life. The next day, all of a sudden I had a desire to share this wonderful grace with other people, and I remember running out into the street when the garbage man came by and jumping up onto the running board of the driver's side of the truck and announcing that I had trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior the previous day to save me from sin. For some reason I don't think he knew what to do with that information. And he didn't seem to be as impressed as I was with the information. But the fact that I did this Has said to me all of these years something happened in my heart that I didn't cause Something changed in my life that I didn't cause. I had a new desire Lewis Barry Schaefer, who was for years president of Dallas Seminary, said that when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, 33 things happen to them. 33 things happen to them. Trusting Christ as Savior means your sins are forgiven. It means you're transferred from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. It means the Holy Spirit of God comes to dwell in your heart. It means you're made a child of God. It means you're made an heir of God and so on. And he has a list of 33 things that take place in a person's life. When they come to Christ as Savior. When these kinds of things happen to you, you can't be the same. One of the ways you can tell that you've come to Christ is the new desires that the Holy Spirit puts into your heart. A desire for his word, a new love for believers, and so on. The fact that we have the Holy Spirit implanted desires Says a new birth has occurred. But just like babies need to grow and develop Even though they automatically know how to drink, so new believers in Jesus Christ need to learn and develop and grow. So 1 Peter chapter 2 says, as newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the word that you may grow thereby. Someone may say, well, I already have that desire for the word. I received it when I trusted Christ. But just like a baby needs to learn to eat, Christians need to learn to desire the pure milk of the Word that they may grow. And just like adults need to learn to eat the right kind of food. So adult Christians need to get into the meat of the word. Now, a similar thing is happening in James. This is where James is going in this book. He's writing to believers and he's saying, in order to grow in Christ, you need to get serious about these three items that are so easily overlooked. Do you remember what they are? Three items. Number one. Say it louder. I still didn't hear you. Um just friendly for the kind of all the way. The friends we abhor, she says. That's part of it, yes. The three that we just read are bridling your tongue so that you don't lie to yourself and deceive your heart. Verse 26. Number two, visiting orphans and widows in their distress. Meaning concern, compassion for less fortunate people, and number three, keeping oneself unspotted from the world Do you remember those? We talked about those last week. I have seven nods. That's good. Nine nods. So what James is saying is that once a person comes to Jesus Christ, here are three very important parts of growing in Christ. How you talk to yourself, what your attitude is toward those who do not have what you have, and your relationship to the world's allurements. The way the world gets a hold of your desires for pleasure. James is not talking about how to become a Christian He's not saying if you don't bridle your tongue, you're not a Christian. He's not talking about how to remain a Christian by bridling your tongue. He's not saying if you don't bridle your tongue, you're going to lose your salvation. That's not the issue. The issue is religion. Remember that? Religion. And what is that? Worship. Religion is your relationship with God, your worship of God, your walk with God. And James is saying, if you think you are in fellowship with God and your tongue is running uncontrolled in your body and deceiving your heart. Your religion and fellowship with God is useless. You're kidding yourself. So these three areas identify what this book is about. James is talking about the way we talk to ourselves, the way we relate to people who don't have what we have, and the way we relate with the world. He's already talked about how we talk to ourselves in chapter 1. Where did he talk to how we talk to ourselves in chapter 1? I heard it from over here earlier when James says. Count it all joy. Count it all joy is the way you talk to yourself. You tell yourself This experience is going to be blessed of God because he said he wants to use it to teach me patience. Where did he talk about our relationship with the world? Chapter 1, verse 14. Your temptation doesn't come from God. It doesn't come from the devil. It comes from Your own desires, your own desires, that get attracted, tempted by the world and the flesh and the devil. So, James is going to keep talking about these subjects. For example, chapter 2 begins with how we treat poorer people. Chapter 3 emphasizes how we talk. Chapter 4 talks about the world and being attracted to the world. Talks about the stupidity of thinking the world has something to offer So all three of these issues appear in this book, and all three of these issues appear in the section we have today, chapter 2, verses 1 to 13. The usher in this drama is talking to himself. He's identifying who the important people are in the church Instead of visiting the widows and the orphans, he's mistreating a poor man. And the world's desires, the world's spots show up in his life when he assumes that outwardly rich. People are worth more than people who are dressed as well. So I've got three statements to make from James chapter 2, verses 1 to 13. You'll notice the title is Millionaires We Insult. Statement number one is we do not realize how subtle. Discrimination is. We do not realize how subtle discrimination is. Here are the first three verses, James 2, verses 1 to 3. My brethren, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with partiality. For if there should come into your assembly a man with gold rings in fine apparel, and there should also come in a poor man in filthy clothes And you pay attention to the one wearing the fine clothes and say to him, You sit here in a good place, and say to the poor man, you stand there, or sit under my footstool. We grew up in an unfair world. We learned to make distinctions between people by the time we were in the third grade. Perhaps some of you who are advanced did it in the second grade. We had names for them all. The bigger, the smaller, the ones with skinny legs. The smarter, the slower, the ones with different skin color, different hair color, you know, the blonde jokes, the bald jokes, the Polish jokes. You know? And we all learned to do it, or we all were marked by it. When we come to Christ, we meet a God who is no respecter of persons. No respecter of persons. Jesus Christ came to this earth to die on the cross for sinners. Think of that. Sinners. These weren't pretty little people with bows in their hair and thankfulness in their hearts. These were ugly, disobedient, hateful people shaking their little face in his their little fist in his face and saying, get out of here. These were the kind of people that people don't like. Other than their mothers, that people want to get away from, that people know we're going down and not up. And Jesus not only loved them, he gave his life for them. And we've been placed, having come to Christ, we've been placed in the family of God. The body of Christ, where we are all declared equal. Equal Galatians 3. 27. For as many of you, as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female. You are all one in Christ Jesus. So what does that mean? Well, for one thing, it means if we're going to become like God, Part of the work of faith is how we relate to other people, how we view, how we treat one another. We can't represent the Lord who died for all people when we have no compassion for the poor and the helpless and sinners. In our past life, we had favorites. Certain people were easier to talk to, easier to love, easier to get along with. Some people seemed to promise more Just their presence was different. Perhaps they were billionaires Perhaps they appeared on the cover of Time magazine. Perhaps they were on Shark Tank. But they were different, you know. As a result, all our lives we've looked up at certain people and down at others. Do you see that you've done that? As a result, all our lives we have looked up at certain people and down at others. Do you see that you've done that? As a result All our lives we looked up at certain people and down at others. Do you see that you've done that? Okay, I got an amen. Amen. That means that this passage is addressed to you. You know, it's so easy to uh to observe other people with their discrimination and partiality and their attitudes. Sometimes it's hard to see ourselves as doing this. But I am convinced that this passage is addressed to every single believer. So here's project number one. How can we represent a God who is impartial? How can I represent a God who is impartial when I have always been partial? I've always discriminated. I've always been some kind of racist. Everybody understand the word racist? Racist means that you think there's a superior race. It means that you have a favorite race. I'm generalizing the word a little bit to mean you think you have a favorite fill-in-the-blank, you know, type people. Culture, country. So when I think about this, I think about Jonah. You know, Jonah was a racist. And the book was written because God was teaching Jonah that he is impartial. And Jonah wasn't learning the lesson. Jonah had been a prophet of God for years. He prophesied in 2 Kings chapter 14. And Apparently, sometime along later on in his life, God said, I've got a new assignment for you. I want to send you to Nineveh. I want you to preach to these people. And Jonah said thank you and got a boat trip to Tarshish going the other direction. Why? Because he had an attitude toward Ninevites. He did not see Ninevites as Either worthy of God's grace, worthy of preaching to, he says in chapter 4, I understand that you would forgive them and love them. So what was it that taught Nina that taught Jonah that God is impartial? Was it the storm on the sea? No, that didn't wake him up. Was it getting swallowed by the great fish? Well, yeah, he wanted to get out of there. And chapter 2, verse 8, looks like he may have seen the light. Was it the Miraculous repentance of an entire city in chapter 3. You know, Jonah probably saw the greatest revival that the world ever had in the Old Testament. Did that change him? Not really. He goes out in chapter four and he is angry, and he's almost suicidal. Why? Because these people repented? No, it was his attitude toward these people. And God used a little gourd to teach him an object lesson and then says to him at the end, You have this love for a gourd, you've got compassion for a gourd, and you don't have compassion for a 120,000 children? And Jonah learned that lesson. How do I know Jonah learned that lesson? Because he wrote the book. Wouldn't you like to write a book like that and tell people how stupid you are? To be in Scripture forever settled in heaven? So this passage is talking about racism, discrimination, partiality. Discrimination is looking up at people, looking down at people. And we have the idea of special attention or ignoring people three times in this passage. Verse 1 uses the word partiality. The word means to be attracted to somebody's face. It means to hold someone's face in your hands and say to them, my, you are beautiful. Now the face may be ugly But because they are rich, you're flattering them and saying, Ma, you are beautiful. It occurs In verse 3, we have you pay attention to the one wearing the fine clothes and say to him. The word pay attention means to look up to somebody with admiration And then verse 9, you have again, if you show partiality. That's the same word as verse 1. So the concept is that this usher is paying special attention to somebody who looks like they've got wealth. When a person arrives at the door of the assembly in shabby clothes, the usher immediately notes his poverty and does the opposite of holding up his face. He gives him minimal treatment and says, uh, you can stand there, sit here under my footstool. Well, how about the nursery? But somebody comes in who has, you know, the latest from Neiman Marcus and rings on his finger, and the usher says, Oh, praise God, look at this. This man looks like he is the blessing of God and seats him up in the front Now, apparently in those days there weren't very many chairs in the in the service. They didn't have seats for everybody. They didn't have pews. And the seats, the chairs were for elders, scribes, or notables And so the fact that he's bringing him up to a chair in the front suggests that he is giving him the royal treatment. And he is saying, you know, you really fit this church. This church is the first United Apostolic Congregational Assembly of the Brethren and the Sistern with clothes and rings. So why did he respond that way? He responded that way because he concluded that this man had something that the church needed. Or this man had something that he needed. And so he's giving the man special treatment. You ever done this? Your response to someone is different on the basis of how beautiful they are. Or how much money you know they have, or how important they are, or by how much you think they can help you. Did anyone see the the uh ABC 2020 thing last night on Nathaniel? Newman. Anybody see that? Called the Wonder Boy? You missed. You missed a great. If you were watching the Patriot game, you were wasting your time, okay? Unless you are looking up to, you know, what the name of that quarterback. Uh The Wonder Boy is the story of Nathaniel Newman, who was born with a congenital defect that grossly misshaped his face. And so that when his mother was going down the street in a in a with a baby with him in a baby buggy, and people would come and say, Oh, baby, you know, and then they'd look at him, they would say Oh, God bless you. And people would look and turn away, and people wouldn't know how to respond. And so the problem came over one first problem. I mean, this is probably the 99th problem, came over what happens when he goes to school. You know, it was bad enough trying to play in the neighborhood, but what happens when he goes to school? And what happens when he goes to junior high school? Along about the time that he went to junior high, was it junior high when the book came out? There was a book that came out entitled Wonder. It was written by a lady who was in a store, an ice cream store, and saw a baby that was So disfigured that she wanted to move her son, the stroller her son was in, away so he wouldn't see her. Because she knew he would respond in a negative way. And so she moved him, and then as they left, she felt so guilty over the whole thing and wanted to go back and do something. And this plagued her to the place where she wrote a book. She wrote a book on what it would be like to grow up. So disfigured that children's immediate response is to call you a monster. What would it be like? So she wrote a book. The book has now become, I think they're making it into a movie And the the interesting thing was that Nathaniel's family got a hold of this book, I think, shortly before he went into Seventh grade or sixth grade. And the book was almost his life. They they said it was just amazing how this lady knew what was happening to him And so when he went into junior high, he wrote a letter to the kids before he got there and told them what he was like. And then the teachers had the students read the book, wonder, before he went. And it was so profitable. For the kids as well as for Nathaniel. And last year, I think Nathaniel now is about 14. Last year he went into surgery To get his tracheotomy removed, which he'd been which had been with him all his life. And he said to the doctor before he went in, he said, Now you're not going to change my face, are you? And the doctor said, No, we're not going to change it. Good, he said, I like my face. Can you imagine that? So that's the picture here. That's the picture. So often it is possible to look down at a certain person Look up at a certain person, we need to realize that this was standard procedure in the Old Testament. Standard procedure with Jewish leaders. Jesus said about the Pharisees: Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you devour widows' houses. And for a pretense, make long prayers. What were they doing? They were praying long and hard as they mistreated widows, as they took over their houses and possessions. Now, Lord, Lord, would you bless this widow as she gives up her house to pay her temple tax, meet all her needs which we have caused? You know, these guys were professionals at discrimination. They were actually Pharisees who gloried in their mistreatment of people. So many Jewish people obviously learn from the Pharisees. The problem is, the Lord of glory is absolutely impartial. That's not a problem. That's the good thing. The Lord of glory is absolutely impartial. That's one of the things that's so glorious about our Lord. He shows no partiality, no favoritism. He does not choose to treat one person better than another. How many times do you think that quality of God is mentioned in Scripture? Maybe once? Twice? I count at least ten times You have things like Deuteronomy 10, 17. For the Lord your God is a God of gods and Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality nor takes a bribe. Acts ten, here's Peter. Opened his mouth and said, Of a truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality. That's the same word as James 2, verse 1. And that was probably a shock to Peter, who'd been taught that those Gentile people were dogs. So you have it in Galatians 2, you have it in Ephesians 6, you have it in 1 Peter 1. The point is that the Lord of glory does not have a partial bone in his body. He came and gave his life for the sins of the world. And we are going to represent him by choosing someone above someone else. Not if he can help it To claim to worship him who loved the world and gave his life for all, and at the same time separates certain people for special treatment because of their more fortunate economic status is a perversion of God's grace. Christ is our example. Do not let anybody tell you that God discriminates. He does not. So, discrimination is a pervasive kind of thing. It's a subtle kind of thing. Secondly, I'd like to talk about how discrimination damages everyone. Discrimination damages everyone. I can hear somebody say, wait a minute. What's so bad about what this usher did? Do you understand what this usher did? He didn't hurt the poor person. He just treated him differently. He just ignored him. You can't pay attention to everyone the same way. Try it with your children. It's impossible. You treat everyone differently. So what's the big issue here? Why make such a big deal out of this? James really is blowing the whole thing out of proportion. You know? The usher's got to choose who sits where, and so he. Doesn't want the man in the white tuxedo to sit on the floor. So what's so bad? Well, James says there are at least five things that get damaged. At least five things. Here they are. Verse 4: Have you not shown partiality among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He's promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you and drag you into the courts? Do they not blaspheme that noble name by which you were called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. For he who said, Do not commit adultery also said, Do not murder Now, if you do not commit adultery, but you do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So many of us have done this for so long that it's part of our personality But God wants us to understand the extent of the damage when you do this. This usher is not just giving the rich man a nicer seat. He is one, dividing the church, two, acting like God, three, dishonoring the wealthy heirs of the kingdom, four, honoring God's enemies, and five, committing sin. Look at those. Number one, the ushers dividing the church. Verse 4 says, Have you not shown partiality among yourselves? The church is now composed of halves. and have nots. You wear the right clothes, you get a seat. You don't wear the right clothes, good luck. As soon as you do that, you divide the church. Do you remember Galatians chapter 2? When Paul went after Peter? And he said to Peter, what's your problem, Peter? What was Peter doing? He was eating lunch, dinner. And it says Peter had been eating dinner with Gentiles. You understand how difficult that was? In Acts chapter 10, Peter said to the Lord, I have never eaten anything unclean. He said that to the Lord three times. Do you know what it was like for Peter to eat at a Gentile potluck? Ham. You know, probably chitlins or something like that, you know For Peter to eat this kind of stuff, and yet Peter was eating that until certain guys came down from Jerusalem. Jewish leaders came down from Jerusalem, and then all of a sudden he decided he wasn't going to eat with them. And Paul goes after him because he has immediately made, created a two-level church. You got the Gentile church, and you got the The official church, where Peter's the first pope. Okay? You immediately make two congregations. Two churches. I can remember we were working through this at our church in terms of should we have a traditional church and a contemporary church? You know? We could have the traditional church at 8 o'clock and the contemporary church at 11 o'clock. But what does it do to the congregation? Does it actually divide the body of Christ? Now I think there are churches that can do this and not divide the body of Christ, okay? I'm not trying to talk against them. But I think it is difficult to say we've got this church and then we've got that church. We are the church And so we decided we're going to have a church that plays contemporary music and traditional music and rock music and jazz and whatever under control. You know, with a guy that joined our church at eighty-two years old, who had been a professional Jazz saxophone player for years. I mean he had jazz in his bones. He could play the C scale and it would come out jazzy. I love to hear him play the saxophone. You know? The guy could minister through the saxophone. I'm off the track. But the usher divided the church. That's number one. Number two, the usher made himself a judge. Verse 4: Have you not shown partiality among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? He was setting himself up as the one who determined who was valuable and who was not valuable. He actually took the place of God He thinks he can tell people, he can tell who the people are that are going to benefit the church and who the people are that aren't going to benefit the church. He was God's Monday morning quarterback. Maybe this church met on Saturday, so he was God's Sunday morning quarterback, you know? So the Shabby look the the the rich guy comes in and the man says, praise, praise the Lord. You are doing it right, Lord. Thank you for sending this man in. The shabby-looking guy comes in and he says to the Lord, why him? Lord, you understand the fact that we don't want a church of those kind of people. Do you see what he's doing? The man has made himself a judge. So he splits people on the basis of insignificant things. Now it's important to realize that we are judges, and we have to judge. Don't take Matthew chapter 7 and say, judge not, that you be not judged. And take it out of context. You do need to judge when you're driving at 50 miles an hour on Route 100 there. You need to judge that it's time to put the brakes on And you're going too fast, and whatever, you know? And we need to judge. But we're talking about the value of brothers and sisters in the family We're talking about paying attention, encouraging others, while you ignore some. So, number one, he's splitting the church. Number two, he's become a judge. Number three, he has insulted. God's chosen. He's insulted the chosen. Verse 5. Listen, my beloved brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom? Which he promised to those who love him, but you have dishonored the poor man. Dishonored. That's the word insulted. Do you understand, James is saying, who you just relegated to the floor? You relegated a chosen one. Jewish people pride themselves in the fact that they are the chosen ones. You just put a chosen one on the floor And do you understand who he is? Do you understand that he is heir of the kingdom? And it is a very, very, very wealthy kingdom. And you just put them on the floor. At the same time, you don't understand that this is a person who eats out a living, who wears shabby clothes, who may not have all the social kill skills, who can't stand up for himself and argue for his rights, and who is easy to overlook. But he's rich in faith. He's learned in his poverty to trust God day after day. He looks poor, but in reality he's rich. He's rich in faith. He's an heir of the kingdom. He will rule and reign one day with Jesus Christ The usher couldn't see beyond the clothes and the rags. He didn't realize that there is something else that makes a person far richer. Most of us Americans are so wealthy that we don't have to live by faith. You understand that? We don't have to trust God because we can buy it. We put it on a credit card. But there are people in the world who have to trust God almost every moment. And the ability to trust God, tested in life. Is a great blessing. R. C. H. Lensky, in his commentary on this passage, makes this statement He says, earthly riches are a handicap as far as true faith is concerned. Here's a man who, because of his poverty, has to trust God regularly, and we should be jealous of his position. And the usher puts them on the floor. Number four, the usher honors God's enemies. Do you not oppress? Do not the rich oppress you and drag you into the courts? Do they not blaspheme that noble name by which you're called? James is talking about the rich in general, not necessarily the very man to which the usher gave a front seat. Back in those days, rich Jews were for the most part Sadducees. The Sadducees were aristocrats, the wealthy, the politically powerful, the high priests of the day. They were the ones who oppressed poorer Jewish people and especially Christians. It's kind of odd, James says, that you would bow and scrape before a rich Jew when these rich Jews are known for their mistreatment of Christians. John Calvin said, It's odd that we would try to honor our executioners at the same time we injure our friends. And then number five, verses eight, nine, and ten, the usher commits sin. Verse eight tells us how he's talking to himself. Verse 8 says, if you really fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you're doing well. The man is assuring himself that he's obeying the law. I'm obeying the law. I'm loving my neighbor. The rich man happens to be my neighbor. I want to love him. I want to show him the best. His tongue is deceiving his heart. The usher is probably saying something like this, yes, I may be treating the poorer man unevenly, but I'm loving my neighbor. After all, there aren't enough seats to go around. And I don't want this man to have to sit on the floor. The poor guy may be better prepared to sit Doesn't that sound legit? The problem is that you can't pick and choose which law you're going to obey because the law comes as a unit. Verse 9 says, if you show partiality, you are committing sin, are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one part, he's guilty of all. For he who said, Do not commit adultery also said, Do not murder. Now, if you don't commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. Notice verse 9: you are committing sin. You are convicted by the law as transgressors. Verse 11, you become a transgressor of the law. He was obeying the law to love his neighbor. That's good. But love cannot be selective, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Instead, he was breaking the law which he thought he was keeping. People can't excuse their failure to observe one part by emphasizing their outstanding observance of other parts. This isn't bowling where you say, well, I got nine pins down. The law is like a plate glass window. If you have a plate glass window, let's say, that's six foot by four foot, how many places do you break it before you have to replace it? One spot and it's gone. That's the way the law is. Remember the Pharisee praying in Luke chapter 18? Says, Lord, I'm just so thankful I'm not like this other guy, and I fast twice a week Do you fast twice a week? Have you ever fasted twice a week? I've never fasted twice a week I fast twice a week. That's impressive. This guy really is good. The problem is he's only emphasizing the good things. We don't know whether the fella at heart really is a terrorist. A thief. A murderer. He could be a murderer, but at least he fasts twice a week. See the problem. The problem is the law comes as a unit So here's an usher who, by choosing seats for the people, is dividing the church into haves and haves not, making himself a judge of who's important and who can be ignored, dishonoring the really rich people, the millionaires. The heirs of the kingdom, giving special attention to the ones who will probably damage the church and breaking the law So much for a simple ushing job. You ever thought about the danger of ushering in church? No, what that says is the danger in our lives in the way we make choices in our relationships with other people. It's so easy to do. It's so easy to ignore people. Yet these are our brothers and sisters. We're going to spend eternity together. I had this emphasized to me as a teenager. We had a lady in our church who had never been, had never finished third grade. My guess is she was probably. 55, 60 little lady that could not read, could not write She eked out a living with her sister. She and her sister lived up the street in a little place, and they would babysit. Back then, I think it was a quarter of an hour or something like that. And I can remember my attitude toward Miss Annie as a teenager. You know, why is she here? What's she doing here? But I can remember that Miss Annie could sing all the songs because she had them memorized And I can remember on Wednesday night, on the way to prayer meeting, which I didn't as a teenager always want to go to, saying to myself, I want to hear Miss Annie pray, because Miss Annie could pray. And that church went through a difficult time. Pastor left, other people left so that you would go to church to see who left. Who was left? And then God worked things out so that the church just sort of Grew and developed and so on. And I've thought many times, I wonder if the person that held the church together was Miss Annie praying. You know, everybody else was leaving. Miss Annie couldn't leave. No place to go. She walked to church And yet here she was. So here's this lady that initially I would look down on, who perhaps is the key to the blessing of that church. In those days. So how you view other people is important. Lastly, and I'm doing this quickly, we don't understand That discrimination, partiality, guarantees God's judgment. It guarantees God's judgment. Verse 12: So speak and so do as those who will be judged by the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to those who have shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. I think that little phrase in verse 13: judgment is without mercy. Is a scary statement. That describes God who is no respecter of persons. That describes the Lord of glory. And it says, judgment is without mercy. What does that mean? I don't know what it means. But it's pretty clear. Judgment is without mercy. To those who don't have mercy, who haven't shown mercy So let me give you three statements, three applications in closing. So how do we deal with our tendency to discriminate? Number one. Statement number one. It begins with prayer. You begin at James 1. 5. James 1. 5. If any of you lack wisdom, We need to have wisdom to know how to respond to people, especially people who have less than us. The initial idea is you throw money at it so you can go on your way. That's not the answer necessarily. Think of the difficulty the usher had. What do you do when you have a wealthy person come in and there are not enough chairs? What do you say to the wealthy person as you sit him on the floor? How do you respond to the shabbily dressed person Do you put him on the chair? You put him on the floor. You put everybody on the floor. You know what do you do? This is exactly the same thing you go through when you evaluate how to treat your children. You don't treat all your children the same way. You can't. You have to treat them differently to treat them all equally. I'll take an amen on that. That was weak. So how do you do it? What do you do? And I think the response, our response to these kinds of situations needs to be a response that begins with prayer, asking God for wisdom and understanding. We need to pray regularly for our brothers and sisters and the difficult choices they need to make. Number two, expand your circle of friends. Number one, it begins with prayer. Number two, expand your circle of friends. My encouragement is to target one new person or family every month or every two months. Or every six months, but set a goal of expanding your circle of friends. Let's talk about who we invite for dinner Let's think about who we would ask over. Let's talk about how we would connect with people. How do we get excuses to talk In our church, as leaders in the church, we were looking for excuses to get people together. How do you get the body of Christ to function as the body of Christ? You get them together and get them to talk. So I would encourage you to actively think in terms of who to get into your life. Last week, as we were here, my wife and I had a couple that we didn't know that came to stay with us for two nights, and they were from Lithuania. And we had never met anybody, as far as I can remember, from Lithuania. So when we were Eating dinner, I think, on Saturday night, I asked him to pray for the dinner in Lithuanian. But it was just so interesting to learn something about life in Lithuania and That kind of thing. Expand your circle of friends. Number three, give your best to people. Give your best to people. Think about what you give Let's say you give away hoping for a tax write-off. So you get one of those little slips you can fill out with a worth of worth of the items. Have you ever given away your best? Your best clothes, your best lawnmower, to missionaries, to poor You know? What kinds of things do we give, let's say, to the gospel mission, let's say to missionaries? Do we give leftover stuff? We give stuff that we're going to throw away anyway? Why not buy a new suit and put it in the gospel mission, in the missionary barrel? My mother. Says she knew a lady who saved her used teabags to give to missionaries. Amen. Praise the Lord. Why not give your best? You know, when surgery is performed on your child, you don't ask what it cost. You want everything done that can be done. How can we carry that attitude toward brothers and sisters in the body of Christ? So, number one, I would pray and ask God for wisdom. How do I respond? Number two, I would look to expand circle of friends. Number three, I would ask in terms of how can I give my best? Okay? So may God rescue us. May God rescue me from residual racist tendencies. That we might love one another as God loves us, and that we might display before a world the glory of our impartial God. Let's pray. Father, what a privilege to look at the book that meets our need. I pray for each person here that the Spirit of God might minister to our hearts to encourage and strengthen us, to give us wisdom and direction. And to strengthen us in our love for you. Thank you for this time together. Pray that you will dismiss us with your blessing and your presence in Jesus' name. Amen.