Well, right now we have begun a short series on the topic of God's purpose for your life. We struggle sometimes with understanding what it is that God wants us to do and what we are supposed to do. as far as action items or philosophy of life or manner of lifestyle. I mean, when it comes right down to it, what is it to be a Christian? Last week, among other things, I attempted to just get through the point to you that there is definitely a will, that God has a will for you. And his will has been revealed to us in revelation, and that revelation is the Word of God. So primarily, when we want to seek out purpose for our lives, That is direction, we need to first look at what is certain. And after we look at what is certain, we put what is uncertain, that would be our daily decisions and the things that we do, whether in our personal lives or our professional lives, we place what is uncertain within the certainty of the scriptures. This is the will of God. And when New Testament writers spoke of the will of God, they were often referring to doing the will of God, obeying the will of God. They already possessed. But then there were those uncertain times when the Apostle Paul had to decide, what city do I go to? What emphasis do I have here? And there were decisions in the daily light of life that he had that he had to make. And in those decisions, a man plans his way in his heart, but the Lord directs his steps. And so my second point last week was that we have to depend on God's providence and leading step by step as we Turn on our the vehicle of our life and we push on the gas pedal and we start moving. We trust God to guide us as we move. It's difficult for God to guide us when we don't move When we don't move, we're like the man who buried his talent in the dirt. And the only thing he received from Jesus was a rebuke. And a strong one. So we need to make sure that we invest our talents and move forward on obedience to the will of God, trusting in the providence of God. This morning I want to talk about the issue of what it is that should motivate us. You know, when it comes to finding purpose in your life as a Christian. There are multiple texts that we could look at this morning, but one of the most helpful passages of Scripture that we can go to is to 2 Corinthians, because in 2 Corinthians Paul lays out the things that motivate him. Paul was a man who lived in a great deal of conflict. And a great deal of people who either took the message that he was preaching and twisted it, saying that Paul was preaching a license to sin, that the grace doctrine that Paul brought was simply some some teaching on do whatever you want because Jesus saves. There were others who twisted it the other direction into legalism. Who tried to say that it was necessary because of the Jewish nature of the origin of the Bible or of the gospel to keep the law in order to be saved? And so he lived within a context of controversy, doctrinal controversy, and he also lived in a context of personal controversy. Apparently, Paul was not that impressive in his appearance. Some have suggested there is one one description of Paul in ancient church literature that describes him and it's It's not far enough back to actually have been written during the days Paul was alive, but it's pretty far back, and the description is of a short bow-legged man, short, bald, bow-legged man Not very impressive in the way he looked. And evidently there was a marked difference in his style of delivery and teaching because Apollos Apollos was known as sort of this this very this this this kind of a teacher and then Paul was over here and he was sort of different in his approach and so not only did he live in adoring days of doctrinal dis Dispute and controversy, but personal controversy and dispute. Why should we listen to Paul when he doesn't appear to be very impressive? When his voice is not something that keeps me awake. Or you can sort of speculate on what people said, but when we come to 2 Corinthians, we find out sort of what they did say. And for example, if you look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and you look at verse 13, One of the accusations was that he was beside himself, that he was illogical and overly emotional. So here's his response: for if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. And then he talks about, or if we are of sound mind, it is for you. Now this morning I don't want to primarily focus on the controversy in which Paul lived. But I do want to pull out the fact that Paul's way of dealing with it was to say, look, I want to share with you, I want to teach you what motivates me to do what I do. And so he wants to clear away the rubble and lay bare his motivations, his heart motivations. And what we can do this morning as we look at what motivated the Apostle Paul. is look at what should motivate us. So when it comes to the purpose of your Christian life, In this sermon, primarily, we're looking at what should motivate you as a Christian. I don't want to present to you primarily action points, this is what you should do. Rather, I want you to reflect on this is what is in my heart that should motivate me to do. So first of all, what should motivate you and I is the love of Christ. The fact that we were loved by him. That statement is buried in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 14. He said, For the love of Christ constrains us. That word constrain, that's translated constrain, has to do with being pushed or moved. It's a motivating kind of a word. This love of Christ, it moves. Another translation translates it compels. It pushes me forward. It's a primary motivation for me. Secondly, when it comes to what motivates us, there is the fact that we are people who have a message of reconciliation The most important message the world could ever know. Two motivations: the love of Christ The message of reconciliation. What I'm going to do next is just read verses 12 to 21 so you can see the whole passage together and maybe see, although he talks about other corollary things. to see it all put together. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 12. And for we do not commend ourselves again to you But give you opportunity to glory on our behalf, that you may have something to answer those who glory in appearance and not in heart. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God, or if we are of sound mind, it is for you. For the love of Christ constrains us, because we judge thus. That if one died for all, then all died. And he died for all. That those who live should live no longer for themselves. but for him who died for them and rose again. Therefore, from now on we regard no one according to the flesh Even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. Now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ. And he has given us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them. and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. That we might become the righteousness of God in him. Hopefully, you could hear a little bit of those two points coming through. There's The love of Christ constraining, and then there's the idea of reconciliation and the message of reconciliation and the fact that we are ambassadors of reconciliation. I don't have time this morning to go through this whole thing verse by verse. I just want to kind of handle it thematically and sort of textually by bringing in some cross-references for your consideration. So first Let's look at the matter of verse 14 and look at the way he judges. We judge thus, he says. What does he judge? Well, first of all, in verse 14, if one died for all, then all died. This is a reference to the substitutionary atonement of Jesus Christ. I want you to think this through because here's the point being made. Knowledge and a correct understanding of the substitutionary atonement is part of what constrains and compels, motivates. In other words, when you really appreciate what God did for you, it's going to become this impetus to do things for God. That's the point here. So first, he died. Now, of course, he's talking about Jesus, and I want to just to direct your attention to a couple of cross-references that you know well but are worthy of your consideration. Turn to Philippians chapter two In Philippians chapter 2, we have the classic passage of God becoming man. And we are exhorted, the Philippians were exhorted, and we are too, to have the mind of Christ that though he was God, he became man. And so one of the things that stands out here in Philippians 2, verses 6 and following, is the great humility of Jesus. The fact that he was willing to leave the highest. To become, as it were, the lowest. Look at verse 6. He was being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself. Of no reputation, taking the form of a servant and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point. One of the outstanding characteristics of this passage, again, is How could you mathematically quantify with some way an equation the distance between God and his eternal qualities? And the mortality and limitations of the human body, a man. I don't know how it would be possible Because the distance is eternal, because God is eternal in one direction in every direction. And yet he became a man for the very purpose of dying. And it says here in verse 8 that he came to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Now you could do something like this and compare it to the level of suffering you yourself know. Perhaps you have a disease. Perhaps you've suffered in your lifetime because of the nature of the God has given you a stewardship of suffering. Perhaps you've watched someone else suffer because of your occupation, and you've seen the kind of pain that people have go through in this life. Would it be true to say that none of us choose that? Would it be true to say that no one in this room said, Yes, I want, I ask God to give me a disease? I really implored the Lord for three weeks that he would give me rheumatoid arthritis. And he did. None of us choose. The afflictions of our physical bodies. And none of us, when it comes right down to it, want to die. That is a natural thing that God put in us because it when He created Adam and Eve. Yes, there was the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the garden, but what other tree was there? The tree of life. And it was the intention of God for Adam and Eve to have eternal life. And you and I, as children of Adam and Eve, we know that intention, and we do not enjoy death in the sense of A physical body suffering, degenerating, and finally dying. And I've heard you say, and I have said, I would like to die in my sleep. I don't want to die after suffering. And yet Jesus, Philippians 2 reveals to us, he chose this. He was in the form of God, verse 6, verse 7, and He made, but He made Himself. Of no reputation. It was God's choice, the Father, and it was the Son's choice for him to die. If you go to Romans, just turn there. Go ahead and turn there. These are familiar passages. Romans 5. He chose to be to humble himself in that way. And the classic text in Romans 5 lets us know That he chose to do to come to die in such a way that it was not It was his sovereign choice. It was not a reaction or a response, because he did it, verse 8, this is Romans 5, 8. God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. In other words, he did not look at humanity and see anything good in humanity. And that caused a response in the heart of God in which he sent the Son. He sent the Son in spite of the fact, or in the face of the fact, that we were still sinners. He just sent him to die for us. In Hebrews 2, if you turn there quickly, in Hebrews 2, we have a wonderful couple of chapters there that emphasize Christ and the fact that he is was in all points tempted as we are, and that he became a man. In Hebrews 2, verse, look at verse 9, it says But we see Jesus who is made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death. crowned with glory and honor that he by the grace of God might taste death. I'm leaving out before everyone at this point So here we have it, folks. Jesus came, took on the human body. It was not an illusion. He was in fact a man. He grew up and he died the death of a cross. Why did he do this Well, if you look at the verse that your eyes are on right now in verse 9, the end of the verse says, for everyone. And that's what we have back in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, because it's the vicarious, it's the substitutionary atonement, is what we're talking about here. He died on behalf of us. He died for everyone. And certainly it's worthy to go back to Isaiah 53 and just be reminded of what it says here. Go back to Isaiah 53. And look at what it says in verse four and following. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He has borne our griefs. And carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. In other words, their perspective was: God did it to him Because there was something intrinsic in the Christ that deserved it. But no, verse 5 says. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. That chastisement for our peace was upon him. We learn from many passages, I only pointed out a few, that he died, he died the death of the cross, and he died. For us. That's the substitutionary part. If you turn back quickly now to 2 Corinthians chapter 5, I'll slow down for a moment. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Who are you? I mean really, what don't answer out loud, obviously, it's a rhetorical question, but what kind of a person have you found yourself to be during your lifetime? You know, you and I have values. We have a certain almost a moral price tag we put on ourselves and on others. When it comes to the life of Adolf Hitler, what kind of moral price tag or value would you put on him? Probably not a very high one. When it comes to Osama bin Laden, probably the same. When it comes to some Entertainer. Maybe you have a good price tag over their head or a bad one. But when it comes to yourself, how do you view yourself I mean, sometimes we think too highly of ourselves, and sometimes we think too low of ourselves, and usually we make these decisions by comparing ourselves with other people. I mean, it's easy to compare ourselves with the Nazis and say, hey, I am not a Nazi. I'm not that. Ugh. No way. I'm nothing like that. But then on the other hand, we might see someone like we know of through through the media, Mother Teresa, and say, well, whoa, she she did a lot. I'm definitely lower than Mother Teresa, but way above. The Nazis and the things that they did. Folks, one of the things that Christians come to understand before they get saved is that that is completely irrelevant. When you compare yourself with this or that, that's not the real issue because one day you won't stand before Mother Teresa and say, Can I come into heaven? And you won't be looking down at Adolf Hitler going, ha, bye, I know where I'm going. The only person that has the right to lead you into heaven is God Himself. The question that you have to ask yourself is: what does he think of you? Not what you think of you, not what you think of you in relation to Hitler or Mother Teresa, but what does God think of you? Now the scriptures reveal that people can do good things even when they are bad people. That is possible. We have examples in the Old Testament of kings who did good things. And I think of Someone who let the people of Israel return to their promised land, even though he was not a follower of the Lord. But the question is, what when it comes to Let me put it this way. God has two categories. And He does not judge based on what you do and then place you in the category. The scriptures reveal that we are in the, all of us are born into the sin category. And then as we grow up, we find ourselves choosing to sin. When we're children, we lie, and our parents never have to teach us that. When we're teenagers, we might take the car. When our parents say, don't take it, and we might be mean to someone at school in high school or we might we might decide to do or we might we might be relatively good but in our hearts there's sort of a pride. I mean have you noticed folks I'm talking to all of us here this morning That you have a tendency to sin. It's sort of like the default printer. I mean, if you don't set the other printer, it's always going to go to that default, and the default is sin at various levels. So God in his word says that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. All. All does. It means all of us. That would include Mother Teresa. That would include Hitler. That would include the best of us and the worst of us. We're born in the category of sin, then that does not mean you were born You know, as an illegitimate child with your parents or anything like that. It just means we were born in the category of sin, and then as we grow, we make choices that are in line with our sinful nature So, because of that, we have to accept that because when we accept that, then we can sort of appreciate the substitutionary atonement. Because you look down at your Bible again at 2 Corinthians 5. Somehow I'm not there, so give me a second to turn back to that. And you look at verse 21, and then it can suddenly sort of come alive in your heart. It says, He made him who knew no sin. That's Jesus. Never knew any sin, never committed any, thought any, hoped to do any. He was sinless. To be sin for us. This is the substitution. When he was on the cross, the sinless Lamb of God, he took upon us himself our sins. And he died in our place. Now you know what really really grieves me. What really grieves me personally is that there are times, I've been a Christian now since I was six, when I think about that There are times that it's like water off a duck's back. It does not compel me. I've heard it before. Does that grieve you sometimes when you think of the gospel? Folks, what Paul, I'm talking to a lot of seasoned Christians here. What Paul is saying is that this is some one of his primary motivations. When he thinks about Christ's death, when he thinks about Christ's death for him, taking upon him Paul's sins, dying in Paul's place. When he thinks about that, it gives him a hard push out in the Christian service in life. I mean, it's making him think about how lowly he was before he was saved as a a violent aggressor to the church, how sinful his particular testimony is. It's making him think about how great God is that he sent his son, his spotless lamb, to die in his place It's making them think about how much God really loves him. You and I love certain things by virtue of their value. Well, God loved that which had no value, sinners. That which was rebellious, an enemy, and sent Christ to die for us. When after reading Isaiah 53, after seeing in Hebrews 2:9 that he tasted death for everyone, after seeing the fact that he was willing, verse 21, to be made sin for us, though he knew no sin. Why is it so often that you and I, we almost hear the crickets start to go off in our brains when we think of the primary? Motivation for Christians is the death of Christ in our place. And so we need to ask God to help us. Because if this doesn't motivate us, what is motivating you and me? Why do you do anything? Are you being materialistic? Are you doing it so that you can have the next car, the next house, the next gadget? Vanity of vanities, all is vanity, says the preacher. Ecclesiastes chapter 1. Are you doing it because you're seeking the pleasures of this life? You want to feel good and look good and be good? Oh boy, there's a way that seems right unto man, but the end thereof is the way of death. Dear people, we have to be careful when it comes to what motivates us. Because we are loved. Folks, you are loved. And this is the other side of this. What would it be like to go through a whole day And you've done this, and I've done this. I'm not indicting you that you haven't done this, but think about doing this more and more where you just think about, wow, God loves me. God loves me so much that he sent Christ to die for me. Wow. My best friend won't lend me his lawnmower. But God loved me and sent his son to die for me. That is amazing. This is the way Paul thinks. Look at verse 14 again. We judge thus. That if one died for all, then all died, and he died for all. That's the substitution part. And then there is the outcome here that's listed in verse 15. He says that those who live should live no longer for themselves, but for him who died for them and rose again. How does God want you to live today? What does he want you to do? Young people, do you have a reason for your education and the direction in your life? Are you doing it for yourself or for him? You're saying, well, can I do things for myself that are also for him? If you're doing it for him, you'll end up finding that it will be your good You should start with him. Don't live for yourself, but for him, verse 15, who died for them and rose again. Now, backing away from the motivation, there's sort of the context that it's embedded in, sort of the two halves of the bread of the sandwich that you have the meat in the middle, and then the context is that bread. The context is sort of the the the the the accusations that are made against him. So he's kind of he's trying to get them to think a different way. And in verse 16 He says, therefore from now on, we regard no one according to the flesh. Now this idea of regarding someone according to the flesh. One of the best examples of this is in the Old Testament when Samuel brought the sons of David's brothers in with him. Excuse me, voice is given out. And you had all the brothers come in, and David was still out there, and the statement is made that man judges by the outward appearance, but God judges the heart. And so judging according to the flesh is judging in the way a judge sitting in the panel of American Idol would judge. Is that show still on? I don't even know. Used to be really popular. Or one of these talent shows where you're looking at the talent, the beauty, the appeal, the attractiveness, and you're making a judgment based on that. Paul's detractors were making judgments based on that. They relied on sort of deception. Look at me, I'm worth listening to. And Paul is saying, I used to think that way, but now I don't. Verse 16, look at it again. We regard no one according to the flesh, even though we have known Christ according to the flesh. Before Paul was saved, he judged Jesus of Nazareth as an interloper, as a a rebel against Jesus. Judaism as someone who had there was nothing attractive about that guy from Nazareth. He used to know Jesus according to the flesh, but now He does not do that any longer, verse 16. Yet now we know him thus no longer. And so this is something that is kind of buried. Verse 17 is in here about the new man. Therefore If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. Folks, when you as a Christian look out at the world and you see what you see Always take into account that there is this inner working of those that are in Christ, they are new They are so different from what they used to be. There is this aspect of what they are that has completely passed away, and now there is this new thing that's come. All things have become new. And this new way of thinking is part of what motivates us. We have the love of Christ that compels us, and we have this new outlook on life. And so, folks, when we see someone that's weak, And yet Christ is in them. We notice that. Let me give you an illustration. I I grew up listening to special music in church. And I, uh when I was very young, I attended a church that had 1,300 people in it. So we had a full orchestra and a big, big choir. I mean we we had uh of course a grand piano and people will get up and sing specials and we always call it specials. I don't know what do they call it where you wherever you're from, where you were growing up. So you'd have someone get up and they would sing flawlessly. And they might mess up a few times between the flawless part. And they might cry sometimes when they were singing. And you know what? They just couldn't sing as good. as what you see on Broadway. I mean it just seemed like they would sometimes struggle with it. I mean I've seen people break down and cry in the middle of one of their solos And you know what? Someone who's not spiritual will look at that and go, oh, we're tempted to, okay. But what if you knew that that person had just been diagnosed with cancer and they were trusting the Lord enough to get up and sing? When they had the pressure of that trial on them? What if you knew that they were having a really tough time at work? But as a Christian, they were doing their best to have a good testimony. And when they sang that song, what was that? All for Jesus, all for Jesus. They meant it. This wasn't Johnny Cash singing. This wasn't Dolly Parton singing. This was your brother in Christ who is trying to walk the walk. He's singing. And so your outlook on that man from a from a fleshly standpoint, not very good. Now, I'm not saying that That soloists shouldn't practice. I'm not saying that we shouldn't play skillfully and sing skillfully, but when we look at with spiritual eyes, we see there's someone who has become new and old things are passed away. I'm not judging this according to the flesh. I'm seeing this in a new way. And the love of Christ just constrains me. In the midst of this, I know that we're all, those of us in this room that are Christians, we are bought with a price. We're not. Our own. Wow, what does that mean? That means every person in here. Every person in here, it does not matter. There's a sense in which your personal weakness and all the things you struggle with. You're still a new creation in Christ, and you have the power of the Spirit and the Word of God on your lap to help you. We should remember these things. Because at the bottom of it there is this second motivation. And it's sort of a motivation of talking and ministering due to the fact of our reconciled status before God. Look at what he says in verse 18. First motivation, love of Christ. Second motivation, the message of reconciliation. He says, now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ. Now, before we get to the second clause there, or the third clause, it says, and have given us the ministry of reconciliation, let's just consider the doctrine of reconciliation. The word reconciliation in the New Testament has to do with two parties that are, this is going to sound too simple, irreconciled. They stand divided. In the case of the Christian life, or I'm sorry, in the case of God's relationship with mankind, it's mankind who is facing the other way. The Bible describes every person before they become a Christian as an enemy of God and as in enmity to God. God has his arms open like this through the plan of salvation, but man has his arms crossed and facing the other direction. We are his enemies, we are ungodly, and we are not reconciled to him. Sometimes we think that God loves us when we use false religion. When we try to get on his good side, but when we learn that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, we have two choices: find Christ or be offended and remain irreconciled to God. In the book of Romans, God presents a way for someone's attitude, and I'm speaking specifically about reconciliation, a heart of enmity toward God. God presents a way for that to cease. And the way he does it is right here in the text in verse 19. That is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them. Alright, here's the problem, folks. As sinners, we have a long list of things we've done wrong. What do you do with that track record? What do you do with those sins? You can't erase them. You can't get into a time machine and go back to 1993 when you did that horrible thing and erase it. It's impossible. And not only do you see former sins, but God does. And you know God sees those sins, and you don't like God because you know He's going to hold you accountable. But in Christ, God is going to do this. If you put your trust in Him, He will not Impute. That means reckon or count your trespasses. That's another word for sins to you In other words, all those bad things you did, he will just take them out of the way and not hold those against you any longer. Now Jesus used the parable of two debtors who owed a man a lot of money, and the one debtor comes and he owes Well, I've d we'll just call it millions of dollars because it's way beyond his ability to pay. And and he says, please, please, you know, forgive me. And the man he owed the money to said, Okay, you don't owe anything. I'm just gonna I'm just going to take it out of the way. I'm going to forgive that debt. This is the idea here where there is not going to be a holding to account for trespass. Trespasses. It's not going to be imputed to your account. Now, what does this do to someone? What should it have done? In that case it didn't work in that parable, but when someone forgives you of a debt, are you happy toward them now? If they say, I love you and I'm just going to forgive that debt to you. Wow, this is the Bible picture. The person goes from I hate God to This. And now they can be reconciled to God because the enmity in their heart has been taken away. They no longer feel angry at God because they go, I am loved by God, even though I committed that sin in 1993? Yes. that God in Christ, he reconciles the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them. And so the idea is Christ died in our place, substitution. He died taking our sins upon himself. And now we can have all our sins taken away, and we can love God again with an open heart, and we can have that relationship to God and all the enmity taken away. What a message! What an amazing message. You can go talk to angry people and say, you're angry with God. Stop, stop. Christ died for you. You don't have to be angry with him anymore. Sometimes people aren't angry because they don't know about the sin part and they do need to know that part too, but it's a message of reconciliation. Hey, this is good news, it's the gospel. And so, verse 18, Paul's motivation here, back to the motivation thing, he's given to us, the end of the verse, the ministry of reconciliation. Verse 20: therefore we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God were pleading through us. We implore you, this is verse 20, the end of it, we implore you on behalf, on Christ's behalf, Be reconciled to God. The price is paid. The cross is finished. Christ died for you. He rose again. Come, be reconciled to God. Wow. And then verse 21, the message. He made him who knew no sin to be made sin for you, so that you could become the righteousness of God in him. So Paul is excited. about this this ministry. And he lifts it up to the status of an official ambassador. He's excited about being about doing this and being a part of this. Now, folks, you and I, we are, are you a part of this? Absolutely. And your status in life does not matter. A homemaker, I just list all different a contractor, a chemist, a doctor, a builder, a plumber, a welder, a you know, a writer, I don't know, what a pick something, a computer programmer. That's irrelevant to the fact that we also are involved with this message of reconciliation. And it was a huge, huge, huge motivation to Paul to get that message out there. Now, where does this lead us? Well, we're going to stop here in a second. And I want to challenge you. Jesus said in his the days of his incarnation that wealth is deceitful There's a deceitfulness to riches. Later on in the Bible, we learn that there are other things that can deceive us. We actually know from the Bible that we could deceive ourselves. By being a hearer of the word and not a doer. Here's the danger. This is, you know, this passage so well. That you could mistake your intellectual understanding with practical obedience to it. You could walk out of here and think, because you know the facts, that that's enough. It is not enough today. Check the Y, W H Y. Why do you do what you do? Why? I don't I don't I can't see your heart. And then sometimes you have to realign yourself and say, whoa, my heart is, I'm asking where your heart is. My heart is way over here. My motivations are way off. Bring it back in. Bring it back into the biblical motivation. And what an amazing, what a joy that would be for you And you say, well, my heart is right. Well, praise God for that. Exalt in the love of God. Let it compel you to greater things. Exalt in your ambassador position. And let God use you.