In a moment we'll be reading Matthew 22, verses 34 to 40. The last few weeks we've been considering the proper motivation for the Christian. We thought in terms of how to develop purpose in our lives, among other things, to answer the question of why are we here and what does God want us to do as Christians? We've seen so far that the word of God equals the will of God. So if we're going to understand our purpose in life, we must first go to the Word of God. What does it explicitly say? In the New Testament, as the apostles roamed around the ancient world, not roaming, but with purpose, purposefully traveling to plant churches, they were doing that because they were endeavoring to obey the will of God. As he said at the end of the Gospel of Matthew, to go into the nations and to make disciples, to disciplelize the nations, as it were. So they were, they viewed their life and their work as doing the will of God. We saw also that Revelation itself The Word of God, how it reveals the will of God to us. And so we have purpose in our lives because the scriptures tell us clearly what our purpose should be. We also saw that Paul, when he described what motivated him as a Christian and as an apostle, he talked about the love of Christ. And how it constrained him, how it pushed him forward in his life. And that is what he shared with the Christians at Corinth. Telling them, look, this is what motivates me. And the context there was how they were accusing him, so he had to clarify, I'm not doing this for ill-gotten gain. but because this love of Christ motivates me. And among other things, he talked about the ministry of reconciliation, how glorious that was and to him. And that motivated him in his life, sharing the message of reconciliation. He called himself an ambassador And so we can also join in to those motivations. We can be motivated by the love of Christ. And by the realization that we have the ministry of reconciliation, we call out to the world, be reconciled with God. We could summarize this as being motivated by the will of God and being motivated by the love of Christ, or being motivated by Christ's love for us. This morning I want to look at a text that tells us that we should also be motivated by our love for God. Paul speaks of God's love for him, demonstrated through Christ. Well, Christ himself, in answering a question, pointed out that our love for God should motivate us. To do certain things and act a certain way. Look at your Bible at Matthew 22, verse 34. It says, But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, They gathered together. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him and saying, Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the first and the great commandment, and the second is like it: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law in the prophets. If you were to ask yourself this morning in looking at this text, what is it that about the love of God, or our love for God, that should motivate us here? You could kind of say that that that there's a there's a complete love that should be a part of our motivation, that we should possess a complete kind of a love. You look at the text And he says in verse 37, we're supposed to love with all our heart, soul, and mind. This is not primarily a division of the person, but a summation of the unity of what you are. In other words, you should love God with everything that you are. It's a complete kind of a love. We could also see here that There is a love that is that motivates that is supposed to be kind of a comprehensive love. Elsewhere in the New Testament, this statement is made. Whatever we do. Whether we eat or drink, we should do all to the glory of God. And so, in the context here, he's talking about a love that's in the context of the law. He is not primarily saying here, Jesus, that it's either love or law, but he's saying love in the context of the law. He's speaking to Jews, to Hebrews, who were still under the Mosaic Covenant, so he was speaking in terms of their law and loving the Lord and others in the context of that law. So it is it is sort of a comprehensive love. And thirdly, if we were to find a motivation here, when it comes to how we're supposed to love, this is definitely a, and I couldn't come up with a C, and I don't really do alliteration, you know that. But a directed love, love that has an object. What does it say? You shall love the Lord your God. What does it say? You shall love your neighbor as yourself. This is not an abstract philosophical kind of a love. This is not loving even an object like your car or your house or loving love. It's loving the Lord and loving others. It's a directed love. So the kind of motivation we should have in the context here is A complete love, all of you, inner and outer man, a comprehensive love. You're loving within the context of Scripture, the words of God You're not excluding the Bible as if you can love and then there's obedience, the two are one. And we're to love in a directed kind of love. So let's first look at the complete love. And I want to direct your attention to verse 37 again. You'll notice here that he speaks of loving the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Let's go back to the Old Testament and look at what Jesus is quoting or summarizing here. Turn back to Deuteronomy chapter 6, will you? Turn to Deuteronomy chapter 6. Deuteronomy six, verse four, Moses is giving He is heralding, and what that means is he is standing up as a messenger from the Lord and proclaiming the will of God to the people And he says here in Deuteronomy 6, verse 4: Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. and with all your soul, and with all your might. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. Now, the piling up of those words, it speaks primarily of completeness, of a lack of hypocrisy, or of holding back. What is being spoken of here is you need to love God with everything that you are, every part of you, whether it is your strength. Whether it is your emotion, whether it's your will or your conscience, everything that is the inner man, and that would include Your body as well. We're to glorify God, the New Testament says, in our body and in our soul. We're supposed to have even in the Old Testament this non-hypocritical love And you know, folks, this was not something unique to just Deuteronomy 6. If you look around the context here, you'll see that this is God's expectation. For example, look back at chapter 5, verses 29 and following. We've read this before together. Oh, that they had such a heart in them that they would fear me and always keep all my commandments, that it might be well with them and with their children forever. This is God's response to the children of Israel's commitment to the covenant which he was laying out to them. Oh, that they would have a certain kind of a heart, a heart that would just Make them always keep my commandments so that it could go well with them. Did you know that God wants what is best for you? Amazing, isn't it? But it starts from a whole-hearted kind of a love. You turn a few pages forward in Deuteronomy to chapter 10, and you look at verse 12. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God and to walk in all his ways and to love him? To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Wholehearted service and obedience, a complete kind of a love. Now, how much did the Israelites struggle with this? Wow. You know your Old Testament. You know, because you have read books like The Judges And you have seen 1 and 2 Kings and 1 and 2 Chronicles and 1 and 2 Samuel. You've read the history books in the Old Testament. and seen how they treated their religion and their hearts when it came to God. And perhaps you've also read what the prophets did. How they responded to the hypocrisy that the Israelites frequently found themselves in. Turn to Isaiah chapter 1 for one example, a well-known example of how The prophets, and of course this one of the greatest who ever lived, what they had to say to Israel. Isaiah chapter 1, verses 11 to 18. Now in this in this passage, you'll notice a lot of activity, a lot of apparent religious activity. This is Isaiah 1 verse 11. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me, says the Lord? I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand to trample my courts? Bring no more futile sacrifices. Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of assemblies, I cannot endure iniquity in the sacred meeting. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They are trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. In other words, they are guilty. Look at verse 16. What's the solution? Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do j to do good, seek justice, reprove the oppressor, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow. Now, in the context here, there is no direct mention of the heart or of the inner man or of, in that sense, of whole-hearted obedience. But what we have here If you look at verse 17 again, there are oppressors in the nation who have not been reproved. This is a lack of justice in their society. You look it further at verse 17, and there are orphans, the fatherless, and they are not defended. You look at the end of verse 17, and there are widows, and they need to be pleaded for. Someone needs to stand up on behalf of the widow who lives in poverty, and no one is. Simultaneous to injustice and greed that kind of moves them away from helping the fatherless and widow. There is, again, look at your Bible at verse 11. A multitude of sacrifices, burnt offerings, fed cattle, bulls, and goats There is verse 12, a lot of people going to appear before the Lord, coming to his courts. Verse 13, there are a whole lot of sacrifices and incense and the celebration of Jewish holidays. And the response, verse 14, my soul hates, they are a trouble to me, I am weary of bearing them. What's happening here? Now there are there there is there is not a wholehearted obedience to the law of Moses. There is this sort of this shellac. Do you know what that stuff was? Years ago, my my mom, uh, she's very crafty in the sense she she makes crafts a lot, and she discovered that you could bake a piece of a whole loaf of bread and cover it with shellac. And it would stay preserved uh theoretically forever, I guess. And so she covered this bread with shellac shellac And she put it on the on the fireplace, and you would look at it and go, wow, that's a real loaf of bread. And you could pick it up and it would be kind of kind of hard with this clear coat over it. Well, my dog wasn't fooled. You can imagine a dog goes up to that, he can smell right through that, and so my dog, when I was a child, ate a hole through that and ate out the center and left. Left the shellac. It didn't work. It was just, it was useless. The reality was that was a piece of bread. That was a loaf of bread. And my dog knew it. In this situation, the reality is when push comes to shove, we're going to just let the oppressor go. But boy, we're going to have a sacrifice ready when we have to go to the temple. When push comes to shove, it's just too much work to take care of the widow and the fatherless. But we'll get the right incense. For our worship. Make sure we take that with us. This is not a wholehearted obedience that the Lord said And also, do you notice the connection between what we read in Deuteronomy? Oh, if they had such a heart in them, it will be well with them and with their children. Who's suffering in this? The widows and the orphans, among others. Obedience to the law of Moses would have guaranteed help for these poor groups of people throughout the history of Israel who suffered unjustly. And so we know, I'm sure you know, from Jeremiah and Isaiah and the others, there's just so much of the prophets calling out the people of God for their lack of wholehearted obedience. to the law of God. And so back in Matthew, if we turn back there quickly. We see that this is the great command in the sense that it's complete, that has to involve the whole person wholeheartedly sold out For God, the inner and outer person, all of them, and by virtue all of us I'm sure you're familiar with Revelation and how the Lord called out through his spirit the church that was not loving. Do you remember that? Turn to Revelation. Keep your finger in Matthew twenty-two and turn to Revelation Look at verse uh chapter two, verse four. The church, the met the uh church at Ephesus. Well, move up a few more verses to chapter to verse 2 so we can pick up. This is a pretty good parallel to what was said in Isaiah. I know your works, your labor, your patience. And that you cannot bear those who are evil, and you have tested those who say they are apostles and are not, and have found them liars. Now, this is an exact parallel. These people were doing what is right. Verse 3: They persevered and have patience and have labored for my name's sake and have not become weary. But here's the parallel: Nevertheless, I have this against you: that you have left your first love. So here, flipping back to Matthew 22 now, I promise we'll stay here for a second if you go back. Here we have a church That's active, and yet somehow something has happened so that they're just not wholehearted in this. There's this lack of love, this lack of obedience to the great command. That is still very relevant to the New Testament as it was to the Old. We've got to be motivated to love God with everything that we are. You know there's a Christian camp called the Wilds. It's in North Carolina and Bravard, North Carolina, up in the mountains there. And one of the themes of the park, a park, well it's a it's a nature park, but it's a Christian camp. is there are only two choices on the shelf, serving God or serving self. It rhymes, so it's easy to remember But there really is a lot of truth to that. To love with everything or to love with just part. There really is nothing in between. And so we should strive to love with everything. Secondly, under part uh point one of a complete love, if you look at your Bible again, there is definitely a There's a connection here between God and loving God, and there should be a result to that. Look at it again. He says here in verse 40, on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. All the law and the prophets. Now this kind of overlaps my second point of loving comprehensively, but There is this fact that the love is not abstract. God has certain commands and words In other words, if I'm going to love God, I have to love God's stuff and take care of God's stuff Before we look at some more scripture, let me illustrate this to you. Have you ever found a piece of string lying on the ground at your house? Maybe you have. You've looked down and there's a piece of string and you just see it there, and usually you pick it up and you throw it in the trash, right? That's just a miscellaneous piece of string. But have you ever had your little granddaughter or your grandson or your son or daughter or just another child say, Here, here Hold hold this. This is my piece of string. Hold this. Hold this. Have you ever had a child give you something that to you is absolutely worthless? but to them it means the world to them. And so you take whatever it is, this piece of worthless string, and you put such great value in it because it belongs to your cute little grandchild or son or daughter or the neighbor's son little child. The value of that thing is in relation to the one who gave it to you. Surely there are times when you've hung totally hideous pictures on your refrigerator. I mean they're just completely out of shape and different crayon colors. And you know, you would never it's not a Picasso, it's not something, and you know what, you're planning on framing that thing and putting it on your wall forever. And it's but your child drew that, or your grandchild drew that, or your great-grandchild drew that. And it is supremely valuable by virtue of who gave it to you. That's children. But there's this thing that God gave us, and it belongs to Him. It's God's word. Looking back in Deuteronomy 6, and you don't have to turn there if you don't want to, you can just listen. We have right in the context, and I read it before, and let's see if you can remember, Deuteronomy 6. Verse 6, and this is right after Moses says, You shall love the Lord your God with all, with everything. Verse 6, and these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. Okay, love him with everything. Now, here are his words. This belongs to him. If you turn now, I would ask you to turn to John fourteen, we have Jesus making explicit this connection between The things that he teaches and the love that we're supposed to have for him in John 14. He says it a couple of different ways. Look at John 14, 15. If you love me, keep my commandments. And then look at verse 21. It says John 14, 21, he who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me. Now, folks, we know that in the New Testament you can grieve the Spirit of God. And when Jesus knocked Saul off his horse and called him in the ministry, he said, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And certainly we know that Jesus still bears the scars in his body from what he suffered on our behalf. Look, you don't you You don't want to hurt your grandchild by just taking what they give and throwing it in the trash. Has your child ever found one of the drawings they gave you? When you finally said, Ah, it's time to retire this and you threw it in the trash, has your grandchild ever seen that in the trash and been hurt? Have you ever been given something and like a gift and you you like you gave it to goodwill and the person says, Hey, how's that painting I painted you? Or what did you ever do with that blanket I made you? And you and you're just stumbling like uh uh Oh boy, what do I tell him? Folks, Jesus is clear, if you love me, keep my commandments Keep them. He who has my commandments and keeps them, that's the one who loves me. What will you tell Jesus? What would you possibly tell him when when you get to the Bima seat as a Christian and he says Well, do you did you love me? And and you said yes, and then you say, well and then he says, Well what what did you do with my commandments? I really don't see a whole lot of obedience to my commandments. I I don't really think you love me as much as you think you did. Isn't it interesting that when Jesus reinstated Peter, what did he ask him? Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? And then he gave him something to do. Feed my lambs. Take care of my sheep. It's the idea there. Take you love me, take care of what is mine. My sheep, my lambs. And so we have in this complete love, the idea of loving with all you are, the inner and outer person, but also Loving because it's like a package. It's God's things that you're loving. It's God and His commands. It's God and His words. It's God and His people. Because we also see the unity back in Matthew 22 where he says that this is the first and the second is like it. Sort of one command with two parts. It's a unity. It's complete. And we're supposed to love that way. Now that is interesting and convicting, but we need to stop here for a second and ask the Lord, ask ourselves what God asks us to do. Alright? Okay, think about this for a second. We know that as disciples of Christ, life in the now can sometimes be difficult because we are called to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. So sometimes we make sacrifices. And even at this very moment, there are Christians suffering in other nations for their faith. But we know the Bible tells us that this life is a momentary shadow and then it's gone. That we're like grass that grow up and then it's cut down and Our lives are short, and the Lord has promised that after this we will receive back many fold, many times for our suffering. So he likens it to laying up treasures in heaven. He says there's going to be this eternal treasure with no mauls and no thieves. It's never going to be taken away. It's your inheritance. And what we do down here, the kind of suffering we endure and the persecution we endure will increase. The eternal wealth in that bank account. It's way better than the stock market, in spite of what happened this week with the stock market. It's way better than that. So obeying the commands of Christ have that hard aspect, but they also have spiritual blessings that are priceless When you obey the commands of Christ to be, for example, in Galatians, to be filled with the Spirit, what is the fruit of that? Love, joy, peace. What price can you put on inner peace? Walking around at peace with God and with yourself? How can you possibly quantify that? Okay, can I go buy some peace at the bank? You get to the teller, hey, I've got a billion dollars. Can you give me peace? I haven't tried it. I don't have a billion dollars. I could say here, a quarter. Can you get me some peace for a quarter? Just a tiny little piece, a piece? No! You can't buy that. Joy? These are the things that Jesus promises will be in our lives as we yield to the Spirit of God. The kind of things that we get if we obey the law. So I'm just trying to throw a little light to make sure: are the commands of Jesus grievous? There is the hard aspect, because we are in the midst of wolves, but then there also is this beauty, so that he says, He says, What? Come unto me, all of you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He says, coming to me, coming to my ways is a kind of rest compared to living out there, trying to earn your own salvation through the works of the law. It is amazing what he has given us. So loving, we have a law that's worth loving. We have a wholehearted command, but it's worth it. Because what he gives us is so valuable, it's worthy of a complete love. All right, I gotta hurry. Point number two then in being motivated in our Christian lives. and finding purpose would be that our to love him with a a kind of comprehensive love. And I'm and again this overlaps the last point. We're commanded here in he says here in verse Verse 39, that on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. In other words, love is not unrelated to obedience to the law and the prophets. This is Jesus' term, the law and the prophets. For the entirety of the Old Testament, the Hebrew Scriptures, not the Apocrypha. That would not be included into this, which was written later. So There's a relationship between the Old Testament and love, and the two are closely related. I put it this way that without love, there's an irreplaceable absence to obedience. to the law and the prophets. If you leave love out, you just can't do it. Let me show you what it looks like to leave love out of the Old Testament. Turn back a few pages to Matthew 5. Here's what it looks like. Because Jesus just shows us in the Sermon on the Mount In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus takes the law of the Old Testament and he pushes it all the way into the inner man. They were taking the letter of the law and using it as an excuse to sin. They weren't loving from the heart. Jesus puts the love back into the law in the way that he applies it here. And he does this By saying, you have heard that it was said, so and so, but I say to you, so and so. And let's just take one example in Matthew 5, and 20 to 26, is the whole matter of murder. And he says here in verse 21, You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you, that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Rakha, Shall be in danger of the council. But whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar, oh, wait a minute, there's obedience to the law. Can you see how this is working out? Remember that your brother and there, remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. I mean here we have Jesus doing exactly what Isaiah was attempting to do. You've got this external worship, you've got these sacrifices, you've got the law of Moses, you've got the book of Leviticus and the different sacrifices you're supposed to offer, and then you have these relationships, and you think That as long as you don't kill that guy in cold blood, you're okay. No. I say to you that your heart matters. Are you unjustifiably angry at him? Are you holding a grudge? Are you bitter against that individual? Then before you come over here and offer this sacrifice, get your heart right In the Sermon on the Mount, among other things, God is putting, Jesus is putting the heart back into the context of the law. And this is what I'm saying. It's a comprehensive kind of love that we have to have. We have to see all the things we do in obedience to the Word of God as an as an expression of love. As something that is, it's not love or the Word of God, it's love in the Word of God. This is what Jesus was saying. It's not love or law for the Hebrews, it's love in The law. And that's what is so important here. Now, that's the only point I have for this idea of comprehensive love, and we're going to move on and spend a little more time now, thirdly, with directed love here. If we're going to be motivated, we have got to remember that we have an object for our love. We love back in Matthew 22, if you turn there quickly, we love the Lord our God, and we love our neighbor. as ourselves. You could put it this way: we love God and we love others in Jesus' name. He matters to us. God himself, or the Lord, Jehovah. We love him. Now, I mentioned at the beginning of the service two things that the psalmists often go back to in encouraging themselves about the Lord And about the way he treated Israel. Do you remember what those were? There is God the Creator, or I should say the Lord the Creator. Well, Elohim, you could translate God the Creator. And the Lord the Redeemer and the covenant that he had with his people. The Lord Creator, the Lord Redeemer. And here, this love for the Lord. We have to pause for a moment and really think about whether he is worthy of that love. You know, if I asked all of you to love this cup, Would your love rise to the occasion of loving this cup of water? If you were really thirsty, maybe, but it would be ludicrous, wouldn't it? Would you please love this cup with all your heart, all your mind, and all your strength and all your soul? That would be ludicrous If I told you to love this annual report, as well done as it is, it's awesomely well done. Love this with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Not worthy of that kind of level of love My watch? No. Uh oh, I shouldn't have mentioned time. Forget the time mention. It wouldn't make it, you can't, but God Wow, he is worthy. You know the passage in Revelation 4, verse 11. You can turn there if you want or just Just listen, he is so worthy because he is the creator that the saints are singing it in heaven. And John is letting us in on the beauty of that moment when they say, You are worthy, O Lord. To receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they exist and were created. You are worthy because you are creator. You are worthy to receive from us. All our glory, honor, and power of all creation, but now in this moment from us. He is creator God, and by virtue of that worthy of our love. We should love the Lord because of this. Dear folks, how much power does he have? Well, you know He has enough power to keep all the planets in our solar system spinning and the sun warmed up to its billion-plus degree temperature. He has all the power to keep how many billions of planets. and galaxies in outer space. He has all the power to keep all those the hearts of the blue whale that are about as big as a person at full when they're full grown beating And every cell in your body, and of course there's atoms, which are really, really, really small. You remember those from science class? And then there are quarks, which are even smaller, and then they're talking about Particles that are so small it's impossible to see. He keeps all of that going. He has immense power and creativity. Folks, in the Old Testament, you hear, you know, in Job, where were you when the earth's foundations were laid? And where were you when he made all these different things? And you can ask yourself that question. And just think about how small you are, what is man, and how big God is, that you are mindful of him, or the Son of Man, that you visited Him. I mean, you're so big, and I'm so small, and you can just Folks, there's supposed to be this deep calling unto deep. There's supposed to be this transaction where your heart is brought to life at the thought of such a being as the Lord. It's not school book, textbook, love. It's poetry. It's joy. It's emotion. That should be involved too. That's part of the all of the complete love. Love Him with all your heart You should be able to say, oh Lord, oh how I love thy law. It's my meditation all the day. You should be able to say, Lord, Thy word, I've hidden my heart, so that I don't sin against thee, against you. It's all about him, and he is so worthy by virtue of creating all things. Everything. Some of you in this room have a hard time drawing a stick figure. Some of you are good at drawing and you have a hard time fixing something Well, he's the master artist, the master engineer. Pick something that God is not good at. It doesn't exist. And secondly, he is the Lord your redemption. We love him because he first Loved us. And we know this love, Romans 5, because of the redemption that He has given us. Yes, I'm pulling in texts from other places. To try to magnify the Lord, to show, to remind you that He is worthy. He is worthy of our love. Because Matthew 22 doesn't say to love the law, although certainly that's part of it, but it's love the Lord, and then by virtue of that love love his law and prophets. Do you know the Lord well enough to like him? Or is he just this great big God that you think is angry at you every day that really you don't want to meet because you always mess up? And you're tired of it and you just feel guilty all the time. Is that all you know about the Lord God of heaven and earth? He is so much more than that. He didn't wait for you to clean up your act. He didn't wait for me to clean up my act. He sent Jesus while we were yet sinners, and he died for us in our place, taking the sins of all the world upon himself. He was the sacrificial lamb, the sin substitute. And he did this because John says God so loved the world. It was such a love that he was willing to give such a sacrifice. And after you're saved, after you put your faith and trust in that cross and what Christ did there and the empty tomb, that's only the beginning of love. You get to Let's see, I you know the closest thing that comes to illustrating perhaps is marriage. You marry someone and then you spend a lifetime learning what they're like. And after a while you kind of get used to their idiosyncrasies, but you still learn along the way. I don't know this, but I've heard folks who've been married 40 or 50 years say it just gets sweeter as the days go by, and I think that is true. But God being related to him, Jesus, we, the church, the bride, Jesus, the groom We'll live in a relationship of perpetual growth and learning and joy forever. Folks, what are they doing in the book of Revelation? They're singing. They're singing because of what they're doing. It's not just clouds and harps, but they're singing. And this is why, this is why, dear people, that the psalmist so often Just cries out, Lord, may the thoughts, may my words and my thoughts be acceptable to you, O Lord, because he just loves the Lord. And he wants that to be true. These kinds of thinking, this is what can motivate us when we think of Matthew 22 and we see here that it's a complete kind of a love. It's internal, our heart, soul, mind, it's and that includes our body, really. It's this complete kind of a love. It's complete because it's it's not just a philosophical love, it's God. God's involved. Not only complete, but comprehensive. It has to do with the Word of God. If any man loves me, keep my commandments, Jesus said. And then this directed love. Where does that leave us, folks? For today, the emphasis is on you allowing your love for him. To motivate you to act. Do you love him this morning? Would you like to love him more? Let's pray together, shall we? Let's pray together.