Alright, how is everybody doing this morning? It's just like this rainy day outside. Does the rain affect your emotions? Anyone willing to admit that it affects mine? We have one of these days that that's like this. And uh we have a lot to be thankful for this morning. Did you know when you sing, God is not waiting for you to sing a wrong note so that He can condemn you and say, ah That you need to get that right next time. Did you know that? That I'm not encouraging you to sing a wrong note, but did you know that when God listens to our singing, He is just he's just loving it when we sing to him. When I was uh growing up at Perry Hall Baptist Church, we had children's church and I would go to it every time, you know, until I hit a certain age. And there was this kid in children's church that everybody else made fun of because he sang loudly. And you know when you're ten and you shouldn't do that because everybody else hears that. And after I would look back at this kid and he would have this big smile on his face and he would just he was just letting it rip. And he wasn't very good singer. But he was so enthusiastic. And I would go home and I'd think Something's probably, is it wrong with him or is it wrong with me? I mean, even as a child, I would think they're making fun of him, but he's just singing Folks, let me encourage you. Let me, as your pastor, I wish I was more enthusiastic with my singing, but let me tell you, when I see hear you sing, my goal is not to criticize you. Let's just Enjoy it. Is it okay to enjoy God? Yes. At his right hand are pleasures forevermore. Taste and see that the Lord is good. These are invitations from the Psalms, statements about God. It's God who invented sugar cane and the honeybee. Why didn't he invent broccoli cane? Oh, he did invent broccoli too. But he put all these good things into our lives and he loves us. All right, folks, turn to 1 Corinthians 12, and let me see if I can encourage you some more this morning. 1 Corinthians 12. I don't want to beat you down, I want to lift you up. All right, let's pray. And then we'll get into this morning's message. Father, we are so grateful that you have created us. You created us for yourself. And Father, the greatest amount of fulfillment we could ever have is by loving you and enjoying you. And certainly that means obeying you and serving you and being faithful to your word. Father, we believe that the greatest happiness we could ever have in life is the byproduct of loving you with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength Being filled with your spirit and walking in obedience to your word, that is true freedom. That is true delight. And that is true what the Puritans used to talk about. Father, we believe the spiritual sensibilities that we have, the The desires in our heart for the joy that we originally were created for, Father, we believe that all of that is found in desiring you first and foremost. But oh, how often we struggle in this world of sin and death to find you in the midst of sort of the disorder that this place has. So help us, Lord. Help us. Lead us on. Take us by the hand. Lead us through. We depend on you. In Jesus' name. Amen. This morning our topic again is spiritual gifts, but I'm not going to emphasize so much the diversity and the unity as much as Well, let me describe. Let me back up. Sometimes when we talk about spiritual gifts or have lessons on spiritual gifts, the focus is on the lists. In other words, we know that there are certain words that are made into lists in the New Testament about the spiritual gifts One man may have the gift of exhortation, another the gift of shepherding. You might have someone with the gift of mercy or the gift of giving. And so often we find ourselves in pursuit of the meaning of those words. And that is justifiable. I am not saying that's bad or ill-advised. And so we might be pursuing the question: what is my spiritual gift? Do I have the gift of mercy or do I have the gift of generosity or giving? And that does have its place. But I think by nature of the way the lists are given, my personal view is that they are not exhaustive and that they are not to be viewed as I only have this gift, but I might not have a little bit of this other gift. One Bible commentator on speaking of spiritual gifts. I think he illustrates it the right way. He speaks of it as sort of primary colors that the Lord can use and mix To make secondary or tertiary colors so that a man could have the gift of mercy and the gift of generosity. A little bit of both kind of mixed in. And so we pursue these meanings and we try to find out what our gifts are, and that has its place. But this morning I want to look at the context around the gifts. You know, if the lists are the painting, this morning we're going to kind of look at this incredible frame that the painting is in. What is it that holds all these gifts together? Last week we looked at the idea of diversity and unity that's here in 1 Corinthians 12. This morning we're going to look at three passages. We're starting at 1 Corinthians 12, and we're going to look at the context of those lists and the amazing way that God has given us. The motivations to use our gifts and sort of park on this and examine the frame around it. When it comes to motivation for our spiritual gifts, the first thing I want you to see from 1 Corinthians 12, and there's much here, but we're only going to look at a little bit. We already looked at a bunch last week. Is that our gifts, our gifts are for each other. You know, folks, there's a way, you could put it this way: my spiritual gift is for you. My spiritual gift is for you. You look at 1 Corinthians 12, and you should remember some of this from last week. But you pick it up in verse 4, and it says, There are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are differences of ministries, but the same Lord. And there are diversities of activities, but it is the same God who works. all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit of all Now, of all is in italics, but that is the point there. There is this manifestation of the Spirit in spiritual gifts. given to each individual one, but it's for the profit of all the ones, for the profit of everyone. And what we learn from this simple verse in the context in which it's embedded is that it is really, really important. And of course, 1 Corinthians 13 and the priority of love that he has after he talks about these gifts, it's really important for us not to view our spiritual gifts in isolation. or in exclusion of the body of Christ. The spiritual gift that you have will not really function effectively unless you view your gift. As for the other person. Verse 11 says that he gives us gifts as he wills. Verse 18 says he gives these gifts, puts them in the church just as he pleased. So when you look at even our small body here at Faith Bible Church and you think of what you can do, you should think of what you can do in relation to everyone else. Let me get you to turn back to Exodus 35 quickly and try to illustrate this a little bit more for you. In Exodus 35, we're in the context there of the building of the tabernacle. We're not speaking specifically of spiritual gifts, but did you know that when it comes to all the talents you have and abilities you have, As a Christian, we view them all as coming from God. I want to just give you an extended illustration here. In Exodus 25, starting at verse 30, we hear about these artisans. You know what an artisan is? That's someone who is a skilled craftsman. And during the time that Israel was in Egypt, there were these individuals who were talented and they could work with their hands. They were artists with their hands. And let's just read some of this first. It says, and Moses said to the children of Israel, see the Lord has Called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur of the tribe of Judah. And he has filled him with the Spirit of God. in wisdom and understanding, in knowledge and all manner of workmanship, to design artistic works To work in gold and silver and bronze, in cutting jewels for setting, in carving wood, and to work in all manner of artistic workmanship. Now I don't want to say this is a spiritual gift that is directly parallel to a New Testament church spiritual gift. But there's definitely a sense in which it's a spiritual gift, because it's given by the Spirit. Verse 31 says he has filled him with the Spirit of God and this wisdom and understanding and working with his hands. So Moses in describing this man is saying that he is a God-gifted man and he can do all these different things. In verse 34, he goes on to elaborate, and he says, he has, and he has put in his heart the ability to teach. In him and Ohaliab, the son of Ahisamak of the tribe of Dan He has filled them with skill to do all manner of work of the engraver and the designer and the tapestry maker in blue, purple, and scarlet thread and fine linen, and of the weaver. Those who do every work and those who design artistic works. In chapter 36, he just goes on. He calls Bezalil and this other man a gifted artisan. in whom the Lord has put wisdom and understanding to know how to do all manner of work. What's the point here? In the life of Israel, there came a time when God wanted to build a tabernacle. And he wanted it done right. And so previous to this time, he had already prepared men with extraordinary gifts. Men who could weave and cut and do woodworking and metallurgy and work with precious stones and all these things, and at the right moment. They were to come forward and take part in this very important work of building the tabernacle. Dear people, what would have happened if these gifted men had said no? What would have happened to the work of the tabernacle if they had decided that this was the time when they were going to stay home from church, as it were? When they were going to keep their gifts to themselves? When they were going to isolate themselves or sort of be an exclusion to the rest of Israel, or somehow separate themselves from Israel and the people of God, what would have happened to the beauty? The usefulness of the tabernacle, if these gifted men had said, no, we will not use our gifts to build the tabernacle. I don't know how many of you have gone to Lancaster and seen the smaller version of the tabernacle that's up there. Alright, a lot of us have. It wasn't an easy thing to build and to make. I mean, when you and I want fabric, we go to Walmart or Joanne Fabrics or Hobby Lobby. When we want to look at precious stones and buy a ring for someone we love, we go to the jewelry store. I mean, here are these people collecting from the spoils of Egypt. Remember when Israel left and then they spoiled the Egyptians, they took all of their stuff. And now they're in the wilderness and they give a lot of that stuff to Moses to build this tabernacle. And so these men are taking rings that need to be melted down, different jewels or different artifacts and things are given, and they're trying to organize these. And then they're trying to figure out how to recycle these and reuse these and remake these. I mean, it's a lot of work and requires a lot of wisdom. And the Lord had prepared men to do it. We could go on when we think of Moses and when the Lord he was overworked, and his father-in-law came and gave him some advice on how to deal with conflict in the children of Israel and how Moses listened to his father-in-law and set up leaders to take on the different cases underneath of him so that only certain judgments came to him for his review. What if those men, those leaders had said, no, we don't want to be a part of this Moses? How would that have affected The children of Israel in the wilderness and the whole political system there, what they were trying to do to be fair to the Israelites. Say, well, that's Old Testament, and that's sort of just illustrations. Well, of course, we can go into the New Testament. What would the church have been like in the book of Acts if Peter had just gone back to fishing? And that was it. He said, I've had enough. I'm going afishing. Remember the King James translation of that? What if he stayed afishing? What about the day of Pentecost? What about the sermon that he preached? What about the keys to the Gentiles? Him going in there and meeting with these Gentiles. And remember the vision he had of that sheet coming down? and the Lord telling him not to call unclean what he, the Lord, called clean? What would have happened to the church at Jerusalem without Peter? Folks, you know that you can go on and on, and I have to I want to be careful not to introduce other points into point one, but your gift. is for the profit of all your spiritual gift. I'm sorry. My gift, your gift, is for the other. Let's put it that way. It's for the other, for the other person next to you for the glory of God So let me ask you, dear friend, when was the last time you used your gift for another person? When was the last time you had the joy of being merciful to a person? of giving to a person, of teaching a person, of coming out of isolation or exclusion and being and using your gift for someone else It's for the other person. Well, if you turn to Romans 12, we read part of this passage in our scripture reading time, and no doubt you've read it many times before. So there is this sense in which your gift is for the other, my gift is for you, my spiritual gift is for you. Well, let's turn that a little bit because there is this emphasis here in judging yourself rightly when it comes to your spiritual gift. Let me just read it and let me see what you think. He says in verse 3, this is Romans 12, 3, For I say, through the grace given to me to everyone who is among you, Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. Now, this is not faith itself that God has given, and thus you believe and you become a Christian. This is talking about the measure of the faith in reference to your spiritual gift. your personal giftedness, if you look at your Bible again, you are supposed to not think a certain way. You're not to think more highly. So There is this incorrect estimation of yourself. You think more highly of your spiritual gift than reality. Instead, you should think soberly. This has a reference to judging correctly a situation. You mentally, you're looking, and you have an accurate estimation. As God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. Look at verse 4. For as we have many members in one body, but all the members do not have the same function. So we, being many, are one body in Christ and individually members one of another. Folks, here's the point. When it comes to your spiritual giftedness, you should be humble. You should be humble. Because you are not the perfect package. You don't have all the spiritual gifts. You should think soberly. You should think soberly about your own spiritual gift because that guy, your gift. The first person here is messing up my points, but here it is. The other guy's gift is for you. In other words, you could sort of label these few statements here as the necessity of admitting your dependence on the other guy. You don't have everything. Do you have the gift of mercy, exhortation, prophecy, faith, giving? Being a pastor, teacher, are you everything? No, you're only maybe a few things or one thing, and so you're part of this interdependent body. And so you are a member of the other guy. You need him and what he has to offer. Folks, you and I, we are dependent on one another. Let me ask you something. Do you think that you don't need anyone else sitting in this room? Now, as married couples, I know that we have a lot of folks that are married in here this morning. And I know a lot of humble men and humble ladies that are here this morning. You would probably say, you know, sometimes I'm talking to my spouse and they bring something up and I say, I I just that is so right, and I never even thought of that. That perspective, that statement, that just identified a huge blind spot in my life. Wow, I'm so thankful for my spouse who who were trying to work through this issue with whatever it might be. And I'm not talking about arguing per se. I'm just talking about discussion. And they go and they bring something up and it's like, wow. If I was just doing this and making this decision by myself, I would have made the wrong decision because I would have lacked that perspective Now folks, that kind of in marriage illustrates what we have times 10 here in this room. Where would the comfort be? If all the people with gifts of exhortation who hurt and went through trials didn't have someone with the gift of mercy sitting next to them Where would the gift of exhortation be? Where would the gift of mercy be if all those with the gift of exhortation didn't exist in this church. And so there was comfort, but there wasn't the proper, hey, let's do what's right in the midst of love. Let's make sure we do what's right. You see what I'm saying? You can't live in isolation of other people. Folks, do you realize if you're here this morning, and and please understand, I don't say this to push you down, but to lift you up. If you are isolated, if you are isolating yourself from the life of this church, it could be revealing that you are very proud because you don't think you need anyone else. And the answer for you is not to think of yourself more highly than you ought to think, but to think soberly as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. That's the answer for you. Just humble yourself. You're not, you don't have everything that you need You need the other guy. And you say, well, the other guy doesn't exactly have his act together either. You say, well, maybe you can help them. Maybe they can help you. Dear friends, my gift is for you to the glory of God, your gift is for me to the glory of God, and humility creates Humility is what gives us a proper understanding of dependence. It's Romans 12. And this is sort of the framework of those lists The framework that we need. There is nothing more beautiful in the body of Christ than having someone who has a blot who it lacks. A spiritual gift, be approached by someone else who faithfully and lovingly uses their spiritual gift to help that person. There is nothing more beautiful than that. You think of the book of Acts. Barnabas is known as what? Son of, what's his name mean? Son of. Encouragement. And it's hard not to make a little bit more, like put that on him as being an encourager because of the different things that he does. When when we have Paul who gets gloriously saved, And the the saints in Jerusalem are scared to death of him. They don't want to have anything to do with him because he's a he was just dragging them off to prison It took a Barnabas to go get him and talk to him and usher him in to those men and sort of pave the way. What if Barnabas hadn't been there? What would have happened? We don't want to think about that. But there was Barnabas using his gift, being that son of encouragement, trying to bring people together in that way. We think of Dorcas, who after she died, she was such a giving person and so had the gift of helps and she made things for other people. And so when the apostles came, when Peter came, they're like, look at all these things she's made for us. And she was known as such a person who served and gave. What a beautiful thing to have a woman in your assembly. And I believe we do have these ladies here. who give and serve and they use that gift and they fill up what lacks in the body of Christ and what a whole would be. I find as a man that I am very reticent to ever admit that I need anything. A few years ago when Christian was sick, and we were over there in the parsonage trying to figure out what to do. One of the reasons I isolated myself too much and my family is because I was embarrassed to admit I needed help. I was embarrassed to say, please come into this house and help me figure out what to do, or help me with my son, because I didn't know what to do. Men, have you ever felt like you don't want help because you don't want to admit that you just don't know what to do? We are dependent upon one another. And when I isolated myself like that, I cut off the flow of blessing that I could have had from many more of you. Learn from my mistakes. Men, let's just admit that we are dependent. I don't want independent men. We want dependent men who admit it and then get into fellowship with other men and get the benefit of the other guy's spiritual gift. That's in keeping with these lists. Dependence and humility. Where does that take us? Well, lastly, then we go to Ephesians and we look at the frame here a little bit in Ephesians, okay? Ephesians 4. In Ephesians 4, you know the passage where in verse 11 it talks about the Lord giving apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. For the equipping of the saints for the work of ministry. This is Ephesians 4, verse 11 and 12 Verse 13 says, Till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, there is the someday future. When we are all exactly conformed to the image of Christ, there will no longer be a need for that type of spiritual growth. In the meantime, verse 14, these particular gifts are given that we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men and the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. But speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who is the head Christ. from whom, that is from Christ, the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies According to the effectual working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. Look at that again. It says that there's something that causes growth of the body. What causes growth? Well, the effective working by which every part does its share. So we want the apostles, prophets, evangelists, and pastors and teachers to do their share. But by extension of looking at the other passages on the spiritual gifts and the fact that we know that we're all gifted, It certainly includes every part doing its share. Now, this passage really, really, really should encourage us. Again, I'm not trying to push you down. I want to lift you up this morning. Because this is not saying that we need a superstar. We don't now, I don't know a whole lot about basketball, but I've been told that Michael Jordan was a superstar. Those of you who know basketball, true or false? True? I think even I know that. That he was this was a superstar, one of the greatest, if not the greatest, basketball player that has ever been. And you can tell me what you think after the service, if that's true or not. But I have also read that sometimes when a superstar is on the court, he dominates and takes everything over and sort of the team is diminished. And the teamwork that could have taken place has diminished there. You can argue with me later about basketball, but I can admit you're going to win. But here's the point. In Christianity, we don't do superstars. We do in America, unfortunately. They're on television and so on, but we don't need one. It doesn't say here that when the superstar does his part, it will cause growth. No. It's all these every part. It's every little part. It's whatever God has blessed you with and graced you with, you doing your little part. And everyone else doing their little part. That's what causes the growth. We'll talk about the love part in a second, but it's It's the simultaneous movement of all the little parts, of all the parts, little or big, say. Not the superstar who gets up, has all the gifts, and uses all the gifts, and everyone else just sits and watches. No, how boring is that? Okay, you like to watch basketball, I know. You like to watch football, but don't you wish you could get down there and play? I mean what would happen? The Super Bowl, you're in the stands, and you're up there, you're watching all this happens, and you just say, look, I am so tired of watching, I'm getting down there And you climb out of your bleacher and you just start running out in the field, what are they going to do to you? They're going to tackle you and put handcuffs on you and carry you out and put you in the paddy wagon. It's the exact opposite in the kingdom of God. We have all these people who are watching and these other people who are working, and somebody says, I can't take it anymore. I'm getting down there on the field. And he starts running down, and there's no one who's going to lock you up. God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are saying, amen, go, go, go, go. And all your friends who are spiritual are saying, go. And you're down there and you've got that football and you're making a touchdown. Do you know you get to do that in the kingdom of God? You don't have to be a superstar, Michael Jordan, in the field of basketball, or I don't know enough about football to pick a the best football player, but you don't have to be that guy to make a difference. in the kingdom of God. All you have to be is you. And use your gift. America has made Christianity into sort of this contorted and twisted kind of thing that you just don't see in the simplicity of passages like this. And so my encouragement to you this morning is, the third point here is together our spiritual gifts. Properly used will cause growth of the body. There's no exception to this. You say, well, does that mean we'll have 400 people next week? No, it doesn't necessarily mean that growth takes place through us being conformed to the image of Christ. In the context here, us being stable, we're no longer children who are tossed through and Who are tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine. Growth occurs, verse 15, because we're speaking the truth in love. We're growing up and conform into our head who is Christ. So their growth takes place in a lot of different ways, but yes, it could also mean that the Lord brings more people here as well. That could be part of it. So what's the encouragement here? Well, my spiritual gift is for you. To the glory of God. Your spiritual gift is for me to the glory of God. And together, our spiritual gifts, properly used, will cause Growth. What in the world are you waiting for? Are you tired of watching football? Don't you want to get down there, guys? You can do that Are you tired of just watching basketball? Ladies, I c oh boy, an illustration for you, I'm really not sure what that would work with the sports thing. Ice hockey. Ladies, are you tired of watching ice hockey and you just want to get down there? No, you don't like ice hockey. Probably. But the sentiment is: get into the game if you're not already there. Serve the Lord with gladness. See what God will do. Don't wait. I can't imagine getting into heaven and seeing Christ, and the Lord looks at us and says, There's so much more that you could have done, but you would not. I don't want to hear that to you. How about you go to prayer? Let's pray together