Have you ever talked to someone who had a certain opinion of themselves that led you to believe they simply did not value their own personal gifts? And abilities. They come to a place in their life when they would look at someone else and say, I'm not like that person, so what difference can I make in the world? Have you ever had someone that you know in a church, in a local church, somewhere during the history of your Christianity, who you felt like thought that way, although they wouldn't really say it? It can be frustrating to look out into the world and at the needs of the world. And it can be frustrating to look at a local church and the needs of a local church. And then to look at your own resources and what you bring to the table, it can sort of create that idea, can't it? I'm just not up to that task. Because I'm not like that guy. If I had his gifts, if I had his abilities, if I had his position, then maybe I could make a difference. But that's just not the fact. When I was growing up, and I'm sure you remember this as well, in the 1980s, there were often pictures in the evening news of famine in Africa. It seemed at that point that the center of it was in Ethiopia and Somalia. And I remember as a child watching the television and and Watching the news with my dad and and thinking, if only I could do something. Those people are suffering. And I thought this as a 10-year-old kid. What can I possibly do to help? And it just kind of left me, even as a child, with this sort of frustration. That there's this huge need, and then there's this little me, and there's not a whole lot I can do. I found that The answer to our frustration is always to go back to the Word of God and allow it to correct Our thinking re-energize, reinvigorate, and motivate and push us out with hope. Folks, often what we see in life, what we think and what we feel, Is different from biblical reality. Christians walk by faith, and sometimes we have to go back to the Bible and remind ourselves that we are in fact wrong in our assessment of ourselves and of our place in this world. In First Corinthians Right here in chapter 12, we have a great deal of encouragement, starting at verse 12, and really going all the way through to the end of the chapter. But what we have here is encouragement about the diversity and the unity of the body of Christ. From those two key concepts, diversity and unity, or you could say it in terms of diversity within a unity. There is so much that you and I can pull out and be encouraged from today. Let me just read to you. verses 12 to 19 and we'll unpack some of what's said here this morning. Paul writes to the Corinthians In verse 12, for as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body being many are one body. so also is Christ. And this really is the main point of this section. You'll notice here in the verse, there is the one, as the body is one. That's the unity. You and I, as we sit here, are part of something that is a one. You know, there are many, but there's one. And of course, in verse 12, that's the diversity. He says, as the body is one and has many members. And he's using the illustration of the human body, of course. But he is saying that that is what the body of Christ is like. But all the members of that one body being many are one body. So there's one body, many members. Many members. One body. One body is unity, many members diversity. Now, if you and I are to be encouraged this morning, we're going to have to just Accept by faith the reality of this situation because it often does not appear to be the case We have a lot of different opinions, you and I. I'm sure that we often see our opinions come out during a political season or while watching a football game or when we decide what movie we want to rent for a weekend. And sometimes in the family life, in the church life, we begin to lose sight of the fact that in the church specifically that we're all part of this This wonderful thing called the body of Christ, called the church, and in this case by application, the local church. That we are members one of another. We have this connection. So what does he say about this? Well, if you're continuing on in verse 12, it says, so also is Christ And then here is what he says about the unity, verse 13. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks. Whether slaves or free, and have all been made to drink into one spirit. So there is the unity of the one body, which is the church and the spirit who is doing the baptizing and also in a sense we have been baptized into the spirit so in essence two things that he is calling out that unify us are the body that we're in and the spirit, capital S, who is involved in placing us in that body Now, how many of you saw the Holy Spirit this morning when you got up? Maybe don't raise your hand, but I mean none of us would raise our hand. We can't see the Spirit of God. That's why we have to accept by faith That this thing has taken place. But we can see the members of the one body. We can see who's before us this morning. He references in verse 12, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free. Now, we have quite a diversity here this morning. And I'm going to ask, let's see. William, Al, could you get me another fresh uh cup of water? Thanks, pal. I'm starting to lose my voice. How many of you here this morning are are In the skills field, like you are involved in building or contractor work or something along those lines. Anyone? Okay, great. How many of you are involved in engineering in some fashion? Alright, a few of us. Teaching? Working in a lab somewhere or experimenting on. Alright? Taking care of homemakers. We know they don't work. They do a lot of work. Home school teachers, that's work. Christian school teachers, public school teachers, students, college students. Thank you, Billy. Now there's a lot. There's a lot of diversity in occupation and what we do as men and women. But then there's also the diversity of our background. How many of you know, relatively sure, where your ancestors came from? Okay, how many of you came from ancestors from Ireland? Alright, wow, a lot of them. Scotland? France? Okay? Somewhere in Africa. Okay? How about uh Czechoslovakia? I have some ancestors from there. Wow, all right. Well we've got quite a oh yeah, um Italian. Phil's got to come on, Phil, raise your hand. All right, we're from all over the place. All kinds of different backgrounds. And here we are together. In this one place, how do you explain the fact that this morning you got out of bed And you came here to meet with all these other people that are, in this case, he's pointing out the differences. Jews, Greeks, slaves, free. How do you explain the fact that you came here to be among people that you are so different from? How can you explain that? That is because the Spirit of God is within all of us and He has placed us in this body together, and there is, folks, it really can be termed. or spoken of in terms of a supernatural kind of unity that you and I enjoy. What would happen by contrast if we We took a hundred people from Elkridge from out of their homes and said, we're going to have a town hall meeting and we're going to make a decision. How difficult is it to get a whole lot of people from different backgrounds to agree on anything? And yet you and I have a supernatural unity already existing, one spirit. One body, that is what's here today. The Corinthian Christians struggled with this Because as you know, in the first few chapters of Corinthians, they were identifying teachers and saying, I'm falling in line behind that teacher, or they were they were thinking that Paul baptized, or we they were sort of Forgetting this amazing unity that we have. Let me illustrate it this way and encourage you. I know That if I had a prayer request, something that was really important to me, I could go to someone like, I'll just, I'm not trying to embarrass people, but I could go to John Snyder. And say, John, will you pray with me? I'm really burdened about this. And he would know, he would know that it's important. That Christ needs to be exalted, that I I wouldn't have to really explain a whole lot. There's sort of this base, this baseline unity that we have. And he would join in with praying, and I would trust my brother to just pray for me whatever comes out of his heart without even having to tell him what to say. I mean you go to work tomorrow and you say to your co-worker who's not a Christian, I need you to pray for me. Just whatever comes to mind. What in the world would he say? So, our unity here of spirit and being in the body, there is this supernatural quality. It exists, and we accept this and enjoy it by faith. But there is verses 15 down to verse 17, what we tend to think As we exist in this supernatural unity. Look at what it says in the beginning of verse 15. If the foot should say Look at verse 16, and if the ear should say, and look at verse 17, he's going to argue his point, if the whole body were, and he's going to argue against what the the these people would say, the foot and the ear. What is it that we tend to say? Well, let's read the whole passage. If the foot should say, because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, Is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? So what is being said here is people are looking at themselves and at what they are We probably could speak in terms of gifts and abilities and position in life, and they're saying, because I am not the same I am not a part of the body. So they're making an argument on the diversity, and they're playing the diversity against the unity. And they're saying, I'm not like him, I must not be part of this body. And Paul's answer to that is verse 17 If the whole body were an I where would be the hearing? were the whole were hearing, where would be the smell the smelling? But now God has set the members, each one of us, in the body, just as he pleased. And if they were all one member, where would the body be? In other words, he's using the human body as an illustration to the fact that we know if we need different parts to function. A body will not function without diversity. If you were an I, and that's all you were, I mean, what could you do? Roll down the street? Wow, there goes Dave, the eye. Oh wow, there goes there goes this hand walking down the street. We know that it doesn't function. It's nonsensical. It's ridiculous. And the truth here that is amazing is here in verse 18. God has set the members, each one of them, in the body just as he pleased. You can't say that you're different being different than that person is an argument for not being a part of the body, because in fact, think of this. God has taken you. He is so interested in you and in this body, and I speak specifically of Faith Bible Church That he has taken you and made you a part of this body. I realize that this is maybe more of a 10,000-foot view here in saying the body, and of course that's the body of Christ, the church, the universal church. But I believe also because he's writing to the Christians in Corinth, And the local churches that are there, he wants them to think in terms of God making a choice just as he pleased to bring you here and make you a part of this body. And here's the reason why the body needed the diversity that you bring. It needed what you have to offer. Your differentness is why you were brought here. Now, why am I emphasizing this so much? Well, let me tell you. Church conferences that pastors go to, where they teach me how to grow the church. Are re often blatantly unbiblical. I'll give you an example. There's a man going around and he says that this is a very, very popular conference. Okay, where thousands of pastors will go and listen because this man had, of course, an incredibly successful church. Okay? People flock to hear success stories and try to make it a part of their church. So his idea is when a when a visitor comes into the church, they should immediately be able to identify with their particular group. They should see people like themselves when they come to the church. And he's speaking in terms of literally the color of skin, socioeconomic background, age, demographic. And so his view is when they when a when someone comes to the church, they're gonna stay if they see people like themselves. How does that fit into what's here in God's Word? Now, is it wrong to see people like yourselves and to hang out with people like yourself? No. But The Lord brings people to a body that are different. Because the body can't function if everyone's the rolling eyeball. So, in fact, when a Christian comes to a local assembly and looks around and doesn't see anyone like himself, he should really think: has God brought me here because I'm going to be the difference? To fulfill, am I here by his good pleasure to meet a need that only I can meet because I'm a hand or I'm a foot? Is my difference gonna make the difference? But folks, you and I have a hard time accepting that. I do too. Because often socially we gravitate to people that are just like us. I I have a tendency not to watch sports. So when you start talking about the Baltimore Ravens, my eyes kind of glaze over. Sorry. I like the Orioles, but you know when the last time I was to an Orioles baseball game? In Memorial Stadium. When Eddie Murray. Eddie Murray? Murray, right? I liked him. But he was playing at the game. That's how long ago it was that I saw an Orioles baseball game. But you know what? When I start to talk about certain books I might have in my library to you, I notice that your eyes kind of glaze overdue. And there are some interests and hobbies that I might have when you and I'll talk to you and I can see the glaze. And so we have a tendency, I'll go find people who don't are are more into books than sports and you'll find people that are more into sports than books. Now you can be into both, okay? I'm not saying you can't like sports and books. You can't But we tend to congregate. What's the saying? Birds of a feather flock together, something like that. But I have to remind us this morning, folks, when you look around at a he- you know what a healthy church is? A diverse church with eyes, nose, hands. And I'm not talking about color of skin per se, okay? I'm talking about giftedness And the difference in our abilities primarily is what we're talking about here. Because his argument is: if the whole body were an I, how would we hear? So Unity and diversity. And he goes on here and he he just kinda he he won't let go of this theme. He really wants to bring it home to the Corinthians. So look at verse 20. And let's read down to verse 23. But now indeed there are many members, yet one body. And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. No, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary. Verse 23. And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, on these we bestow greater honor. And our unpresentable parts have greater modesty. Now in verses 15, 16, and 17, there is the if. You know, the foot says, I'm not the hand, I'm not of the body, do it dealt with that. But here's another possibility that we could think. You could have one person say to another person in the local assembly that, look, you're not like me, so you have no value here. We don't need you. We don't need you. We have me, so we don't need you. That's what someone could say. Look at it again. Read verse 21. The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you Why? Because, verse 20, there are many members, yet one body. So now he's making an argument not about the diversity, but about The unity, he's saying, look, the I can't say I don't need the hand because we need that hand. We have need of you. And even those parts that are weaker are necessary and the That are lesser, we're modest with those parts. So he's saying that every single part is necessary for the proper functioning of the body. For our church, do you know what that means? That God has a job for every single one of you. That not one person in this group can say, you don't need me, who's a part of the body of Faith Bible Church. Church. None of us can say that. Now you might say, look at me, I I don't have very many strengths. I mean I am the weaker, verse 22. I would look at myself, verse 23, as the less honorable. Or unpresentable part. But even that is not an excuse. Now, my goal here is not to shame you, brothers and sisters. in Christ, but to encourage you. Here's the truth, you are valuable. You are valuable to faith, Bible, church, and to the body that's here. It is no accident that you are here. God wants to use you. God wants you to be a part of the body. And He wants you to have the joy. Of serving him in some capacity here. And he does not require you to serve in the same way that guy does. He doesn't expect the I to become the hand. He made the eye an eye. And the hand to hand. He expects you. Would you say the statement's accurate? Check me on this. Think about this. He expects you to be the best you that he has made you. That's what he expects. And he wants to use you within the unity of the body of Christ. That should encourage us this morning. Really should. What can you do? Have you ever thought that you are of no value to God? Or that because your gifts are small, that there's nothing that He can do with you at Faith Bible Church? Have you ever thought that you're not like the pastor or the elder or the deacon? So there's nothing you can do here. Folks, remember at the beginning I said we walk by faith What you have to do is say, even though I think this, I now identify it as a lie from the devil, or wherever you want to say it's from, it's a lie. And I'm going to correct my thinking, value myself as God does, and get moving. Verse 24 says, but our presentable parts have no need. But God composed the body, having given greater honor to the part which lacks it, that there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another. And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. He's carrying on the illustration of the human body and the fact that we cover our body and in that sense give honor to our body and we have a unity, verse 20. 25 and 26, where we give greater honor to the part that lacks it, so that there's no schism, so that there's this care of the body, verse 25. So that when verse 26, one member suffers, all the members suffer, or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Brothers and sisters in Christ, there's a real sense in which you, the people on this side Even if you don't know the people understanding very well, if they're hurting, if they're hurting, you are hurting We have to care for one another because we're part of this body. We have to. Is there an evangelistic program that is not? Because someone in this room doesn't think they're finding a lot of me. Is there a that could be done here because someone in this room is not valuing their place in the world? Are there people in 2016 that could have been comforted, but because you have a gift of mercy and you weren't using it, they didn't receive the comfort. That they would have to speak. You see, sometimes there's an absence of something, and it's really hard to identify the neglect. And I'm not indicting you, I want to encourage you. Maybe you're the person in 2017 who will take your place in the body of Christ here at Faith Bible Church. And know the joy of it sounds too sterile, but fulfilling the function in the body Using your gift for God. Are you happy not using your gift for God? I don't think so. No one is who's a Christian. Taking your place in the body so that there are no divisions or schisms, so that there's this self-care, this same care for one another, verse 25. And so that there is this. This empathy is suffering and this honoring, this mutual unity that goes on in the body. I don't have anyone's uh name in my mind. I'm not preaching against you. But this is the passage that I think in 2017, if we let something like this motivate us and lift us up. We would be blessed by it. All of us. Everyone in this world. In verses 27 and all the way to the end of the chapter. He lists out some spiritual gifts. Look at verse 27. He says, now you are the body of Christ and members individually. And God has appointed these in the church, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, varieties of tongues. Are all apostles, are all prophets, are all teachers, are all workers of miracles? Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? In other words, everyone is not the same, and the Lord has given all these different gifts. Find your gifts. You know, we are not all the same. And he take he says in turn, look at verse 31. Earnestly desire the best gifts. And then yet I show you a more excellent way, and he's about to go in the 1 Corinthians 13, which is the love chapter, and apply love to every kind of spiritual gift. And to desire to be a loving person first. Sort of the greatest gift is love. But there is still this idea of spiritual gifts and making use of the spiritual gifts that we have to do. Folks, I'm going to close with this and we're going to do the Lord's table in a moment, but I want you to to I want you to think about this. There is nothing, there's probably nothing in the Christian life more exciting than knowing that you are being used by God. And to see your life have influence and impact in someone else's life. To know that you led that person to Christ or you were faithful To give the gospel to that person, to know that you're using your gift in the local church. I know that I've told you stories about different things that have happened in my life. But I want to I do want to tell you about some things that are happening right now and in the conclusion to encourage you. We have right now happening in our church. I think what's happening in Iwana in our church on Friday nights, with all these folks staying, hanging around, and parents coming in here from many different countries. Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, South Korea. I think this is God's stewardship for us. I think God is doing something special there that I don't see at a lot of other churches. I talked to my friends about this who are pastors in other places and we're not seeing that. That is God You talk to Sharon Taylor, she's not here today, but she's she has a Bible study she started in her house that the Lord has grown up with lost people coming to her house to study the Bible. That is God on the move. And you have you have our neighbors Who are Muslims? And you have one of them coming into this building on Wednesday night and hearing the gospel, probably for the very first time ever. That is God. When you see things like that happen, make no mistake. And the most exciting thing that could happen to you is to be a part of what God's doing. Don't miss out on that. Dear people, don't miss out on what God is doing at Faith Bible Church. Be a part of the body. Don't allow yourself to think that because I'm not like that guy, I can't participate. Or because I'm not needed, because I I'm not blind. Like that guy, or or God brought you here for a reason, for his good pleasure. He put you here. What are you doing? Are you a part of the unity here with your diversity?