So another Christmas and New Year's season is in the books. We said goodbye to 25. Welcome, 26. Kept up our traditions. At church we had our annual Christmas Eve candlelight service, followed by the Cookie Fellowship at home Uh we set up the Christmas tree and village. We also read the Nativity Story on the 25th. We watched together a Charlie Brown Christmas. A favorite among the customs of our children is the Advent Calendar. We use it to count down from December 1st. So until the big day. I don't teach them to appreciate and anticipate Christ's first advent, celebration of it at least It helps that there are yummy ornate chocolate pieces in the calendar we purchased, one for each day in the countdown. Now maybe later this year I can introduce the idea of a the Jesse tree. I mentioned it a few times before, but I'm not sure if I explained it what it is in detail. A Jesse tree is based on Isaiah 11:1, as Christ has prophesied to be the rod from the stem of Jesse. Jesse David's father. But his genealogy goes back further, all the way to Adam. To help us sum up all this On a small tree are these picturesque ornaments. On the ornaments are emblems and symbols that help us trace the line of Jesus from creation to his birth. In a sense, this is a good exercise in the study of biblical theology. You have to be visually creative as well. In one tree, I saw the first ornament. Contained a picture of earth referring to creation. Next was a serpent wrapped around an apple. That's the fall of man. Then after that was Noah's Ark, that's the flood. You get the idea. And then what do you suppose will be on the next ornament? I give you a clue it concerns Abraham. A good guess is a ram caught in a thicket. Another good guess is a picture of a starry night. Certainly, those are all suitable symbols to represent Abraham, the line that continues through his seed. But what caught my attention is another ornament with a more mundane image. It's a tent. Just a plain tent held up by poles, ropes, and stakes on the ground. There might be a camel lying down in front of it, pushing, I guess that's what it means to rest, as they say. Now that's a perfect joy to remember Abram and his life. It reminds us of what the author of Hebrews wrote in chapter eleven, eight through ten. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country. Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise, for he waited for the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. What Hebrews recaps and the tree visualizes, we find detailed in Genesis. Last time we finished chapter 11, started chapter 12, the Lord first spoke to him in Ur of the Chaldeans. Abram Later to be Abraham, headed west in the right direction with his wife Sarai, father Terah, and nephew Lot, but they did not go far enough. They still had to cross the Euphrates River. It was only after his father's passing that Abram left his comfort zone. So we'll pick up from Genesis 12:4 and read to verse 9. Genesis twelve, four to nine So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. Then Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people whom they had acquired in Haran, and they departed to go to the land of Canaan. So they came to the land of Canaan. Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, as far as the Terebin tree of Moray, and the Canaanites were then in the land. Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants, I will give this land. And there he built an altar to the Lord, who had appeared to him. And he moved from there to the mountain east of Bethel, and he pitched So Abram's journey going on still toward the south Here's the math from last time. It's in the last few pages of the Pew Bible, entitled The World of the Patriarchs. I put arrows indic pointing to Ur of the Chaldeans and Haran. I've added another arrow indicating the land of Canaan. As Abram entered the promised land, you might say there are some moving days instructions. If Ba gets to them, here's an outline. From verses 4 to 5a, the first sentence of 5 We see Abram taking the initiative to leave Haran. Terah only took this group so far, it was up to Abram to lead everyone to Canaan. The second half of verse 55B reports their arrival there. Moses narrates in verse 6 that their first step stop was Shechem. As far as the Terevan Triamoray, note about the Canaanites seems superfluous, but it serves to give readers some cultural and religious background. Now this pagan setting is not conducive to godly worship. You won't mistake Canaan and the Canaanites for a Christian nation or a church full of believers. But in verses 7 to 9, we find Abram living and moving among them. He's building altars to the Lord, the one and only God, the creator and maker of the universe. What can we learn from Abram's example here? Tomorrow many are commuting back to their offices, back at their desks, reporting for work after some time off. Some of us are preparing to go back to school tomorrow. Sure the kids are excited. Maybe the parents are more excited. Um or if you're uh in college or you're coming going back to campus later this month. As we return to normalcy, I ask that you consider three moving days instructions. To be in, but not of the world. First instruction: witness as a spiritual community. That's 4-5A. Secondly, watch out for moral societal dangers. 5B to 6. Third instruction, worship God according to his promise. That's 7 to 9. First, witness as a spiritual community. The first sentence of verse 4 reads: So Abram departed as the Lord has spoken to him, and Lot went with him. It was in response to God's call that Abram left Ur of the Chaldeans at first. Now it's by reminder of God's call that he departs from Haran. But this man's not alone. The friend of God has friends on earth, including Lot. Somewhere along the way, Abram has influenced his nephew. For good. Lot observed Abram's faith in action. At some point he decided to believe the Lord himself. That's why scriptures tell us that Lot's a righteous man. Peter, in second Peter 2 comments how later as Sodom and Gomorrah, we'll get to that, Lak could not stomach the filthy conduct and lawless deeds of their wicked citizens. But when it comes to his spiritual life, Lot owes a lot to his uncle Abram. His example, courage, intercession profoundly impacted him. Abrams like a father figure to him. Kind of like Uncle Phil to Will Smith. God had been with Abram at Ur and Haran. Now he'll follow him to Canaan. The second part of verse 4 states that Abram was 75 years old when he left Haran. Assuming his father died the same year, 75 is a pivotal year for Abram. I'm fairly certain most of us aren't considering major life-shattering moves at 75. We might think about downsizing to a smaller home for sure, but wandering place to place in a tent. What in the name of Carl Fredericson is Abram thinking? But because of God's call, right, at age 75, Abram's life of faith is just getting started. And now he's the man at the helm. In chapter 11, verse 31, Terah took charge. He took Abram, Lot, and Sarai with him to depart to Haran. Now at 12. 5, chapter 12, verse 5, Abram takes charge. He takes Lot and Sarai with him to depart from Haran. As I said last time I think Abram had been there at Harem for some time, at least a few years. The next phrase of verse 5 tells us what he did there. Abram accumulated personal assets. The material wealth of those days is measured by flocks and cattle. The Lord had provided for him and Lot. But they also have e acquired a bunch of people. Go on to the next phrase Which speaks of the people whom they had acquired in Herod. These are male servants and maidservants. They were hired to work for Abram's household. And as these domestic servants married and started families, their offspring would also become servants. Later in Genesis 14:14, we learn Abram had hundreds of servants born in his own house and trained. Right. And while these servants may not continue the godly line, Abram makes sure they're in line and they learn to be godly. You'll see later in chapter 18, verse 19, the Lord wanted Abraham, or Abram, to command everyone in his household, that includes servants, to keep the way of the Lord. And to do righteousness and justice. So Abram makes good use of his influence and authority to spread his faith. If this was a movie, Abram's the main character. But he's not alone. Sarai's his Sarai's his uh love interest. Lot is his trusty sidekick, at least for the moment. If Abram's like grew and despicable me, he has his minions. I guess you can say Eliazir of Damascus is like Kevin. See these cultural references don't really always hit, so sorry about that. But uh it's a good movie if you want to watch it. So Abraham has a spiritual community behind him, joining him in witness of the one true God. But I wonder if that's true of your household. I'm asking whether your spouse, children, your dog and cat if they can talk Every living breeding creature under your roof, know that you serve Yahweh. It takes more than having a plaque on the wall that reads Joshua 24:15: As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Is going to take godly habits and discipline to instill biblical truths. You open up the Bible during the week. Do you determine to go to church to worship God on Sundays? So if Abraham is going to be in but not of the world, he needs God and the fellowship of the saints. the same needs today. We're not to face the world alone, witness as a spiritual community. That's the first instruction for Abram and us based on Genesis 12, 4 to 5a. The next one's this. Watch out for moral societal dangers. Abram and his crew finally entered the land of promise in the second half of verse five. We might read that with a casual tone, but this is a momentous event. Remember in late December of 1989, I vividly remember arriving In a busy New York City JFK Airport. My mom and I took a connecting flight to rejoin my father here. Now we went to either Baltimore or Dulles. Honestly I can't remember. I was eight. eight years old. But I do recall snow on the ground as I took my first steps on American soil As you can see on the map, Abram's now far from the place of his birth. For decades, his home was Mesopotamia He lived within the bounds of two great rivers. There was Tigris to the north and Euphrates to the south. Now he's flanked between Jordan towards east and the Mediterranean Sea towards west. So now he's in Canaan. But Abram doesn't stop just beyond the border. You see in verse six that he ventures towards Shechem. Is that the geographical center of the land, like one of the Midwestern states of the US? It's a place with much significance for the patriarchy. especially in the life of Jacob, Abram's grandson. For now it was Abram's first major stop in Canaan. As he approached Shechem, he sees it sitting between two hills. The hills Gerizim and Ebal resembled a pair of shoulders. In fact, shoulder is the meaning of the name Shechem. Moving in closer, we come to a grove of trees. Specifically, there they are terabin trees. They're known to grow as tall as forty feet. They can live hundreds of years. They're resilient, growing slowly and steadily, even in dry and harsh climates. The natural shade from the branches would be a welcome sight for weary travelers. And there's a particular tree there, significant for another reason. Some debate the meaning of the word more. It could be a person name. Etymologically speaking, it means teacher or instructor. So there's a theory that under this one special tree, a prominent prophet or seer taught his followers. It's likely this tree had another name, the Diviner's Tereban Tree. So now you see what moral peril Abram might face. The discourses there were not like sermons you hear at the Great Awakening, the first great awakening. awakening. Rather there were talks of local deities, sacrifices, libations, fertility, blessings on crops On the surface, not all of these talks are bad. I don't think these scatterings looked and sounded like a witch's coven. Maybe they're closer to modern Tet talks. I don't know. Whatever the case These talks are misguided, right, as the speaker does not recognize the one true creator God of Ava. And here, Abram's right where he needed to be, where he should be, in Canaan. He's at the center of God's will, at the center of the promised land He just needs to filter out the lies that he'd inevitably hear. We need the same kind of strategy in the world. You can't stop your ears everywhere you go. I guess you can, it might look silly, but Be discerning of unbiblical ideas. Be vigilant. Paul reminds us in Ephesians 5:8-11: walk as children of light, bear fruit, finding out what's acceptable to the Lord. Avoiding fellowship with untruthful works, exposing them. It's not controversial to say moral dangers come from immoral people, a society of immoral people. Moses is not merely stating the obvious in the second part of verse 6. It's a reminder that behind false teaching and false worship are false teachers and false worshippers, Abram and the few with him are up against a great mass of pagans. The few descendants of Shem are surrounded by countless descendants of Canaan. But Abram need not fear. He has confidence that God would bless him and his household, meanwhile the Canaanites around him were cursed since Noah's time. But still, if we're honest, we must admit that it'd be frightful to be in Avon's position. It's hard to be in, but not of the world. There are idols prominent in every culture and lurking in every corner, including our country. In a sense, there are Tereban Trees and Moray in our times too. I think of US and the major hubs. DC for policy and governance, the Bay Area for Technology and Innovation, New York, Boston and Chicago for academia, finances, culture. I'm sure I can name more. The point is that wrapped up and intermingled with all the values and commerce are vices, greed, ungodliness. But God's will is not that we escape and go out of the world. Instead, stay together, witness as a spiritual community, and watch out for moral societal dangers. And there's more we can do. As in as the third move in day's instruction, we must worship God according to his promise. That's the another way to be in but not of the world. We go on to verse 7 Look at his first sentence, in the middle of a foreign land, filled with corrupt teaching and corrupt people, God appears to Abram. To your descendants, I will give this land, he says. How many descendants does Abram have at this moment? None. How many Canaanites are in the land? Many. God's on Abram's side, and he is worthy of praise. That's why in the second half of verse 7, Abram can't help but worship the Lord. God must be worshipped even in Canaan among the Canaanites. And Abram doesn't need a permit or permission. The judge of all earth has jurisdiction everywhere God is, after all, sovereign, creator of all things. He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth. He has determined their pre-appointed times and the pre-boundaries of their dwellings. So everywhere Abram goes, he can and should and would build altars to the Lord and to the Lord alone. It's key that while he's among the Canaanites, he remains separate from their practices. I shared during our Wednesday prayer meeting, this insightful commentary from Matthew Henry. Wherever He, Abram, had a tent, God had an altar, an altar sanctified by prayer. He erected his own altar that he might not participate with idolaters in the worship offered upon theirs. This is a regular habit of Abram to worship God throughout the land of Cana. As we see, as we follow Abraham in verse 8, we note his consistency. At a city between two mountains, he built an altar. At a mountain between two cities, he built an altar. Before we go on to verse nine, we should slow down and reflect on the last part of verse eight. Abram called on the name of the Lord. Does that sound familiar? Here's a flashback to the end of Genesis 4. After Cain had murdered Abel, Adam and Eve had another son named Seth. Seth had a son himself named Enosh. It was then that men began to call on the name of the Lord. Seth and Abram, those separated by thousands of years, are linked by a common faith. Now today we to share in that faith. And in hindsight, we know much more than them, right? The Lord in all capital letters signifies God's covenant name, Yahweh, the great I Am. He is who he is It's not that Seth, Enosh, and Abram didn't know this name, they obviously did, but in Genesis, God did not reveal Himself fully, powerfully, and demonstratively. As the covenant fulfilling God, not until the time of Exodus. But even with his limited knowledge, Abram exercised faith in the Lord, calling on his name. You don't have to know everything about God to ask for his help. Abram knew enough. God gave this man his word and grace to worship him. Because the Lord effectually called Abram, Abram can call upon his name. As I share when I preached on Genesis 4, this kind of calling carries much more weight than a casual phone call to a friend. There's urgency. There's a pleading for intervention. When you find yourself in trouble and invoke the name of someone powerful, you're desperate. You're hoping for a great deliverance. For example, in Acts, sensing danger from his persecutors, Paul exercises Roman rights. He appealed to Caesar, that is, called upon him for protection. Today we understand the seriousness of calling the police and calling the doctor. All such calls are made in high-stakes situations. That's the basic idea of Genesis 426. The same idea continues in life of Abram in this chapter. This is a good time as any to ask, have you called on the name of the Lord? I'm not talking about asking him to give you three wishes like a genie in a bottle. Are you aware that you're in deep trouble on your own? Do you know you're in desperate need of God? He's the only one who can save you. You might look at me and retort, psh, I don't need any help from anyone The Bible tells us otherwise. We're told that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. No better than the Canaanites who worship false deities and sought soothsayers. Even those of Israel and those attending churches today set up idols in their hearts. Idols, remember, can be anything we place above our Creator. Not just carved images. Idols can be images in our heads. We might covet what belongs to others through social media. Idols might show up in our spending habits. It might be clear that we love money and indulge in foolish and harmful lusts. The consequence of idolatry is disastrous. Those who set up false gods and trust in them become like them, as Psalm 135 says. Those who regard worthless idols forsake their mercy. Jonah says. All that's left for those who call upon false saviors. Obviously they get silence from counterfeit gods, and worse scary is that they get silence from the true holy God. Waiting for all sinners, this everlasting separation and destruction in hell. Hope everyone's convinced they need help. And pray you cry out to the Lord for rescue. Pray you meet Jesus today if you haven't. He's the solution. To our sin problem. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Jesus is God and man at the same time, united in one person. He was conceived of the Virgin, He was called from the womb to be the Lord's servant. His mission was to restore Israel and to reach the ends of the earth. People did not recognize Jesus as Christ. He was their Messiah, anointed king, but the people resisted his rule. He was Israel's good teacher, but they rejected his counsel. They betrayed him, had him arrested. But that was all part of God's plan. Jesus faced the cross willingly. Authorities crucify the Lord of glory, but it was through his weakness and foolishness that we might be saved. He suffered in our place, facing the wrath of God that we deserve. God the Father made Christ who knew no sin to be sent for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. The son who loved and obeyed the father perfectly died for idolatry. He paid him for the death of sin as our substitute. His work, he breathed his last, and he was buried. But on the third day, as death could no longer hold him, Christ rose from the grave. Because he obeyed even to the point of death, God the Father highly exalted Jesus. He gave him the name above every name. Now there's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Urge you before it's too late, before your last day on earth, before the final day of judgment, be saved And to be saved, you must repent and trust in Jesus. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Christ With a sincere faith. If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, if you believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. But with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's it. That's all you have to do. You cannot earn a place in heaven with good works. Eternal life's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Back to Genesis twelve, and we'll raffle with verse nine. Abram heads towards Negev. Desert portion at the southern border. Nagab literally means south. That's why you see it capitalized there. As he follows God and his companions follow him, Abram moves forward and southward into Canaan with boldness. And we can imitate his faith and pattern of worship. Wherever we go, follow this moving day's instruction. Worship God according to his promise. As we begin a new year, I'm glad we're spending the first Sunday together in worship. There's no better way to start than to offer the sacrifice of praise to God, right? The fruit of our lips, giving thanks to God. To his name. So let's worship the Lord now. And I hope that this song, the last song, becomes a prayer for you. O great God of highest heaven, glorify your name through me. Let's pray. Our citizenship is in heaven. Lord, we already feel out of place in this world. Our values have changed. We haven't changed. Lord. Ask that in our time together we will remind ourselves of your word. And how we are your children, and that we can encourage each other as we walk together. Lord, as we go out into this world, even this week. Help us to remember that we belong to the body of Christ. Remind us that there are dangers in this world, subtle dangers Of course there are obvious angels too. But Lord help us to be discerning. Give us wisdom as we talk with people. read things and as we are inevitably in this world, but help us not to be of the world by your grace. And help us to worship you. May our regular worship times, not only on Sunday but throughout the week, be a reminder that we this is not our home, that our destiny is in heaven where we will worship you forever and ever. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.