So near the end of the nineteenth century An Italian economist named Wilfredo Pareto observed an idea that eventually became known as the eighty twenty principle or rule. It states that for many events, roughly 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes. This rule was applied and determined to be relevant with the richest in the wealth distribution in the world. Computer optimization efforts involving the most reported bugs, and key habits and focus in athletic training. Now you don't have to be an economist to understand that not all people, problems, and choices are equally consequential. Some individuals are more influential. Certain problems are weightier than others. You don't make dramatic life-changing choices every moment of your life. It's hard to argue That major causes, whether individuals, problems, or choices, account for double, triple, or quadruple amount of effect So we at Faith Bible Church believe that there are causes that have great effects onto eternity. We are convinced that the decision you make about your sin problem and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ Not only determine the next hour, day, week, month, year, or decade of your life, your acceptance or refusal to repent from sin And believe in Jesus Christ, that he died for your sins on the cross and rose from the dead, have eternal consequences. That's true now as you sit here, and it was true two millenniums ago when the Son of God walked among men. So as we continue in the Gospel of Luke, consider how we run into various people, individuals, who were faced, literally face to face. With the most important choice of what to do about Jesus. In today's passage, we see an earthly ruler who observed similarities between Jesus and another devout man. John the Baptist. We see crowds of people who were drawn to Jesus, his message and miracles We observe that Jesus' closest followers were forced out of their comfort zones to serve others. Their cause is the one man Jesus. The effect of following him or rejecting him is eternal. Let's look at Luke 9, 7 to 17, together in our Bibles. You will also find the sermon passage in the insert in the bulletin. Luke chapter nine, seven to seventeen. Now Herod, the patriarch, heard of all that was done by him And he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead, and by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the old prophets Herod said, John I have beheaded, but who is this of whom I hear such things? So he saw to see him. And the apostles, when they had returned, told them all that they had done. Then he took them and went aside privately into a deserted place belonging to the city called Bethsay. But when the multitudes knew it, they followed him, and he received them and spoke to them about the kingdom of God and healed those who had need of healing. When the day began to wear away, the twelve came and said to him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the surrounding towns and country and lodge and get provisions, for we are in a deserted place here. But he said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people. For there were about five thousand men. Then he said to his disciples, make them sit down in groups of fifty. And they did so and made them all sit down. Then he took the five loaves and the two fish. And looking up to heaven, he blessed and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before the multitude. So they all ate and were filled, and twelve baskets of the leftover fragments were taken up by them. So I speak to you today about the greatest message, about the greatest man, God incarnate. It's the message of Jesus, and I hope that as you or as we study this passage, you are convinced to accept it if you haven't already, and that you're convinced to continue in the Message. I pray you would make the decision, if you haven't already, that will determine your eternal destiny. I think there are three effects of the message that makes it the most important cause. One, the message of Jesus speaks to the guilty conscience. That's in verses seven to nine 2. The message of Jesus proceeds from compassion. Verses 10 to 11. 3. The message of Jesus challenges us to serve others. Verses 12 to 17. First, the message of Jesus speaks to the guilty conscience. And the guilty conscience in this passage belongs to Herod. Here's a little background on him. There are several Herods in the New Testament. This one is the son of Herod the Great. The one who tried to kill Jesus as a child. After this Herod the Great died, his kingdom was divided into four parts with mixed results, depending on the competency of His heirs. Herod Antipas was the ruler of one of the forts, hence the title, Tatrarch. He ruled over the Galilee region. In Matthew 14, Mark 6, and Luke 3, we were told that John the Baptist offended Herod Antipas. Early in his reign, Antipas married the daughter of King Aretas IV of Nabataea, but during a trip to Rome he fell in love with his brother Philip's wife, Herodias. He seduced her away from her husband and divorced his first wife. When King Eretas saw that his daughter was disgraced, he later went to war against his former son-in-law and defeated him. But before this war took place, John had warned Antipas that such incest, illegitimate divorce, and remarriage was contrary to Jewish law. In response to Patriarch, locked up the Baptist in prison. Antipas, however, did not immediately kill John. Matthew and Mark present a conflicted man. He wanted to kill John, but he was afraid of the crowd because they regarded him as a prophet. He feared him as a righteous and holy man, so he protected him from his wife who had no hesitation about killing him. He was confused by what he was preaching, but liked listening to him. Antipas epitomizes the unregenerate man who is simultaneously attracted to holiness. Yet repulsed by it. That's why he simply let John wane in prison But like I said, Herodias had no qualms about killing John, and she saw an opportunity during Herod's birthday party. Herodia's daughter came in and danced to the delight of the host and his guests. Probably carried away by sensuality and alcohol, Herod made a rash promise to give to her anything she wished. The daughter went out to ask for her mother's advice on the wish. Herodias instructed her to ask for the head of John the Baptist. And Herod was grievously forced to fulfill his oath, lest he disgraces himself in front of his guests. John's head was brought on a platter to Herodias The disciples of the Baptist came, took his body, and gave him a proper burial. It was not long after this incident that Herod heard about Jesus' ministry. Though he was confused about his identity. In verse 7, we gather that with the word spreading about the raising of the gyrus disorder, which which we saw earlier, in our series, and the commission of the twelve disciples, which we saw earlier this chapter, Jesus' local and regional celebrity status skyrocketed. Eventually the news of his fame reached the tatriarch's ears. Now you see that there were differing public opinions about Jesus' identity. Some thought he was John the Baptist back from the dead, others the coming Elijah predicted in Malachi, and still others one of the prophets of the old. Luke presents Antipas as undecided and curious. Matthew and Mark narrate Herod's conclusion: John the Baptist rose from the dead. Now, these opinions have shades of truth, and they're going in the right direction at times, but they're not accurate. Jesus spoke often from the Old Testament, how he fulfilled the prophecies. So he probably sounded like many of the Old Testament prophets. He performed many miraculous signs and wonders just like Elijah did. Jesus approved and reinforced John's message when he preached. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Herod's conclusion that Jesus is John 2. 0 is fascinating as he has no trouble believing. In the resurrection from the dead. Now, at this point in the story, Herod qualifies as what evangelism explosion calls a prospect. If we ignore for the moment his deplorable conduct later in chapter twenty three, he sounds like a seeker here. Now, I don't know how I would like to visit him and um d and reach out to him in an evangelistic outreach, but if you were to sit down with Antipas, you would learn that he knows the scriptures. His father was an Idumean or Edomite, converted to Judaism, and the later Herods we encounter in Acts, if there are any indication, you know they displayed knowledge of the Jewish religion. So we probably think Antipas did as well. By the way, last month Matthew Conrad delivered a Sunday morning sermon about one of the Herods, the last of the Herods. The Agrippa II. So please go listen to that if you haven't already. But all that privilege and knowledge got Antipas nowhere spiritually. From the moment he heard John to now as he hears about Jesus, he made all the wrong choices. He was left with a guilty conscience And I just want to explain what I mean by guilty conscience. We say that all the time. What is a guilty conscience? Now a book that I hope to get to sometime soon, and there's a pile that I need to get to. It's a work entitled Conscience, What It Is, How to Train It, and Loving Those Who Differ by Andy Nasselli and J. D. Crowley. I heard about this book. first at my former church. Now, I didn't get to it yet, but I hope to get to it. But I did glean a little bit from it for this sermon illustr uh sermon preparation The authors define conscience as a capacity for moral judgment and consciousness of what you believe is right and wrong. The two principles of conscience are one, God alone is the Lord of the conscience. And two, you should normally obey your conscience. Herod followed neither of these principles. He should have listened to his fears, the popular opinions about John, the man's personal righteousness and holiness. He should have gone against his reckless oath, even if it meant public shame. He did not obey his conscience because he never recognized God as the Lord of his conscience. So now he's left with a guilty conscience. The message of Jesus, his miracles and his message are designed as he hears about them to convict him and urge him to repent. And you know there's an application here that if we claim to teach the Bible and share the gospel and we never speak to the conscience, there's something wrong with the way we are teaching and evangelizing. Second Timothy three, sixteen, and seventeen isn't just about inspiration and doctrine, but also reproof, correction. Instruction in righteousness and good work. Does the message of Jesus speak to your conscience? If a sermon or testimony never challenges anyone to repent, there's something wrong in the script, not in the scripture. If you believe there's some ingenious way to present the story of Jesus, the gospel, without offending anyone's conscience, you have the wrong gospel. So as you pray to the Lord for opportunities to share the message of Jesus, know that we're talking to simple people with guilty consciences, and we will offend. As you dig in, you will see that some like Herod have been in dark places in life with terrible pasts. There will be those much worse than you in morality. But tell people like Antipas that it's not too late to repent. As much as he feared John the Baptist, he must fear Jesus Christ more. Now, unless you're a governmental leader yourself, it's more likely that your day-to-day interactions are with normal citizens. So I don't know how often you're going to meet someone like Herod Antipas. But as the message of Jesus spread through the Galilee region, it reverberated through the normal people, people reaching the people at the top. And Jesus cared for such people. And that leads to the next point. The message of Jesus proceeds from compassion. In verse ten, Jesus hears the mission reports from the twelve disciples who went through the towns to preach the kingdom of God. And perform authenticating miracles. Mark tells us that the reason he took them to a deserted place near Bethsaida was so that they could get away from the crowd to rest and eat. Another reason was that Jesus just found out about the death of John the Baptist and he needed time to process. The other synoptic gospels add that they withdrew on a boat, but we read in here in verse eleven that the multitudes followed. In parallel passages, we read that they followed eagerly on foot and they anticipated where Jesus and the disciples would come ashore and actually arrived ahead of them. Pretty impressive. Matthew and Mark record the reaction of Jesus at the sight of the crowds. He was moved with compassion for them. Mark goes deeper in chapter six, thirty-four, because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. Compassion leads to the continual healing and preaching of the kingdom of God. Now, this particular ministry at this moment is done by Jesus alone, allowing probably the apostles to rest a little bit. And you see him as this good shepherd. If Herod is like this evil shepherd who feeds and clothes himself from the flock, Jesus is the good shepherd who cares for his flock. And the wandering sheep, and he will eventually give his life for them. How do we make sure that the message of Jesus proceeds from compassionate hearts? When it comes to us. I say we need to pray that we would have compassion at hearts. But I also want to ask that we pray for As I ask on Sunday evenings, quality and quantity when it comes to compassion. What I mean by quantity, first and foremost, paper quantity of workers to meet the need driven by compassion. More workers to help the lost. There was another time, and I encourage you to read it again, read Matthew 9 later. At the end of Matthew, when Jesus saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them because they were like sheep having no shepherd. Very similar wording to this um incident. But in that instant Jesus turned to his disciples and said this the harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are peaceful. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. Quantity When there is a ministry that requires compassion, ask that the there will be workers to meet that need. But we also need to pray for the quality of our ministry. Not only to ask the Lord for more hands, but more heart. Not only more harvesters, but more shepherds. Now in a small church like this, it's easy for us to do lots of things, wear many different hats, check off the boxes, and go through the motions. Even in our daily life, we can be so busy with work, extracurriculars, plethora of activities in our calendar. We might be doers, but have we stopped to look at our unsaved neighbors, co-workers, classmates, and family to have compassion on them? Let's ask the Lord to empower us to carry his message with compassionate hearts. So even as the Lord answers that prayer, we know we will be stretched in our faith. And that leads to the next point. The message of Jesus challenges us to serve others. As the daylight waned over the deserted place, the twelve disciples asked Jesus to dismiss the multitudes so that they can go into the villages to buy food for themselves. And retired for the night. But Jesus challenges them to provide for the needy. We learn in John 6 that Jesus especially focused on Philip and tested him, asking Where shall we buy bread that these might eat? Philip replied that even two hundred denari worth of bread would not suffice, and the Twelve uh the rest of the twelve agreed. The disciples have nothing but five loaves of barley bread and two fish donated by a lad Andrew found If we account for the women, wives, and children, the total is likely to be somewhere between fifteen thousand and twenty thousand. Jesus instructs the twelve to split up split them up into groups of about fifty. Now the stage is set for Jesus to perform another miracle, a miracle that is unique because it is found in all four Gospels. All four writers narrate Jesus praying as he gave thanks and blessed the Father, broke the bread, and distributed the fish. I'm not sure exactly how it multiplied, but the results are clear. Thousands present eight, and they were filled. Afterwards, twelve baskets of fragments were left over, one for each of the apostles. So you see how as much as this miracle was for the multitudes, it was for the sake of the twelve disciples. They were the ones who initially thought Jesus just dismissed them. They were the ones who received the command, you give them something to eat. They were the ones who organized the small groups and made them sit down. Instead of distancing themselves from a sea of faces, Jesus forced each apostle to look them in the eyes. Eyes of people who were weary and hungry and in need of the good shepherd. And they would bring the baskets that remained full until everyone was full, and there was provision for them as well. Now, compassion begins within us, but service brings that compassion out of us. That's how our faith is stretched, as we stretch out our hands. Now recall that the apostles had just returned from preaching the kingdom of God and performing miracles. You know, they must have felt pretty good about themselves. Whether the people accepted their message or not, it must have felt good to be able to heal the sick and exercise demons. What great authority. It must feel good to have everyone's eyes glued to you as they eagerly await every word that comes out of your mouth. But Jesus does not inflate their eagles. He makes them wait on tables. As a result, it wasn't just the food that multiplied, their faith multiplied as well. Now, how do we apply this? Obviously, there's stress and humility in serving. I say first be humbled by Jesus. Charles Spurgeon said this about the miracle. What a feast this was! Christ for the master of the feast, apostles for butlers, thousands for numbers, and miracles for supply. We are butlers. We are simply table servers at the great banquet for the undeserving. We're not all that. Through this miracle we get a glimpse of God's Son as the creator and the provider and the sustainer. We see him greater than Moses who provided manna in the desert. He is greater than Elijah, who assured the widow of Zarephath for provisions during the famine. And finally, it looks forward to the end, to the marriage supper of the Lamb, when we will be glad and rejoice and give God the glory. This miracle is about Jesus. We take our appropriate place as butlers, those who serve on tables. As a second application, be humble like Jesus. The good news of Jesus Christ is that this master of the feast took the lowly position of the servant. Servant. We're gonna see as we go through the Gospel of Luke. Later in Luke 22, just before Jesus went to the cross, the disciples were arguing about who among them was the greatest. Jesus replied to them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called benefactors. But not so among you. On the contrary, he who is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, as and he who governs as he who serves For who is greater, he who sits at the table or he who serves? Is it not he who sits at the table? Yet I am among you as the one who serves. The one who provided feeding for thousands goes to the cross and becomes a servant. Paul teaches us in Philippians that not only did he take the form of a bondservant, coming in the likeness of men, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Jesus humbled himself to death to exalt us to life. He faced God's wrath on the cross in our place for our sins, and he was forsaken so that we might sit at his table. He was, as we send about, he was broken as the bread of life, so that we may be whole. A wonderful illustration of how the gospel, the message of Jesus, was a cause of great effect comes from the life of George Mueller. Now you might remember him as a man of amazing faith, but he sure did not look like that early on in his life Though his father wanted him to become a clergyman in the state church, he was not saved until much later. At age ten, he was stealing money from his father. At fourteen, while his mother was dying, he was playing cards and drinking. Even around age twenty, he displayed wicked behavior, these are his words, unrepentant spirit, sinful lifestyle, and a cold heart. He was no better than Herod Antipas. And he was in a seminary. And it was not until a fellow student at a seminary at the seminary invited him to a prayer meeting that he began to change. He saw a man on his knees before God, and he was convinced of his need for salvation. He himself knelt and prayed later, asking the Lord to bless him and forgive him of his sins. He immediately repented from drinking, stealing, and lying. God gave him a desire to become a missionary instead of pursuing a comfortable ministry as his father envisioned for him. He began preaching regularly in nearby churches. The message of Jesus spoke to his guilty conscience. After this miraculous gospel transformation, the Lord gave him a burden for orphans. He built and directed the Ashley Down Orphanage in Bristol, England. He cared for over 10,000 orphans during his lifetime and provided educational opportunities. And it got to a point where he was accused of creating a socio-economic upheaval, raising the poor above their station in British life He established 117 schools, offering Christian education to more than 120,000. The message of Jesus proceeded from his compassion. Mueller emulated Jesus in prayer life while serving others. There's there's one well documented incident in which he gave thanks for breakfast. Well all the children were sitting at the table of the orphanage. But there was nothing to eat in the house. As soon as he finished praying and giving thanks, the local baker knocked on the door with enough bread to feed everyone. Then the milkman gave them milk because his carts broke down in front of the orphanage. This is just one example of how God answered Mueller's many prayers. The message of Jesus challenged him to serve the orphans. Now, not everyone's life will look like George Mueller's. We have different number of talents and gifts, bearing times left on earth, and Different times of different opportunities. But if we trust in Christ and live for Him, we will be connected to the great cause that have eternal effects.