Thank you for inviting me. It's a great privilege to be here. It was a drive to a memory lane. I used to live in Maryland for uh from eighty nine to twenty ten. Live right in Laurel. I will come frequently up ninety f uh ninety five to one hundred to Eleca City. Uh Um so it's it was a great uh memory to just drive through up here. Now I live in Virginia, but I definitely miss Maryland and I'm glad to be here this morning to worship with you all and uh Just praise God with you. So the late great theologian R. C. Sprofe once said this. Concerning the Christian life. The big idea of the Christian life is Quram Deo. Quram Deo captures the essence of the Christian Christian life. This phrase literally refers to something that takes place in the presence of or before the face of God, and that's what it means before To live Quram Deo is to live one's entire life in the presence of God, under the authority of God, to the glory of God. So to live before the face of God means that we can compartmentalize our lives into religious and non-religious Sundays and weekdays. Secular and sacred. All of our lives are under under His gaze. And if we have God constantly watching us as His children Wouldn't it be great to bring joy to him and if we can picture it, a smile to his face? Or as we sang, uh like Like to have our lives be like a sweet incense rising to his throne or to use a sense different from the olfactory one, music to his ears. And Psalms would be a great place to start to understand what it means to please God. And specifically Psalm 33, which we read this morning, and you'll find in your bulletin. And Derek Kidner, a commentator, wrote concerning this song, which is a prototypical hymn of praise. Quote If the purest form of a hymn is to is praise to God for what he is and does, this is a fine example. We gather from the contents of the Psalm, especially verses sixteen and seventeen, which is not there, but you can turn to in your Bible. That it might have been occasioned by an Israelite national victory, but there's really no way to specify uh specif uh specify which one it would have been Unlike the previous Psalm 32 and the following Psalm 34, there is no superscription to provide any historical context. The Greek version of the Old Testament does ascribe it to David, but uh we're not sure about uh whether that's true or not. So to err on the side of caution We'll simply call the anonymous author of this uh chapter the psalmist. And from verses one through nine, I believe there are five principles regarding worship that pleases God. Worship that can be Music to God's ears. First, we gather from verse 1 that the beauty of worship comes from salvation First, the beauty of worship comes from salvation. Consider first the imperative here to rejoice. We are told not to rejoice in our accomplishments or things of the world, but rejoice in the Lord. Charles Spurgeon said once about this phrase, quote, to rejoice in temporal comfort. Is dangerous, to rejoice in self is foolish, to rejoice in sin is fatal, but to rejoice in God is heavenly. What are you rejoicing in this morning? But we also learn from this first verse that praise is not only God's command, it is also God's delight. The original word for beautiful here is found four times in the Song of Songs in describing the lovely features of two people in love. There's something sublime, intimate, and delightful about the way God's children adore him. And another thing you might ask from this first is how does one become righteous and upright? Are we all sinners? Did we not fall short of God's perfect standard? It's true, we are all sinners. Romans 3. 23 says, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But the psalmist assumes that there are those who are upright and righteous. How is this so? Well, I believe the answer to this question can be found by looking at the previous chapter, Psalm 32. Usually psalms should be treated uh individually and even consecutive chapters do not necessarily float together in argument. But like a pair of limbs connected by a joint, the end of Psalm 32 and the beginning of Psalm 33 connect via common words and themes. James Montgomery Boyce said, quote, Psalm 32 ended by calling on the righteous to sing praises to God. This note is picked up in Psalm 33, almost as if its first three verses were written as an elaboration of Psalm 32 verse 11. So if this is true, we may be able to go back to Psalm thirty two to get a better understanding of Psalm thirty three. So let's turn back to that previous verse, Psalm thirty two verse eleven. It says there, be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, you righteous, and shall forjoy all you upright in heart. So you see there are some links between Psalm 33 verse 1 and this one we just read. There's the imperative to praise God. In addition, in both verses, there's an exhortation given to those described as righteous and upright. And now I want to go even back further into Psalm 32, that we'll find a big clue about what it means to be acceptable to God. Because if you want our worship to be beautiful, we first have to be accepted by God. We're not going to read the entirety of Psalm 32, but just verses 1 and 2. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. So here's the answer. To be righteous and upright, we must have God forgive, cover, and not count our iniquity against us. The writer of the Psalm, the Psalm 32, that's King David, knew what that felt like to have his transgressions forgiven and sin covered. He was able to confidently affirm that the Lord does not impute iniquity against him, no trace of deceit in his soul, nothing damning in David's account. Now that's amazing if you think about it. If you read the historical books of the Old Testament, we know about his failures as a leader of Israel. We know about his sexual immoralities and his adultery with Bathsheba. And his subsequent murder of her husband. It was a tainted life with blood on his hands. But he became a man with clean hands and a pure heart, emboldened to approach the holy place of God. Do you have this kind of confidence? Do you know that you are upright and righteous because God has forgiven you of your sin? If you're not sure about this, if you have not reflected on your soul and your life after death, Please listen carefully. You can have conscience that is clear before God and enter into heaven. Apostle John wrote a letter to Christians in In and in first John five thirteen it says, Um, These things I have written to you, who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God. the Son of God. During my late teenage years, I learned two very crucial questions from an evangelistic Training program called Evangelism Exposion. It was founded by late Dr. D. James Kennedy. And I wanted to ask you guys, and something to chew over Do you know for sure that you are going to be with God in heaven? That's the first question. The second question is: if God were to ask you, why should I let you into my heaven, what would you say? And for most of you I hope the answer is something you already know. That we are able to be with God by faith in Christ apart from works. And I'm going to now connect Psalm thirty-two to a New Testament book, Romans four. And if you go there and You'll see that Paul cites from the life of Abraham and the life of David as proof text for the gospel of justification by faith alone. So as you go to Romans 4, see how Paul develops an argument that by faith we can be saved and have this assurance of eternal life, and we can be upright and righteous before God. So Romans 4, and I'm just going to read verses 1 through 8, and then a few other verses in a bit. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as death. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness, just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Here we go. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. Both Abraham and David, David being more relevant to our discussion right now, believed in God's promises of a seed that will come As the Messiah or Christ. In other words, they look forward to a savior that will come from their lineage. And just by trusting in God's word, they were graciously bestowed the status of being righteous and upright. What are having to earn it? And while they had to look dimly forward into the future, we have an amazing benefit of 2020 And if we skip down to verses 23 to 25 in Romans 4, we see how we look back to Jesus in faith, like the way they look in the future. Verse 23, Romans 4. Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him, but also for us. Good news there. It shall be imputed to us who believe in him who raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead, who was delivered up because of our offenses, and was raised because of our justification. I know I hopped all over the Bible, but I can tell you that the life's most important questions are found in the safety and the confines of the scriptures. We started with Rom uh Psalm thirty three, went backwards to Psalm thirty two and then went to Romans four. But the question that I'm coming back to, how can our worship be beautiful to God? Well first we have to be accepted by God. We have to be Righteous and upright before Him. And how do we become righteous and upright before Him? We need to trust in Jesus Christ alone so that our sins may be forgiven, that none of our sins will be counted against us. That was a big lot of points on just one verse, but it's so important, just in case there are people in this room that do not know how what it means to be accepted by the first time. God. Only by faith can we approach God and offer worship that is music to his ears. Now let's talk about the performance of worship. And after we have established our relationship with Him, with God, we can consider how we can perform to our to the best of our ability. That leads to the second principle. That's found in verses 2 and 3. The performance of worship must be skillful and passionate. The performance of worship must be skillful and passionate. In verse 2, we read that our praise ought to be accompanied with instruments. We may not have the same exact instruments as they had in the past, but horns and strings are frequently referred to in the Bible. And I would love to see You know, um somebody play a ten stringed instrument. Um I know how to play a regular guitar and a bass guitar, and I guess if you add it up that's ten strings, but I don't know how to play them together at the same time. Whatever it may be, it takes skill. And that's exactly what's demanded in verse three. But technical skill is not all of it. The psalmist does not exclude the need for creativity. Because if you think about it, singing a new song requires somebody to compose. and write new music and lyrics. So creative skill is also needed. Now even if everyone of us does not have music talent, we ought to recognize those in our midst to do. Um I don't mean to do this to Steve, but I mean when I first heard about this church, I have to get some context about their church, right? So the first person I talked with was Steve. So um It's wonderful that you guys are blessed to have a wonderful music minister and and you know I got to talk with him over the phone to just get to know him and the church. And I know this, first of all, just by looking at the website, that he received excellent education at University of Maryland and Capitol Bible Seminary. And I'm not just saying that because I went to both of those schools, but but I'm saying that because I believe in the education there. Um and I also learned from your website that Stevenson faithfully serving this church since 1989 on top of being a husband, father, and grandfather. Thirty years of involvement in music ministry, directing the adult choir, playing and maintaining the piano and the organ. So take some time to encourage and show your gratitude to this minister, who has the skills that God has given him. Uh I I'm telling you that sometimes I wish uh during my past church ministries I had a skilled music pastor to help me. I remember on some Sundays it w I served at small churches, I had to lead a Bible study, grab a guitar. you know, lead the practice and stay up on the stage, get behind the pulpit to preach and greet everyone and have fellowship. It was like a one man show and I'm sad to say it wasn't always a good one. Well that's my little story and uh and little appreciation for Steve Now you may wonder how the second principle, you know, performance of worship must be skillful and passionate, applies to us who may have never picked up an instrument. May have trouble keeping a beat or singing in tune, but no one is exempt from participation in worship. In that last part of verse 3, skillful playing is accompanied by joyful shouting. Even if you can't hit a high note or a low note, I'm sure we can shout with joy. I'm sure you shouted for out of frustration during 695 traffic hours, right? Or maybe just a few days ago when the Capitals won the Stanley Cup I don't know, but I'm sure our voices can rise to the occasion of praise. The commentator Derek Kidnav, whom I mentioned earlier, wrote concerning verse 3, quote, Note the call in that verse for freshness and skill as well as fervor. Three qualities. Rarely found together in religious music. We can all contribute in one or more of those areas. And we have the benefit of other congregations in the body of Christ we can learn from. And ultimately, when we reach heaven, worship will continue in creativity, skill, and passion. Because we're going to behold God, His beauty, that which we behold in the present by faith. For now we come together as a congregation on earth, each with our different testimonies and gifts. But as much as there is diversity, we are united because we have one God and three persons. Who saved us. That leads to my third point. The reason for worship is God's character. That's found in verses 4 and 5. The reason for worship is God's character. In verses 4 and 5, we see that God's words and works are consistent with his desires and attributes. Think of what this means. So often we as fallible humans, fallible humans, say what we don't mean, act out of character, desire wrong things, and thus prove our decrepit nature. Okay. Just ask my wife. I mean she's not here with me today, but you know, I say things that I don't mean, do things I don't mean. Um And the list goes on. God is the complete opposite. There's no conflict between what he says, does, and wants. God's words are never empty, devoid of his actions. When he acts, he is consistent with what he has said. He never says, oops, I shouldn't have said that. He never second guesses himself. He's not he's never not sure of what he wants If there's any limitation in this communication, it's on our part. Since we never have a full picture of what God is doing in this universe. Even as he rema reveals himself to us, he has to accommodate to our small minds and our small perspective. Thankfully, the psalmist here puts it in plain words for us. His word is right. His work is in truth. He loves righteousness and justice. We have a good and faithful God And his wonderful character is revealed in the special revelation which we call the scriptures and in his person But there's also what's called a general revelation, how God reveals Himself in this world. We read in verse 5 that the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. This is an example of what is called general revelation. God has revealed himself through his created order So that as Paul writes in Romans 1, which I encourage you to read another time, we as humans would sense deity, power, and rightfully glorify him. Everywhere we go in this world, God's goodness is evident, his power is evident, and we're left without excuse when we do not worship him. We cannot feign ignorance. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. And it's a good thing that the creation is medi is the medium of God's benevolence. Now a famous Christian philosopher named William Paley spoke once about God's goodness on earth. Quote, He might, if he had pleased Have made everything we tasted bitter, everything we saw loathsome, everything we touched a sting, every smell a stench, every sound a discord, incord. Now could you imagine a world like that? Where candy isn't sweet, medium rare steak is dry You know, Icy drinks really hot, right? Sunset is dreadful, soft things are prickly, flowers foul, no song in tune. We're thankful for the way things are, that it shows God's good nature. Our world is not filled with desert wilderness or Arctic landscapes. It's not winter or summer everywhere at the same time. Now you might ask, of course, what about all the suffering in this world? Did God intend that as well? Well, I'm not gonna go into a full depth, but God is absolutely sovereign, so nothing that happens can be outside of his will. But we must remember that the world also reflects the fall of man as well. It's subjective utility, and the corrupt creation is collectively groaning for God's redemption to take place in the future. Yet, even in the midst of this We can say amen to what the psalmist says. God's character and his original design still shines through the bleakness. We can join with them and say the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. The psalmist not only extols um God's morality, his good character, but like Paul emphasizes his might, his power, his strength. Strength. And that leads to my fourth point, which we find in verses six and seven. Another reason for worship is God's power Another reason for worship is God's power. Now I mentioned earlier how our worship should be creative, but nothing we do will ever match God's innovation, his creation. We read in verse 6 how God spoke and the vast universe was made. Do you know that if you were to traverse the distance between Earth and the edge of the earth, just the observable universe, we would have to travel at the speed of light, which is about six trillion miles per year for 46 billion years. I can barely drive over seventy miles per hour before my car starts shaking. Yeah. Um All that we see in this universe and all that we don't see in this universe, God created without lifting his finger. All matter and space bent to God's spoken word so that stars, moons, planets, and galaxies appeared out of nothing. How can I beat that? I mean sometimes when I speak to Alexa, that you know thing, uh she says I don't understand what you're saying. And so I the best what I can do is that it tells me the temperature for today. That's about the voice then on my you know authority on my word. Verse 7 zooms in to the formation of the earth. And something else as well, which I'll talk about, as God gathers the water to appointed places. This is like divine water management. Um which took place once during the creation week and another time after Noah's flood. But God was in complete control of where and how the water would find their places. It's like the way we store our belongings in our closets and garages and barnhouses. But it's we're not that good at it, are we? So because it only takes one effort at spring cleaning to realize how hard it is to manage our little things. God, on the other hand, has a problem managing 326 million trillion gallons of water, which cover the 71% of our Earth's surface. That's how powerful God is. All that with his words So about a decade ago, I had the privilege of attending a short-term mission trip to Flagstaff, Arizona. I don't know if you guys have been to Arizona, plenty to see there. We work with the local church there and reached out to local Hopi tribe descendants. We organized a vacation Bible school and other events The missionary stationed there was a fun and animated man who one night led our team out of our lodging. It was pitch black and we weren't quite sure where we were going. It was kind of frightening actually. We ascended a little and it started to get a little bit brighter and Uh the pastor said just don't look up but just keep following me. So we did. And then he instructed us to a And led us to a flat place where he said, Okay, close your eyes and then lie down on the ground. And then he said, On count of three, I want you to open your eyes. And we did. And we got a treat. We were able to see these beautiful stars without any aid. And I've never seen them so close. It felt like you could just you know, reach out your hand and grab him and with so much clarity in this beautiful sky. It was a great experience to behold God's creation while serving him so you know hard during that week. Similarly, after our work was done with BVS, we had a left we had a day left over before returning home, so we went to the Grand Canyon National Park. Of course if you're in Arizona, you gotta go there. It was about an hour away from Flagstaff. And we stopped at various sites and of course they were breathtaking. The canyon is two hundred and seventy seven miles long and its main segment reaches depths between three thousand and six thousand feet. feet. It's amazing to think about what caused these immense rock layers to form. Well, it's the erosive power of water, right, which we just read about. Evolutionists and You know, secular geologists believe that the canyon was formed as the Colorado River eroded the rock material through a slow and gradual process. I think that's a bit unlikely. You know, such a big, massive structure cannot be formed by a small river. A better explanation is that a few thousand years ago the canyon was carved first due to a cataclysmic and traumatic Genesis flood. Not millions and billions of years ago. And then the Colorado River formed. Now, of course, it would have been awesome to be there and see God creating the Grand Canyon, but Uh we have a testimony that we can always come to uh go to in our great country, right? To see how great is our God, who binds and loses water to display his might. So when we behold such force, the power of his word, what he does with the waters. How he creates the stars in the universe. We're left speechless. And that's not a bad thing. The psalmist actually promotes it. Which leads to the fifth lesson here. The object of our worship leaves us in awe. Verses eight and nine. The object of our worship leaves us in all us in all. The practical and the natural application that follows displays of God's power is to fear the Lord and stand in awe of Him. The reason is clear. God speaks and it was done. God commands and it stood fast. An eighteenth century English preacher named George Horne said this concerning this verse. Quote, He who made all things, preserves all things, and can in a moment destroy all things, is the proper object of our fear. And that we fear him so little is a most convincing proof of the corruption and blindness of our hearts. Do you fear the Lord? Just because we have God as our Father, Jesus as our Savior, and the Spirit as our comforter, that doesn't mean that we should not fear God. It's those outside of Christ actually who remain sinners who have no fear of God before their eyes. If we have fears of public speech and height, shall we not tremble before God Himself? And what exactly is this fear of the Lord? Is that like terror? Is it like a phobia? Is it like nervousness? Is it respect? Is it reverence? How would you explain fear of God to someone? Well, here's one attempt. A Christian man once went on a family vacation to Toronto. At first, they weren't sure what attractions to see. But all the guidebooks pointed to the famous CN Tower, the world's tallest freestanding structure for 32 years, and the tallest tower until 2009. The father was he had fear of heights. He did not want to be 1,815 feet above the ground, but the kids were excited and convinced him to go Once they arrived at the location, the dad, of course, got in the elevator last, and much to his dismay, he learned that the door of the elevator itself was made of glass. And he was affixed to the outside of the tower. As they ascended, the man could literally see the city of Toronto falling away from at his feet. I'm sorry if you have a fear of height and this is kind of making you nervous too. But he was just inches away from the door and from the outside and free fall. His palms were sweaty, throat tight, and he began hyperventilating. He couldn't wait to get to the observation floor Finally the elevator stopped and the man stumbled out to the floor where he thought it would be safe But it turned out the observation floor features a glass floor so that people can walk on it and see the ground directly below. So cruel, so cruel. The kids had no qualms about walking, jumping, and even lying down on the glass and encouraged their father to join. Of course he did kind. And the same year the family also went to the Grand Canyon. But there obviously there's no blocks of glass to separate you from doom Apparently, two to three fatalities occur every year from Deadly Falls, and some apparently, according to a website, due to overly zealous photographic endeavors. So be careful with your cameras. The man who went to both Toronto, uh the CN Tower, and the Grand Canyon wondered to himself. Is fearing God more like standing on the glass floor of the CN Tower? Or is it like standing at the edge of Grand Canyon? And he says that I'm not sure if I completely agree with this illustration, but we can talk about it. This man used to think and preach that the fear of the Lord is primarily like standing in the sea and tower. Okay. You don't need to be terrified, you don't need to be uh overly scared, you don't need to have a phobia, because that would be irrational. But then he wasn't sure if this was the best illustration. He looked at verses like Isaiah 8. 13, where you can look at later. We're told there that the Lord of hosts must be hallowed and be our fear and dread. There's also Matthew ten twenty-eight, where Jesus told his disciples, not unbelievers, his disciples, to fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. So which is it? Is it like standing on CN Tower? Or is it standing in front of the Grand Canyon? I'm not too sure what I think about this. I don't like I don't like to be pigeonholed to be the decision between the two. But it doesn't have to be either or, maybe it could be both and. Maybe we can be like the kids on the glass floor and delight in the heights of God, yet at the same time fear him like the depths of Grand Canyon. Instead of thinking the fear of the Lord as contrary, incompatible, or mutually exclusive to loving God, what if we hold him together? That we fear him and love him? We dread him and delight in him. Respect him and be intimate with him. Consider verses like Deuteronomy ten twelve. It says there, uh and all the way to verse thirteen. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you? But to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways and to love him. To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments of the Lord and his statues which I command you today for your good. The Bible is comfortable to talk about fearing the Lord and loving him at the same time. In the same breath of love and intimacy is obedience and service. Of course, we have no fear of in judgment day in the sense that we have confidence through his love, and that's what John talks about in 1 John. But fear is a way that we can show love to God. It's interesting that in 1 John, which talks about no fear in love, also talks about how constantly mentions obedience to God's commands. As an affirmation of our Christian identity. So fearing God enough to obey ironically gives us more confidence than we are his children. So fearing God is not a bad thing. So as we went through these verses We are his redeemed. We are his children. We are his righteous and upright ones. And that was only possible. If God forgives us of our sins, do not count our sins against us. And that is only available through the finished work of Jesus Christ. Do you know him? And if you do, we can offer worship that is beautiful to God. And we can worship them and perform that worship with skill and passion. And we always have a reason to worship because of God's good character. And his powerful word. And we can stand in awe of him. And that is music to God's ears. Let us pray. Lord, we rejoice in you. We thank you. We praise you. Each and every day, not just today, but we want to serve you each and every day. With fear. We want to live before your face and bring a smile to your face. We want our lives to be music to your ears. We want our lives to be a sweet fragrance rising to your throne. And Lord, we pray that that that will come from a heart that is grateful for your finished work, the the finished work of your son Jesus Christ, who died on the cross for us. And rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. We want our worship to be beautiful to you. And Lord, we pray that uh that we would just be passionate and that we would play with skill. We would sing with uh just creativity And Lord, we pray that we will always remember your good character, how the earth is full of your goodness, how you are truthful, how you are lovely. And Lord, we remember your power as well, how you created the universe. Just by your spoken word. And Lord, we thank you that we can be in awe of your power and your majesty. That we can stand and even just being amazed at your worship. And being silent before you. Lord, we can see that as worship as well. We thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.