So, unless you're in Iwana with some of the younger volunteers, still raising children at home, or frequently hanging out with your older grandchildren. you probably won't get too much exposure to adolescents. And if you do, it may seem like relating with them requires an acquisition of a new language. Someone said amen. Says I was a youth pastor once upon a time. Allow me to help you with understanding some of their lingo. If a kid walks up and says, What's up, bam? please know that bam is short for family. I don't understand why a word that is already short like family requires abbreviation, but hey, it's their world, so they think. If you talk to them about a movie, they might say it was lit or fire. The film is not about some pyromaniac. They're just very e enthusiastic about it. They're just saying it they thought it was entertaining and fun. Finally, if the adolescent starts describing a couple that's dating or married as goals, please resist the urge to correct them. Don't tell them that goals is a noun. is not an adjective. You'll just get some eye rolling or clap back, which is another term for a snappy retort. Now I'm sure every parent can relate with struggles communicating with their children. But if parents are hundred percent honest with themselves, they would admit that they are at fault sometimes too. No amen to that. Okay. Um No parent is perfect and the task is this difficult. Parents must prepare them for the world, yet protect them from the world You must detach them to become independent while they are attached and dependent on you. Guessing adolescence must be a tough time for parents. I'm sure you have to give yourself a break and give your child a break. Now would you believe me if I said Jesus knows what it feels like to have miscommunication with his parents? And I'm not saying Jesus was some rebellious teenager, far from it. No, I'm just saying he understands that struggle between dependence and independence. Tension between preparation and protection. In today's passage, we get a small glimpse of Jesus who is who like us went through what par many parents consider to be a tumultuous stage of child rearing Yet our Lord and Savior, the perfect God man, at one period of life was the perfect teenager. There is such a thing. So let's go to the passage. It's Luke, the Gospel of Luke, right? Uh there's a typo on the bulletin, so uh it should be Luke chapter two, verse forty-one through fifty-two. Uh it's the third gospel, so turn with me there as we Finish out this chapter and this series. You'll find the passage also in the bulletin insert along with the sermon points. So Luke chapter two, verse forty one to fifty two. His parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast. When they had finished the days, as they returned, the boy Jesus lingered behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and his mother did not know it. But supposing him to have been in the company, they went a day's journey and sought him among their relatives and acquaintances. So when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, seeking him. Now so it was that after three days they found them in the temple sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions. And all who heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. So when they saw him, they were amazed. And his mother said to him, Son. Why have you done this to us? Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously. And he said to them, Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? But they did not understand the statement which he spoke to them. Then he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject to them. But his mother kept all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and men. I believe there are three principles for living. Jesus exemplifies perfectly here. Jesus lived like his people to save all. Verses 41 to 45. Jesus prioritized his heavenly father above all, verses 46 to 50. And Jesus grew in his human maturity, like all, verses 51 to 52. First, Jesus lived like his people to save all. We have gathered from the preceding material in Luke, and chapters 1 and 2 of Matthew, that Jesus was born to pious parents. Both Mary and Joseph display obedience to God and conformity to the law of Moses. They were devoted during the extraordinary and turbulent years, and they were steadfast during the ordinary and stable years. They worship the Lord in uncertain seasons of divorce contemplations, angelic encounters, virgin conception and birth of Jesus. Visit of shepherds nearby and wise men far away, journeys from Nazareth to Bethlehem, to Egypt, back to Nazareth. But they also settled into an established routine and pattern of living back at their hometown, career building, homemaking, and eventually having more children. In addition to his weekly Sabbath attendance at the local synagogue, Joseph must have taken his family up to Jerusalem to observe the three feasts that must be celebrated there, and they are the feasts of unleavened bread. harvest and ingathering, Exodus chapter 23, verses 14 to 17 was the earliest passage to mention this requirement. The Feast of Unleavened Bread is technically separate from the Passover, but they follow each other so closely in observation and historical background. You'll see that in Deuteronomy 16. That one could refer to both feasts using one of the two names, as Luke does here in the passage and later in chapter 22, verse 1. Only male adults were required to go up to the three feasts, but Joseph brought his wife along for many years, according to verse 41. We're told in verse 42 that Jesus was twelve years old when he went up to Jerusalem. It does not seem likely that Jesus has been to that city since his presentation at the temple. And that was him as an infant, barely a month old. Why was his twelfth year more special, different than others? According to 2nd to 3rd century Jewish customs, law experts deduce that a Jewish boy becomes obligated to observe the law beginning at the age of 13. This opinion was the seed of later traditions, particularly the technical term, and write a passage known as Bar Mitzvah. Bar mitzvah means son of the cup commandment and bat mitzvah, daughter of the commandment. At the age of thirteen for boys and twelve or thirteen for girls, a child would be recognized. Formally as one obligated to follow the Jewish laws and become a full member of the synagogue. Other Jewish traditions instruct the pious parents to get the boys accustomed to life under the law before reaching the age of 13. Joseph is doing just that by taking the young Jesus with him to Jerusalem to observe the Passover. R. Ken Hughes imagines how the education Jesus received from his parents suddenly came alive in sight, sound, and smell. Imagine the grand sight of thousands of pilgrim Jews filling streets where merchants and beggars line strategically and priests standing in order. The sounds of bargaining, sheep and goats bleating, Levi singing, the smell of yeast eradicated in fire The blood of sacrificed victims and the roasted lambs back at home in the evening. The celebration and worship with last days. We skip over the details to the time of their departure in verse 43. By this point, Jesus has been fully immersed in the first holiday of Israel. Desiring to know more, he lingered behind and did not join the caravan heading back to Nazareth, according to verse 44. Joseph and Mary assumed that Jesus was with friends and acquaintances in the company. But after the first day of travel, as night fell, they realized their son was not there. It probably took a full day to return to Jerusalem, which they do according to verse 45. Now, Jesus was not being a typical adolescent, causing mischief and misbehaving. The scriptures are crystal clear that Jesus always pleases the Heavenly Father, John 8. 29. Though in all points tempted as we are, yet would our sin. Hebrews 4. 15. He is holy, harmless, undefiled Separate from sinners, and in him is no sin. Again, Hebrews, this time, chapter 7, verse 26. He committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth And he knew no sin. 1 Peter 2. 22. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. Jesus was not a rebel. So how could this happen? Again, our Kent Hughes is helpful. Quote, the explanation for Jesus' behavior here rests, I believe, in the genuineness of his incarnation. and his growing awareness of who he was. Accepting the incarnation at face value means that Jesus was genuinely a twelve-year-old. Though fully God, he was also human. Choosing not to avail himself of all the prerogatives of deity, he learned in the same way we do. As a child, he had to learn that 2 plus 2 equals 4. As a 12-year-old, he was still learning about every part of life, including faith and relationships. As a 12-year-old, he did not have the fine-tuned social awareness he would have at age 30. The point is, he was capable of unknowingly causing his parents distress, but as a sinless being, he was incapable of knowingly doing it. So at every stage, whether Jesus was a newborn, a toddler, a twelve-year-old, or a thirty-year-old. He was perfectly aligned with God in heaven, though he was not always perfectly aligned with people of earth. He did everything needed to become our Savior, including willing submission to the scriptures. We appreciate the fact that even at an early age, Jesus was continuing in his sinless life, and we get a glimpse of that. Not just born under the law, but continuing living under the law. And not just living according to it, but delighting in it. Jesus battled temptations and overcame every time the passions of youth, the lures of the world, and enticements of the devil. And he lived a perfect life, to die a perfect death for us as the substitute. For he made him who knew no sin. God made him, Jesus, who knew no sin to be sinned for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 again. And Jesus went through all that because we would all go to hell without him. Unlike Jesus, we have all sinned In thought, word, act, passively and actively, by omission and commission, breaking God's laws Jesus in love willingly took the consequence of our sins at the cross, the full wrath of God. He died and rose on the third day, victorious and proving that his sacrifice was accepted by his father. He ascended to heaven and now offers you the gift of eternal life. You cannot earn it or deserve it. You can only receive it by grace, through faith, like beggars reaching out their hands in humility. If you haven't already done so, please turn away from your sins and turn to Christ for salvation. Know that he lived like his people to save all of us. And Jesus accomplished that feat because he prized his relationship with God the Father. And that leads to the second point. Jesus prioritized his Heavenly Father above all. First day Joseph and Mary realize Jesus is not in the caravan. Second day they return to Jerusalem. Third day, they locate Jesus among the teachers at the temple. Most likely among members of the Jewish ruling body known as the Sanhedrin. William Barclay explains what's going on in verse 46. For the Passover season, it was the custom for the Sanhedrin to meet in public in the temple court to discuss, in the presence of all who would listen, religious and theological questions. Joseph probably checked first places in Jerusalem where troublemakers hang out, but they find him, Jesus, learning from the best teachers of the day Verse 47 indicates that Jesus was a precocious young man. Like I mentioned earlier, Jesus was truly human on earth at every moment. That is, I don't think Jesus was tapping into his divinity here, using his omniscience to anticipate and answer all the rabbis' questions. He was submissively learning the scriptures. Some have let their imagination run wild in their reading of this passage. In a second-century non-canonical, meaning not in the Bible, apocryphal work entitled The Infancy Gospel of Thomas. Jesus is showing off and is shown teaching the experts and silencing them with his wisdom. But that's not what we see here He's not showing off. He's not stumping the teachers. His desire was to know more about God, his father. So here we have it. The word of God. Learning the Word of God. That wondrous mystery was not at the forefront of Mary's mind in verse forty-eight Exacerbated from their backtracking and search, Mary must have concluded that Jesus was sinning and breaking the fifth commandment. Honor your father and your mother. This command will be relevant and applicable for 99. 99% of specific cases of parent-child conflict, but here's that unique singular exception. Jesus had first and foremost his heavenly father above, and then secondly his earthly legal father Joseph. They should have known these truths because of all the miraculous and memorable events that took place around Jesus' birth and early childhood. But if the Bible teaches us anything, it's that proximity to or direct experience of such events does not guarantee lasting faith. Jesus' question exposed the weakness of Joseph and Mary's faith. Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? Some Bible translations, like New American Standard Bible, translates the second question as, did you not know that I had to be in my father's house? I think house makes more sense here because Jesus would later cite Isaiah 56, verse 7, in chapter 19, verse 46, reminding the crowds at the temple that it must be a house of prayer. Business sounds a bit abstract, though it is true that typically a Jewish boy began learning his father's trade at early teens. Perhaps Jesus wanted to say that the heavenly business is more important than the earthly one. Whether it's business or house, the most important point is that Jesus has a one-of-a-kind relationship with God. God the Father. Born-again Christians are supernaturally adopted into sonship with the Father, regenerated, adopted But Jesus, as God, has the title of his only begotten son, which no creature can claim. It may surprise some that in the vast expanse of Old Testament across thirty-nine books, there are only fifteen references to God as Father. They emphasize his relationship with the corporate Israel and a few key representative figures. I can give you those passages, references on the way out if you want. So for the most part, God as Father is impersonal, and no individual would claim him as quote, my father. Consider the dramatic contrast in Jesus. Later, Jesus as an adult repeatedly referred to God as my father. In response, his Jewish enemies did not simply say, Oh yeah, he's our Father too. Jesus claimed exclusivity of an intimate, unique relationship with God. Here are the facts. Jesus is the uncreated second person in the Trinity. We are secondary persons in humanity Jesus' opponents knew exactly what he was saying throughout the Gospel of John. They were not only offended by his disregard for their beloved traditions, but his claim of divinity. That's why we read in John 5, verse 18. The Jews sought all the more to kill him because he not only broke the Sabbath, but also said, That God was his father making himself equal with God. Now we'll have a chance to talk in depth about these debates later. But for now, we must accept this mysterious truth. Jesus is fully God, who always knows himself as the triune God. Yet at the same time, he was fully human who became aware of that relationship as he matured. Acceptance of this fact is foundational to becoming a Christian. And upon this foundation, we can grow to be more Christ-like. Unlike Joseph and Mary in verse 50, we must first understand what Jesus is saying in verse 49, and then we can imitate Jesus. Who prioritized his heavenly father above all? Will you make the same decision to prioritize God in heaven? God the Father above all. And once we imitate Jesus in this manner, we are able to grow spiritually. And that leads to the third point. Jesus grew in his human maturity, like all. Though Jesus knew more than his parents by leaps and bounds, we read about his amazing submission in verse 51. A quick application for you. Perhaps you think and maybe you truly are, more knowledgeable, more skilled, and more qualified than your manager, employer, husband, parent. And I'm not arguing against or for your superiority. But the plain human principle of verse 51 is that you don't have to be inferior to submit. Jesus proves that right there. And our Lord was not bothered by his situation under lowly circumstances in an obscure town with humble parents. He was secure in his heavenly vocation. So it did not matter what his earthly location was. As you see in the second half of verse 51, it will take Mary some time to understand the deep truths about her son, who is also God's son. Just as we saw a summary of growth in the life of John the Baptist in chapter 1, verse 80, we have a summary here in verse 52, which echoes the summary back in verse 40 of chapter 2. Much of the same content is repeated, but the principle of verse 51 takes on even more significance. Jesus increased in wisdom as he obeyed his parents. He also went through the growth spurts and normal physical changes a boy faces as he becomes a man. Finally, we learn in verse 52 that becoming a man is not only an inward or private development. As the perfect God man, he related to God and men perfectly. Both in his vertical and horizontal relationships, Jesus maintained favor by obeying the greatest command to love God with everything and loving his neighbor as himself. What Jesus did perfectly throughout his life, we can try to imitate though we will inevitably and repeatedly fail, and in some ways we are never done. If our Lord Jesus grew in human maturity, like all, we should strive to do the same. Of course, most of us are done growing physically. Right. We finished that a long time ago, or not too long ago. But we ought to learn God's word diligently. We ought to submit to authorities and obey them as long as they don't contradict the scriptures. We ought to be okay with obscurity and limitations. These may not be spectacular, but they are divinely appointed means of growth, not hindrances. Pray that you would make it a resolution not only this year, but every moment on earth to grow in Christ-likeness, not in your own strength, but in the power of the Holy Spirit. We are never done growing. Today we finished the sermon series on the early life of Jesus. As we do, let us never stop reflecting on Christ's humility and his mission. Now I pray that you guys would Reflect on Christ's humility, his incarnation in Scripture, in song, in prayer. First, even if you have memorized and recited John 3. 16 often in life, let's not forget the wonder of that verse. The gospel of the world that he gave his only begotten son That whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Reflect on that truth. Read over Philippians 2 5-11. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. But made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even death of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth, and of those under the earth And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And that's the mission of Jesus, his Father's will. But let's not just read about it, but sing it. In a few moments we're going to end this worship service together with Anne Kenneth B, which is hymn number two oh three in the Green Hymnals. Now why don't you turn with turn there with me right now actually? And take a look at verse two. It summarizes for us The mission of Jesus, taken from various Bible passages, including Philippians 2, which I just read. He left his father's throne above. So free, so infinite his grace. Empty themselves of all but love, and bled for Adam's helpless race. Tis mercy all, immense and free, for O my God, it bound out me. Finally, as you keep your hymnal in your hand, let's meditate on the truth of the gospel in prayer. Now I found an advent prayer by Scotty Smith, pastor of Christ Community Church in Franklin, Tennessee. Then I would like to just use those words as we close and close our eyes and bow our heads in prayer. Let's pray. And I'll read you an excerpt and hope that this pastor's words reflect your heart as well. Thank you for coming into our broken yet beloved world. It's the world you created, sustained by your word, and will make new one day. Thank you for coming to us that you might live and die for us. You obeyed God's law perfectly and took our judgment fully. You came to save us from our sins. Hallelujah, O holy and profoundly glorious mystery. Though you never ceased being God, you truly became man, the God-man. the fulfiller of every God promise. The king of the cosmos, cradled in a stable. Prophets ponder the timing of your coming. Angels on tiptoe with joy long for it. We are the beneficiaries. Raised as our justifier, ascended as our mediator, coming as our bridegroom. What love is this indeed? The riches of grace are ours forever. The riches of grace are ours to marinate in. The riches of grace are ours to show and share with family and friends, our neighbors and the nations. Pray all these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.