Late November of twenty eighteen, a licensed psychologist contributed an article to a Florida newspaper entitled The irony of Black Friday following Thanksgiving. You can guess by that heading what the piece is about The long lines, people camping out in the dark, customers trampling each other, old ladies fighting over the last George Foreman grill. All happening within 24 hours of Thanksgiving dinners, where families gathered together to say grace, count their blessings, and ask, what are you most thankful for this year? The psychologist condemns the, quote, ultra-materialistic aspects of our culture. But at the same time observes this, quote, We feel most grateful for things that transcend the trappings of our world, like family, good friends, the awe of nature, or our spirituality. As far as I know, this author is no theologian or preacher. He runs a psychological service agency, not a Christian counseling organization. This wasn't in the pages of Christianity today, but it was in Florida today. But all his talk of materialism, gratefulness, and transcendence is rather convicting. Are we seeking first the kingdom of God and its righteousness? Well, there are many reasons for our ungrateful attitudes and many passages we can study. I want to focus on one particular passage in the Old Testament and one sin, the sin of coveting. First, a definition. What is covenant? We talked a bit about this topic during our series on the Ten Commandments. While God gave us desires and means to fulfill those desires legitimately, coveting is a specific kind of desire that has grown out of control. Most of us are familiar with the Tenth Commandment in Exodus 20, verse 17. You shall not covet your neighbor's house, you shall not covet your neighbor's wife nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor's You find the word covered in your English translation twice in that one verse Interestingly, that word in the original language is the same word found in Song of Solomon, chapter 2, verse 3. In that verse, the bride desires to be in the presence of her lover. The verb for desire is the same as the verb for coveting elsewhere Similarly, in chapter 2 of Genesis verse 9, before Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit, God gave them abundance of desirable trees. They just decided to go for that one tree God did not allow Since the beginning of time, we have foolishly followed our desires at the cost of sinning and transgressing God's laws and neighbors' boundaries. With that in mind, let's turn towards the passage for today, 1 Kings 21. As you go there, I'll provide brief background information on King Ahab. During his time, Israel was divided into two nations, one in the north with the same name, Israel, and the one in the south named Judah. Ahab's father Omri founded a major dynasty in the north and established Samaria as the capital. Ahab surpassed his father in wickedness and married Jezebel, the princess of Sidonians. Together they opposed the true prophets of God like Elijah. and established worship of foreign idols. But even though Ahab was wicked, God gave him victory over the enemies. The Aramenians and their leader Ben-Hadad. Ahab was foolish to spare Ben-Hadad, however, and God sent the prophet to condemn him for that poor decision. You can read verses 42 and 43 in chapter 20 to see what happened just prior to the vineyard incident. Then he said to him, Thus says the Lord, because you have let slip out of your hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction. Therefore, your life shall go for his life, and your people for his people. So the king of Israel went to his house, solemn and displeased, and came to Samaria. Let's continue right into chapter twenty-one. And it came to pass after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel, next to the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. So Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near, next to my house, and for it I will give you a vineyard better than it. Or if it seems good to you, I will give you its worth in money. But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you. So Ahab went into his house, sullen and displeased, because of the words which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him, for he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed, turned away his face, and would eat no food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, Why is your spirit so sullen that you eat no food? He said to her, Because I spoke to Nabet the Jezreelite, and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money, or else if it pleases you, I will give you another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give you my vineyard Then Jezebel, his wife, said to him, You now exercise authority over Israel. Arise, eat food, and let your heart be cheerful. I will give you the vineyard of Navith the Jezreelite. And she wrote letters in Ahab's name, sealed them with his seal. and sent the letters to the elders and the nobles who were dwelling in the city with Nabat. She wrote in the letter saying, Proclaim a fast, and seek Naboth with high honor among the people and see two men, scoundrels, before him to bear witness against him, saying, You have blasphemed God and the king, then take him out and stone him, that he may die. So the men of his city, the elder and nobles who were inhabitants of his city, did as Jezebel had sent to him, sent to them. as it was written in the letters which she had sent to them. They proclaimed the fast and seated Navat with high honor among the people And two men, scoundrels, came in and sat before him, and the scoundrels witnessed against him, against Nabat in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth has blasphemed God and the king. Then they took him outside the city and stoned him with stones so that he died. Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Nabat has been stoned and is dead. And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Nabat had been stoned and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Nabat the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money. For Nabat is not alive, but dead. So it was when Ahab heard that Nabeth was dead, that Ahab got up and went down to take possession of the vineyard of Naboth, the Jezreelite. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite, saying, Arise, go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, who lives in Samaria. There he is in the vineyard of Nabat, where he had gone down to take possession of it. You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, have you murdered and also taken possession? And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, in the place where dog licked the blood of Nabut, dog shall lick your blood, even yours. So Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? And he answered, I have found you because you have sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring calamity on you, I will take away your posterity, and will cut off from Ahab every male in Israel, both bond and free. I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baashah, the son of Ahijah. Because of the provocation with which you have provoked me to anger and made Israel sin And concerning Jezebel, the Lord also spoke, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the law of Jezreel. The dog shall eat whoever belongs to Ahab and dies in the city, and the birds of the air shall eat whoever dies in the field. But there was no one like Ahab who sold himself to do wickedness in the sight of the Lord, because Jezebel, his wife, stirred him up. And he behaved very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites had done, whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. So it was when Ahab heard those words that he tore his clothes and put sackcloth on his body, and fasted and lay in sackcloth, and went above mourning. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite, saying, See how Ahab has humbled himself before me. Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the calamity in his days. In the days of his son, I will bring the calamity on his house. I want to state four big ideas from the author. 1. Covering destroys us verses 1 to 4. 2. Coveting leads to more sins. Verses 5 to 10. 3. Covenant corrupts a society. Verses 11 to 16. And 4. Coveting will be judged. Verses seventeen to twenty-nine. First coveting destroys us Not just psychologically or emotionally, though that certainly happens. Ahab was already in a terrible spiritual state, and coveting exacerbated it. As we saw in the last verse of chapter 20, Ahab went to his home sullen and displeased by the prophetic words sent to him. And now, again in chapter 21. Verse 4, we have the same phrase, his house, swollen and displeased. He thought he could cheer himself up by acquiring more things. But he learned money cannot buy happiness. You can picture Ahab sobbing and muttering to himself in a dark room. Ahab did not handle criticisms well, and he did not easily take no for an answer, though he lived in the physical comforts of a palace He was in a bad place, spiritually speaking. He thought that by purchasing valuable physical estate, he could forget about his vulnerable spiritual state. In contrast, Navith was content and loyal to God and his family. Even before Israelites possessed the promised land, God has parceled out the land to individual tribes and families in accordance with His will. Nabit's portion was in Jezreel, a city strategically located near major roads. It was a city of great military and commercial relevance. It was in the valley with the same name, Fertil, with a nearby strand grapes and olives. Nabat was blessed, and he was a good steward, knowing that the vineyard was not his to give Ahab only has to realize that the vineyard was not his to take. Have you ever felt vexed and displeased about what you can't have? Could it be that you have unresolved issues with God, a problem with disobedience and idolatry? Jesus told us to not worry about food, drink, clothes or tomorrow. If Jesus told us to not fret about our basic needs, how much more shall we be free from coveting extraneous wants? The rest of scriptures is clear about how riches are ungratifying and the desire for riches is even dangerous. See for example Ecclesiastes 5. 10, Matthew 13, 22, and 1 Timothy 6, verses 6-19. What happens when coveting gets its way in our hearts? That leads to the second point. Coveting leads to more sins. In verse 5, we see Jezebel is concerned about her husband refusing to eat. I'm sure any woman would be concerned about her man having a bad day at work. So she asks, What's going on? Note Ahab's recollection of Nabod's refusal at the end of verse 6. I will not give you my billion. But that's not all that Nabod said. The way Ahab was presenting Nabot's words, it makes it seem like he was unreasonable, petty, and harsh. Ahab was so far from God at this point that all he could focus on is what he can't have, not why he can't have it. From verses 7 to 10, we gather that Jezebel formed a plan to get the vineyard, maybe without Ahab's foreknowledge initially. writing, sealing, and sending the letters. But he must have eventually learned about the plan because Elijah condemns him directly later The fasting would set the stage, as such days are usually proclaimed, to seek God's mercy for some evil or calamity that has befallen his people. Like what happened after Joshua's defeat at I, the scapegoats had to be identified. Except Nabat didn't covet like Achan, Ahab did. Nabit would be framed as the scapegoat. The two false witnesses were needed, and they were present to assure the crowds that he has violated Exodus chapter 22, verse 28. So Nabat would face the same fate as Shalomid's son in Leviticus 24. Ahab's vexation and sullenness were met with Jezebel's alacrity and callousness. They have the chemistry of the worst kind. They were a match made in hell. If only Ahab knew what Proverbs chapter 26, verse 7 says. Ahab had many things, but it doesn't seem like he really had a true friend who would dare wound his pride. If you think about it actually, David and Elijah were the closest things he had to friends. Because they told him the truth. So if you're struggling with coveting, go seek out a true friend who's not afraid to tell you the truth. And point you to Christ as the greatest treasure. Otherwise, desires unrestrained gain momentum and progressively gets worse James writes in chapter 1, verses 14 to 15. Each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin when it is full-grown, brings forth death. How true is that in this story? Now you might say, yes, Ahab's desire led to Nabat's death, but there's a far worse type of death here. And that's the spiritual depth for people like Ahab. Those out of fellowship with God. So in this chapter, sin goes unchecked, coveting goes unchecked, and then spreads to society and corrupts it. That's the third point. The letters arrive at their destinations. The elders and the nobles of Jezreel do not veto or revoke the executive order, so now covenant corrupts the city. Verse 11 shows the agreement. And then verses 12 to 13 show the near verbatim agreement between Jezebel's wishes and the compliance of Jezreelite rulers. From 2 Kings 9, verse 26, we learn that the leaders went above and beyond their duties and killed Nagar's sons as well. To clear the path completely for Ahav. They report their dirty deed to the queen The queen tells her king, and the king all he cares about is that Mabot is dead, and he can get what he wants. See this three-part progression from Ahab's internal coveting to Jezebel's external actions to the compliance of so-called leaders. A preacher and an expositor, Alexander McLaren, notes how all three were equally wicked. But they represent three different types of wickedness. Ahab was wicked and weak. Jezebel was wicked and strong. Her co-conspirators, the elders and nobles of Jezreel, were wicked and subservient. Just because you don't have a certain kind of personality, you're not a go-getter, you're not a type A, doesn't mean that you're not wicked. You could be a more go-with-the-flow kind of person. Or you allow others to manipulate you, though you occupy a place of responsibility. Wickedness doesn't just look like Jezebel. It could look like Ahab or the rulers of the city. No leader courageously protested against this plot. No elder protected his young. The nobles were ignoble. But let's be honest, if we were in the place of those leaders, would we have done much better? Will our voices be heard calling out against injustice? There are plenty of corrupt power-mongers like Ahab and Jezebel, and there are plenty of victims like Nabat and his sons today. What will we do as saints? Now just to be clear, we can't redeem the culture, but we can show them the redeemer. We can't save the world, but we can point to them, point them to the savior of the world We shine our light with our good testimony and good fruits in prayer and in hopes of their conversion. We also need to warn them of the judgment to come. That leads to the fourth point, coveting will be judged. In verses 17 to 19, God sends his prophet Elijah to confront Ahab, just as he was rapaciously claiming the vineyard like a vulture. Verses 20 to 24 record the prophet's scolding remarks. Ahab thought that he was getting an amazing bargain, but it came at the cost of his soul. He sold himself to do evil, so the Lord will repay evil to him. He was about to add to his house, but God is going to destroy his house. Ahab and his family would suffer, just as he caused suffering for Naboth and his family. His father Omri's dynasty will fall just as the two previous dynasties fell before him. The houses of Jeroboam, Ba'asha, and Omri were all wicked and caused the people to sin. So they all fall, according to the words of prophets, through mutinous conspiracies. The house of Ahab will not even get a proper burial as dogs and birds will eat their corpses. The narrator, probably Jeremiah, joins Elijah in condemning his wickedness and idolatry in verses 25 and 26. Now I want the chapter to end at verse 26. I wish it did. But we must go on to verse 27 to 29. We must realize that God extends his mercy to the worst of sinners We learn in the next chapter that Ahab's repentance seems short-lived and shallow, but the emphasis here is that God is gracious, bountiful, and rich in mercy. We could spend time speculating whether Ahab was truly saved, whether he ended up in heaven, but a better exercise would be this. Consider whether you understand fully how your coveting will be judged. Consider how you need to ask or seek God's forgiveness. You may find it preposterous that I am asking you to repent of coveting. You might say, I'm not like Ahab. I didn't let my desires get out of control. What's the big deal? What harm has my covering done? But remember that what Ahab did was wicked in the sight of the Lord. Verses 20 and 25. Even if the world doesn't see it, God does. By breaking the tenth commandment, you shall not covet, you are actually breaking the first commandment. You shall not have any other gods before me. It is clear that coveting is idolatry, according to Colossians chapter 3, verse 5. You are putting a person, a status, or an object in place of God. We have coveted and practiced idolatry, so we deserve his wrath forever. But like I said, those last few verses of this chapter are there to signal to us that God's grace is available. God is holy, yes, but he is also merciful. That mercy can be better understood if we can perceive not only the injustice that Nabat suffered But the greater injustice that Jesus suffered. So we turn from 1 Kings 21 to Matthew 21. In a parable, Jesus explains that like Naboth, he was the rightful heir of the vineyard of God's kingdom. The father sent him to collect the fruits of that vineyard, but the tenants, the religious leaders of the day, upon identifying him as the owner's son, out of jealousy threw him out and killed him. That parable predicted Jesus' suffering. Jesus, though innocent, was wrongfully accused by false witnesses. and he was sentenced to die as a criminal outside the city of Jerusalem. Like the Old Testament counterpart A plot was hatched by the leaders of the city in conjunction with other rulers. But that's not the end of the story. Jesus is not merely a victim. He is the victor. If you continue to read Matthew 21, Jesus says that the stone which the builders rejected has become the cheap cornerstone. If you continue to read to the end of the Gospels, the resurrection proves Jesus' story doesn't end as a tragedy. He died for our sins and he rose again from the dead. They said Nabbat is not alive but dead. But I tell you, Jesus is not dead, but alive. He died specifically to pay the penalty of every covetousness, every injustice, every bloodshed, every wickedness. If we repent and turn from our sins and trust in Jesus Christ, who died for our covetousness, we will be forgiven Jesus, unlike Ahab, is the good and benevolent King who doesn't take life, but lays down his life so that we may enjoy him forever. What need do we have to covet? We are complete in Christ. Would you make this confession to the Lord as a prayer? Yea, justified, O blessed thought, and sanctified, salvation wrought. Thy blood had pardoned bought for me, and glorified I too shall be. Complete in thee, each one supplied. And no good thing to me denied, since thou my portion, Lord will be, I ask no more, complete in thee.