This morning we're looking at Ephesians chapter 4, beginning at verse 22. Ephesians 4, 22. Paul writes to the church at Ephesus in chapter four. About the worthy walk, a walk that is in keeping with the calling by which they are called. All Christians everywhere belong to the church, universal, global. Can I say even eternal? And because we are a part of this big entity, if I could put it that way. There is a certain kind of walk that we should have, Jew and Gentile alike. We should, because we have one Lord, one faith, and one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all, we should have a walk that puts off. This is chapter 4, verse 22, concerning the former conversation, the old man. Which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man. which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. The worthy walk according to Ephesians 4 This next passage that we're looking at is a walk that involves a series of choices that you and I must make on a daily basis. It is not automatic. It is not a pill we swallow or a chant that we say in the morning. Or some sort of ritual or rite that we can just wave our hand over and by magic it is done. No, it is a lifestyle change. Now, backing up from the passage for a second, I want you to think about your own behavior and how our culture looks at behavior. I think we're living in a day when everyone, even people far outside of Christianity, want to change their behavior. They talk about it on Dr. Phil. They want their relationships to be improved. They want their health to get better. They want to stop being the mean person they were yesterday and to move on to a brighter tomorrow. We see it in our pop psychology. We have entire television networks and channels devoted. To sort of this new age philosophy of change. And so people endeavor to change. They joined the gym Or if they have a life-dominating habit like alcoholism or drug addiction, they'll join Narcotics Anonymous or Alcoholics Anonymous and they'll try to change a horrible behavior that they have. What is the difference between the way lost people change their behavior and the way Christians change their behavior? How does the gospel affect us? Are we like them? Must we resort to Dr. Phil or just to 12 steps? I mean, is there a fundamental, foundational difference between the way they change and the way we change? Because the fact is, folks, this is true. You must change. If you're here today as a Christian, you must change. There is no option for you. There is no laissez-faire, I'll just get along and go along. I kind of like the way I am. You and I, we must change. First of all, in looking at this passage, this change is volitional and personal that ye put off. That is verse 22. Verse 24, that ye put on. It involves a choice that you and I must make. You remember from the Gospels the story of Peter and how he denied the Lord. And you know that he did it how many times? Three times The result of his denial was that he went out and he wept bitterly. He was sad because of what he did. And then after that, it appears by the gospel accounts that he was willing to give up on maybe not Christ, but on this whole idea of ministry. Of serving in Jesus' name because he went out and he took up his old occupation of fishing. But then the day came when they saw the Lord making dinner on the beach, cooking. And Peter had a decision to make, didn't he? And what was his decision? Peter being Peter, he jumped out of the boat and started swimming to shore. And then the conversation took place where Jesus asked Peter more than once, how many times? Three times. That reminds me of how many times Peter denied him. Three times, do you love me, Peter? And each time Peter had to respond to that. Do I love this man? This God, God, the only God, the Son of God. Do I love him? Yes. Yes. You know I have affection for you. He was never willing to say no. He really did love Jesus, but he had failed. And then this moment of decision. Jesus restored Peter and then he recommissions Peter and he says, If you love me, feed my sheep, feed my lambs, I have a job for you to do. And then Peter had to decide. Would he take up his cross again and follow Jesus? Our Christian life is full of decisions. You and I, will we decide to go back to the lifestyle of Gentiles, the pagans, as they, verse 18, have a dark understanding? are separated from the life of God because they lack knowledge, their ignorance, and their hearts are insensitive? Or do we choose to put off and put on? Now, what is he saying then with this put off? Look at verse 22. He says here that you put off concerning the former conversation. In that word of the King James Version. That's just an old word for conduct years and years ago. And that's what the Greek word means. Conduct. Your former conduct or your former lifestyle. The old man. It is the lifestyle of the old man. This is in keeping with what I preached on last week. It is a lifestyle. If you look at verse 19. The way the Gentiles walk, they're past feeling, and they've given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greediness. They're dark in heart and mind, they're insensitive to the truth, and so there is a lifestyle that is in keeping with the inner darkness. Have you seen this? I mean, do I even have to give you illustrations in today's day and age of what this is? And so we put this off. And what is this lifestyle according to? Well, there are essentially two descriptive words here in verse 22. Look at it again. This is a lifestyle, the old man, which is corrupt. And that word in the Greek is in the present tense. It could be translated is being corrupted. And then it has a second description. It says here, it's according to the deceitful lusts. Literally, that could be translated desires of deceit. So you have here a lifestyle And we have to put it off, but it's an ongoing lifestyle that is in an act of disintegration. It is being disintegrated or corrupted. And it is lived in keeping with deception. What does this imply? Let me give you a couple of applications here. When you go to work this week and you look around at people, you see people that are often physically attractive or they have their lives, they have their appearance together. They look sometimes like they are with it Or, as Tim said in Sunday school, sharp as attack. They look like they are with it. Consider for a moment the biblical description. If that person is not a Christian, There is a continual process by which their own deceitful desires are breaking them down inside. It's not that they're perpetually through life trending up, getting better and better. According to this passage. There is this downward trend of disintegration. It might not be a slide overnight, it might take years, but it's a trend that is going down. It's a process of corruption that is happening all the time. Now, if you want to see into that process, if you want to roll back the curtain, as it were, and look at how this process takes place, then again I invite you to turn to James 1. And I will remind you of a passage that I've been using a lot lately James 1, verse 13. And what we'll do, we'll focus on verse 15 today. James 1, 15. How does temptation work? Well This is verse 14. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. That's what we have in Ephesians 4. We have deceitful desire, and it's being drawn away and drawn away internally. Verse 15 says, then when this desire has conceived, that is, when it is able to get what is so desired, it brings forth sin And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Here we have a process where the average person, John Doe, is walking through life and inwardly is sinful desire. Outwardly is temptation and his desire reaches out and at the moment it gets what it wants, sin is born. If there is a habit of this sin over and over and over again, eventually it brings forth death, complete destruction. One of the easiest ways to see this in someone's life is to look at Samson. Samson was a man whose passions were out of control. It's easy in reading his story to see that he was a man who loved pleasure and loved women. He didn't care if they were godly or not. When he saw a pretty face, that's what he wanted. And he was willing to bully his parents into arranged marriages or go hang out where he should not go to get what he wanted to get He came to the place in his life when his head was lying on the lap of a harlot, and that harlot betrayed him to his death. Think of thoughts that must have gone through Samson, a believer in this case, who decided to live according to the former lusts. What went on in his heart when hit without eyes? And as his hair was sort of growing back, he finally, as his last act, pushed over those pillars. Do you know anyone who's self-destructive? Can you think of anyone whose sin has carried them to the very end? A modern illustration of this would be the drug addict. I don't know if any of you have ever talked to someone who has struggled with that. I have known those who have overcome that through the power of Christ. There is a really good Christian group called Reformers Unanimous. It's not like Narcotics Anonymous. That is Bible-based and is very good at helping Christians to overcome those kinds of habits. But when you meet someone in the detox unit of a hospital, And they're skinny as a scarecrow. And they're 25 years old, and the lines on their face are telling you they should be about 45. And depending on the drug that they're doing, their teeth are yellow. And they might have all these marks on their face And what you're looking at is a used up person. What you're seeing when you look at a person like that is someone who has disintegrated. And that, if you go back to Ephesians chapter 4, that is exactly what this is talking about. There is the old man Which is being corrupted according to the desires of deceit. There is this process of corruption and it goes on. Now we see it more clearly today in the life of an alcoholic or someone who's addicted to drugs who gets to that point. But it also happens in the life of those who are well-to-do, who have the cars, who have the house, who have everything. There is still this act of corruption going on. What's the alternative? The alternative is verse 23. You as a Christian Put off this old behavior and you be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Now, this verse at least is saying two, probably three things. First, This process of putting on definitely involves you understanding things and learning things. There's something that takes place in what? Your mind. Folks, some of us in this room are readers. Alright? They are. I am one. I'm a pastor. I read hundreds of pages every year, all kinds of stuff As I study the Bible. Some of you aren't necessarily readers. You're more mechanical. You can fix things. Maybe you're a reader and mechanical. That's great. It doesn't change the fact that mind renewal involves understanding this book. It doesn't change whether you're a reader or not a reader. I've talked to men and they tell me, usually it's men. I just don't read. It's just not me. And I would say, okay, well why not get it on tape? Listen to the Bible as you drive. Talk, listen to sermons, talk, find a friend to talk to you the Bible. I mean, because it doesn't You can say that all you want, men. You can say you're not a reader all you want, but it won't change the fact that putting off the old man and putting on the new, it has to be mind renewal. There's no other way. Secondly, here it is possible that spirit there could be capitalized and that this Holy Spirit is involved as well, even if this shouldn't be capitalized here. We know from other passages, the Spirit of God is within us, and He helps us to understand the Scriptures. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Holy men of God, Peter wrote, were moved, borne along by the Spirit. It's the Spirit's book, and the Spirit has promised to give us illumination. And we should pray for it. We know that from this very letter. And so there is the mind and our responsibility to read. There is the Spirit and His responsibility to help us. And then there is this change. This renewal, something taking place when we've opened the Bible and we learn something new. What would have happened in Samson's life? If he had decided somewhere along the way to say, you know what, I'm going back to the law of Moses, and I'm going to I'm going to adjust my behavior according to what I find there. I'm going to go back And I'm going to go find what's written in the scriptures, and I'm going to take some more time to study what the Nazarite vow is all about. I'm going to go and direct my attention away from these habits back to what I can understand in the Hebrew scriptures. What would have happened to his life? What would have happened to you? Are you here today and you want to kick a bad habit? A life-dominating sin? Do you think that you can get away from the Bible and accomplish it without the Word of God? My friend, what would happen to you if you did that? So, verse 23, it is mine rul, the spirit, and it is An amazing thing. And in the act of verse 23, as you do this mind renewal, there is verse 24, this positive part. Alright, now follow this. It's pretty simple. You're putting off something. That would imply you're stopping certain actions and behaviors. And we'll get into that a little more in a moment. But you stop this, but that's not enough. You're reading and studying and learning, and the Spirit is helping you, and now you've begun other habits. And it says here in verse 24 that you're putting on the new man, but this is where the difference is between us as Christians and Dr. Phil. Look at what verse 24 says. You put on the new man, which after God, that is, it's similar to God. Is created in righteousness and true holiness. Now that word righteousness has to do with the adherence to a standard God standard. And that word holiness is only used in one other place in your New Testament, and it's not the typical word that's translated holy, but it means more free from contamination. What this is saying is that Christians are born again. We're created. Who does that act of creation? It's God. At the moment of salvation. Something new has come that wasn't in you previous to salvation. I don't mean to beat up on talk show hosts, but it's not in lost talk show hosts There is no new creation. In these people on talk shows who try to tell you to change, there's nothing to work with. Imagine for a moment you go and you want to start your favorite hobby. It's stamping. I've heard that there are ladies in this church who like stamping. I actually like stamping too. I think it's I think it's cool to just go stamps. I need have some tracks I need to get stamped. But I've heard that that you can buy hundreds, hundreds of stamps. Is that true? Thousands? I know there are ladies here who who have collected thimbles. I know there are ladies here who have all kinds of hobbies. Us guys, we have hobbies too. Um, we like to mow the grass. We like to ride bikes. Uh, we like to play racquetball, we like to draw, paint. Well, imagine going out to your favorite hobby. And you're ready to go, and all you have is this table, and there's not a thing on it. No thimbles, no stamps, no racquetball, no art supplies, no books, nothing. You have nothing to work with. That's the way it is with lost folks. They have no new creation within them. That is the foundation for biblical change. Whereas you and I, if you're here today as a Christian, there is this This ability because you are created in righteousness and true holiness. You've been born again. And that is an amazing thing. Now, here, here is something to think about. Are you born again even when you don't feel like you're born again? Are you born again when you I've got to be careful how I say this, feelings are involved in the new birth. Joy is the fruit of the Spirit. But when you're having a bad day, does that change the fact that you are a Christian? Is this reality of the new birth depend on you in any way? Is the point I'm making. Do you have to maintain this new creation? Can it be removed one day? I mean, do you get up on a Saturday morning and do you have to go, well, I think I'll be born again today, again. No. The new birth is yours eternally. It is a foundation that is never removed. It doesn't shift, it doesn't sink, it doesn't disappear. It's who you are in Christ. Some have called this your identity in Christ, being one with Christ, being in Christ. It's never taken away. And so you don't have to be good in order to be created in this way. You already have been created, and now you can be good. It's so different from the way people live today. I'll try to be careful with my illustration, but what about those who would describe themselves by their life habits? And they get their identity from their behavior. Well, I am this, I do this, therefore I am this kind of, this is who I am. We could use it in say, okay, I like art supply, so I'm an artist. I like to draw, so I'm an artist. But but there are those today who would say You know, this is who I am. I am now. I'm a homosexual because this is what I do, and this is who I am. In Christianity, it is exactly the opposite. Your identity is in Christ, and your behavior is supposed to spring from that. In other words, it's like this. Let me try to hone this point down. You don't look at all the things you do and identify yourself with that. You look at who you are in Christ. And then you behave in a way that's appropriate. Your behavior comes out of your new birth. Now everybody here in this room knows that. Everybody does That's pretty simple, right? New behavior from new birth. Here is where it becomes hard. Verses 25, all the way down, we're just going to go to verse 28. Because one of the surprising facts about Christianity is that change theologically is easy to understand, but practically it can be very hard to do. And if you're not careful, you want to change your life, you'll actually run into the area, the error, error That you need to be educated more. If I only had more facts, I could change. If I only knew the right method, I could change. If I only read the right book, I could change. No, claim who you are in Christ and move forward. It's very simple because he moves right from this simple description: put off the old, put on the new, to verse 26. He says, Wherefore, putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Motivation here is we're all members, one of another, as a body. And I think he's talking here about the church. Because this is the way it is, here's how you do it: you put away the line. And then you put on the truth. Now, this is very general, but how are the different ways that we lie? There are lots of ways to lie, aren't there? And I have to be careful myself. Exaggerating intentionally. I think we probably all struggle with exaggerations unintentionally, but have you ever caught yourself making a fishing story an even better fishing story? Or have have you ever have you ever uh gone back and said, you know, I'm not sure what I just said really happened because I've told this story twenty-five times and every time it just gets better and better and better. Exaggerating, withholding the truth from someone who should know the truth. That can be a tough one Who do you tell? Who do you not tell? Well, if you're in a situation, you're part of the solution or part of the problem, then you need to try to work things out Income tax time. That's coming up. How many of you like income taxes? If you raise your hand, that would be very odd. I'm not raising my hand either But what isn't there sometimes a temptation not to declare certain things? Could be tempting. You could, no, let's speak the truth. Have you ever had a friend say something along the lines of, what do you think about me? And you actually lie to them. About how you really feel about them. Not that you hate them and you shouldn't say, I think you're a jerk and I don't want to have anything to do with you. I'm not saying you should say that But sort of holding your relationships like this where you're not being real and trying to have a real friendship, you're just sort of, yeah, I'll be, I'm not sure I want to get that close to this person. So that might not be lying, but what are we doing there? Because we're members one of another He goes on here in verse 26, and it's amazing. He deals with anger. Something that we probably all struggle with. He says here in verse 26, Be ye angry, but sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. Now, this is serious. Uninhibited anger gives place to the devil. What does that mean? Have you ever stopped to think about that Well, the devil is a roaring lion and he's seeking people to devour. That means us, he's looking, let me looking at this very moment at you, and he's assessing you. Are you in a state of weakness or are you in a state of strength? And it's kind of like this Air AC unit on the side of our building The thieves came, they found it was a soft target, and they took this giant, I don't know how many hundred pounds unit and stole our air conditioning unit right off the corner of the building. It was available, it was an easy Easy thing to take. The devil is looking for people in this church that are easy to pick off. Here is someone who's easy to pick off. They're really angry. And they haven't resolved this anger issue. And the devil, he's looking for a place, and apparently, folks, look, am I making this up? This is right in this passage If the devil looks at Faith Bible Church, he looks right at someone who has unresolved anger. He says, there's my place. There's where I have an inn. So Paul says, don't be angry. Don't sin. I mean, he says, it's okay that we all get angry. Be angry. But don't sin as a result of that. And verse 26. Don't let the sun go down upon your wrath. Try to resolve it quickly. Whatever is happening. Wherever it is in your life. Then verse 28. So what do we have here? We have what we say, don't lie, how we deal with our anger. This is this involves putting off the old man, putting on the new. And then we have a really good illustration in verse 28 with the thief. He says, Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands, the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth. Alright, here is someone who, during the course of his life, he is constantly taking things that are not his. In the New Testament, one of the best illustrations of this is Zacchaeus, the wee little man who was up on the tree. He was a tax collector who stole who knows how much money from other people. He was a thief. And then when he came down out of that tree and Jesus went to his house. He got saved. He was created in Christ Jesus, a new man, and he put off his old behavior, and he gave back a whole lot of money that he had taken. And he became, he went from a thief to someone who was generous, even more generous. If I have stolen from anyone, I'm going to return even more than I've stolen. From fevery to generosity. Let me wind this up quickly now. Here's what we have here Number one principle, you will not change if you just stop doing sin and you don't replace it with good behavior. Christian growth involves stopping bad habits, but starting new. What are you trying to change about yourself right now? Think about what you want to stop, and then think about what it would mean to replace that thing. Take, for example, laziness. I think in various ways we all struggle with laziness. I don't know where you view yourself on that. What would the opposite to laziness be? Somebody tell me. Industriousness, working, working hard. So what you do is you say, Lord, I know I'm a Christian. I am born again. So I can do this. I'm struggling with being lazy. Give me the victory here, and I'm gonna go out here and I'm gonna try to work really hard and replace this laziness with hard work. And then get on the phone and call someone and say, hey, I usually just do nothing all day on Saturday. What can I do to come over to help you? Give me some activities that I can do. Or, you know what, I've been putting off raking the leaves. Boy, have I done that. I hate raking leaves. Well, today I'm going to get up and I'm going to get out there and I'm going to rake those leaves. Maybe you're someone here today and you find yourself sinfully dependent on the approval of others. You care too much about what they think about you. How would you replace that? Fear of man. Well, fear of God. Don't be afraid of man, but be afraid of God, who can throw both your body and your soul in hell. Fear him, learn to respect and have reverence for him. So, spiritual growth always involves the putting off and then the putting on. And secondly, as I've already alluded to it here, it always is built on the foundation of your new birth in Christ. You have to reckon that to be so. How much can you change before the moment that you think this for a moment? Wherever you are in your spiritual life right now, A year from now, how much would you like to grow? What would success be for you? What do you want to change about your life? Do you believe that you can change it? Folks, the biggest example of this in the New Testament is Saul of Tarsus. Close with this. What was he like before he was saved? He was a mess, a violent aggressor who persecuted the church of God. He went from hurting Christians to taking their place. And being hurt by others. He went from the greatest persecutor of the church in Jerusalem to one of the most persecuted men of the church, Jew and Gentile alike. How is it possible for someone to go from murderer to that? That's what Jesus can do for you this morning.