So over seventy years ago, uh William Golding wrote the book Lord of the Flies. It's a classic. The plot is simple in some ways. The British schoolboys are stranded in an unspecified island in the Pacific during wartime. A hierarchy develops, some orders maintained as they survive and look for rescue. But even with educated children from elite backgrounds, they The society formed in the island eventually deteriorates. Laziness, paranoia, hubris begin to divide them. Terror, superstition, violence overtake them. Their savagery rages on until finally a naval officer noticed the forest fire they started, and they arrived to end the chaos. Now on the surface, it's just uh it sounds like just a disturbing novel about petulant misadventure and mischief among our youth. Maybe you've had parenting stories just like The Lord of the Flies, I don't know. And the author should know, Golding was a uh teacher and schoolmaster who knew firsthand how rowdy and unruly kids can get. But it was his time serving in his country, serving his country fighting in World War II, that led him to realize this. Really, we're all savages and brutes. Young and old, whether you're civilized or uncivilized, at its core, human nature is evil, violent. Regardless of the culture or background. It's remarkable that Golding understood all this without being religious. But to take the next step and offer real hope for progress, right, we must admit we need God. Christian message. We need him to curb our base animal instincts and the corrupting influence of our inward sin. It's God's image in us and God's rule over us that'll save us all from destruction. So today we resume our study of Genesis. Last time we a few weeks ago we ended chapter 8. With Noah and others disembarking the Ark at last. Noah made it a priority to worship, worship the Lord who preserved him and his family. But now they face an unfamiliar world vastly different than what they'd known. And without guidance from above, they'd be lost. Thankfully there is guidance and we see it as we begin a new chapter. So let's turn to Genesis 9, 1 to 7. For those interested, there's a side quest during the sermon if you want to pay attention more closely. Alright. Genesis 9, 1 to 7. So God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be on every beast of the earth On every bird of the air, on all that move on the earth, and on all the fish of the sea. They are given into your hand. Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. I have given you all things, even as the green herbs. But you shall not eat flesh with this life, that is its blood. Surely for your life blood I will demand a reckoning from the hand of every beast I will require And from the hand of man, from the hand of every man's brother, I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds the man's sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. For in the image of God he made man, and as for you Be fruitful and multiply, bring forth abundantly in the earth and multiply in it. So here are some notes for structural outlining. Today's passage begins and ends with the command to be fruitful and multiply. Those imperatives serve as uh uh uh at bookends in verses one and seven. That's why verses nine, uh chapter 9, 1 through 7 of Genesis form a good block of text for exposition. Also observe where the passage folds or hinges. The two key words in the middle are life and blood. You find them at the end of verse 4. And at the beginning of verse 5, again you find the two words combined into one word: life blood. Now that creates a natural division. We have verses one to four on one hand and verses five to seven on the other Now look at each subsection carefully. The first four verses deal with the life and blood of beasts, birds, and fish. The next three verses deal with the life and blood of humans, God's image-bearers. So I might entitle each cluster as follows. One, the dominance of humanity over lesser creatures. and to the governance of humanity under our Creator. To put more meat on that, literally, here are two codes of conduct in a fallen world. God grants us dominance over lesser creatures to fill the earth. That's verses 1 to 4. Secondly, God demands governance over humanity to order our society. That's verses 5 to 7. The first code of conduct. God grants us dominance over lesser creatures to fill the earth. So Genesis 9 begins like the way Genesis 1 ended. In chapter 1, verse 28, and chapter 9, verse 1, there's the same exact string of commands: be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. So the blessing spoken to Adam and Eve is repeated to Noah and his sons. What constants the superiority of human rule over all other hierarchies? But no doubt things, some things have changed between Genesis 1 and 9. The most obvious is the entrance of sin into the world in Genesis 3. As a result, entire creation was subjected to futility and is bound to corruption. In other words, the world is in pain. The past few summer months you've heard nature sounds, cicadas screeching during the day, crickets chirping at night. But if we listen with ears of faith, we also hear creation groan and labor with birthpangs, as it says in Romans 8. It's hard for us humans too, right? With all the effects of sin, no longer can we fill the earth easily. We have relational problems, we have environmental problems. Back in the garden and even outside of it, before the flood, there was plenty of fruits, leapy greens and seeds. There was enough for all to eat and have their fill. Back then you could step outside and find the whole earth was like a whole foods market, right? It's as if you want a lifelong shopping spree. All the creatures could eat and and just live harmoniously in such a world. But now after a globe-devastating deluge, there's a scarcity of sources, resources. Now more than ever, the creatures would have to fight to stay alive, so that requires some practical modifications. Because it's a lot more challenging to survive and thrive in the post-flood earth, the Lord allows us to consume meat for the first time. So naturally, as we see in verse 2, fear and dread result. No lesser creature is safe from us. Sheep, goats, cattle, all of them can end up on our plates. Chicken, turkey, duck. One time I had all three at one time. T dukin at Thanksgiving. Salmon, tuna, mackerel, those are our fish favorites at home. There's a lot more we can eat. Being Korean and marrying a missionary's kid has led to some interesting culinary experiences. I'm fairly adventurous, but even I have my limits. Aurmet gourmet Korean dish is the live octopus, which is called San Nakchi, and just squirming tentacles, coming right up. No thanks. My wife wants me to try frog legs and she insists it tastes like chicken but even better. But I just can't do it, right? Even if it sounds all fancy and French, it's like grunouille, right? But regardless of food preferences, all kinds of diet are permitted in the New World order. Noah can tell his sons, looks like meat is on the menu, boys. They can eat it like vegetables. They can eat flesh as carnivorous animals did before the flood. They can eat knowing the Lord Himself grants meat to us as we see in verse 3. Every creature of God is good, Paul says in First Timothy four, and nothing is to be refused if it's received with thanksgiving. So by elevating us to the top of the food chain, God grants us dominance over lesser creatures to fill the earth. Of course, there may be cultural and personal reasons to limit our meat consumption. That was the case with Israel in the Old Testament times. But before the law and now in the church age, we are free carnivores, right? Now in verse 4, there is a limitation that's discussed. It has to do with the draining of blood from the slaughter of meat. Now, why was this necessary? We'll see Here and later passages, simply put, life is in the blood, life is the blood, life sustained by the blood, so there needs to be respect for the blood. But to be more specific, this connection between blood and life has both spiritual and biological implications. First, spiritually speaking, this command is given to Noah, it foreshadows what's to come. The law of Moses teaches us how blood makes atonement for the soul. This, of course, points to Christ who washes away our sins with his own blood. But even after the sacrifice of Jesus, Genesis 9:4 has some relevance in the early church in Acts 15. When the apostles and elders met in Jerusalem, these Jewish leaders directed their Gentile brothers to abstain from blood and things strangled, which is meat with blood still left in it. The key motivation, I believe, there is um is maintaining a good witness to the Jews, which actually many of the early church members were Jews. So they were concerned about having a good witness to them. And these are spiritual concerns as it relates to the gospel. I'll come back to this a little bit later. The connection between blood and life also has biological implications. We look through a microscope and we find the axiom life is in the blood to be true biologically as well. Biologists describe blood as just one article I read, a rich scarlet soup of proteins and cells that keep us alive, the connecting fluid to all the body systems. the substance upon which all body cells are dependent, blood is a river of life that surges within us. End quote. We're taught at a young age that red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body. And then we learn how white blood cells help us get rid of aged and dying cells and help us in immunity against microbes, parasites, and toxins. Era likes to tell our son that Daniel, they're like armies rushing to breached walls to defend our bodies against invaders. They protect us by eating them. Like little yoshis in our bloodstreams, I guess. Speaking of eating, modern sciences also confirm why God wants us to drain the blood out of meat. Raw blood and food puts us in risk of infections, diseases, iron over overload, etc. Okay. means an expert here on this. I'm not sure about cooked blood health-wise. By the way, that reddish um pink color of our medium rare steak, it's not blood you're seeing, apparently it's it's a protein called myoglobin. But then there are clearly foods out there with blood in it. Koreans enjoy blood sausages called Shundae. Right, which is like the Latin American morcia or Polish Kishka, right? There's also I kid you not, blood soups in some parts of the world like the Thai both noodle I'm personally not a fan of these, but the more pressing question is whether I can even eat them at all. My answer, I think this diet restriction is closely tied to the Old Testament law that no longer applies to us. Already in Noah's time there were diagrules that would be later codified in the law of Moses We saw he already distinguished between clean and unclean animals. He now learns about life in the blood. Both ideas foreshadow the Levitical sacrificial system. But then we also know in hindsight that the Mosaic law foreshadows the coming of Jesus and the age of grace. And because the law of requirements of food and drink were merely shadows of good things to come and not the substance. We're not bound to adhere to them anymore. But we are bound to this in a diverse church. Endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace In our diverse world, remove unnecessary stumbling blocks in our evangelism. Be humble, walk in wisdom as we witness to them But that means saying no to blood sausages and blood soup for the sake of the gospel. I can do it. It's no big deal for me. I'll have more to say about the gospel later, but for now, let's get back to the codes of conduct in the fallen world. In Genesis 9:1 to 4, God grants us dominance over lesser creatures to fill the earth. That dominance is based on our special dignity as mankind as we bear God's image. That's why while animals, birds, and fish may be eaten and their blood spilled on the ground, human life is sacred, must be protected at all costs. That's why, while the Lord does not demand a reckoning for the death of lesser creatures, he does demand a reckoning for our blood. To minimize fatal losses and The tragedies, we need another code of conduct. God demands governance over humanity to order our society. Again, the passage pivots with the words life and blood serving as hinges in verses four and five. But the blood and life of our dogs, cats, parrots, and goldfish pales in comparison to the blood and life of humanity. This was true from the beginning. Our Creator always valued us more than them. Soon after the fall of Genesis three, he gave Adam and Eve tunics of animal skin to replace their coverings of big leaves. In Genesis 4, the Lord respected the animal sacrifices of Abel and answered the cry of his blood when he was martyred. So with such premium put uh uh put on our lives, it's no surprise that any beast that destroys human life must be killed. The ones that make the headlines are the man-eating tigers of Sundarbans, Sabu lions, Nile crocodiles, the great white shark. Those are relatively few, thank God. I looked this up this week. The creatures that lead to 10,000 or more human deaths per year are much smaller in size. This is coming from top down. Mosquitoes, snakes, freshwater snails, and assassin bugs. I don't even know what an assassin bug really I don't even So next time you swat a blood sucker, remember that you have the license to kill from heaven. Now sad to say among those responsible for 10,000 or more human deaths per year, are yes, you guessed it, humans. We got humans killing humans. And that's what's in the second half of Genesis 9. 5 Just as lesser creatures are killed, humans are hunted or put down, the Lord demands a reckoning from the hand of man who kills another. The rest of today's passage explains why this is so. Now it's interesting how verse 5 ends. Notice how, as God emphasizes his point, he says we're brethren in a wide sense. Now I'm not denying that there's a special brotherhood among believers, those in Christ. More broadly speaking, Jewish men call each other brother as well. Even Christians call non-Christians brothers. But even in the broadest sense, we as humans are all brothers, right? Descending from Shem, Ham, or Japheth. We're all brothers, you know. It doesn't exclude the fact that your best friends might be a brother from another mother, whatever you call each other, but we're all brothers in a wide sense too. That makes the crime of murder even more egregious egregious Next, verse 6 gives us another reason to respect human life. You look at the portion up to the semicolon, it's divided by a comma. Also note that there's what's called a chiasm there. A pair of lines contain words and phrases that repeat in an ABCCBA pattern. You'll see what I mean better if I translate it more woodenly. The one who sheds the blood of man, by man his blood will be shed. So you look for the repetitions in order. The verb shed is A and A1, right? Blood is B and B1. Man is at the pivot. C and C So even the syntax here in the original language stresses the importance of man. It reinforces the contents. Because life is in the blood, and because human life is sacred, whoever sheds the blood of man must be executed by another man. And as the rest of verse 6 says, human life is sacred because we're made in God's image. Even after the corruption of mankind at the fall, even after the catastrophe of the worldwide flood, we are still after all that created to bear his image, fearfully and wonderfully made. The prince and the pauper. Red and yellow, black and white, we are precious in his sight. The unborn in the mother's womb, loved ones at the end of life care. They all bear the distinct likeness to God. To protect this dignity, God demands governance over humanity. C. S. Lewis says it well in one of his most important public addresses, the weight of glory. There are no ordinary people. You have never talked to a mere mortal. Nations, cultures Arts, civilizations, these are mortal, and their life is to ours as the life of a gnat. But it is immortals whom we joke with, work with, marry, snub and exploit. Immortal horrors or everlasting splendors. Immortal horrors, right? That's who we'll be someday if we lose respect for human life today. This is why capital punishment is necessary. This is why very often swift retributive justice is required more than lifelong rehabilitation. Now I'm not suggesting we get rid of the arduous legal process in judging homicide cases and the basic rights of the accused. These are there are important steps and checks required to handle murders. And these are details beyond my pay grade. That's why we pray for those in the legal line of business. But the Bible is clear that God mandates death penalty. As Phil read earlier, Paul in Romans reminds us that rulers are God's ministers. And they do not bear the sword in vain. The sword is not there for a show or in a display case. It's not a mere decoration. It can't be kept in the scabbard With it unsheeded, our governing authorities must rise up. They must be terrors to terrorists. They are to be avengers to execute wrath on evildoers. Are they perfect? No, far from it. But remember the Roman Empire was ruled by Nero when Paul wrote Romans. Nero wasn't exactly Mr. Rogers, right? And neither were the rulers before him. Yet in this way, God demands governance over humanity to order our society. Verse 7 repeats the imperatives from the beginning of the chapter, be fruitful and multiply. The governmental mandate supports the creation mandate. Restrictions are required for freedom. Boundaries promote expansion. Fear of judgment increases the joy of life. We must not do away one for the other. Both must be held together. You can believe in the death penalty, and you can believe in life and liberty. As Zechariah 7. 9 tells us, you can execute true justice and show mercy and compassion, everyone to his brother. I'm not going to pretend that running the government, enforcing justice for all and promoting love for our neighbors is an easy thing to do. But if there's something we can do, it's to speak up for life in three ways as responsible Christians. Consider these some applications toward the end, right? First speak to God in prayer about the protection of life. Make it a godly habit to Intercede for our government as it wields the sword, pray for our police, you know, pray for other um people who rule over us and protect us. Now our leaders have a lot on their hands and on their shoulders. Now I as father make decisions about our one little family, four humans and a dog, right? I as pastor leave forty-one members here and help some other Christians, but our politicians make tough decisions that affect Millions. Pray that they would protect and preserve human life. Secondly, speak to your neighbors about the sanctity of life Denounce unbiblical practices like abortion on demand, racism, anarchy. Rebuke those who denigrate human dignity in others. Gently guide those who are so deceived they devalue even their own life. Teach them about the image of God in every man and every woman. Finally, speak to the lost about the gospel of eternal life. Ultimately, our hope for the human race is not in our earthly government. It can never achieve lasting justice. No matter how much we improve our nation through our efforts, we'll never usher in perfect eternal righteousness. In the book of Daniel, which we've studied a few times this year already, the kingdom of God is likened to a great mountain that fills the whole earth. But it begins as a stone cut out without hands. Without hands means humans did not establish this government. That's precisely why the heavenly kingdom is greater than all other before it. It crushes together all earthly kingdoms before it. The best we can do here on earth is reduce to nothing before the Lord. Now, how do we make sure that we're not enemies of God's kingdom? How do we avoid being crushed and ground into powder when the kingdom of heaven arrives? Well our Lord Jesus said it straightforwardly. The time has come, the kingdom of God has come near. Repent and believe the good news. This is an urgent matter. In our default state, absent of grace, we're foreigners and strangers to the covenants of promise. We're without hope and without God in this world We must change our citizenship and become citizens of heaven. We do that by first admitting we're sinners. God has created us in his image, yet we've turned away and rebelled against him. We hate our neighbors and our brothers, so in our hearts we're no different than murderers. We're angry with each other with our cause. We insult each other. We curse those who are made in the similitude of God. Because of all this, we're under his just wrath, in danger of hellfire. Left to ourselves, we do not have eternal life abiding in us. But we were not left on our own forever. God the Father sent his Son. He, the image of the invisible God, appeared to us as Savior, Jesus Christ. He, the firstborn over all creation from eternity, became firstborn of Virgin Mary in history. Jesus shared in our human nature flesh and blood, and he rightly deserves the place of preeminence as the Prince of Peace. It was prophesied by Isaiah that the government will be upon his shoulder. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward, even forever. That's in Isaiah Yet the world refused to recognize the authority of Jesus. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. Israel, the privileged nation that it was, who should have known the most about Christ, denied him instead. Rejecting the holy and just one, they ask for a criminal to be released. They save the murderer, and they murder the Savior. But this was all part of the grand plan of redemption, a plan that was in place from thousands of years prior, even in Genesis 9. The lesson for Noah that life is in the blood would point to the ultimate truth of the gospel. Eternal life is in the blood of Christ. Later, Moses foreshadowed the same lesson. It's the blood of Christ that cleanses our conscience. No animal blood can do that. It's the blood of Christ that takes away our sins. It's the blood of Christ that secures our access. to the most holy place. That's why when it was time, Jesus voluntarily shed his blood for our cleansing, forgiveness, and security. He suffered as our substitute. He took upon himself the penalty of sin in our place. He satisfied the wrath of God on the cross. He finished his work, he breathed his last, and was buried in the grave. But on the third day, God the Father raised him from the dead Death could no longer hold him. He was resurrected. Jesus presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. It was seen by his apostles during 40 days, spoke of things concerning pertaining to the kingdom of God. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand, and someday he'll return, coming on the clouds of heaven to judge all mankind. And then the kingdoms of this world will become the kingdoms of our Lord in Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. So we gotta respond now to this good news of the kingdom. We gotta do as the Lord commanded Repent and believe in the good news. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Stop the rebellion against God. Step down from the throne as king over your own life. Surrender to Jesus. Trust in Him only to enter heaven. Cannot earn or deserve eternal life. It's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. So, for those who haven't, I hope you make the choice to repent and believe. I hope you do that very soon. Think carefully about the good news, but also act urgently. You don't have eternity to decide, but if you die without Christ, you have an eternity of regret. Enter the kingdom of heaven. Know the King of Kings who reigns there. He is the King of glory and of grace. He is the one with whom I cannot die. My soul is purchased by his blood. Let's pray and confess these truths in song. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you care for us. We see just how the world is ordered. See just whether we study things scientifically or just observe in nature or just how you have created things in order and you want us to be in order. You've given us great freedom. Although we know that we've taken this freedom and abused it, and we're thankful even that if as we turn against you, you still love us and you sent your son Jesus Jesus. We thank you that He is the King of Kings and He is destined to rule. And we are right with you. We can share in that rain in the future. But we ask that at this time that we would urge those around us to turn to the gospel. Turn to you you. We thank you for the the protection we enjoy in our government and the freedoms that we enjoy as as uh your image bearers. Help us to take this privilege that we have and Use it to serve you. We just thank you and we pray that this week will be filled with opportunities to promote your truth and your kingdom. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.