We I know that you all are aware of the confusion that exists in our country right now over a number of issues. I won't name all those issues, but you probably are aware of some of them, and maybe even one or two issues comes into your mind. When you think about our country. Maybe you think in terms of economics, maybe you think in terms of technology, but I am thinking primarily in terms of morality When you look at the nations of this world and you read what's happening in places like Vietnam, even China, or really any nation at any time. There is a biblical explanation as to why nations rise and nations fall. As Christians, we don't have to be in the dark as to wondering why it's such a mess. In Ephesians 4, we have laid out for us in verses 17 to 21 the way of the pagan, the way of the Gentile Why he does what he does, the kind of walk that he has. And Paul exhorts us as Christians to not walk. In the way that others walk. I was talking to someone yesterday, and they were commenting on what's happening all over the world, and Paul and I have often talked and said, you know what, it seems like sin makes you stupid. And you know what? That sounds harsh. But after looking at this passage, you will see that it is literally true. Sin at its root, because it does not have God's light It leads to what is illogical and self-destructive. Who says in his heart, there is no God? The fool. What is the beginning of wisdom? The fear of the Lord. And although you can build a space shuttle, you might destroy marriage in a nation And although you might build the internet, you might simultaneously have social destruction. How can it be that you can have such great wisdom in technology Side by side with social disintegration. It's when we look at passages like this this morning that we see why that is so. What we'll do first is read these verses. It won't take long, and then I will break it down for you. Let's read what Paul says, Ephesians 4, verse 17. This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord that she henceforth Walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind, having the understanding darkened. being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. Who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greed, with greediness. But ye have not so learned Christ. If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus. Paul is exhorting the Christians in Ephesus to not walk as the Gentiles walk, and the Gentiles walk according to three or four Four foundational things. Their walk, and the word walk there has to do with their lifestyle. And a lifestyle is a series of choices that you make that becomes a pattern for your daily living. You kind of get caught in habits and patterns that you establish over your life. And the word walk, it implies movement that's consistent over time. That's what a lifestyle is. And the Gentiles walk this way. If you look at your Bible first, they walk according to empty thinking or futile thinking. And you're not going to believe this this morning. My sermon notes got completely waterlogged. So I'm pulling, I'm trying not to destroy them. They've become mush. But that's okay. I've dealt with worse, believe it or not. It's a walk that is built on, first of all, misunderstanding, ignorance. And good for nothing notions. You could say it's just built on nothing vanity Look at your Bible again when it talks about this kind of walk. He says in verse 17 that the Gentiles walk in the vanity of their minds. One translation has accurately translated this Greek word that's translated vanity here in this context as good for nothing ideas or notions. It means emptiness. When it's applied to your mind, it means that it's not logical, it's worthless kind of thinking. Now, I've already mentioned what Solomon wrote about wisdom and the fear of the Lord being the beginning of wisdom. But we see that there is a possibility for wisdom without the fear of the Lord, but it doesn't have in it morality or righteousness. It has it's empty and devoid of those things or the knowledge of God. Why is that so important? Have you ever stopped to think about that? Well, I think that when you look at the scriptures and you see from Romans 1 the three times that God looses people to their own desires. Folks, Romans 1 teaches us without question that the worst judgment that God could ever give to an individual or a nation is to leave them to their own devices. Godless thinking. It's sort of like taking a boat and casting it off onto a stormy sea. To its own self-destruction. God gave them over. God gave them up. In Romans 3, it's mentioned three times. The worst thing God could do for you and for me is to say, you know what, you have been Pushing so hard against me and my ways, I will now just let you loose to do what you want to do. You all know the first dog that I owned when I moved here, his name was Buddy, and he was an escape artist. He was a very strong-willed dog. So strong-willed that the moment you let him out of the house He would run away. He wouldn't just jog or saunter. He was like a lightning bolt. And he would hardly turn around. He would just run as fast as he could. We found him in the middle of Potapsco State Park, on the pond. all the way in the middle, New Year's Day. He was walking on the ice and someone found him. We found him in the middle of the woods over there. I mean within 10 or 15 minutes he could put two miles between me and him. He had a way, and it was self-destructive. I wanted to keep him safe. We tried to get him to obey. And he wa it ended up happening that this dog died on 95, right out there. He ran away one day. We couldn't find him. We tried to find him. The police called us. He had destroyed himself. He had fun doing it. I'm sure his tongue was hanging out of his mouth and he was running as fast as he could. But in the end his way destroyed him in spite of his master's desires to keep him. Folks, because of the sin that is within us, we are the same way. When you take God out of the equation, we will self-destruct. This idea of vanity, the emptiness of their mind, it is built upon in verse 18. Their lifestyle is built on futility, on good for nothing notions. This, having their understanding darkened, simply means that they're kind of, one writer put it as in a moral fog that just blocks out the light. I mean they're There is activity in their brain, but it's absolute emptiness. It's kind of a contradiction in terms. They're thinking a lot, but their thinking is blocking out the light. Alienated from the life of God. It simply speaks of a separation that exists between them and God. They think a certain way and that creates a gulf between them and God because God does not think that way Folks, today in our country, keep this in mind, no matter what you read on the internet, no matter what you hear one religious person say or another religious person say, a pundit, a religious leader. Make sure that you know it's what God thinks. To think unlike God is to put a gulf between you and God. Even Christians, Paul is saying, don't walk like the Gentiles walk It goes on here in verse 18, and this is all under the point one of this idea of a lifestyle built on misunderstanding and ignorance. In describing the ignorance, simply is speaking of a lack of knowledge. There are things they should know that they do not know And their walk is according to that. Misinformation is one thing. And that's where the word misunderstanding comes from. Folks, you pile these words up. And it just gets worse because the last phrase in verse 18, the blindness of their heart, the word blindness could also be translated, the hardness of their heart. And and one writer has said that this is this is a the Greek word here is referring to a state of petrification, that this word is used medically to denote the callus formed when a bone has been fractured and reset. A heart that is that hard, that unmovable The King James translates it as blind or unseeing. There's a sensitivity that does not exist because verse 19 Then gets into my second point, but let's just just think of this now. Lost people out there They have a lot of ideas. The scriptures say, apart from the fear of the Lord, they're good for nothing Morality and spirituality. You can build a space shuttle, you can design the internet, you can do all kinds of wise things, skillful things, but it's the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. So you've got a really good business, but your marriage falls apart. And you've got men marrying men, or whatever it is, the confusion that we have today. It produces a hardness within them. And this hardness kind of gets into my second point because the life of the Gentile, the pagan, really is he talking about, the unbeliever It's a little different from the Hebrew because the Hebrew would have to deal with the Mosaic system, and Paul tells those kinds of people to leave the law, the ceremonial law behind. And to follow Christ, make sure your sufficiency is in Christ. And he tells Gentiles to leave behind their promiscuous kind of out-of-control lifestyle. That's where we are with the Gentiles. It's a lifestyle that is built, secondly, on insensitivity. And that's what you see in verse 19 with this word that's translated past feeling. This simply means unresponsive, non-responsive. Someone has said it means insensitive to moral stimuli. So it kind of goes the following: you've got the hard heart. That can no longer respond or doesn't respond to any cause of morality. It really is as simple as going to someone you know at work Who is living in blatant sin and saying, you know what, you should stop that. And they look at you like you're crazy And there is nothing within them. Now, of course, we have a conscience. Alright, that's not in this particular passage, but we know from Romans that everyone has a conscience. So I'm not just I don't want this passage to discourage you from witnessing, okay? And we'll talk a little bit more, kind of lead our way out of this passage when we get to verse 21. But the point is, their lifestyle is built on this. Insensitivity and hardness of heart. Will you look at Romans 1. 32 real quick? We seem to be spending a lot of time looking at Romans the last few months, but it's it's good. Look at Romans 1. 32. Can you imagine that you know the judgment of God that those who do such things are worthy of death? But you not only do them, but you have pleasure in them that do them. And that word that's translated have pleasure has to do with giving a hearty approval. You approve of the other people that do them. It's like it's madness. Sin does make you stupid. God will judge me in hell if I do this, and you know what? I'm gonna do it, and if you do it better than me, wow, you're awesome. You're really good at doing that I'd like to watch a reality TV show on that one. That's an excellent one. It's madness. And yet that's exactly what's happening in our society today. People that should know better, and they do But they continue on down the path of destruction because they're insensitive and hard-hearted and they just don't respond to biblical truth and their thinking is Clouded and without light, and they don't understand, and they're ignorant, and they're separated from God. Where this leads, if you look back at Ephesians again. is to a terrible state, and it is exactly where we are in our country today. If you look back at Ephesians 4 again, verse 19 It leads, all right, this is a Gentile lifestyle that's built on misunderstanding and good-for-nothing notions A Gentile lifestyle that's built on insensitivity and hard-heartedness, it leads to a lifestyle that is abandoned to sinful desires. It says here in verse 19 that they are past feeling and they have given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness. with greed, with greediness. I'm emphasizing the right words here to point out that it's a lifestyle abandoned to these things. It is giving themselves to it. It is working all of it with greed, with gusto. And so you have these this horrible expression, lasciviousness and uncleanness does sometimes refer in the New Testament to sexual sins. To just being sexually out of control, doing whatever you want whenever you want. At the base of it are the lusts of the flesh, the desires of the flesh. Wow. Isn't that where we are in our country right now? Why would people partake of lifestyles that have built into them the consequence of disease and ill health? Why has that been happening in our country since the 60s and before, really? Why do people go out and lose themselves in the bottom of a bottle. They know that the payday is going to be someday. They know they're going to have to deal with the consequence of it because without Christ they have no hope. They don't know any better. It really is true that sin will lead you down the path of self-destruction. Doesn't James say this? Look at James chapter 1 as a cross-reference. Look at James One Verse thirteen Now, the scary part about this is that he's talking as a general principle about temptation and where it leads, and he doesn't seem to differentiate between lost people and saved people. Now, this is not to teach that you lose your salvation, but it is to teach that there are dire consequences when we give in to sin over time. Verse 13 Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Sin, when it becomes full-grown, when it matures to its final state, there is the consequence of death Now, does this mean a physical death? It could. Samson Was in a pagan temple, and we know from the hall of faith that he was a Christian. He was a believer in Jehovah, and his sin led him there, did it not? And he died. There are others. We have in the New Testament those who loved this world, and so they are under church discipline. Will that lead to a physical death? Not always. But one thing we know, if you're a believer, it will lead to chastening. And folks, this is the thing: the way of the transgressor is hard. There are built-in consequences to our sinful choices, that is the walk of the Gentile that we just read about. The nature of it. And so when you go flip back to Ephesians 4, that leads us then to the whole tenor of what Paul is saying. He's saying, he is insisting. Look at your Bible again. And I want you to see it with your own eyes. This is pretty strong. Ephesians 4 17 This I say therefore, and the therefore could be connected back to chapter 4, verse 1 I, therefore, the prison of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you walk. So it's kind of connected to our calling, being a part of the church, having this eternal glory for God. We are a people above all people in that sense. Eternal life. I insist, therefore, and testify in the Lord: don't walk this way. In other words, don't have a lifestyle that is in keeping with the Gentile mindset and hard-heartedness. Don't do it. That leads me then to this. Folks, the main application and the fearful thing here this morning is that you and I It's fearful in the sense that we could choose to walk this way. We could lower ourselves to a carnal level And begin to walk this way. The good news is verse 20. Look at it. There is something that will stop us from doing that when we yield to the Spirit and the Word of God. Ye have not so learned Christ. If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus. Folks, you can learn about metaphysics, I guess, not metaphysics, but astrophysics, rocket science, the local college. You can go to the University of Maryland and get an air and space, aerospace engineering degree. But there is a kind of learning that comes from the scriptures. You have not so learned, and the topic is crazy Christ. I'm assuming that many of you here today have learned this. Christ and his ways are so different. Think of this. Instead of good for nothing ideas, you have solid Scriptural principles that you can stand on and build your life on something real, not empty air like jumping out into the clouds. But a foundation of truth to stand on and dance on and build on. Take that the right way. But you know what I mean Instead of of darkness, instead of having a mind filled with this this noise and fog so that the light is sh is out, you now have the veil taken away, the writer to the Hebrew. Hebrews says, and you can look into the perfect law of liberty. You can be transformed. You can look at the glory of God and be transformed from glory to glory. There's nothing between you and God and that light. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. And when your sins are washed away, you can just bask in that light. Think about how close you are now to God. You're not alienated from God. Those who have been reconciled through the blood of Christ. you have peace with God and continuing access to Him day and night, day and night, day and night, while you're driving, while you're cooking. While you're doing housework, while you're if you're at the office, while you're dealing with kids and grandkids, while you're out mowing the grass, you have perpetual, unending access to God The Gentiles, they're alienated from God. You are right close to God. Think of this. You are not ignorant anymore because you put your faith and trust in the gospel You know about the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. You know the facts, and you put your faith in those facts You are not ignorant to spiritual realities. You are not the natural man, but you're the spiritual man and woman. You know the truth. Folks, think think think of this. You are not hard-hearted. Your heart is not insensitive to spiritual things. There are those times when you read the word. Sing the word, hear the word, and your heart is brought under conviction by the Spirit, and you think, I must change. Or your heart is exultant in the truth of Scripture and you rejoice. Your heart moves. It responds to the Spirit of God and the Word of God. You are not hard-hearted. You are not past feeling insensitive to morality and the righteousness of the gospel. When the Bible tells you to live a certain way, live that way. Sometimes you will fail, we're all sinners still, but go to God for forgiveness and get back on your feet. The ways of a righteous man are ordered by the Lord. Though he fall, he will not be utterly cast out. The Lord will uphold him with his hand. If that's you, why would you ever want to give yourself to sexual sins and uncleanness greedily? Why would you want to do that? You have not so learned Christ. You're a different person. Now that doesn't mean you are proud like you've arrived. That just means by the grace of God, I've been saved. And if it wasn't for him, I would be a mess. And I would be right out there with everyone else. I'm only a sinner saved by grace. That's who you are. And so do you believe this morning that the truth, verse 21, that the truth is really in Jesus? If you are convinced of that, don't walk like the Gentiles walk. What a wasted life that would be if you did that, if you actually went out. And just gave yourself in. Gave yourself over to what what that's like.