Psalm twenty-three, if you will, please. Psalm twenty-three, it's good to be with you again this morning, praying for you and your search for The right pastor to come and shepherd the flock. And uh we do know as well as you do that the Lord has the right man there for you. We have been Praying for a man to help us at the mission for over four years. Have uh Interviewed, so to speak, seven different people. And if you'll pray for us, the end of the month. Uh actually on Good Friday morning we are meeting with uh a man that uh I've been recommended to and have interviewed with him when we were down in Florida at our last meeting down there. And He'll be coming up with us for Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, flying back to Pensacola on Monday. And he will meet with the board and I will take him through the mission. show him all the fine details and the expectations and the headaches and problems. I'm not gonna tell him all of them or I know he won't come. But but uh try to give him enough of an idea as to see what the Lord might be leading him into if it all works out. So if you'll pray for us, we're looking for the right man too. And I need some help in a real way. And uh We're hoping to be able to stay at the mission for several years yet, but we need to be able to have someone with uh the energy and and ability and and willingness and the heart to come and learn the work so that when the time comes for us to uh conclude our days there, we will have a a good man to take our place. So pray for that, if you will I'm going to read Psalm 23, as Brother Steve mentioned earlier. It's something that we've heard at funerals ever since we probably heard our first funeral. Um, I remember very clearly, distinctly when I was working with Brother Raleigh Holt about the first four months I was at the mission. as the co-director, and he taught a noontime Bible study for the staff on Psalm 23 verse 1 The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. And he preached on what is mine, what is mine, and my word for the next 30 minutes. He really poured his heart out. And the conclusion of that whole matter was this. The Lord is my shepherd. We don't really have anything else. I don't know if you realize that or not. We really don't have anything else. Everything else that we have is on loan for a little while, but it's not ours Is your health yours? Oh, you young people, you say, yeah. Keep waking up. Is your wife yours? You could have a car accident, God forbid. She could come down with a terminal illness, God forbid. And all of a sudden you walk away from a cemetery and you find out she's not yours anymore. Oh, she's yours here. But you won't ever talk to her again, not on this side of heaven. Are your kids yours? Yeah, one of these days you'll have an empty nest too. Find out what that's like. Is your job yours? Well, maybe for today. So that really uh arrested my attention, got me thinking a lot. And was a great blessing to me. Just that one. This thought that I've gotten from verse 4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of death, the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. I will fear no evil. So I get the text from that or the title from that, no fear. Fear no evil, no fear. I've seen it on t-shirts. I've seen it on bumper stickers. No fear. Hoorah! We're not afraid of anything, anybody. We can do it. Yeah. Yeah. All of us fear something Many of us are very good at hiding our fears, but we do have fear. It comes in many different forms. So I want to talk to you this morning a little about fear. The reality of it, where it came from, what it is in your life, what it's done to people, good people, godly people, what it may be doing to you right now. And how to deal with it. So let's go to the Lord and ask him for his wisdom because I sure don't have any. Our Heavenly Father, I pray that you'll help me to be a blessing today. I want to be an encouragement to your people. Lord, I know what it is to deal with fear in its many different forms. And Lord, we're grateful that we have the Word of God which teaches us, as it does in all things, that the man or woman of God may be thoroughly furnished unto all good works. And so, Lord, we pray that you'll help us to be better informed this morning on this idea of fear and how to deal with it when it knocks on our heart's door. So God and direct us, we pray through your word, by your Holy Spirit, we ask in Jesus' name and amen. Psychologists call it phobias Phobias. You've heard of them. Fear of heights. Fear of being enclosed. I never thought I was claustrophobic. Till I was about to have my first knee replacement. That's why I kind of have to be real careful coming up and down these stairs. Because I've got two total knee replacements. And uh they put me in a big tube that was like a coffin called an MRI. If you've ever been there, you know what I'm talking about. I'm not a small person. I'm being nice to me. That that top of that, the inside of that That MRI is about right here. There's a little bit of air breathing on you. You're in there for 45 minutes. You hear a bunch of it sounds like somebody's outside, both of them with 10-pound sledges beating on that tube. And uh It's banging and clanging. I can handle the banging and clanging. I can carry I can take only having a little bit of air. But when they when they push you back into that thing, the only thing sticking out is your ankles. It is the closest thing to being in my coffin I ever want to be in. It is like to me being in your own coffin. Because you can't slide out. You can't scoot your way out. You can't say, wait a minute, I'm done with this. You know, and you're hoping somebody's there. Now my wife. has a doctor that she just saw and she has to have an MRI and she said now this is the doctor told her Then one of her patients went in and was left there. I don't know if somebody went to lunch or what. But that would be my biggest fear being left in that thing. Okay? So I was the last patient that night. And it was dark outside. And my wife said to me, she said, Why don't you let me go with you to get your MRI? I said, Nothing to it, hon. I said, just like a big X-ray. I said, I'm not worried about that. Just stay home and get something done. She said, fine. So I went. This young man, about maybe 20, put me in that thing, and some nurse, she got everything going and So I finally made it out. I went through all the books of the Bible, every Bible memory verse I knew, every hymn I knew I sung in my I was doing everything to distract myself from this. Horrible pit I was in. And I got out. And the young man looked at me and he saw that I was maybe not real happy or maybe visibly shaken just a little. He said, you didn't like it in there, did you? And I said, I have a question for you. I said, have you ever been in there? He said, no. I said, I don't want to hear a word from you. And say a word to me. I went to get in my car. Honestly it took me five minutes to open the door. I did not want to get into a dark car at night after getting into that MRI. I was done with it, man. No more of them things. Take a hacksaw and work on me, but don't put me back in that coffin. Till I'm dead. Okay? I did not think I had claustrophobia. Until I got put in that situation. And some of us think that we can handle a lot of stuff. I can remember days in the military. Overseas. You know, the whole Vietnam thing. Nineteen years old, Marine Corps. Oohrah, right? Yeah. That worked for about five minutes. Until incoming happened. And I was scared to death. Because I wasn't saved. I wasn't saved. And I didn't know what would happen if something happened. I know what it is to be afraid. Some people are afraid of water. Some people are afraid of crowds. Now I'm not afraid of crowds, but I don't like them. I'm down in Baltimore, I'm at the Baltimore Rescue Mission every day in the heart of the ghetto. At least five days a week, many times six days a week, ten to twelve hour days. I'm not exaggerating. And the last thing I want to do when I do get a day off is to go down to a stadium full of about 50 or 60,000 people. Three-quarters of them are drunk. And they're passing booze back and forth, and if it's the summertime, most of them forget how to put their clothes on before they come out in public. And then if one of them doesn't like something that the umpire says or the the referee says or whatever, then all of a sudden you got a fight starting right in front of you. And no, that's not my idea of enter entertainment on my day off from the Baltimore Rescue Mission. Give me a lake and a fishing pole and I'll do fine. Don't like crowds, but I'm not afraid of them. Some people are afraid of germs. My word. Germs are there, folks. I hate to tell you, you can't see them, but they're there. And uh anyway, some people are paranoid about those. Now here's one I'm not afraid of, gaining weight. I've overcome that fear a long time ago. I'm not proud of it, but I got over it. Some people afraid of getting old, I got over that one too. Some people are afraid of being poor. Got over that. Some people are afraid of death. Death is real. That's probably one of the biggest fears. And that's why in Psalm 23 he said, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, that is the ultimate. That is the ultimate end all of end all's I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. But for the unbeliever that doesn't know the Lord and he's hoping he was good enough in life to make it, of course nobody is ever good enough in life to make it, so He's terrorized. I don't care how much money he's got. I don't care how much prestige he had in life. When he goes to die, when he's standing when he's laying in a bed up there in Hopkins, I was in Hopkins ICU yesterday with a board member of ours from the mission who just had a liver transplant. You know they can take part of a person's liver now and give it to another person and both of you can live. Used to be you had to have the whole liver This guy's son-in-law gave him half of his liver. Can you believe that? And they're both recovering pretty well. They only had it three days ago. Some people are afraid of death. Dentists. Can I get an amen? Doctors. Car accidents, airplanes. You read about that airplane, the the the engine that that fell off that just dis disintegrated on a plane the other day, someplace. I wasn't in that one. Fear of being alone. Fear of the dark. Fear of failing. Anybody want to fail? Anybody that's here. It's your uh dream occupation to be a failure in life to end up down at the Baltimore rescue mission, come in at the green door at five o'clock at night with 150 other homeless people. Every kind of criminal you can imagine. I made a mistake of going through the the personnel files of our staff. We have 18 men on staff and four ladies. And we've got a bunch of new people. So I just thought, well, you know, I'm just gonna kind of, I pulled all the all the files. And uh out of 18 men, 12 of them. Spent time in prison. Eight of them were sex offenders. One was in for murder. One was in for attempted murder, sex offense, and drug abuse. And they're some of our best people. You know why? Because they got saved. You say, well, I don't know if you ought to have why do you think I'm down there? Why do you think I'm down there working with folks who have come out that nobody wants them near them? But you know what? The blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse us from how much? All sin. Amen. And you know what? If he's forgiven them. I need to give them a chance. I need to give them a chance. Hey, if it wasn't for him, in my worldly days, I didn't get saved until I was 24. I'd be down there myself on the wrong side of the green door coming in. Okay, that's where I would be right now. So yeah, we got some bad boys down there. Hey, they're the best ones. They're the ones that I've handpicked out of all the guys that come in. I say, you know, we need a guy doing this on the staff. Let's I I'll get to the guy who checks the guys in. I say Who do you think would be the best to do this? He looked at me and said, Brother Chuck, you really want me to do that? And I said, Yeah And they'll pick somebody out. And I'll give them a try. And but the ones that he doesn't want to come on, you don't want to read their rap sheet. You wouldn't even come down and take a tour in the daytime if you knew what some of them were had been up to or are still up to. Fear of failure, fear of not fitting in, fear of not being loved. Any of that sound familiar Paranoia is when fear makes you suspicious of people. Who might catch you doing something wrong? You see, ultimately fear is a byproduct of sin. Let's look at the beginning and I'll prove that Genesis chapter 3. Would you turn there? You say, I know all about that. Let's take a look at it one more time. Genesis chapter 3. First time the word fear is mentioned in the Bible Is right after Adam and Eve sinned. Up until then, the word fear was not found in the Bible. There was nothing to fear when Adam and Eve had a perfect relationship with God. They longed for the time when God would come in the cool of the of the of the day and have fellowship with God. They longed for that. They had a clear conscience. They had an open heart. Man, they had wonderful fellowship. There was no guilt in their minds or in their hearts. Their spirit was not contaminated by sin. Everything was good. But the minute they sinned. Look what happened. So Genesis 3 down in verse number 8. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the cool of the garden. And instead of running to him, Like my grandkids run to pop pop when I walk in the door. Instead of running to him, it says, and Adam and his wife. hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. Oh boy, they're real slick. Now they're hiding from God. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto Adam, Where art thou? And he said, I heard the voice, thy voice in the garden, and I was, there it is, afraid. I had fear of you, God. Why were you afraid of God, Adam? Because I disobeyed God. He said, I was afraid. And because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told thee that thou art naked was naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree wherein I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat Yes, you are a sinner, Adam. And the wages of sin is death. And welcome to living in an accursed world and in an accursed body. And Adam sinned, and it was a spiritual genetic defect that was passed upon all of mankind. And outside of the Lord Jesus Christ, there has not been a man who's walked this earth sinless. He only accomplished that fact. So when we sin, we become paranoid. You see, sin leads to fear, and fear leads to hiding. Immediately, Adam and Eve sinned. God came looking. Uh-oh, I'm going to give an account. I don't want to give an account because I'm guilty. Before God even condemns me, my heart has already condemned me. And so they hide Some people run to booze to hide from the results of their sin. Some people run to drugs. Some people run from work. I'm done with this place. I had enough of it. Well, you quit enough jobs like that and you'll end up on the street homeless. It won't take you long either. Because your reputation will get around the minute you put out a reference. We have fear because we're afraid. Of the results of our sin. If we say we have no fear, we're afraid of appearing weak. We don't want to look weak, we want to look tough. We can handle it I'm not afraid of anything. Oh yeah? Well, you're lying, that's one thing for sure. So that's where fear began in the Garden of Eden. There is no hiding from God. Psalm 90, verse 8 says this, Thou hast set our iniquities before thee. Our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. God takes our sins that we do in the dark, the sins that we do alone, the sins where we think we've done very well at hiding them. And he takes them and puts them like I put this Bible in my face and says, your sins are in the light of my countenance, my face. I see your sin. You cannot hide your sin. Any of them. Can't hide any of them. Not even these. You say, but I deleted all that. God saw you delete it. Who do you think you are? You think God doesn't know his way around these things? Huh? You think he doesn't know what you've been up to? I'm going to leave here this morning taking communion, singing holy holy. And by tomorrow night, you've already gone back to your favorite site. You better get real with God, friend. So you've been following me around, no. God has. God has By the way, do you know that 37% of women between the ages of 20 and 35 are hooked on internet pornography? I said women Thirty-seven percent of women are hooked on internet pornography. Men You're up in the 70% category. You don't have to look for it. It comes looking for you You can't help it if a bird flies by over your head, but you don't have to let him build a nest in your hair Man, we got a little specific. He really got quiet. Yeah. Yeah. No fear. God's already seen it. You say, well, I hope my wife doesn't find it. It doesn't matter if your wife found out It doesn't matter if your kids found out, caught you. Doesn't matter if your secretary found out What matters is God saw it when you did it. God saw it. God saw it before you hit that button that told you where the next connection was going. He saw your heart, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Every thought. The thought of hitting that button and going there, God already knows what you're up to before you even do it Jeremiah sixteen, seventeen. For mine eyes are upon all their ways. They are not hid from my face. Neither is their iniquity hid from my eyes. You can't get away from him. You can't get away from him. Spurgeon called him the Hound of Heaven. And that he is. That he is. Hebrews 4. 12. The word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than the two-edged sword, piercing even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and other joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. No fear? Why are you trying to hide it? Why are you trying to brush it under the rug? I'm not just talking about that. I'm talking about stealing at work. I'm talking talking about cheating on an exam. I'm talking about lying about somebody. I'm talking about maliciousness, the desire to have evil happen to an enemy of yours. I'm talking about covetousness, many, many myriads of things. All comes back to sin. Look with me in the book of Hebrews, if you will please, chapter number two. Hebrews chapter two. David didn't have to deal with that stuff, you know that? Job didn't have to deal with that stuff. Paul didn't have to deal with that stuff, but you and I have to deal with it There are many advantages of living in the year 2018. There are many things we can do with the technology that we have But it is also one of Satan's most effective wiles. Ephesians 6 talks about the wiles of the devil, the cunning devices. Fiery darts. Man, that that technology thing. He's really, really capitalized on that. Hebrews chapter 2 down in verse number 14. For as much as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself, speaking of Jesus, likewise took part of the same. He took on flesh and blood, that through death he might destroy him. that have the power of death, that is the devil. He's not just a boogeyman He's not just something to scare kids about. He's as real as the Lord Jesus Christ is. And he's been around a long, long time. And it didn't take him long to figure out man to tempt him into sin that would plunge him into hell one day without A means of escape which the Lord provided. He that had the power of death. Fear of him that had the power of death, that is the devil. He is your enemy. He is your enemy. Now let me give you an exil an example and I'll be done here Matthew chapter 26, very familiar passage. The Apostle Peter One of the inner circle, but all of us, I think, would probably agree, we that have studied this book a while, that he was the leader of the inner circle. He was the spokesperson. Usually he spoke and then stuck his foot right in his mouth. But he was a leader. He was one who loved the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to see that what fear did to Peter, fear can do to you and me. Down in Hebrews chapter 26 and verse number 50. Oh, let's look at verse 55. They're right at the point where Jesus is undergoing trial. After having been falsely accused, verse 55, in that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, are you come out as against a thief with swords and staves for to take me I sat daily with you in the temple when you took me not. This is at the Garden of Gethsemane, but all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled, that all the disciples forsook him and fled. Notice the word all there. It wasn't just Peter that ran. All the disciples, yes, even John the Beloved ran. They forsook him and fled, and they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caivas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled, but Peter followed him afar off unto the high priest place and went in and sat with the servants. Whose servants? They sat with Caiaphas's servants. This guy who was going to take a stand for Jesus. He followed him afar off. Why? Because he was afraid. He told Jesus earlier, I will never leave you or forsake you. Yea, I will follow you into prison even unto death. I will follow you. Yeah, he followed him all right. He followed him afar off. Afar off. He was scared to death. And what crowd was he sitting with? Caiaphas's servants. Fear will make brave men cowards. Fear will make brave men cowards. Don't tell me What you think you can do. If somebody came in the back of the auditorium this morning, two guys carrying machine guns. And they said, renounce your faith in Jesus Christ, or you will die. Then you'll find out about your faith Until you've looked death square in the eye, you don't know what you'll do when you face it. Until the time comes. Until the time comes. Peter said, I'll face death. I'll die for him. He did die for him. He was crucified for him, upside down, but not until after he failed. Not until after he realized that he wasn't going to do it because he was a big tough fisherman. It was only because he had learned how to trust Christ. They will make brave men cowards. It will force weak people to conform to the crowd. Verse 58, Peter followed him afar off into the high pala high palace, priest's palace, and went in and sat with the servants. Verse 73. It says down in verse 73, and after a while came there came unto him they that stood by and said to Peter, Surely thou art one of them, for thy speech betrayeth thee. Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man, and immediately the cock crew, the cussing preacher. The cussing preacher Cussing preacher. I'll stand with you, Lord. Yeah, until the heat gets turned up. Until he gets turned up. Hard place to stand is amongst family. Amongst family. Christian or otherwise. Hard to take a stand sometimes, do what's right. Hard to take a stand at work. You think it's it's easy or it's easy to day after day after day after day be ridiculed? Some of you could stand up and bear testimony of how you've you've spent your whole working days being ridiculed because of your faith in Christ. God bless you. God won't forget that. But it's hard to take a stand. Peter found that out. Verse number 74. Then Peter began to curse and swear, saying, I know not the man. Immediately the cockrow. And Peter remembered the word of Jesus which said unto him before the cockroach, Thou shalt deny me thrice. He went out and wept bitterly It will cause bitter tears. What will fear do? It will make brave men cowards. It will force weak people to conform to the crowd. It will make a preacher cross. It will cause bitter tears. Bitter tears. What will what will fear do to you? Huh? What will fear do to you Fear will cause you to bend to the dictates of the crowd when you know you should stand against them. Fear will make a compromiser out of you if you're not careful. There's not a day, listen to me, there's not a day in the world that goes by at the Baltimore Rescue Mission where I am not tempted to compromise over something. Over something. We have 365 days a year. We have a gospel service for the men 365 days a year, simultaneously we have a separate service, a separate whole group of volunteers who come in and do services for the women and children. Every workday from Monday through Friday, we have noontime Bible study where a different Bible teacher comes in and teaches. We have people that come in and do the services want to come in and of course they're going to lead music. I have lost the support from churches that have given for years because they want to come in and do their worship services with what I believe is the wrong kind of music. And I say, no, you're not coming into the Baltimore rescue mission and doing that. What you do in your church is your business, but you're not bringing that into this mission. You say, well, it's just a rescue mission. It is God's house. And I'm gonna, as the steward, protect it from what I believe is worldliness. And you say, well, yeah, well. You lose $100 a month for stands like that, $150 a month, sometimes $200 a month support. over several different churches over a period of years and all of a sudden you start to see your finances dropping. Why? Because you told a church that they couldn't come in. And use the wrong type of music in worship, or have the wrong kind of doctrine Come to the Baltimore Rescue Mission and do a service. You have to first give us a copy of your church's doctrinal statement. And if it doesn't line up with ours, you can't come and do a service at the Baltimore Rescue Mission. You say, man, you're kind of nutso, aren't you, Brother Chuck? No, I am a steward. It is not my mission, it is God's mission, and I am a steward as long as I'm still there to see that things are done the way I believe God says in his word he wants it done. And I have been tempted to compromise. I have people all the time coming and telling me they're going to do this and they're going to do that and they can give us this, but they put all kinds of strings attached to it. And I have had to say no to many of it, much of it. Fear will turn you into a liar. There are no white lies. It's either the truth or it's not. If you've got a lie to keep your position at work. If you've got a lie to cover your sin, if you've got a lie to do anything, you're a liar. Okay. You say, well if I tell the truth, I'll well why don't you just tell the truth and take a stand and take your lumps? It may cost you. It may cost you But one of the big problems our culture has today is we're not willing to take a stand on the truth. Because we don't want to be inconvenienced. Fear will turn you into a thief or a cheat. Fear will rob you of peace and joy. Just about three verses here and I'll be done. How can we have victory over fear? Number one, recognize its source. 2 Timothy 1 7, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound mind. God is not the one who puts fear in your heart. What puts fear in your heart is if you do the wrong thing and you know that God is going to deal with you, then you get afraid. Then you get afraid. But God is not the one that made you do the wrong thing. God is not the one that put you in a compromising position. If we just stay straight with the Word of God and do exactly what God says, how He said it, and when to do it, We don't have to worry. We don't have to be afraid. We don't have to fear what man can do to us, the psalmist said. I fear not what man can do to us. Secondly, realize that there is no room for fear when our love for God is present. 1 John 4 18 says this: There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. And I think you can agree with this because it is the word of God, because fear hath torment. It will torment you He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Can you Can you get to a position in life where you can say you have no fear? I think you can. I think you can. If Jesus Christ is the very center of your being, if you have placed Jesus Christ on your throne's heart, that He is Lord of all. And that anything that would cause his displeasure concerning you or anything you do is out of the question. It is not up for debate or compromise. It is out of the question and of story, and you can have peace. And victory through obedience. You really can. You really can. But you can't walk the fence and do it. Won't work. Won't work. Turn to Matthew chapter 10, two verses. Matthew chapter 10 is one of them. Matthew chapter 10. And verse number 28. Matthew ten, twenty-eight. And fear not them. Which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him, which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Fear him. That's who you ought to fear. Somebody asked me today, a couple somebody's asked me today, how's it going with the water bill? A year today, I got handed a $32,000 water bill. It has increased since then. And uh we have paid those bills under protest, and it's now costing us $1,900 a month to pay for the water bills at the Baltimore Rescue Mission, acre building three stories high. It used to cost eight hundred and seventy dollars a quarter every three months. So eight hundred and seventy dollars every three months compared to $1900 a month, you do the math. We paid over $40,000 last year more than what we should have paid. But we paid the bills. Because we didn't pay the bills, they would take the property and put it up for auction That's that's a no-brainer and that's that's a fact, and they're taking people's private residences because they cannot pay their water bills in Baltimore City. Now So somebody said, well what are you doing about that now? And I said, well, I've taken everything. I've got a file that thick. And all my meetings with city council members and all kinds of other bureaucratic people and I've taken it and dumped it on our attorney's desk. Right there. He's had it so far for a week and a half. And I'm waiting to hear what his final answer is. Would you pray with us about that? What's the worst case scenario, Brother Chuck? The worst case scenario is that we might have to pay these bills from here on. It may be the new norm. Well, are you going to be able to do that? No, I can't, but God can. He's allowed us to pay him so far. You say, well, aren't you? Yeah, a lot of those things cause me some concern, but I'm not afraid of them. I'm not afraid of them. Number one, it's not my ministry, it's God's Number two is God is able to do above and beyond all we could ask or think. Number three, God can supply all our needs according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. He is able to deliver us And then finally Proverbs chapter one. Proverbs chapter one Will you bear with me? I'm going to read about nine verses. Huh? Proverbs chapter one, I'm done. Verse 22. How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity and the scorners delight in their scorning and fools hate knowledge? Turn you at my reproof. Behold, I will make I will pour out my spirit unto you. Now notice he's talking, I'm reading it fast, but notice he's talking about simple people who hate knowledge. Turn you at my reproof. When I point out that what you're doing is wrong, repent. Turn. Change your mind. Your metanoia. Change your mind. Pour out my spirit unto you. I will make known my words unto you, because I have called and you've refused. I've stretched out my hand and no man regarded. You've stiff on me. But ye have said it not all my counsel with none of my reproof. I will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when your fear what notice the word. When your fear comes. Are you ever afraid? Think of it. What have you been afraid of? What are you afraid of? Do you think it's funny to be afraid? I don't think it's funny to be afraid. Fear does have torment. But God said, if you mock me, if you refuse my instruction When you go to reap what you sow and you cry out to me for mercy, I will laugh when your fear comes. Read the book. I will laugh at you. And I don't like being laughed at when I'm hurting. I will laugh when your fear cometh. I will mock. When your fear cometh as desolation, when your destruction cometh as a world, when distress and anguish cometh upon you, then shall they call upon me, and I will not answer. I can't like the old old uh Gomer Powell and And Sergeant, what's his face? I can't hear you. God can say I can't hear you. Huh? When your fear cometh is desolation. Verse 28, They shall call upon me, I will not answer, they shall seek me, they shall not find me. For that they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. Fear him, remember it said, Fear him that can cast both body and soul into hell. Fear him. They would not of my counsel. They despised all my reproof. Therefore they eat of the fruit of their own way. and be filled with their own devices, for the turning away of the of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of the fool shall dis destroy them. Listen, but whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely and shall be quiet from fear of evil. Quiet of fear of evil It's not arrogance, it's confidence. Okay? It's not arrogance, it's confidence. Confidence that if I do everything within my power by the grace of God to try to obey this book. That he will bless, that he will provide, and he will protect. He's promised it. And I can live Free of fear. And so can you. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your blessed word. Pray you use it to challenge and comfort and encourage our hearts. Satan has his way with far too many Christians. People become in bondage to fear. They have panic attacks. They get themselves on antidepressants, which leads some to suicide. But Jesus is called wonderful, counselor, the everlasting Father, the mighty God, the Prince of Peace, which could be translated Tranquilizer. The word peace. Lord, I pray that you'll help us to find our peace in you. That we might enjoy a walk and a fellowship that is a love relationship, If there are any here without the Lord Jesus Christ, I pray today they would be willing. To share that need with one of us who would be glad, thrilled, and privileged to sit down and show you how to become a Christian. By the grace of God. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.