Turns out we don't need PowerPoint this morning. We need the Word of God. Turn in your Bibles to Galatians chapter 1. We were going to use that anyway, just in case this is not plan B. Plan A was to use the Word of God. Glenn A was also to have some cool pictures. But, you know, they say a picture is worth a thousand words, so we're going to go with a thousand words today. It's going to be a long sermon. No, maybe maybe not. But Galatians chapter 1. In this sermon, I'm going to preach to you what God says in this passage. Also, I'm going to share a little bit of some of the things the Lord's been doing. in our work there. We have a chance to work with national leaders in sensitive areas across, like I said, Middle East, East Africa. I still go back and to Hong Kong every once in a while, usually once a year. And it's exciting to see what God's doing. Some of these places you might think, is God at work here? I can tell you He is. There's a lot of obstacles. There's a lot of darkness. But God's gospel light is still shining in those places. And I have a the opportunity just to see a glimpse of that and see what God's doing. And I thank you all for your prayers. I all already quite a few of you had come up to me and asked me about the Jordan situation. that means you got our prayer letter and that you're praying for it. I'm I'm very, very thankful for that. You all have been such a huge support to us and our family. Well, since I was a little kid, I think I was like three or four when we started coming here. And then all the time where I was an assistant pastor here, as I've served in missions, thank you all so much for your faith. prayers and support. Um I'm gonna share a little bit about that as we go go through this this sermon. But God is at work. God is at work. The gospel is going forward and uh people are being saved and uh taught in the Word of God. Before I begin, let's let's open in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the opportunities you give us. First, to know you through your word. and the opportunities you give us to share your word with others. Lord, we know that there is none of the name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. We know that uh your gospel is the power of God to salvation to everyone uh who believes. And uh Lord, I pray uh this morning that your gospel, your word would be clear. Uh give us ears to hear what your spirit says through your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. I like pizza. I really do. Pizza is a good food. Fortunately I can't eat it anymore, but you know, I really did like pizza most of my life. A nice steaming hot pizza with melty cheese on it. We're not too close to lunch to start describing how good pizza is there. No, I I like pizza. How many of you enjoy pizza? Anybody? Yeah. After this sermon, you're probably going out for pizza. Pizza? Pizza is really excellent. Now, how do you make pizza? I I I know the basics. I don't actually make it myself. My wife does, but you know, you've got basically three elements. You've got cheese. You've got tomato sauce and you've got the crust. And you've got to have those three things. If you don't have those three things, you don't have pizza. So when I first moved to Hong Kong, uh I moved to a little village called Baknao Sek. I couldn't say that. I I took me a couple a year or two to be able to say the name of the village where I first lived. Baknao sec literally means white cow rock, but I didn't know that at the time and there was no large white rock anywhere that I saw. It probably was bulldozed to put houses on where it used to be But uh so my daughter Julia was turning two years old or was she turning one? She was turning three. Oh, she was turning three apparently. And uh so we had just gotten there. I understood zero Cantonese. I could speak zero Cantonese in this this village, Battenhausek where we live, was outside the city, the the city center. But I thought, you know what, I wanna get pizza. I don't have my own car. I'm not gonna go there and bring it back in in the bus. Nope, I'm gonna call and order it. I'm gonna live adventurously. So I called up and I and someone who could speak just a little bit of English was able to take my order. I told him where I lived. I probably said it wrong, and then I waited I waited for the phone call. Then the man is going to come on the little motorcycle with a little box in the back to keep the pizza warm, and uh I would go out and get the pizza. That was the theory. This was the first time I tried it. So, sure enough, my phone rang. Somebody said something in Cantonese. I didn't understand him. I said something in English. He didn't understand me. But I figured he must be outside. I went to the door. There was nobody at my door with the pizza. Oh well. Okay, well, the village was set up so you the vehicles couldn't actually get to the uh to to the house. It was a it was a a village where all the walkways were like little narrow alley kind of things. And so I thought maybe I just need to come out of the village and he'll at the main road that's where he'll be. So I Kept my mobile phone with me, walked out there. There's nobody there. Where's my pizza? This is gonna be a pizza party without pizza is not a very exciting party. So I start wandering down the main road. Maybe he got, you know, maybe there's another entrance to the village I don't know about. So I'm walking around here, looking around. My phone rings again. He says something in Cantonese. I don't understand it. I say something in English. He doesn't understand it. This is not going well. My chances of eating pizza are going down, down, down. So I keep walking, I keep wandering around. Eventually I discovered the man with the pizza. He knows that I'm the right guy because I can't talk to him. He can't can't talk to me. I gave him money. He gave me pizza. This is perfect. We had a pizza party. I f I felt like this was success. Now, a couple weeks later, we decided to do pizza after church. We'd often eat together after the Sunday service, and so We order pizza. I got somebody who is more capable in communicating with the pizza guy to order the pizza for us. And they brought the pizza. And I looked at the pizza and I thought, dad, that's a Pizza, that's good, that's good. They asked me which kind of pizza do you want? Do you want the Canadian pizza? They showed me the picture of the Canadian pizza. I had one up there That's not my PowerPoint. Um there's no picture of pizza there. But had there been a picture of pizza there, it would have corn on it. The Canadian pizza's got corn. Anyone put corn on their pizza? It's really not a great picture. Maybe you're glad you can't see it. My wife's from Canada. She says they never put can't corn on the pizza But you know, my pizza had no core. Not now there was another one. There's a it was a little more expensive, but you get the seafood pizza, and literally they had taken a lobster and just put the lobster on top of the pizza. We didn't get that one. But the one I got looked like a normal pizza. I took a bite and I immediately knew something is wrong with this pizza. Like what is it? I go through the checklist. How do you make a pizza? There's gotta be cheese, there's gotta be crust, there's gotta be What sauce is this? I really couldn't place it. I've I've tasted this flavor before, but between cheese and crust, it was not tasting the normal way I thought it should taste. So I asked somebody, what is this sauce? Like, oh in Hong Kong we've improved the pizza. You did? Yes. We put Thousand Island salad dressing in there instead of tomato sauce. Anybody want to try that pizza? This is not a pizza. No, no, no. If you change the tomato sauce for thousand line cell dressing, I don't know what it is. Maybe it's still food, but this is no longer pizza. You need three things for a pizza. Cheese. sauce uh tomato sauce, very important. I learned the word very quickly how to say tomato sauce in in in in Chinese. That way when I ordered the pizza I made sure which sauce I had. It needs to be fen kai jung. If it's not fen kijung, I don't want it. And it's not pizza. They have perverted the pizza. We come to Galatians chapter 1, and it's a much more serious matter than pizza. And a much uh higher standard than my Maybe debatable definition of what makes a pizza. But something has been perverted that's very serious in Galatians chapter 1. Galatians chapter 1, look at verse 6. The Apostle Paul here is writing and he says, I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel. which is not another. But there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you Let him be accursed. As we've said before, so now I say again: if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still pleased men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. This is how Paul starts the book of Galatians. I know there were some other words before. He introduces himself, verse 1. Paul, an apostle, not from men nor through men, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. He actually starts there with key elements of the gospel. Christ Christ is risen from the dead. He talks a little bit later after he says the traditional greeting of grace to you and peace. Verse 4 talks about Jesus Christ who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil age. But then as he gets into the real mean of what he's going to say in verse 6, he starts with, I marvel, I'm shocked, I'm surprised. Now Paul had been in the region of Galatia not long before this. This book was probably written A. D. 48, definitely written before A. D. 50 in the Jerusalem. Jerusalem Council. Paul had just gotten back from his missionary journey. In the back of your Bible, you probably have maps. A lot of Bibles do. You could look there and see the different missionary journeys. This is after the first one. Um and he started from the Syri the the city of Antioch, which is in Syria, took a boat over to Cyprus with Barnabas. They put they tried to plant churches on the island of Cyprus, where Barnabas at least had probably previously lived, at least he owned had had owned land there. Then they moved on from Cyprus, went across the Mediterranean, up north to Perga. They did not try to plant a church there, not sure why, but then in this region of today's southern Turkey. They began to preach the gospel first at another city called Antioch. Turns out there was a Greek emperor uh in the previous empire who really liked naming cities after himself. There's like eleven Antiochs across the ancient world. world. This was Antioch of of Pisidia. They started preaching the gospel there. They led some people to Christ, planted a church, got kicked out, then they moved on to the next city, the next city. That whole area there was called the So they went to the cities of Antiochidia, Lystra, Derby, Iconium. They shared the gospel. They got kicked out. Lystra, he he managed to get stoned. It was a rough time. But a lot of people got saved. Churches were planted. Both Jews went to the synagogues first. He led people to Christ there. Then Gentiles also got saved. And so these there was a mix in these churches that he planted. When the journey was finished, he returned to Antioch, reported about what he had done. It's kind of the pattern we have even today for missionaries, going back to churches that sent them and reporting about what God had done. That's what Paul was doing there. And as he was probably resting a bit after this very laborious and painful trip with the stoning and everything, um he began to hearing reports about what was going on in Galatia where he had just been. After he had been there, there had been some other teachers that had come. Teachers from Jerusalem, maybe from Antioch, teachers that were Jewish background. And they were telling these New believers, yes, you've got to believe in Jesus, but the law of Moses, you've got to keep that. You Gentile believers, you kind of need to become Jews. You've got to be circumcised. You gotta you've got to keep the law of Moses, otherwise, you're not really saved. They were adding f works to faith. How do you live your life? Oh no, you you gotta become a Jew in order to be a Christian. Yeah, you get saved by believing in Jesus, but you also got to do these works. And Paul heard that. And he realized that they were at a crisis moment. The important decision was being made. And so he shocks them. By starting this book saying that he's shocked. He says, I marvel, I'm shocked, I'm surprised that you are turning away. He didn't say you have turned away. They're at a turning point here. You are turning. You're being pulled, where? So soon. From him who called you. He says, you are turning away from him who called you. Who called them? To believe the gospel? God did. God called them. By his grace. Well, that's what he says next. He called them. You're turning away from God? You're turning away next, he says, from the grace of Christ. This grace is sourced in Christ. This is a what's grace? Grace is a free gift, not earned, not deserved. He said, I'm so surprised that you're turning away first from God. You're also turning away from the grace of God. You're adding works to it. He says you're turning to a different gospel. In fact, if we keep reading to verse 7, to a different gospel which is not another. This seems to be rather redundant, doesn't it? A different gospel which is not another. I think I got the idea. Or do you Actually, even in Greek, it's even more clear. When he says a different gospel, which is not another, this word another, in English we just have one word that means another But in Greek they actually are a little bit more specific. There's one word that means another of the same kind, there's one and there's one that means another of a different kind. The one he's using here is the one that means another of a different kind. He says, you've turned away from God, away from grace, to a different gospel, which is not another. This is not just a matter of, you know, somebody phrase it a different way. Maybe use slightly different words. He says, no, no, no. This is an entirely different animal. It's an entirely different thing. I was in Africa in January, Uganda. And I spent most of my life in the US or in Asia. Africa's a new thing to me. I think the animals in Africa are amazing. They have so much variety and they're like everywhere. You walk outside and it's like a nature show. Um and actually our offices where we had our training Um it's about ninety degrees, which is a little bit of a shock since it was four here and I'd come from here. Um but they're outside, there's no air conditioning, you have the wind windows open, you hear the birds, you see them. Some of them you can't help but see. There's this stork that's about this high. He's about this tall and he just wanders around near the desk uh near near the office. He's the ugliest thing ever. He's got this like massive goiter like this and he's like walking around Like, if those things brought babies, I don't think anybody would have babies. I mean that thing is ugly. And there's also kingfishers, which are absolutely beautiful. We saw some other different kind of birds. We see monkeys kind of playing and running around there. Um there's a cow that's tied up back there. Uh and uh then on one of the first days we were there last year We saw this criter critter running across the forest floor, and my wife and I looked at us and said, I think that's a mongoose. I've never seen a mongoose. Mongooses can kill snakes. That's cool. I want to see a mongoose. And there's one running across the ground. So we're talking about it. We're kind of excited seeing these new creatures. So a little bit later in the day, I'm in my class, I'm teaching the students, and I decide, you know, something comes up, and I decide to use that mongoose as an illustration. You know, immediately there, it's irrelevant, all that kind of thing. So I tell them about the mongoose after the class. One of the students come up to me. He had previously introduced himself as a peasant. It's a word I don't use very often, but he says, Hello, I'm a peasant. But he's it means he's he's a subsistence farmer in the uh from way out in the sticks. Well he came up to me and he says, Do you Teacher, you did not see a mongoose. I go, really? What did I see? I mean I saw the creature running there on the ground, running up towards the tree. He says Teacher, I've heard you and your wife talking. I didn't want to contradict you, but maybe you need to know. This is not a mongoose. This is this is a squirrel. Now I know about squirrels. There's squirrels here. Now the the the squirrels in Africa are a little bit bigger, but I did feel a little foolish. Being so excited about the mongoose, that was a squirrel. I looked it up, you know. What what what you know how different really is a mongoose from a squirrel? Well, the mongoose is in the cat family. The squirrel is in the mouse family. I've confused a cat and a mouse. These are totally different animals. There's no relationship at all. I was completely confused. I did not know what I was looking at. That's what Paul's saying here. You're confused. You don't know what you're looking at. But the gospel that they are saying is a gospel. The gospel they're preaching to you is not a gospel. This is a different gospel which is not another. It's not the same at all. It's a gospel of a different kind. And it's the kind that can't save you. They've added grace to work. They've perverted the gospel. Remember that pizza? I arbitrarily said. It's not a pizza if it doesn't have three things. But here is God. God is the one who says, this is what the gospel is. I say, hey, if you add a sauce that's not a tomato sauce, you pervert it to pizza. That's just my opinion. But here, Paul is saying, This is from God. Remember how he started in verse one. Paul an apostle apostle. not from men nor through men but through Jesus Christ. He's going to emphasize that over and over again. I got this message from God. The gospel I gave you, I delivered to you. It's from him, not from me. Not from Jerusalem. It's from God. He says that the but these second guys that are coming here, they're teaching you a different gospel. Beware, be careful. They've perverted it What's the true gospel? Well Paul says I delivered it to you. In fact, over and over again, if you look if you You scan down into verse 9, he talks about any other gospel than what you have received. They received it. Where did Paul get it? If you look down in verse 12, for I neither received it, that's the gospel from man, nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. If you think about uh 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4, the Iwanakids on Friday, they always memorize this verse. It says this, For I delivered to you First of all, that which I also received. Paul said, I didn't make this up. Other people didn't make this up. No, I delivered to you what I received. He got it from God. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. It came from God. It's consistent with what God revealed in the Old Testament. Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. That he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. This is the center of the gospel. I declare to you the gospel. Christ died for our sins. He was buried. He rose again. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, even more clear. It says, for by grace you have been saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them He says this, by grace you've been saved. He says, but but you're turning away from what? From him who called you. God, you're turning away from grace. For by grace are you saved through faith. What's grace? Grace is a free gift, something not earned, not deserved. He makes it very clear in Ephesians 2. It's by grace you're saved through faith. Not of yourselves, not by your own works. You cannot earn your salvation. He says, not by works, lest anyone should boast. You don't get saved by your own good works. You don't stay saved by your own good works. That's what they were saying. Teachers that were coming, they were saying, This is how y yes, you gotta believe in Jesus, but you have to also do these works. You have to keep the law of Moses. And Paul says, that's a different gospel. It is not the same at all. The Bible says salvation is a free gift. The wages of sin is death. We're all sinners. We deserve death. We deserve to go to hell. But he says this: the gift of God is eternal life. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. It's a gift. It's free. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to His mercy Mercy is kind of like the flip side of grace. If you oversimplify it a bit, mercy is God not giving you something you do deserve. You do deserve punishment for your sin. Grace is God giving you something you don't deserve. You don't deserve salvation, yet it's a free gift that he offers to everyone. And you receive it through faith in Jesus Christ. This is God's grace. Received by faith. But Paul says, be careful. You are turning away From him who called you. You're turning from God, from grace to a different gospel. So verse 6, beware of turning away from the true gospel. He continues in verse 7, though. Beware again. Beware of following false teachers. Look what the false teachers are doing. Verse 7. There's two verbs there that kind of describe their method here. He says, There are some who trouble you. There's a trouble. First verb, trouble you. And number two, pervert the gospel of Christ. This word trouble means to cause inward turmoil, to stir up, to disturb, to unsettle, to cause confusion. That's what he'd heard about. They're confused. They're considering, turning from the truth to error. Jesus didn't come to cause confusion. He clearly gave us the gospel. In fact, in James chapter, in John chapter 14, the night before Christ was crucified, he said this. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you? Let not your heart be troubled. There's that same word as Galatians 1. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Jesus comes, his gospel brings peace, peace with God. A subtleness knowing that your salvation does not rest on your works, your performance. It rests on what Jesus did for you on the cross. You shouldn't be troubled. You should have peace. These false teachers have come. They're telling you something different, and it's troubling you. In fact, if you look in Acts chapter 15, verse 24, Acts 15, 24. This actual uh the same issue that Paul is addressing in Galatians here in about A. D. 48, he addresses the entire church as a council to address in Jerusalem about a year or so later. The Jerusalem Council. In Acts 15, 24, uh look at look what I believe this is James talking. He says this, Since we have heard that some who went out from us have troubled you. Word again. They've troubled you with words, unsettling your souls, saying, You must be circumcised and keep the law, to whom we gave no such commandment False doctrine troubles people. It causes confusion. It unsettles them. It disturbs them. The gospel of Jesus Christ is very clear, very simple. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. But when false teachers come, confusion, disturbance happens They trouble you. They pervert the gospel. You take something good and you make it bad. We had the illustration of the pizza. You have a good pizza, but if you switch out the tomato sauce for the thousand island, this is now not good and it's no longer pizza. Maybe it's cheese toast. I don't know what you want to call it. But this is not pizza. Here's the gospel. You add works to it, works don't belong in it. Works are something that comes after, a result of God changing you. A result of his regenerative work. The work comes after, and they're not there to keep you saved. It's not like, well, if my performance isn't good after I believe in Jesus, maybe I'll lose it. That's not what he says. It's not based on our works to get the salvation. It's not based on our works to keep the salvation. You perverted it. These teachers are coming. They trouble you. They pervert the gospel of Christ. To pervert is to say take something good and make it bad. We see this all around the world. Things get perverted. Got a medicine comes out, it's supposed to heal, cure some kind of sickness or disease. But it could also be used to kill somebody. If you give it in the wrong dosage, it's per the use has been perverted. You have schools. Schools are good things. Education is a good thing. Good things, but in some part of the world, schools are used to indoctrinate people to become extremists. That's not a good thing. That's perverting the goal of education. You've got, say, an orphanage. The kids who are on the street, you want to bring them in, take care of them, give them food, uh, help them grow up and have a have a have a good chance at life, but if somebody Takes that orphanage and uses it to abuse the children. This is perverting. Perverting something that originally was meant to be good. Now it's turned into something bad. That's what he says here. The gospel it's good news. It's a good thing. But when you add something to it, you turn it into something different. You perverted it. He's using strong words. Shocked. These people are troubling you. It looks like they came from us. They were Jewish teachers. They look like they were legit. And you're confused now. You're not sure. But no, they are perverting the truth that you already received. And if you think his words are pretty strong to this point, wait till you read the next couple verses. Look at what he says here. Verse eight, verse nine. Before we read verse eight and nine, though think about that idea of perverting one more A little bit longer here. Does this happen today? Right now we're talking about something 2,000 years ago, Galatians. I mean maybe maybe didn't know where Galatia was until the introduction of the sermon. I mean this doesn't seem real relevant. These are two thousand years ago in a place we've never been. Do we still face this kind of challenge today? Are there any false gospels here in America? Oh, we got plenty of them. Unfortunately, we export them. And they show up all over the world Think about in Africa where I teach, we face the prosperity gospel a lot. What's the prosperity gospel teach? It teaches you should come to Jesus And that if you do, God will solve your problems. You don't have enough money? You're poor? There's a lot of poor people in Africa. You're poor? Come to Jesus. You'll be rich, especially if you give money to the pastor. Oh, the church. Did I say pastor? But that's often what happens. Hey, you get you sick? You're not feeling well? Come to Jesus. He'll heal you. We'll have a special service in which we do it in front of everybody. Prosperity gospel. It's huge in Africa. It's big here in America. I think it started here. It's gone everywhere. It reduces God to kind of like a vending machine for earthly gain. Just come to Jesus But we're not talking about sin and the punishment of sin and the danger in. No, this is more about physical money, health, that kind of thing. A false gospel. You can have your best life now. It's on books. It's everywhere. How about the social gospel? Social gospel kind of turns Christi it perverts Christianity. You can It takes it from being a spiritual thing to being a social thing. Christianity's main purpose becomes improving society, maybe fighting poverty, fighting injustice. I mean, it's good to improve improve society. It's good to fight against poverty and injustice, but um is that what the gospel's about? No, the sinner, the gospel is about you are a a sinner. You are separated from God. You are a rebel. You're an enemy of God. And you need to leave the kingdom of darkness. You need to be in the kingdom of light. There's only one way to do it. That's through believing in Jesus as your Savior. Stop trusting yourself. Only trust Him. It's spiritual salvation. But some things that are called gospels aren't gospels at all. The social gospel, no. It's a perversion Liberation theology kind of reduces the gospel to this. Jesus' mission was primarily political. Liberating the poor or the oppressed, liberating the slaves. Once again, liberation is a good thing. Freedom is a good thing, but that's not the core of what the gospel is about. The gospel is about you're a sinner, you're in bondage to sin. Yes, there's slavery involved, you're a slave to sin. The only way to be free from slavery to sin is by believing in Jesus. Universalist gospel. I got relatives who believe this. Universalism teaches what all roads lead to heaven, right? Uh maybe there's different names for you know God of the God of the Muslims, the God of the Buddhists. Do they have a God? The God of all these different all these different groups. They all roads lead to eventually the end there. You're going to end up in heaven no matter what. Just be a good person. Don't hurt other people. I'm all for people being good people and not hurting other people. But that's not what the gospel is about. Now, that could be a result of people getting saved. God changes their life. But that's not the center of the center of it. It's spiritual. There's so many false gospels. We could go on and on and on and on about this. We need to hold to the true gospel. Beware of turning from the true gospel. Beware of false teachers. Beware of the danger of false gospels. Because verse 8 and 9. Paul doesn't spare any any words here. Look what he says here. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you. Let him be accursed. Whoa. Accursed? That seems a bit extreme. Paul, did you really mean that? I looked it up just to make sure. Does a curse mean what I think it means? It does. It means forever and irredeemably condemned to hell. That's extreme, yeah? I mean that that that's that's some harsh words. If you thought Accusing them of perverting the message is bad. Accursed? Does he really? Maybe the next verse will kind of tone that down. Verse 9. As we've said before, so now I say again. If anyone preaches any of the gospel to you than what we have received, let him be accursed. No, he did not tone that down. In fact, he doubles down on it. He says, this is super serious. Pay attention. I am shocked. They are perverting the gospel, and you know what? If you are teaching this, the people teaching this, he says, they are going to be accursed. He said, even if we teach it. Don't, don't. So often we think, you know, that seems like a nice person. They come from a nice place. They want people to be nice to each other. God says, that's this is serious. Paul says, even if I came to you and taught you something different the second time than the first time I came, he says, I should be accursed. He says, even if an angel shows up That's hard to argue with an angel. I mean I've never personally done it, but it seems like that would be a hard thing to do. An angel shows up and tells you something different than the gospel you received when I came the first time. Let him be accursed. He says, this is extremely serious. This is the center of Christianity, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And if you're adding something to it that doesn't belong there, if you're adding works to salvation, if you're saying you must believe in Jesus and That's not the gospel. That's a different gospel. So often I've seen people follow false teaching. Maybe it's not because they like the teaching so much. But they like the person that originally taught them this. So the relationship is stronger than their tie to the truth. Well, that's a nice person. They look nice in the front of the book. Or, you know, so many people believe that way. It must be okay. They can't all be wrong. Yeah, they can be. Who decides who's right and who's wrong? Is it me? I mean I was really arbitrary arbitrary with the pizza thing. I mean, that's no big deal, and it's my opinion. But this is on a completely different level. This is something that God decides. God says, this is the gospel, and what you're hearing now, what you're turning away from now, and turning away to now This is not the gospel. You've turned from God, from grace to a different gospel, and you're in danger of being accursed. You think why? Why? This is so strong. Why? Well, think about it this way. How many of you all have children? Remember when they were little? I have to say that now. Mine used to be little, but they're not anymore. But do you remember when they're little? You're teaching them how to obey? Maybe they're in the in the lobby there, the black tile area there and you they're they're they're they're they're fooling around there. You say, hey come here, come here. And you expect you're their parent. You should expect that they come, right? Um you're not gonna be screaming at them. Get in here right now. That would be extreme. That would be we'd all look at you like you're crazy. Why are you so mean to your children? Like why are you using that tone of voice? That's I mean It's not necessary. But let's change the scenario. Let's say they're not in the black tile area, very safe black tile area. Let's say right now they are on the edge of a cliff. And if they take one more step, off they go. I think your language and tone is going to be a little different, right? Come here now. Do not take one more step. Come immediately. That's what Paul's doing. He says, you are turning away. You're on the precipice. You're about to fall over into something that has disastrous consequences. And that's why his language is so extreme. dream here. This is a matter of not just life and death. This is a matter of your eternity, eternal destiny Look at his last words. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still pleased men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. What's he saying here? He said, There's a true gospel and there's a false gospel. Which one are you going to believe? One came from God, the other comes from these teachers. Which you have a choice in front of you now. Who are you going to please? The people that are there teaching you? Or are you going to please God? Who sent his son to die for you on the cross. Are you going to seek to please man or God? Paul says, if I if I go with the false teachers, the popular way there, he says, I'm not pleasing God anymore. I'm not a servant of Christ. As a servant of grace, I must tell you the truth. And the truth is this: there's one gospel, there's one way to God. It's through Jesus Christ. He says, live to please God. Please God by believing, living, and preaching the true gospel. God's the one who decides what the gospel is. We're going to close by looking at Matthew 7 very briefly. Because Paul's words in Galatians 1 are actually quite similar to the words Jesus used in Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7, this is the end of the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus is bringing it all to a close. And look at his warnings. Matthew chapter 7, starting in verse 13. In Galatians 1, we've seen three basic ideas. He warns them: beware of turning away. From the true gospel. Second, beware of following false teachers. And third, beware of the danger of false gospels. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 13 to 14. Jesus does the same. He warns them of turning away, of walking down the wrong path. Matthew 7. 13 says, Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction. And there are many who go in by it. Because narrow is the gate, and difficult is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it. The broad road to destruction is lined with billboards for perverted gospels and empty promises. Don't walk that road. Jesus continues, warning them of false teachers, just like Paul did in Galatians 1. Matthew 7, 15 Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous fool wolves. be fools too, but ravenous wolves. They look like sheep. What they're saying sounds good. Be careful. What they say can lead you to be accursed. They are wolves. Nobody's scared of sheep. Coming in sheep clothing. If they sound good Uh in Uganda the we w we went to a new venue and uh they had uh they warned us for security at night after midnight don't come out of your dorm because They release attack dogs that just wander the campus? Wander the conference area? Well that's great. I'm staying indoors. I don't want to see any attack dogs in Africa. Seems like a bad idea. So I stayed in there. But then one of our teachers, the plane was late, and so they came in. The taxi showed up at 2 a. m. They didn't know where to go. I needed to go out and meet them and help them get to their room. Attack dogs. I come to the door, I open it, I look out carefully. Do I hear anything? Do I see anything? I don't I don't really want to go out there, but I I know the taxis here. They need help. I they don't want to meet the attack dogs either. Like you know, if they had said, Yeah, beware af after midnight, there we have attacked sheep on campus I I wouldn't be nearly as worried. Attack sheep? Yeah, there's no such thing. Attack dogs. Wolves. This is dangerous. Turns out it was an empty threat. They just put the rumor out there so nobody would so they would scare people away and wouldn't come at night. But uh anyway, I didn't know that. But this is a genuine threat. He says, watch out. Beware of false prophets who come to you in cheap clothing. Inwardly, they are ravenous wolves. Beware of false teachers. And finally, beware of the danger of false gospels, because it feels good, it sounds good. Maybe other people are following it, but look at what Jesus says in verse 21, Matthew 7, 21. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of God. Kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. This morning, we've heard the message. This is the message we preach. Gospel message. Comes from God Delivered to us in his word. It's very clear. This morning maybe you have believed a false gospel and you didn't even realize it. It's really easy to do. But if you're listening today and realize, oh, I've been believing in Jesus plus something else. Jesus and my own works I didn't realize that I'm saved by grace through faith. Not of myself. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any should boast. Maybe you didn't realize that that's the case. Today realize it. Turn to Jesus. Put your faith in Him alone. I preached the sermon the first time in actually in Africa. And when I did. One man responded. He said, I think I've believed a false gospel. He came to Jesus because he had a lot of problems in his life. And trust me, he had a lot of problems in his life. He started going to church. He even ended up at our training. That's not really actually supposed to happen if they're not yet saved. But he thought he was. But he realized, no, I came to Jesus because I thought I was getting something out of him I didn't realize I didn't come to him because I wanted salvation from my sin. If this morning you come to that same re that that that same realization. Don't wait. Simon, my friend there in Africa, he didn't wait. That week, out there by the giant bird and the you know monkeys and the not mongooses. He prayed with me and trusted Christ as his savior. This morning, if you've never trusted Christ as your savior, If you've believed a false gospel or just really been unclear about it, make that choice. Stop trusting yourself. Admit you're a sinner, but you can't save yourself. Believe Jesus died in your place on the cross, taking your punishment. Ask him to save you. That's a message that we take. Middle East, East Africa. That's a message that's good for all people in all places. And if you've not yet trusted in Jesus Christ, Challenge you to do that today. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for how clear it is. That you don't sugarcoat it. You make it very clear that there is one way to you. That you are the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come to the Father except through Jesus. Lord, I pray if there's someone here today who has never put their faith and trust in you, That they do that today. And Lord, I pray that each of us who have, who do know you, Lord, that we be very clear in our minds of what what the gospel is, so that we can clearly share it with others. And Lord, I pray you'd use us to draw others to you, to a true saving knowledge of this genuine gospel. In Jesus' name. Amen.