If you ever do a Google search of our church, you'll notice first there are many congregations by the name Faith Bible Church. There are two more by the same name in this state alone, one in Eastern Maryland. And one in Southern Maryland. Secondly, you'll notice that there are some reviews of our church The latest one dates from over a year ago. It's not anonymous. It's from a lady named Esther. Some of you know her and her family. Anyways, Esther gave us one out of five stars. She also had this to say about our church. Quote, There are some very nice people at this church. However, my experience growing up here a few years back was that it was Was still it was a fundamentalist cult adjacent. Not sure if that this is still the case, but these are mostly well-meaning people who are wrong about what God wants from people. This hurts everyone, but particularly women, via paternalistic restrictive views. This was also a place which at the time I went there viewed being anything other than straight As sinned and had a decent number of IVLP families, educate yourself beyond the smiling faces and the well-meaning nice people Thanks, Esther. I'm not sure what prompted her to write such a skating review of our church after so long. If timing's a factor at all, the post was around the time that documentary series Shiny Happy People, Duggar Family Secrets, was released. Honestly, I can't say much about Bill Gothard, IBLP, standing for Institute in Biblical Basic Life Principles, as much as some of you and Esther. But I will push back and defend our church and our position. What we officially believe and teach about God and what he wants from us are not wrong. Our doctrines are based on a correct reading of scriptures. They do not hurt everyone, particularly women, as Esther claims. Now I don't think this lady wants to talk with us, but if she ever did, maybe we could have an open conversation with an open Bible. Maybe we could turn to a passage like today's in 1 Corinthians 11 to the 16. Now, before I read it, let's just admit that some of Paul's teachings Can be difficult to our ears. Some passages are hard to understand for interpretation. Peter admitted that, right? Trying to figure out what it meant in the past. Others are difficult for application, figuring out how to live accordingly. And then there are certain passages like that are challenging in both. Right. It's hard to interpret and it's hard to apply. I think we have a sort of a double whammy of a sermon text today Now it's going to feel like a battle within as we wrestle with these verses. I'm not only speaking of an intellectual struggle as we try to see what this means. There's also a struggle of the heart. See, we all have to admit, both men and women, that sometimes we drag in what I like to call hermeneutical luggage. Or baggage. And we bring it into the reading room of the Bible, I'll say. That luggage could cloud your thinking. Make it hard to see the scriptures plainly and the meaning that we must exposite. We forget to check our biases at the door. We don't shed our misconstrued and distracting ideas such as modern feminism or hyper-masculinity. Or some of us have to deal with what happened to us, right? Deeply traumatic experiences with male authority or abusive pastors. But it's not a hopeless endeavor to study and apply God's Word If we admit that we have certain presuppositions and prejudices, empty our luggage, like I said, just ask the Lord to open our eyes to his word Okay. We can help ourselves and someone else like Esther. So let's read now first Corinthians eleven, two to sixteen. Now I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the traditions just as I deliver them to you. But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of woman is man. And the head of Christ is God. Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonors his head. But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. for that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. For if a woman is not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn, let her or shave, let her be covered. For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the glory of man. For man is not from woman, but woman from man, nor was man created for the woman, but woman for the man. For this reason the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. Nevertheless, neither is man independent of woman, nor woman independent of man in the Lord. For as woman came from man, even so man also comes through woman, for all things are from God. Judge among yourselves, is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering. But if anyone seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor do the churches of God. When we study a passage that's strange to us and controversial as this one, we're going to need all The pre-workup context and post-workup application to make it worthwhile. First, I call this the pre-workup context. As we look at 1 Corinthians 11:2-16, in context of the rest of the letter, I want to ask the following: When it speaks of women praying and prophesying, when and where Do these activities take place? Is this a family devotion during the week? Is it something like the Ladies Sunday School or a Women's Conference? Or as some prominent scholars like Thomas Schreiner and D. A. Carson, whom I both identified I really deeply respect. They propose that this is just a normal Sunday worship service like the one we're having right now. Here's my view taken from my seminary Greek professor, the late Thomas Edgar. He's not as big as Schreiner or Carson, but. I agree with him that today's passage is not speaking of the standard Sunday gathering with all the saints, a mix of male and female. Edgar's best argument is that in today's text there are no restrictions put on women speaking authoritatively. As long as her head's covered, right? While later in chapter 14, verse 34 to 35, and elsewhere in 1 Timothy 2, 8, there is a strong restriction on authoritative speech. If today's passage is discussing the corporate gathering of both genders, right, then Paul is going to eventually contradict himself later in this letter. So then rather it is starting in chapter 11, verse 17, next week's passage, not beginning here in verse 2, that Paul focuses on the corporate gathering of the church with both men and women present. Until then, Paul in verses 2 to 16 deals with some ladies-only religious meeting outside of the regular Sunday gathering that was stirring up some disturbance. So that's a bit of pre-work regarding the context and the setting. Now let's talk about the post-workup application and I think it's good to sort of bring that forward at this point to see if it helps you. While I disagree with Schreiner about the setting of this controversy, I agree with him on this. The head covering controversies largely culture sensitive. To be clear, there are really expressions of manhood and womanhood in every culture. We should be sensitive to such norms We must not cross-dress as Deuteronomy 22 warns us against, right? On the other hand, one culture might take head covering as feminine while another doesn't. Actually, that's still the case today. Not just because we're separated by time to the past, but so we just have to be discerning and study our surrounding The culture we live in. So in the case of the standard American attire, I don't think a woman's head covering carries the same import of meaning as a skirt or a dress. So the Chill family will not be going to the mall to get my wife a wimple, mantilla, shawl, head tie, cap, hanging veil, or church crown. Like these are things I actually looked up here. Um this was a strange week of sermon prep. Okay, so that was all a setup. Right? Trench building, if you want to call it that, to get us going and dig into the text. I think it's best to divide and conquer when it comes to tackling this passage. So I cut up verses two to sixteen. into four parts, two to six, seven to ten, eleven to twelve, thirteen to sixteen. So verses 2 to 6 contain the main idea. After a quick transition, Paul states a theological truth and makes an application from it. The emphasis is on authority, honor, and shame. Verses 7 to 10 is a unit 2 in support of the main idea just stated. Notice how verses 7 and 10 create a sandwich structure of sort. Right. In verse seven it says a man ought not, while in verse ten it says the m woman ought to. In between we see the emphasis on source and glory Verses eleven to twelve intrude as a important qualification. Nevertheless, Paul says He's careful to avoid pushing the gender distinctions to the point of detachment. Male and female do need each other, and they're united in the common dependence on God. Finally, in verses 13 through 16, Paul brings it all together. He's not above, appealing to our innate sense of what's proper to advance his argument. He's also not above citing church tradition to cap off his argument, pun intended. So this outline consists of four units. All supporting Paul's demand that women cover their heads in specific situations. I could give one word for each unit. Authority, priority, mutuality, propriety. Right. Just to add a bit more substance, I'll say that by recognizing biblical gender distinctions, whatever culture you may be in, right, we want honor authority. Verses two to six. Okay? Honor authority, that's two to six. Two, respect priority, that's seven to ten. Respect priority, 7 to 10. 3. Celebrate rituality. That's 11 to 12. Celebrate rituality. Eleven to twelve. And four, align with propriety. Align with propriety. That's verses thirteen to sixteen. And I'll repeat those points. First, embracing our gender differences help us honor authority. When we stopped last time with the first verse of chapter 11, we concluded a long section on the issue of things offered to idols. Paul gave much guidance in threefold chapters, ranging from doctrinal, hypothetical, and personal. And by personal, the apostle saying Observe my life and my ways. Here's how I do it. Imitate me just as I also imitate Christ. And to a certain extent, the Corinthians were doing a good job. They remember Paul and his ways, as it says in verse 2. They keep the traditions of the apostles, consisting of theological churches. And ethical guidelines. All this is praiseworthy. But it seems that there were some lessons skipped or missed during their interactions. I see a sharp contrast between verses 2 and 3, but I want you to know that implies that the Corinthians didn't know what Paul's about to say. By itself, verse 3 seems to rehearse basic truths, at least to us. The head of every man is Christ, the head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. Head in this argument has to do with authority. Right? That's obvious elsewhere in the scriptures, like Isaiah 7, 8 to 9. We see it in common idiomatic speech. You got to cut off the head of the snake, right? But what seems obvious to many of us growing up reading our Bibles and attending church from a young age was not so obvious to the Corinthians. So their men had to be taught that they cannot lead unless they follow. They must follow Jesus. Women had to accept God's ideal design of male leadership. Now towards the end of verse 3, I think Paul deliberately placed the greatest example of submission last to assure women that authority is not a bad thing. It's as if Paul is saying, I know that being under authority can be tough, but look to Christ, who does it joyfully and willingly. Jesus is truly God and truly man, two natures and one person. He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death. The fundamental principle here is clear. It's the whole head covering issue that needs More nuanced explanation. We have to take every clue we can find, and the major clue here is the modifying phrase pray and prophecy, repeated in verses Four and five, four and five. Now I'll have more time to define prophecy a little bit more in detail as you go through this letter. But just suffice it to say now, praying and prophesying. Pair together. Our ways of communicating with God. Pretty obvious, right? Prayer is our initiative to talk with Him, while prophecy is God's initiative to speak to us Both men and women can enjoy such communion in those days, and they would serve as God's vessels. It's always been true that devout women are prayer warriors. In the early church, the young women would prophesy as Peter knew from reading Joel. Okay. Cited that in Acts 2, right? Philip the evangelist saw such activity up close with his daughters. So, no doubt both men and women did pray and prophesy in Paul's days. But still, there's an orderly way of praying and prophesying. Paul saying that if a man covers his head, he'll dishonor Christ. If a woman uncovers her head, she'll dishonor man. We get the impression that in Paul's days, the idea of a covered man and an uncovered woman must be improper as a man wearing a skirt or I don't know a woman wearing a necktie. That's why the apostles saying tongue in cheek, flippantly and facetiously, that she'd be better off with her hair cut short and shaved completely, which was unheard of in Paul's days. Now if Paul sounds a bit strict with this cultural dress code, let me tell you what I learned about our military friends. I found this online, so um See if uh Bernardo and Jose could confirm this. Quote, Army soldiers putting on their camouflage combat uniform must tuck in their tan and or sand colored t-shirt and make sure their jacket is fully closed at all times. The calf must be positioned correctly, insignia in front, name on back, and their hair must not interfere with displacement. On the other hand, if they're wearing their service uniform, which looks more like a suit, service members have three knots to choose from when tying their tie, the Windsor, the Half Windsor, a four and hand knot. Additionally, the cap to this uniform, called a beret, is supposed to look off-center. When placing the beret on their head, service members must make sure the flash, army emblem, is positioned over their left eye and the access material should be draped to the right. So so if serving one's country demands that much care in uniform, surely the woman of Corinth Can put on a covering by extension. Surely ye can make small adjustments for the sake of the kingdom, for the sake of witness So consider what you wear, right? This is for everyone, not just women here. Think about the messages on your shirts, right? Or what statement your fashion could make. The choices we make with dark clothing can honor or dishonor authority. Closely related to the authority argument is an argument of source. We learn from verses 7 to 10 to respect priority by the way we dress. Again, it seems like Paul's rehearsing basic truths. Just to be clear, when he says man is the image of God, he's not denying that the woman is also created in his image. Don't make Paul say what he did not say, right? in verse seven. Besides his emphasis is on the word glory. Perhaps Second Corinthians eight twenty-three is a helpful cross-reference. Based on it, I take glory to mean just as Christians represent Christ, just as followers glorify the leader, women should try to make men look good. Yes, better than we deserve. Why should women make men look good? In verses 8 to 9, we see the argument for chronological priority. Gentlemen are accustomed to say ladies first. But when it comes to creation, the male was first, right? And then female, as Paul would say later in 1 Timothy 2. 13, Adam was born first, then Eve. God saw the first man all by himself and said, I will make a man, I will make him a helper comparable to him. Genesis 2, 18. So in this way, Paul has seamlessly combined the argument of authority with the argument of priority That seems easy enough to understand. But then before he moves on from verse 10, Paul gives us a glimpse into the supernatural realm to bolster his case. He's saying women who pray and prophesy should wear head covering, a sign that they're under authority for the sake of angels. Because of the angels, what does this mean? Could the word angels be translated and understood as human messengers since both ideas come from one and the same word in the original language? If we're talking about celestial beings, are we speaking of good angels or are we speaking of Speaking of fallen angels, my best guess is that unruly behavior disturbs some cosmic order of things, offending angels who watch over us. I can't say for sure beyond that. I am sure that by our dress we can respect priority. Now there's a real danger of overemphasizing priority and authority, honor and respect, to the point of going out of bounds So Paul's careful to communicate that hierarchy does not mean inferiority or less dignity. That's why verses 11 to 12 are where they are. Paul teaches us that we should celebrate the mutuality of genders. Now we just celebrated a foundational political independence a few days ago. We're happy that our founding fathers declared the thirteen colonies were no longer subject to the monarch of Britain, King George III. These days, however, there's a different kind of independence declared, and it's not a good revolt. It's a sinful one against God. It's one that our nation won't win. That's because it's a rebellion against the King Eternal, Immortal, and Invisible And it does surround this topic of gender, doesn't it? And we must realize that even before sin entered the world, authority, priority were God's ideas. And so was mutuality. By mutuality, I mean the opposite of independence. I mean that there's not only hierarchy but intimacy. Two things can be true at one time. Right? In the Lord, in his will is the dependence of man and woman. Verse 12 explains how. It's true that woman came from man. Again, we go back to Genesis 2. It says in verses twenty-one to twenty two, and the Lord call Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in his place. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man he made into a woman. And he brought her to the man. The man might say to a woman, Aha, you could not exist if it wasn't for my rib. Yes, a man might say that, but not a smart man Listen to Paul. Even so, man also comes through woman. Hopefully, our Bible reading plan gets us beyond the third chapter of the Bible Genesis four begins with these words. Now Adam knew Eve his wife and she conceived and bore Cain and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord Towards the end of the same chapter, we're told, and Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and named him Seth. That's in verse 25. And obviously that goes back to the mandate to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. So then procreation was built into creation. Filling of the earth's plan before the fallenness of man. By now you're probably used to hearing me cite lyrics of hymns to reinforce some lesson. This time I'm going to cite a poet of the world, right? A musician named John Mayer. I want to be clear, by no means do I endorse his music. I condone his lifestyle. But for illustration purposes, John Mayer's song, Daughters, captures some of the concepts I'm trying to communicate. The quote, fathers be good to your daughters. Daughters will love like you do. Girls become lovers who turn into mothers. So mothers be good to your daughters too. Boys you can break, you'll find out how much they can take. Boys will be strong and boys soldier on. But boys would be gone without warn from a woman's good good heart. On behalf of every man looking out for every girl, you are the guide and weight over world. Pretty florid, right? And the sentiment is similar to that boy is someone's son, that girl is someone's daughter. So treat him or her with respect. But as Christians, we have even a greater argument for mutuality and a greater accountability. If you mistreat the member of the opposite gender, you have to answer to God who has authority over all as creator. There's no room for misogyny. Misandry, which is man-hating, is also not allowed. The Lord wants us to celebrate the mutuality of genders in societies. Not doing so well with that here. Okay. Churches? Yes. Families? Yes. Mutuality and dependence are God's ideas. He deserves worship for it. Since all things are from God, we praise God from whom all blessings flow. Okay, moving on to the final point. We talked about honoring authority, respecting priority, celebrating mutuality. Paul ends his argument in verses 13 to 16 asking that we align with propriety. Thus far, the apostle has built a strong case for head covering in his days, mostly from the first few chapters of Genesis. Paul restates his main idea in verse 13 and then uses the word. That's why I bring up the word propriety as Paul appeals to what is proper, suitable, appropriate. An argument based on propriety may not seem as convincing as the earlier arguments, but here we have one. When he speaks of nature in verses 14 to 15, the apostle has observed what hair experts have confirmed today scientifically. Okay, both women and men produce a hormone with an aquedem DHT. I'm gonna mess this up. of dihydrotestosterone, right? Okay DHD shortens the growing phase of hair and prolongs the resting shedding phase of the hair But estrogen c counteracts D H T. As a result, and obviously in females there's more relatively speaking, more estrogen. As a result, a woman's hair typically grows for a longer period of time and sheds for a shorter period of time. So if there still remains a question of why head covering, Paul's answer is the Y chromosome. In less scientific terms, Paul's saying that even in our biological design, It confirms his his demand here. It confirms that there are gender differences. Our innate nature encourages us to align with our custom of the society. Why not conform, unless of course it's simple to do so? Why not seek to be wise, peaceable, gentle, and willing to yield? For the sake of have living a quiet life, to for the sake of spreading the gospel. Don't see controversies that could distract from our mission on earth. Our face statement is more important than our fashion statement. The hidden person of the heart, more important than the arranging of the hair. Finally, as he closes in verse 16, Paul's saying that what the Corinthians were promoting has no precedence in his circles or his churches. So the sisters of Christ at Corinth should, along with propriety, what is proper in Paul's day. So now hopefully we emerge out of the scripture reading room with biblical ideas about gender and related to it concerning Authority, priority, mutuality, propriety. Perhaps you still find it difficult to accept. Or in a better case, maybe you feel that you're now better equipped or at least familiar with the passages that someone like Esther might have problems with. And as you dialogue with what we see today, feminists, people who may think that we have restrictive paternalistic views, right, it will help to keep the essentials of the gospel clear in your mind. We must remember that as the first Adam ruined the idea of male authority, the second Adam restored it to its rightful place. When the word became flesh, we mean that Jesus was born as the male child who is to rule all nations with the rod of iron. Thus, masculinity as God intended. Not only did Jesus live a perfect life as man, he displayed sacrificial leadership. He loved the church and gave himself for her. We're cleansed, sanctified, nourished, and cherished because God first loved us. He demonstrates his own love toward us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. This assumes that we are sinners like Adam. It's true. It's evident in our thoughts, words, and deeds. We abuse our powers when we're given it. We disrespect authorities when we're under authorities. We rightly deserve the just wrath of the Lord. Yet Jesus went to the cross to suffer and pay for sins we've committed. He became our substitute. Having paid it in full our sins, he breathed his last. He was buried, but rose from the dead on the third day. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until that day or the day we return to dust, we must, before that day arrives, we must repent. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Trust in him only for salvation. Receive the promise of eternal life as a gift. You cannot earn or deserve it. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So as we conclude our time together, let's remember that Jesus is the perfect God man, God and man in one person who is both powerful and vulnerable. He is our humble King. So let's sing about that in our final song, in Christ alone. Our faith is in Christ alone. He's the one who took on flesh. He's fullness of God and helpless faith. And so much more. So let's pray now. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that all scripture is inspired, is from you. Bleeded out by you. And Lord, there are passages that may be challenging for us, challenging in our roles. But Lord, may we trust. May our trust in you even grow as we faithfully obey. Even things that do not completely make sense to us We want to walk by faith. We ask that that you will increase our faith. Pray that we will not be so swayed by the opinions of the world. The spirit of our days that do not seem to respect authority of any form, especially one that has males in in places of authority and power. So we want to be countercultural in that sense. Not because we're just we just want to to be different not because we just want to be argumentative but because we trust that your original design from creation is what's best for us and that should be reflected in our church. We thank you for this privilege of gathering together. Thank you that you save not just men, you save women, you save not just rich people. You save the poor, you save people of all different backgrounds and sociological backgrounds and people of all nations and tribes, and you bring this beautiful diversity into unity under the gospel message. Under the heship of your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.