So last week we had our membership meeting, and uh during that meeting we talked about the Healthy Church Network again. And recall that this is an effort by Chris Anderson to bring together like-minded churches. To start new churches and help ones currently struggling. When he visited us, Chris, as an experienced pastor and leader, gave us some, the elders, some pointers for improvement as a church. I'll preface by preface this by saying he appreciated the way members gave him a friendly warm welcome as an individual. But then he asked if we can improve or work on warming up our worship service. It's definitely reverent and structured, but lacking vibrancy and family atmosphere. We need to develop what's called soft skills, that is social skills, empathy and communication. Now maybe such advice initially sounds like some corporate mumble jumbo, but in reality It's true that one congregation differs from another in energy and field. There is some warrant to what young folks say about passing a vibe check. As long as a vibe check is subject to a Bible check, I'm okay with it. And today we have just a passage to get us thinking about the vibe of our greet uh gatherings. And I'm talking about the first impressions and our lasting impressions. And let's turn to the Final few verses of First Corinthians sixteen, nineteen to twenty-four Okay, so First Corinthians sixteen, nineteen to twenty-four for finishing up this letter. The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you heartily in the Lord, with the church that is in their house. All the brethren greet you, greet one another with the holy kiss. The salutation with my own hand, Paul's. If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be a curse. O Lord, come. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. There's not much to say about the structure here, but I do observe two parts. One's a cluster of four sentences, each containing the verb greet. You see that in verses 19 to 20. Then there's another cluster of sentences in verses 21 to 24. You can see the shift in two ways. First, there's a shift in content. The transition smooth as the noun salutation in verse 21, cognitively related to the verb greet in verse 20. And then you see Jesus Christ mentioned three times in verses twenty-two onward. There you go. Lord also appears three times, but interestingly it appears in two languages, something to discuss later. The second signal of change from verses 20 to 21 is a change in handwriting. Up to this point, Paul would have used someone called an amanuensis. And a manuensis is someone who writes down what's dictated by another or copies what's written by another. With First Corinthians The apostle has spoken while an amanuensis has recorded. This is likely Sosthenes mentioned at the very beginning of the letter, chapter 1. I think Distosthenes is that synagogue ruler who got mugged in public according to Acts 18. He had converted to Christ at some point, joined the church, and was by Paul's side in Ephesus. So probably after Paul finishes his dictation at verse 20 of 1 Corinthians 16. Sosthenes stops writing and hands the letter over to the apostle. He reviews the contents. On the last page, there's some space left at the end for closing remarks. That's what makes up verses 21. Now looking at today's passage as a whole, you might be tempted to treat it as peripheral matters. But these verses do provide important matters for church unity. So we wrap up, as we wrap up our series on 1 Corinthians, here are what I believe to be lasting, last words for lasting encouragement. First, welcome warmly, fellow saints, both far and near. That's verses 19 and 20. Secondly, enjoy love and grace in Christ, both future and That's 21 to 24. First, welcome warning fellow saints, both far and near. As I said already, each sentence in verses 19 to 20 contains the verb greet. The first three are in the indicative. That is, the Corinthians are recipients of greetings from others. The fourth and last instance is in the imperative. That is, the Corinthians must be obedient in greeting each other. But that's what's consistent is this idea of greeting as part of our regular social interactions. Notice also the scope of these greetings. Here's a small glimpse of our connection with the universal body of Christ. He starts with greetings from fellow saints from afar. Look at the first sentence of verse 19. The churches of Asia greet you. Asia here refers to a Roman province of Paul's time. It's Anatolia or Asia Minor. It's Western Turkey today with the Mediterranean Sea. Sea in the south, the Aegean Sea in the West. It's an area that Paul did not access fully until his third missionary journey Once the apostle found footing there, he reaped much fruit in ministry. Luke reports in Acts 19 that over a few years All who dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks, and the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. That's in verse 10 and 20 of Acts 19. So this one church in Ephesus led to multiple in Asia. Ephesus was at the epicenter of a great gospel reverberation. And central to this congregation was a husband and wife duel, Aquila and Priscilla. But the first mention of them in the Bible is not in the city. You have to flip back from Acts 19 to 18. At the top of chapter 18, you find the following. Paul departed from Athens and went to Corinth, and he bound a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome and he came to them. So because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked, or by occupation there were tent makers. So not only did they share secular jobs, Aquila and Priscilla gave Paul a guest room. And when it was time for Paul to leave Corinth, he took the two with them with him, and he strategically left these trusted friends in Ephesus. the end of his second missionary journey. His hope was to return there in his third journey and establish it as his base of operation. Meanwhile, Aquila and Priscilla were not just sitting there waiting for Paul. They met Apollos who came from Alexandria, fixed him up a bit, sent him to Corinth. They worked with the saints of Ephesus just as they did with the saints of Corinth. And look at the second sentence of verse 19. Over time, they opened up their home at Ephesus for weekly gatherings of the church. And again, Paul stayed with them. I my guess is that this couple must have been well off, a good business, because they could do this in two cities, both in Corinth and Ephesus. But their servant leadership, that's for sure, makes them fitting representatives of the brethren in both cities Now that we have some background on Aquila and Priscilla and those they represent, we look at their greeting. And it's not just any greeting. First, it says that they greet the Corinthians heartily, right? Secondly, it says that they greet in the Lord. Partly comes from the Greek adjective polus, that's where we get the word poly, as in polygon. Many, right? I suppose literally Aquila and others are sending many greetings. But what we have in our text, either heartily or warmly in other translation, I think has the same idea there But even more important is how their greetings in the Lord. This simply means that they recognize each other, and we recognize each other as brothers and sisters in Christ. Because of our shared status and inheritance, surely there's distinction in the way we greet each other, welcome each other, as opposed to the way we relate to the world. I'm not saying be a jerk to the people in the world. I'm just saying because we are going to share our destiny in heaven. We have a warm greeting to each other. If you have love for one another, then even our greetings. Will give the fallen world a small glimpse of heaven. Now, after relaying greetings from fellow saints from afar, Paul commands the Corinthians to greet fellow saints close by, right near them, and among them. The second sentence of verse 20 says, greet one another with the holy kiss Well, here's a tough command for application. Again, we should greet each other, but what's this holy kiss about? Right? It helps realize that most kisses in the Bible are between family members and friends of the same gender. Parents with children and grandchildren, between siblings, in-laws, and relatives. As for friends, there's the one share between Saul and Samuel, David and Barzali. Of course, a kiss can symbolize faith in deity and other harmonious relationships as well. So, besides a few obvious examples in Song of Songs, most kisses in the Old Testament A platonic, familial, chaste. But sadly there are times when a kiss conceals ulterior motives Long before the kiss of Judas, there were the deceptive kisses of Absalom and Joab. Proverbs warns against the kiss of adultery and the kiss of flattery. In New Testament times and even up to today, all must beware of fake displays of affection, as they may conceal hypocrisy or insincerity. That's why Paul asks that the Corinthians agree with the holy kiss. A holy kiss combined with love promotes both purity and charity. That's how early Christians welcomed warmly fellow saints near them. And knowing what we know about the Corinthians, Such warm welcomes would help to heal the schisms there. Let's not forget if you just revisit all the contents of this letter before we close today, you know Let's not forget that Paul spoke of contentions, envy, strife, and divisions, lawsuits, factions, shaming the poor, disorder and worship. There are so many problems, but an easy first step towards improvement could be hearty greetings and display of appreciation and affection. Such are basics for Corinthians so that they may become mature and unified. Now, how about some applications for our church? How can we welcome warmly fellow saints, both far and near? What are the first steps we can take to be one mind, having compassion for one another, love as brothers, being tender-hearted and courteous? Let me try it by moving outward to inward with brothers and sisters distant from us. How do we relate to those in the body living in different parts of the world? You can start closing the gap by remembering. Paul says at the end of another letter, Colossians, remember my chains. The writer of Hebrews says toward the end of his letter, remember the prisoners as a chain with them, those who are mistreated, since you yourselves are in the body also. This is exactly what we do on a day like today, the International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church. Remember those afar. And as you do, we also have to remember those who are not necessarily being persecuted, right? We support a number of missionaries who serve in difficult places. It's not because they're in physical dangers, per se, and let's pray that it stays that way, but there's very little visible fruit in ministry and lots of discouragement. And there are very few conversions and baptisms. They could use our intercession too. Now what about those fellow saints near us? Look around. How can we welcome each other warmly? How do we extend welcome to fellow believers around us? Well I don't plan to ask you guys to go around smooching each other. During announcements. My thought is that just as head coverings and foot washings do not communicate submission and servanthood respectively In today's American culture, a kiss of greeting would not communicate affection either here and now. I'm not denying that some cultures still welcome each other like this. It's just that the norm for I guess US here are just handshakes, hugs, and high fives. Start with I'll start with H. Hub handshakes, hugs, and high fives. I think those are pretty normal. Anyway, whether it's a peck on the cheek or fist bump or something else, the point is that we should be warm and affectionate. Now one way I try to welcome Warmly is to be deliberate about where I stand on Sundays. There's too much going on before the service. I'm like walking around everywhere, but I'm much more relaxed afterwards. Probably the best part of the week, I guess, in a sense, just to be able to relax. Um I make it a regular habit to station myself at the Nart Dex after service before everyone files out. I used to do that middle door but then I realized you can kinda sneak to the other door so now I'm at the Narthdish. It's like You have to encounter me before you go, right? Unless you go out that way, I guess. Or go downstairs and at that point you really just don't want to talk with me. Anyway, I may not shake everyone's hand, but I can at least wave high and by sometimes in one swoop. Hi bye. But maybe even chat for a little bit. Okay. Just being there helps a ton. And same with you guys. You do a lot just by being here and after service. before and after service to say hi and greet warmly. Don't rush out. Maybe ask how have you been? How can I pray for you? If your love language is touch, just do this. Okay, it's a tribute to our dear sister Audrey Node, right, who passed away last year. in October, just go up and ask someone, can I get a hug? You know? If you ask me, I might think you're a bit eccentric, but I won't refuse unless I have a code or something. So again to review verses 19 to 20. Welcome warmly, fellow saints, both far and near. And now even this simple command might seem challenging. Thankfully, God gives us grace and love in Christ to be gracious and loving to others. That leads to the second lasting last words for lasting encouragement. Enjoy love and grace in Christ, both future and now. As I said earlier, the noun salutation in verse 21 is related to the verb greet in verses 19 to 20. After sending greetings from the churches of Asia and the brethren with Aquila and Priscilla in Ephesus. After commanding the Corinthians to greet one another, it's time for Paul's own greeting with his own hand. So we get that he's trying to add a personal touch here at the end. But what do we make of this fiery statement, the first sentence of verse 22? If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Why such harsh words and anathema all the sudden? Perhaps a part of the answer has to do with the connection between love in verse 22 and kiss in verse 20. The noun kiss is phylema in Greek and the verb love is phileo or philae as is conjugated here At least that makes the connection cognitively and conceptually. In Greek, a kiss sounds like love and it relates to love But we'd have to go a bit further than that, right? And here's my take. Being the untiring evangelist that he is, Paul wants to convict the non-believers one more time before putting the pendant. He's picturing this letter being read aloud on a Sunday, and there just might be a few unsafe visitors Amidst this talk of greeting and kissing, here's what most what's most needed for these folks: a genuine love relationship with Jesus. In a way, Paul's final words in 1 Corinthians are similar to some of the words in Psalm 2. Kiss the son, lest he be angry. Angry and you perish in the way when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. David is saying in that psalm, love the Lord. To love is to trust and be blessed. To refuse to love is distrust and be cursed. So to me this declaration, if anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed, is Paul's final plea to repent. Receive Christ, receive the right to be children of God, and enter the household of faith. And it seems right for me to follow Paul's lead here For the sake of those who might be unsafe, who might hear this recording. Be like the woman in Luke 7, who kissed Jesus and anointed him with fragrant oil. She loved her Savior much because she was forgiven much. Oh sorry. And to be like her, you must first see your own sins. God created us to be in perfect harmonious relationship with Him and with her, with each other. But we messed it all up. We were in trouble the moment we opened our mouths. Our lying tongues hide hatred and defiles our whole body. Our flattering lips conceal covetousness and a double heart. In hypocrisy, we draw near to God with our mouths, honor Him with our lips, but our heart is far from Him It's no wonder Paul said concerning all mankind in Romans 3:12-13, they have all turned aside, they have together become unprofitable, there is none who does good. No, not one. Their throat is an open tomb, with their tongues they have practiced deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips. That's who we are, apart from grace. If such is our state, how can we stand before the holy God? How do we love Christ when there is no love of God in us? Far from lovers of God, we're adversaries of God. The carnal mind is enmity against them. We're alienated and enemies in our mind by wicked works. Our talk and walk, our thought and actions all displease the Lord. We deserve God's wrath, eternal separation from Him in hell. But the good Lord did not leave us like this. He didn't wait until we take the initiative to turn to Him and love Him first. God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have Everlasting life. The Son of God became Son of Man. He lived a perfect life, committed no sin, nor was deceit. found in his mouth. Yet he was rejected by his own, betrayed with the kiss, abandoned by his followers. He was led to be crucified But all this was part of God's plan and his initiative. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Jesus paid with this blood the penalty of sin that we should pay. He declared his work finished at the cross. His spirit. He was buried, rose from the grave on the third day, and ascended to heaven. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until then, all are invited to love our Lord Jesus Christ. If you love him and believe that he came forth from God the Father, then the Father Himself will love you. We love Christ by hating our life in this world, turning from our selfishness and self-righteousness and following Him. It's by repenting and trusting in Jesus only that we keep our life for eternity. You cannot avoid God's curse by law-keeping. You cannot earn God's blessings by good works. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. And I hope that everyone that I talk with or hearing this would make the decision soon, maybe even today. That way you'd have hope for tomorrow. And back to today's passage With faith in Christ and love for him, you can eagerly anticipate his return, not fearfully dreaded. You can say with Paul the second sentence of verse 22: O Lord, come. Linguistically, this prayer is interesting because Paul writes an Aramaic phrase in Greek letters. You may have heard of it before, Maranata. Mar means Lord, on the on suffix at the end as a pronoun are. Acta means come. This shows the influence of Jews training the Gentiles in the faith. They learn not only Israelite truths, but also vocabulary. There are words like hallelujah or praise the Lord, which that's what it means. Okay. Amen. So be it. The final word in this letter. So that maranata or old or come is a concise way to cry out for Christ's second advent. We look forward to all the things God has prepared for those who love Him. But even now we experience spiritual blessings through Jesus. We can enjoy love and grace in Christ both usually. And now. So the prayer for Jesus to hasten his coming in verse 22, future. With that, Paul asks the prayer of verse 23. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. with you now. Finally we come to verse twenty four. Paul says, My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. Certainly throughout the letter, Paul spoke of love theologically and conceptually He even hinted at his love for the Corinthians in chapter four, verse twenty-one. But here in his last full sentence, Paul clearly expresses his love for them The apostle will not be a hypocrite in love. He doesn't ask others to do something that he won't do himself He's anticipating what John the apostle would write later, this commandment we have from him, that he who loves God must love his brother also. 1 John 4. 21 So yes, even if the Corinthians, or I call them Corey, is a troublemaking brat, Paul still loves this church like his child. Despite all his faults and errors and mistakes, he's a spiritual son to the spiritual parent. And Paul does not relent in his affection. It signs off with Soviet or Amen in Hebrew. So as we close, I can't think of a better way to express our love for God and for each other. Than the Holy Communion. It's at the Lord's table that we recognize our unity with each other as a church family. It's by obeying Christ's command to observe His supper. That we express our love for him and remember his grace. And with this visible sign, we proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Oh Lord, come. Let's pray. So we thank you for The body of Christ, we thank you that your son has paid the price so that we can be forgiven, be accepted by uh by you, Father. We have the spirit dwelling in us. And Lord, that that really means something in the way we interact with each other, in the way we relate to each other. Each other. And Lord, we're thankful that we can look forward to something, even if this world is less than ideal, to put it lightly. We're thankful that just that even uh the small glimpses and taste of heaven we have here on earth through our fellowship. And through just uh understanding your grace and experiencing your grace in our lives. But Lord, as we look forward to more, pray that we will grow each and every day and that we will encourage each other, that we would Just be warm with each other. Be a true family in Christ. Pray that we will grow in that brotherly affection. And also just that we will love you more. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.