So for the first few years of his life, my son was really into spaceships and astronauts. Now he's got this love of pirates. We as parents try to promote good pirates like Ron Hamilton's Patch the Pirate. But there are some challenges. Like piracy is not exactly a noble profession I'm not excited to fly a pirate flag, you know, the one with the skull and crossbones, the like the Jolly Roger But this week I realized that with some maneuvering, maybe I can turn the skull and bones into a teaching lesson. My wife and I discussed, you know, possibly traveling to New England later for a future family vacation. If we end up going, maybe we can see remains of colonial America. And maybe we'll get to explore some Puritan history too. I don't think my wife's that excited about that part, but um Well and say you end up at Boston's granary burying ground. I did actually visit that one time, but And you look at some tombstones and see something like the Jolly Roger, but it's not the Jolly Roger, but there are skull and bones there. But the image is different in impact. And there's sometimes a Latin phrase there to make the message clear. And the Latin phrase is memento mori. Which means remember death. It's as if in their final resting place the dead leaves us this final message You l you'll live a more meaningful life by realizing it'll end someday. It's a truth that I consider every funeral I attend. It's the truth stated in the Bible in Ecclesiastes seven four better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men, and the living will take it to heart. We as fallen creatures need such reminders of our mortality. We must be real about how we end in death. That way we can really start to live. And Christians too benefit from remembering death. We'll be reminded how great is our victory over it. That's why I think it's good. to revisit the doctrine of the fall, even on a day like today. You know, I mean I'm sure I I I could have paused the series on Genesis and picked a different passage. But there's value in meditating on what we've been saved from to appreciate what we've been saved for. Blessings are sweeter when the curse tastes bitter. Resurrection so superbly glorious when death so utterly despised So, with that in mind, let's continue in Genesis 3. Last week we began the sentence hearings for the cosmic treason against the Creator. There were three culprits. Adam blamed Eve. Eve admitted the serpent deceived her. So God called all three to stand before them. It's like when an angry parent calls all three of his kids into the living room. You you you in here right now, right? The first one to be punished was Satan, who possessed the snake. The unwilling host animal was cursed and humbled. As for the devil himself, it was prophesied that he be defeated by the seed of the woman. This is bad news for Satan, but good news for us. It's what's called the proto-evangelium, another Latin phrase for this time. But even if there are some bright spots in Genesis 3, this chapter is mostly dark in content. Remember, this is a day of death, memento mori. God had warned earlier in chapter 2, verse 17, about the tree of knowledge of good and evil, in that day you eat of it, you shall surely die. And this is indeed what happened. As Paul says later, through one man sin entered the world and death through sin. And ever since sin reigned in death. From that moment, Adam and Eve were dead in sin, in trespasses, separated from God. The same applies to all sinners All who are spiritually dead in sin will also physically die in sin. So that is the ultimate disgrace for humanity. But as we look at today's passage, there's even more sorrow there. So we're going to look at four verses which cover the judgments of Eve and Adam in that order. So let's read Genesis 3, 16 to 19. To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception in pain you shall bring forth children Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Then to Adam he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it, cursed is the ground for your sake. In toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field. In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken. For dust you are, and to dust you shall return. My hope that as we look at the bad news of sin, we rejoice in the good news of Jesus. That is, as we realize what we have done, we can celebrate what Christ has done. We read earlier from 1 Corinthians 15 how we have borne the image of man of dust, but thanks to our Savior, the second Adam, we won't be left in the dust. Someday we shall bear the image of the heavenly man. In anticipation we can sing I don't know I know that we usually sing it around Christmas, that Isaac watch him. And we can sing that all year. No more let sins and sorrows grow. Nor thorns infest the ground, he comes to make his blessings flow, far as the curse is found. But before that renewal, we must return to the ground zero of our fall. It's fairly easy to see today's passage in two parts: God addresses the woman, and God addresses the man. But to zoom in a bit, I see two specific consequences declared to Eve in verse 16. And then verses 17 to 19, I see two more. declared to her husband. Altogether we have four sorrows of sin that relate to all aspects of humanity. Sin ruins even the blessings of parenting and marriage. But beyond home life, the curse of sin affects our work life. And after all that toil and trouble, there awaits us a terrible death. But to put it all together, there's pain in birth, verse sixteen A. There's strife in marriage, verse sixteen B There's toil at work, 17 to 18, and there's death and life, verse 19. Now I'll talk about all these four sorrows, but we won't end on a sad note, right? We'll talk about Jesus. Note this that though we live in sorrow today, because he lives, we can face tomorrow. So first let's talk about children. Look at the first half of verse 16. To the woman, he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you shall bring forth children. First of all, I want to clarify that parenting's amazing, right? So I love being a father Okay. And some of you know what I call parental amnesia. Somehow we forget the sleepless nights, the dirty diapers, and the constant mess at home. That's why you have more than one children, right? All that remain are sweet memories. Okay? You look through old pictures and if you're like me and my wife, you just randomly start crying and then you kiss one. Wonder what's wrong with you. And you and I we like to tell them these are happy tears, not sad tears. And apparently this forgetfulness even extends to the birthing process. Now before you say, What do you know? You're a man. Jesus used this experience as an illustration to describe painful separation from him and joyful reunion with him So he said in John sixteen, twenty one to twenty two, A woman when she is in labor has sorrow because her hour has come, but as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish or joy that a human being has been born into the world. Therefore you now have sorrow, but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you So there's no denying that the child that's born makes childbearing bearable. Back to Genesis. It appears childbirthing didn't have to be so painful as it is today. Sometimes my wife tells me she misses being pregnant, but you know she never tells me she misses the giving birth part. Her words were quote, I felt like I was getting sawed in half. Um I don't know if mothers can relate. Uh just uh public service announcement that Mother's Day is coming up in I think t uh um three two weeks. Right? I should know that better. So here's this wonderful experience of motherhood painfully affected by sin. This is now the third time in Genesis Where the speaker lines up two instances of the same verb back to back to emphasize something. Back in chapter 2, verse 17, God told Adam that if he disobeys, he will surely die. He literally he will die, die. Right the emphasis there. Later in chapter 3, verse 4, the serpent flatly denied it, saying to eat, you will not surely die. You will not die die. Now here in verse 16 When God says I will greatly multiply, he says, I will multiply, multiply. Again, this repetition indicates emphasis, right? Which we express with the adverb in English. And the factors multiplied are sorrow and conception. The word for sorrow occurs only in two other places. It's found in the very next verse, verse 17, and later in chapter 5, verse 17. twenty nine. In those two instances, both the sorrow describes the toil of hard labor on the cursed ground. We'll talk about that in a minute. Here in Genesis three sixteen, sorrow is from a different kind of labor. I'm talking about going into labor in a different sense. if you get my drift. The two nouns sorrow and conception are paired to form what is what's called compound adjectives. Right. That is, they must be seen as one, something like conception sorrows or birth pains. The Lord makes it clear in the next phrase, In pain you shall bring forth children. Like hypothetically speaking, had Adam and Eve became parents before they sinned. Would Eve have suffered during childbirth? I think there would have been at least some level of discomfort, right? I'm saying it lightly there, but it but it's safe to say labor at least uh the delivery and the postpartum period would have been much easier and much shorter. Beyond that I don't know what it would have been like We are certain that sin is to blame for the excruciating levels of pain women have endured for thousands of years. Our mothers have suffered much to multiply humanity, right? That's the first of four sorrows. Sin strikes as something as precious and sacred as bringing life into the world. But not only the woman's relationship with her children, but her relationship with her husbands, corrupted. So we go on to the second half of Genesis 3:16. 16B, I call it, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Now, if you look at that word desire in isolation out of context, you might think that's not bad. Right? What's wrong with the wife wanting and longing for her husband? When a man loves a woman, a woman should love man. That's what we see in Song of Songs 710. You see that word desire is used to describe romantic feelings. But seeing that the Lord's punishing Eve here This word desire likely has a negative connotation. A better cross-reference is Genesis 4. 7. We're jumping ahead of it. But here's what happens next chapter. Adam and Eve have children. Their sons, Cain and Abel, offer the fruit of their labors to the Lord When Cain saw that God did not respect his offering, he was upset. Like a good father, the Lord approaches Cain to help him. Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? Here's what he says in verse 7. If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door. And its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. So pause for a moment there. Look and see, not only is the parallel in the noun desire, there's also the parallel in the verb rule. So taken together, just as sin itself has simple desire to dominate Cain, The woman in her fallen state will have simple desire to dominate man. The woman will try, again, because of sin. To usurp man's rightful leadership, she will not succeed as the husband will rule over her. This is a consequence of sin. We're not talking about Christ-like leadership, right? Christ-like husband. And like submission as the Bible calls for us to do, we're talking about conflict in spousal relations. Sadly, I know this conflict all too well, and I grew up in a home filled with marital trouble. My mom and dad never got divorced, but practically speaking, they were dead to each other. Now I could blame many factors, you know, the years apart, long work hours, personality clashes, etc. etc. But really it's sin that destroyed our union. This strike goes all the way back to Genesis 3. Once Adam said of his wife, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. Now the sinful Adam called her the woman whom you gave to be with me. Sin mutates healthy desires into unhealthy desires. Sin distorts biblical leadership into unbiblical dictatorship Friends is a quick application, right? Do pray for marriages. So, you know, pray for all marriages, whether you're married or not. Pray for your parents' marriages, you know, your your uncles, your aunts, right, your siblings, your you know, your friends, your neighbors. Sin is still wreaking havoc in marriages and we need to be praying for that. Now, if the intense struggles in the delivery room and the living room are not enough, there's more in workplaces too. We see how that's so as we move on to Genesis 3:17. After sentencing the woman, the Lord turns to the man. We read then to Adam, he said. And we find the first man's sin is heeding the voice of his wife. The problem wasn't the woman. Herself. It was choosing her voice over God's voice. And the Lord has been clear that he must not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But once Adam took that bite, not only did his relationship with God change, his relationship with Eve changed, his relationship with his environment changed. So we read in the second half of verse 17. Cursed is the ground for your sake. In toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. The word for sorrow in verse Genesis 3:16 is repeated here in 17 as toil. The only difference is the setting. Just as the fruitful multiplication is hard for the woman, fruitful cultivation is hard for the man. Gonna gotta eat, but it's gonna be difficult. And it gets more specific in verse 18. It reads both thorns and thistles, it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field. Now I mentioned in an earlier sermon how Genesis three eighteen was anticipated back in chapter two. The key parallel is with the first part of two five Right there. Before any plant of the field was in the earth, and before any herb of the field has grown. So here's how we put the two verses together. Man must gather from the herb of the field as food. But now the plant of the field gets in the way. That's because the plant of the field, you know, is now thorns and thistles after the fall. Because the ground is cursed, sharp annoyances arise to hinder man's work. So now only through much toil can Adam cultivate herbs like wheat and oats. The scientists today would say roses have thorns as a survival mechanism against herbivores like plant-eating animals. But we know better than that. We know it's the curse. Again, it grieves us to consider what could have been had we not sinned. John Calvin is picturesque as he speaks of Adam before and after the fall. Quote the Lord had placed them over a garden which has to be cultivated. But whereas in that labor there had been sweet delight, now servile work is enjoined upon him. As if he were condemned to the minds. Before the entrance of sin, work was fulfilling Dignified for partaking, now work is frustratingly difficult and backbreaking. Now maybe you think, well, at least I can look forward to retirement. All that blood and sweat will be worth it, right? I don't know if I can say this now, but we know that man's final station in life is another sorrow, right? Our last verse for today saves the worst for last, right? Genesis 3:19 says, In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for dust you are. And to dust you shall return. After all the bloodied hands and sweaty brows, right? Here comes death. Death has been with us since our beginnings, and it will be our last enemy. As I said Easter last year from Psalm 49, death is the shepherd we do not want. In today's passage, we see a different imagery. We see a word play. Man who is called Adam. Returns to the ground, which is called Adama. Back in Genesis two seven, in the creation of man, Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. Now in Genesis 3:19, in the fall of man, the Lord God condemns man to return as dust to the ground, devoid of the spirit of life. A man became spiritually dead Poetic, yet tragic. And now death and mankind are intricately linked. Death is all around us. On average, approximately 150,000 people die each day. And don't think it's all older folks and the Terminally ill. Public health studies from major universities found that in the U. S. there's been a disturbing rise in mortality rates among those aged 25 to 44. As expected, there was a huge upward spike during COVID years. But a steady negative trend began way back in 2010, 15 years ago, right? And post-COVID, the numbers remain high. The major causes of death include drug abuse, but there are also natural causes such as heart disease and diabetes. Now little children are losing their parents. Senior citizens are burying their caretakers. Employers are losing youthful employees. What are we to do with all these debts and all these sorrows? And try all you want to minimize suffering. Maybe you won't get married, maybe you won't have kids, maybe you'll look for a perfect job that's high reward and low risk. But try as you may, you'll face sorrow, pain, curse, and toil It's inevitable. You'll get hurt. People you love get hurt. You'll bleed and sweat. And after all that anguish, worst of all, death awaits all who live in sin And these are unavoidable consequences of sin. If I stop here and close a sermon, I would have done my job of preaching, but I would have done a poor job preaching an Easter sermon. I mean I did exposit and explain the passage. I told you what it says and what it means, but I will not have given you the full story of the Bible. The message from God is not only that He created us and then we sin, many more pages follow, and there's redemption to come. We saw last week how Genesis 3:15 predicted Satan's defeat through the seed of the woman. And if you continue in the scriptures, you'll see how, unlike the serpent, man will not be left in dust. That's all things to Jesus. Because of the first Adam, we remember death. But because of second Adam, we rejoice in life And again, though we live in sorrow today, because he lives, we can face tomorrow. That's the message of Good Friday and Resurrection Sunday When the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman. This is Jesus, God and man in one person. He lived a perfect holy life. He never sinned. But he did feel the effects of sin. He felt the frustrations of work. During ministry, he experienced ups and downs, human emotions like discouragement. Isaiah puts them in these words in Isaiah 49 verse 4. I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing, and in vain. Jesus felt that kind of frustration. But unlike Adam and the rest of us, Jesus as God's son obeyed the voice of the Father. He pushed forward to complete his mission. He didn't give up. As a second and better Adam, he worked for the Father, saying, yet, surely my just reward is with the Lord, and my work is with my God. As a perfect groom, Christ loved his bride, the church, and gave himself for her. So he prepared to give himself as a sacrifice. He did that by prayer, fervent prayer. Was so fervent that the sweat of his brow became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. And then he even endured the thorns of the cursed ground As soldiers mocked him, they twisted a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a weed in his right hand, and they bowed their knees before him and mocked him as king. But on Jesus went and for the joy set before him endured the cross. The Son of God purchased the church of God with his own blood. He paid the wages of sin we should pay. He suffered for our disobedience and guilt, our greed for power and abuse of power. The just wrath of God fell upon him, so that we don't have to face eternity in hell. He declared his work of redemption finished. He was buried in the tomb of the ground. But the Batter would not allow his holy one to see corruption and become dust. It's revealed that Christ is greater than Adam, the first man, the man of dust. He's the Lord of heaven and the man of heaven. He's declared to be the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. After he arose, he first appeared to Mary Magdalene, that first day of the week, that first Easter Sunday. Over forty days, he presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. And Christ our Savior ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. He's been given all authority, including authority, to execute judgment. Now the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear his voice and comfort Those who have done good to the resurrection of light, those who have done evil to the resurrection of condemnation must be ready for that day and hour. So how do you get ready? Well, since we've all done some kind of evil, we can't be perfect, we need God's mercy. We must repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus, trust in Him only for the forgiveness of sin. That way you don't die in sin. Jesus has said, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. For the offers therefore the taking by repentance and faith in Jesus. Heaven is offered as a gift, a gift that's undeserved and unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ's name. So what awaits those who are saved through the gospel is God's kingdom. And beyond that, there's A new heaven and a new earth. There in that new world is the holy city. Talks about it in Revelation that it's the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And if God will wipe away every tear from their eyes, there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying, no more pain, for the former things have passed away, no more curse The throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it. His servants shall serve him in joyful and meaningful work for eternity. Hope to see everyone there. Everyone hearing this in person or in recording. Today is your day of salvation. May today be the day you've begotten to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. May today be the first day of the rest of your eternal life, I hope. Today be the day of true worship as we anticipate heaven. So you can join us as we crown our resurrected Savior with praise. His glories now we sing, who died and rose on high, who died eternal light to bring, and lives that death may die. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for all that you have done and all that you will do through your son Jesus Christ. Christ. Lord, we think about all the frustrating things of life how we may have temporary reprieve We may think we've at least covered up the surface issues. But Lord, as we consider just the terrible effects of sin, or death and suffering and the cursed ground. Oh, there's nothing we can do. Not the best technology, not the best uh intelligence can reverse that But we're thankful that you sent your Son to die for our sins, and that he rose from the dead, and that we will join him in that resurrection as he is our first fruit. Lord, as we put our trust in Him, pray that you'll fill us up with joy. Pray that this week Will live in resurrection power, Lord, as we consider that the Spirit that raised Christ from the dead now lives in those who trust in you. Thank you for this guarantee of this future. Pray that we would just continue to fight sin, motivated by the final victory we have over death. And we're thankful that sin no longer reigns over us through your Son Jesus Christ. Pray that he would reign in our lives, in all that we do. It's in his name we pray. Amen.