I invite you this morning to open your Bibles to the book of Joshua. We'll be looking at Joshua chapter 1. and considering some of the life lessons that we can learn from this chapter. Before I start, uh I do want to just let you all know that Paula, myself, my kids, we're all going to miss you. And uh It's it's uh a hard thing, uh, but we we love all of you, and we certainly are not angry at any of you, uh, and uh that is not the reason that we believe God is calling us away. We have a lot of memories here, a lot of funny memories and fun memories, and it's hard to believe that seven and a half years have gone by so quickly. But you all have demonstrated a great grace to us over and over again. And we're thankful for all of you, the times, the time that we spent together. And we know that God is with you, right? That's not going to change. And God is with us. And God is going to continue to lead us. So why don't we pray? And then we'll look at this passage together. Father, thank you so much that what unites your people are not their thoughts, but your spirit And then your word, your unchanging word. And Father, I praise you today that I'm looking on the face of my friends, my brothers, and my sisters in Christ. And Father, our hope is not in our own ability or in our own, I guess, intellect. Our hope is in you always That you'll continue to work in our lives, in our hearts, in our families, in our relationships, and in our churches. So, Father, work, bless, encourage. And may this day be a day of encouragement in spite of what's happening. May our thoughts turn to your greatness. And I pray this in Christ's name. Amen. I'm not going to mention his name, but I'm sure that if as I give you the facts of his life, you'll know who I'm talking about. There was a man once. Who knew God very well. He talked to God on a daily basis. He would actually meet with God, and God would talk to him. This man's relationship with God was perfect. There was no sin in his heart. Sin had not even entered the world. And God challenged the man, and this is the way he did it. He said, That tree right there, do not eat it. Now you know who I'm talking about immediately. But the man knew that he had the command, and there was a requirement built into the command, and that was the requirement of trust. because when you looked at it, it was just a tree. And when you looked at the fruit on the tree, it was pleasant to the eyes. And it looked delicious and it was sort of mysterious. So you have this command, that tree, in the day you eat of it. You'll die. And yet you had what appeared to be a command that was illogical because the tree was beautiful and appealing to the man And the Lord required in that moment, the God of heaven, that the man would trust him in spite of appearances. Believe me, don't eat that tree. Don't eat the fruit from that tree. You all are students of the Bible, and so you know that this theme of trust This theme of walking by faith and not by sight is throughout all the books of the Bible. Again and again, God required men and women to simply believe his words. in spite of the circumstances that they lived in, the overwhelming odds that were against them, the seemingly insurmountable obstacles that were before them, he again and again required obedience, trust, and faith. Do you recall? Do you recall Abraham? Or we should say Abram He also knew God and talked with him, and God spoke to him, and God made incredible promises to Abram that he would have a son in his old age. That's not logical. That's not something you see every day. And he called Abram to go to a place that he would show him. It was a s not, it was a literal step of faith, an action that was. Really, not that conducive to prosperity. I mean, you want me to go and you're not going to tell me, and you want me to believe in something that's going to happen in the future? Trust. I'm sure you also recall men like Gideon. Here he was, terrified of his enemies, hiding, taking care of his farming business, and he receives this visitation from God. Mighty man of valor, I have a job for you. And he takes up the job, and he after he puts fleeces before the Lord, and the Lord graciously answers that one-time event there of fleeces And he goes through the the motion of gathering his army, and what does God do? He whittles down Gideon's army to the point where there's hardly anyone, and he expects take he asked Gideon to go and defeat the enemy with Not enough people. Again, God is saying, trust me. Moses at the burning bush. Go and set my people free. Moses, you, you, you, and oh, here comes Aaron. Go do this. I'm backing you up. I'll help you. I'll make it happen. Noah Go and build an ark. It's gonna rain. Everyone's gonna die who doesn't get in the ark. Build one. Decades and decades and decades of trust. Folks, you and I are never going to get through the Christian life without sometimes just, this might not even sound right, but it is just Recklessly trusting God to be faithful to his word, just throwing yourself on what he says and saying, you know what? I'm not going to try to figure this out. I'm not going to try to make this happen. I just believe what he says. We have that same kind of scenario in Joshua chapter 1. We have Joshua who has now been given the reigns of the children of Israel and he had not even gotten into the promised land and into the real work that's before him. And no doubt he was perplexed and confused and maybe a little fearful. Matter of fact, I think we can definitely say that he was lacking in courage. And bravery, because that's what the Lord told him to have. In Joshua chapter 1, we have God encouraging Joshua and telling him how he can be a success. At a moment of transition. In Joshua's case, it was national transition. Look at Joshua chapter 1, verse 1. After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spoke to Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' assistant. Moses was off the scene. How can we possibly relate to this idea of the death of Moses? He was the leader of the nation. He was In some ways similar to our president, in some ways similar to a king, but not really, but he spoke face to face with God. He was the one who went into the and confronted Pharaoh. Can you imagine losing Moses and the thoughts in your mind? It was a huge moment of transition and potential confusion. So the Lord comes to Joshua, who was going to take over after the death of Moses. And let's just read what he says. And then we'll go back and just collect some of these thoughts to encourage us. Verse 2. Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore, arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land which I am giving to them, the children of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given you, as I said to Moses, from the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river, the river Euphrates. All the land of the Hittites and to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life, As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you nor forsake you. Be strong and of good courage. For to this people you shall divide as an inheritance the land which I swore to their fathers to give them. Only be strong and very courageous That you may observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may prosper wherever you go. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Have I not commanded you Be strong and of good courage. Do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. A couple of things to just recognize. First, the Lord does say the obvious, Moses, my servant, is dead. The Lord here is telling Joshua what he already knows, but also in a way affirming the reality of the situation. It was a moment of change in the life of Joshua. It could not be minimized. Moses, my servant, is dead. What was is now passing away. And then he reaffirms the purpose that Joshua had. Look at verse 2. Now therefore, arise and go over this Jordan. Just because it was a time of transition and one leader passed from the scene, that did not erase the purpose that God had for Israel and the promises God had given to Israel. It mentions again in the passage how he swore to their fathers that he would give them this land, that he has already given them this land. And folks, in the life of a local church in a time of transition, you should always remember, and this is an encouragement, that the purpose of God's local church does not change from pastor to pastor. From time to time. Sometimes we think it does because we live in a day of cliches and fads and church-in-a-box seminars. Where everyone has some new angle on the local church, some new kit, some new idea, some new this or that. Biblically, it doesn't change. You and I, as an assembly, we gather on Sundays to hear the Word of God, to edify one another. To be a blessing to one another. And we scatter during the week to evangelize our neighbors or to meet up with someone else and knock on some doors. or to serve God. The local church exists to edify believers, evangelize the lost, and glorify God, and that is never going to change, nor should it ever change And so it was in the life of Joshua. God didn't go to Joshua and say, Moses is dead. Here's a new set of instructions for you. I just crafted it. Actually, it's commandments 11 to 20 on two more tablets. You're really going to need these. Bait and switch. That's not the way it was. God had made a covenant with Abraham. God had made a covenant with the children of Israel. They were going to have this land, and God was going to be faithful to his promise. So this should be an encouragement to you and to me that the purpose of the local church, as elucidated in books like Ephesians, as Seen in example form in the book of Acts, it remains the same. What an encouragement. Okay, Moses, my servant, is dead, but your mission is the same. Go, arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land which I am giving to them. This is verse 2, the children of Israel. Now, the purpose, generally speaking, had not changed, but I want you to notice that God personalizes it to Joshua Look at verse 2 again. He says, Go over this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land which I am giving to them, the children of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot Will tread upon, I have given you, as I said to Moses. There's sort of this general purpose remains the same, but then the personalization of it And to put this in the a New Testament application, when it comes to the local church, it's not like God is interested in you in a sort of up in the cloud kind of metaphysical way, like uh this global, this God is looking down, and you're a chess piece on his board and he's going to move you here and move this person over here and and he's going to beat the devil at his own game. Okay, God does use strategy. He's a genius. He's God. But he also knows you personally. And he's going to use you putting one of your feet in front of another He is not going to misuse you or abuse you or try to use you up, but he will make sure that in your life you are not tempted above what you are able. He will always with the temptation provide a way of escape. In the middle of trial and tribulation, if you ask him for wisdom, he will give you that wisdom if you just keep believing. And he is going to make sure that if you walk with him, he's going to walk with you. And when you sin, he'll run after you and find you. He will shepherd you, disciple you, and he will establish you and get you through this life to the other side. He who began a good work in you is going to complete it. I'm going to see it to the day of completion. Whom he called, he justified, and it says there in Romans, it goes all the way to the end to glorification. You are safe. Those of you in this room who have trusted Christ as your Savior, you are safe in Him, and He is interested in you, not just the church at a macro level, but at a micro level. Joshua, everywhere your foot treads. That is going to belong to you. And that should encourage us as it encouraged Joshua. He's making the connection between Moses and the promises and now you. He's personalizing this. Verse 3, every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given you, as I said to Moses. Verse 4, he reminds them of some geographic points. He reminds Joshua from the wilderness and Miss Lebanon. As far as the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the great sea toward the growing down of the sun, shall be your territory. He wants Joshua to just face this. The promise is the same. The geography is the same. Your feet are going to walk there, and it's yours. And then in the same way, folks, Faith Bible Church is a local church with a local mission and a global mission with its missionary program. But you live in a real world and around you are real people, and God is going to work in those very real people that are right around here if you let them and if you go out and reach out and try to reach them. He has a plan just like he did with Moses. Well, he moves on. Well, he kind of he confirms the death of Moses He reaffirms the mission that Joshua is to have. He encourages him that he's going to be victorious in personalizing the mission. And then he starts making these connections. He wants Joshua to know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. Look at what it says here. In let's just read verse 5. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you nor forsake you. Now, what put yourself in Joshua's sandals there for a moment. He had been Moses' assistant for a long time. He had a lot of inside information about Moses that other people didn't. At the very least, he saw all the mighty things that God did through Moses. Would that make you feel better if you were Joshua and God said to you, you know what? As I was with Moses, I'm going to be with you. Think, Joshua. Think about what I've done in the life of Moses, through Moses, in the things that he did. I'll be with you too. Wow, what an encouragement that is. As New Testament believers, God is with us because we are indwelt with the Holy Spirit of God. He goes with us wherever we go. He sees us and his heart is inclined to us because we have been justified before him, imputed with the righteousness of Christ. Before him, we are his children, we are in Christ. And it doesn't matter where we go or what we do. He is with us in what we do. You know, one of the passages I often like to go to to remind myself this, and let me get you to turn to this one, to Philippians. You probably know where I'm going to go. Go to Philippians chapter four. Trying to keep your hand in Joshua. There's the well-known passage in Philippians 4 starting at verse 6. And it talks about replacing anxiety with prayer. Be anxious for nothing. Put away the anxiety. And then in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known. And the promise of verse 6 is, verse 7, is that the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. This is the internal peace that we can have as Christians as we cease anxiety and we focus on developing our prayer life and internal peace But there is also an external kind of the reality that God is with us, the God of peace in my circumstances, in the things I do. And that is, after you skip down through verse 8 and 9, actually just verse 8. 8 talks about meditation, but verse 9, it says, the things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me These do, and the God of peace will be with you. There's the internal peace of God that affects your hearts and your minds, but then there is If I could put it this way, the external God of peace who will be with you in your circumstances and in your daily life. I mean, Paul is saying in verse 9, do what I did. Paul was a missionary. He was an evangelist. He was involved in God's kingdom work. Now Joshua is going to go out and do the very same thing that Moses did, and the guarantee is I'll be with you like I was with Moses. And as Christians, we know that as we get out there doing things for God, that He will be with us, both inwardly and outwardly. And that never, folks, that doesn't change. That doesn't change. I don't know if you've ever talked to a Christian who, for any period of time, lived in another country. Another place, another continent. And you've ever heard stories about how there might be four Christians in a church somewhere? And that's all they have. Maybe they're in London and there's just no churches where they are, and so they just get together and they do the best they can with four Christians. Folks, this doesn't change for them because it's only four. This doesn't change for our a brother or sister who is out in a village in Africa and there's no Christians anywhere, and all they can do is a new believer. Is on Sundays pray and read what they have of God's word. It doesn't change. As we Joshua depended on the fact that as God was with Moses, he would be with him. And folks, God is going to be with Faith Bible Church He's not going anywhere. Just like he was with you before. So turn back to Joshua chapter 1 and see further encouragement. So, there's the affirmation. I'm trying to review this a little bit as you're turning. That's one of the things I always do So if you're thinking about God admitting Moses is dead, but then God saying the mission hasn't changed and I'm going to bless the mission and I'm personalizing this for you, Joshua. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. But then there's sort of a promise of success that hinges on something very, very important. You look down here at your Bible again. Look at verse six. Be strong and of good courage for this peop for to this people you shall divide as an inheritance the land which I swore to their fathers to give them. Only be strong and very courageous that you may observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left that you may prosper wherever you go. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. but you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Now, the way this is said in verse 7, be strong and very courageous that you may observe to do according to all the law that Moses gave. Did the Israelites need encouragement from Moses to obey the law of God when Moses was in charge of Israel? Yeah. There were some real issues they had with it. From the very beginning. They were always struggling, grumbling, and so on. So Joshua was going to have a backbone, need a backbone, and he was going to need to be strong and courageous to lead the people. To obey the word of God, the law of Moses that God had given. In that sense, he needed to be strong and of good courage. He also needed to be encouraged with the fact that success hinges on obedience to the law. Now Contrast. An army is gathered. It's huge. They have to fight another army. Pep talk time. The commander gets up. We're gonna win this battle. And let me tell you why we're gonna win this battle. We have more tanks, we have more guns, our cause is just, we have more bullets. It's not what God's saying. He's saying, you know what, Joshua, you're going to succeed if you obey me. I'll be with you like I was with Moses, but success comes from obedience to me, not to having, if I could put it this way, more tanks. It is very, that kind of talk here is very absent, and I want to be careful not to make a point from silence, which is a dangerous thing to do. But that is the point. Look at verse 8 again. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. You shall meditate in it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written. It's important. Then, for then you will make your way prosperous and then you will have good success. Dear folks, how important is the Bible to a local church? What would we have if we didn't have this? We wouldn't have anything. We wouldn't have anything. I am not too proud to say That without this, I would be just as confused as everyone else in this country. And isn't our country confused and divided and Right down to what a boy or a girl is. They're so confused that they want to argue against nature itself. And you know what? If I didn't have this, I would be just as confused. And folks, what is the next book after Joshua in the Bible? Judges, and would you not say that's a confusing book? Because what did they do in that book? Every man did what was right in his own eyes. And so that's why Joshua had to cling to the law of Moses, the revealed will of God. And that's why you and I, wherever we go, whatever we do, the word of God has to be precious to us. Because our success as Christians completely hinges on our knowledge and ability to obey this book, to know it, to love it, to live by it. And if we do that, we will succeed. Now, folks, success for you and me is faithfulness We may never have big numbers wherever we go, whenever we do. We may never see a day in our country where we have churches where 500 and a thousand people Are everywhere, all across our country. We may never see that again, but we can see faithful Christians who live their lives for God and live their lives by the book. and for him. You can succeed as a Christian. You have to just look at success the way God looks at it. Meditating on his word and obeying his word. That's what produced success for Joshua. In his case, conquest. In our case, spiritual victory. Seeing God at work in our hearts and lives Knowing that he's with us, because we're a part of his plan. Instead of trying to force him to be a part of our petty plans, we put our lives into his plan. Now that's not very confusing, is it? It's the pep talk that God gave Joshua. And yet he had to just Command him. I think three times here, be strong and of good courage. Do not be afraid. Do not be dismayed. He says elsewhere, be strong and courageous. Be strong and courageous. Because the tendency at times of transition is to fall apart. Is to go, oh, what are we going to do? And just sort of Throw in the towel, whatever that means. I don't know. I guess that's a sporting reference. When you lose the game, you throw the towel in. I don't know. It's just sort of say I I'm I'm gonna just lose my strength and my courage. Folks, we can't do that, right? Isn't God bigger than that? God is so much bigger than that. I know I've told you that there are two things that I often get comfort from in my own walk with the Lord. One is his creative ability. The things he made are so amazing, big, and powerful that God must be so much bigger and so much more powerful. So when I think of a supernova, And the Crab Nebula. When I think of our own son, and I go, wow, God, you are amazing. You are powerful. And that comforts my heart. He has the ability to meet my needs and to glorify his name in my life. And the second thing that comforts me I often think about is Romans 5 and the fact that he loves me. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for me. It's not just that he's all-powerful and that he can save me. He has the ability to save me. He's done it through sacrificing his own son to prove that he loves me. And now Romans tells us that his spirit inside of me does two things. One, it sheds the love of God abroad in my heart. Romans 5 The Spirit of God is telling me I am loved by God. And two, the Spirit bears witness with my Spirit that I am a child. I am a son of God. And that's what the Spirit of God does within me as I dwell on the gospel and the things that He has done. We have a God who gives pet talks to His leaders. But he does challenge them to trust. So, are you going to trust him? Are you going to trust them next Sunday when Dr. Elliott is here preaching? Are you still going to be trusting the Lord? Let's pray together.