In case I don't get to say it to you later today, I'll say it now. Have a happy Thanksgiving. Guessing you're getting together with family and friends for a hearty meal, turkey and the fixings. My personal favorite sides are mashed potatoes, stuffing, and Brussels sprouts. I'm saying this out loud in hopes that my wife would let me have some of these. She's not a big fan of stuffing. I don't know why. I'm trying to get her to like But I did see Brussels sprouts in somewhere in the kitchen, so I think I'm getting that. Now, for most of us here, we'll stop to say grace before we eat. And have you ever stopped to think about that expression? Saying grace. Isn't it more accurate to say we're saying thanks? Well, it turns out grace and gratitude are closely related in some languages, such as Greek and Latin. In Greek, grace is charis, while gratitude is eukaristia. In Latin, grace and thanks are even closer in vocabulary as they come from one word, gratia. Even if we don't know Latin, we still get the idea with Spanish gracias and Italian grazi Okay, so we get the connection linguistically speaking, but can we go deeper? What links grace with gratitude conceptually? Well, it makes sense that they're tied together as action and reaction. That is the only appropriate response to grace is gratitude. And if gratitude must follow grace of fellow men, how much more should gratitude follow God's grace? Someone once said, quote, the worst moment for an atheist is when he is really thankful and has no one to thank. We as believers do have someone to thank, our gracious Creator God. It's all grace, all of it, the food in the fridge, the clothes in the closet, most importantly, eternal life reserved for us in heaven. What do we have that we did not receive? Nothing. Grace is why we're thankful, grateful first thing in the morning And throughout the day. And as W. H. Olden suggests in his olive, as you dripped off to sleep at night, let your last thinks be thanks. As we open up the scriptures today, we'll have more reasons to say grace as we study God's grace. We've been going through the epistle to Titus and now we're past the midway point. If you do the math, there are 46 verses and we cover 26 of them throughout. We found repeated mentions of sound doctrine. We saw what sound doctrine produces in us and through us, soundness and faith, in love and patience and good works. Now, because we're listening in on an exchange between an apostle and a pastor, we understand there's no need for Paul to spell out everything and explain what that sound doctrine is But knowing Paul, he just can't help but spell it out and explain what he's teaching. And we're very glad he did. Yes, much of it is a review for someone like Titus, but such review is needed and worth it. The result is that we have a beautiful passage in Titus 2, 11 through 15. Let's turn there now. Titus 2, 11 through 15. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us That denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ, who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Speak these things. Exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one despise you. Our firstborn is nearing kindergarten age, so naturally as parents, we're mulling over our options. S We got choices among public, private, secular, Christian, homeschooling. tutorials, cooperatives, classical, etc. We're thinking through programs, safety, curricula, extracurricular activities, teachers and classmates. List of concerns goes on and on. I only mention this because it's not far-fetched to say that the Christian life is like schooling. We enroll by God's grace for lifelong learning. Every born-again Christian is matriculated into the same school of grace. So with the aid of this illustration, I'll highlight a few words and phrases in the sermon text, link them together, and organize the outline. First, as we connect grace with appeared, the school of grace begins with divine initiative for salvation. That's what we find in verse 11. God's grace has appeared to all men. God's grace had to appear to all men for us to be saved. Next, building on that initiative, we expect the School of Grace to provide training for sanctification. So now let's connect grace with teaching and denying what we should live. If I may personify grace, our dear teacher, Miss Grace, has appeared to us. Knocking on the door, escorting us to school. That's what we see in verse 11. Now, Miss Grace is at the front of the classroom, beginning the lesson. She's our teacher. That's what we see in verse 12. And just as a typical schooling experience is designed to end at graduation, the School of Grace Anticipates the final project of glorification. That's what we see in verses 13 to 14. Now we're connecting, we should live with looking for And living in the already not yet reality as believers, where we not only look forward to the future kingdom, we review the basics of the gospel, we connect Jesus Christ. with the blessed hope and his glorious appearing and then all that he is and all that he does And back to Titus in verse 15. The school of grace reinforces the ongoing task of instruction. We tie together a string of imperatives, speaking Exhort, rebuke, that no one despise you. Like school teachers, pastors, elders, overseers have the job of commending good behavior, reprimending the bad behavior And all the work, all the hard work, is worth it all. All together now. The school of grace is established by God on four foundational principles. First, there's the divine initiative in salvation. Verse 11. Secondly, there's the training for sanctification. That's 12. Thirdly, there's the final project of glorification. That's 13 to 14. Fourthly, there's the ongoing task of instruction. Verse 15. The school of grace has, as its first foundational principle, divine initiative in salvation. Verse 11 flows naturally from ten. Bondservants, you recall, are told their workplace behavior and work ethic can adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things. But they only beautify what's already beautiful: the good news of Jesus. They can only respond to salvation and gratitude as God took the first step in redemption. It's the grace of God that came to us to motivate Christian living in pastors and elders, older men and women, younger men and women, free men and slaves. The verb appeared in verse 11 is epiphenal, is where we get the word epiphany. We'll see it again later in chapter 3, verse 4. We'll see a noun form of the verb sooner in verse 13 of this chapter appearing. Back to the verb is used in Acts 27. 20 to describe the dangers that see Paul faced. Luke wrote, Now when neither sun nor stars appeared, Epiphany. I know, were many days, and those small tempest beat on us, all hope that we would be saved was finally given off. More relevant and instructive is an earlier passage in Luke 179. Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist, uses the verb to prophesy the birth to Christ. While his Son is the forerunner of the Messiah, Jesus is the Messiah. Jesus is the day spring from on high who has visited us to give light epifino to those who sit in darkness. Zachariah is alluding to Malachi, the passage we just we read earlier in today's pass uh service. This is what we celebrate at this time of the year. After Thursday, or maybe even on that day. Many will be busy shopping at malls and online. Okay. Putting up Christmas decorations, the lights and the trees. I think it's going to happen this week at our home too. Finalizing travel plans near and far. It's application. Remember that Christmas is not about frenetic activity and busyness. Christmas is about how the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men. It's about how God made the first move. The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. This is the only way. There is and there must be divine initiative in salvation. Remember, this holiday season and every season, Jesus embodies God's grace. God's Son Emmanuel, God with us, in his majesty and grace, has graced us with his presence. He has shown brightly in this dark world. But we see the grace of God does more than just show up. Go on to verse 12. There we learn that the grace of God is our teacher. That leads to the second foundational principle of the school of grace. There's the training for sanctified Again, we link teaching in verse 12 with the grace of God that appeared in verse eleven. Grace is not something tucked away in our drawers after you receive it at an altar call many years ago. Grace, if it really is grace, will be your lifelong life coach. Grace will teach us to live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age. As Frederick B. Meyer comments, quote, We are taught by the grace of God to live soberly as regards our personal life, righteously in relation to others, godly in our attitude towards God. We should live is the main verb and the trio of adverse with it is the main idea of verse 12. And really the main idea of this entire passage. But what do we do with this phrase denying ungodliness and worldly lusts? Well, that's showing us how we live sober, righteous, and godly. lives. One translation says it quite colloquially. Grace teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions. Saying no to our desires helps us to say yes to God. Denying ourselves, we can take up our cross and follow Jesus It's like pulling the weeds out of the garden to make room for flowers or putting away childish things to become an adult. As C. S. Lewis would say, it's giving up mud pies in the slums for a holiday at the sea, or demolishing our decent little cottage and rebuilding it for a palace for God's dwelling. His application, beware of how fallen humans like to distort the true meaning of God's grace. In a misguided effort to stay clear of legalism, some of us veer off and stray into licentiousness. What is licentiousness? Licentiousness is the false idea that grace gives us license to sin. Grace does not give us license to sin. Licentiousness is a heresy that says we as saints upon salvation can live however we want, do as we please. It's not a new problem, by the way. Paul confronted it in Romans 6:1 to 2, saying, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Certainly not. How shall we who die to sin live any longer in it? Dying to sin means living soberly, righteously, and godly So beware of what's called counterfeit grace. Beware of fake substitutes of true grace. Beware of cheap grace as a mere trinket sold in the market. Dietrich Bonhoeffer warned us. Chief grace is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance, baptism without church discipline, communion without confession, absolution without personal confession. Chief grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ, living and incarnate. Costly grace is the treasure hidden in the field. For the sake of it, a man will go and sell all that he has. It is the pearl of great price by which the merchant will sell all his goods It is the kingly rule of Christ, for whose sake a man will pluck out the eye which causes him to stumble. It is the call of Jesus Christ at which the disciples leave his nets. Folllows him. So what will it be? Cheap grace or costly grace? If you open your heart to the true grace of God, praise God. Amen. Now it's time to open your ears and minds. The class is in session. Sit up straight, look up, take good notes, do your classwork and homework. Think critically about how ungodliness and morally lust are distracting you, fighting for your attention. Say no to them. Ignore and deny them, whether it's sexual immorality on your phone, love of money in your bank, pride in your idolatrous heart. But we cut ties with our past, who we once were, and now the life we live in the flesh. We live by faith in the Son of God. We live in the present age, soberly, righteously, and in godly manner, but there's also a future aspect to our faith. The long sentence continues from verse 12 to 13. We trace the train of thought thus far. Grace of God is teaching. Teaching has to do with living, living has to do with denying, but there's more. We live in anticipation. We should live in verse 12, also connects with another participle besides denying, is looking for in verse 13. That leads to the third foundational principle of the school of grace. There's the final project of glorification completed by Lord Jesus Himself. So the grace of God not only teaches us to deny our lusts today, it teaches us to anticipate the day of Christ's return. Paul speaks of the blessed hope and glorious appearing. Blessed hope and glorious appearing are distinct but united. Hope is the return of Christ from the Christian's point of view. It's our subjective projection of an objective event. Appearing is the return from Christ point of view. It's the objective event that fulfills our subjective hopes. In my view, the blessed hope is fulfilled for us church saints at the rapture before the seven-year tribulation. But the same hope applies to those converted during those seven years of tribulation. More importantly, you should know that this hope is powerful. This hope is not mere positive or wishful thinking. It's transformative even today. Here's what Apostle John says of it in 1 John 3, 2 to 3. First John 3, 2 to 3. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be, but we know that when he is revealed, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And everyone who has this hope in him Purifies himself just as he is pure. So when we have Christ Jesus in our sights, when we behold him with eyes of faith, we We truly have a blessed hope. We have a steadfast hope because of his sacrifice. We have a living hope because of his resurrection. We're between two epiphanies or two appearings, his first advent about 2,000 years ago, and another one to come in the future. Just as he completed the sacrificial work of redemption, Jesus will finish the final project of glorification. As we preview the second advent of Christ and what he will do, it's good to review the first advent of Christ and what he has done. So connecting the two, as he ends verse 13, Paul takes time to extol Jesus, all that he is to us, and all that he has done for us. First, who is our great God and Savior Jesus Christ? By the way, this grammatical construction takes two phrases, one our great God, and to Savior Jesus Christ and unites them in one person. It's not as if our great God refers to God the Father and Savior Jesus Christ refers to God the Son Paul saying that God the Son is both our great God, is our Savior Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the great divinity who is in his humanity saves us. Very explicit statement about the deity of Jesus right here. And appreciating who he is leads us to know what he does Jesus gave himself for us. And again, that's the reason for Thanksgiving And Christmas, we sang about it earlier, for thyself, best gift divine, to our race so freely given, for that great, great love of thine, peace on earth and joy in heaven Jesus himself is the gift that inspires that him. And as Paul tells us in verse 14, he gave himself for two reasons. First, he did so to redeem us from every lawless deed. Secondly, he gave himself to purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. This directly relates to the gospel. The gospel is the good news that starts with the bad news. We need redemption. We ought to honor God, but we fell in our sin. We've broken his commands through our lawless deeds, coveting, lying, lusting. We become sinners, and that means bondage. As our Lord has taught, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. The wages of sin is death. Dying in our sin means God's wrath. We're facing God's wrath forever in hell. But God is rich in mercy. God the Father so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. The world became flesh, divine, and human. United in one person, he appeared as our Savior Jesus Christ. He was perfect without blemish, showing us how to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts. He lived soberly, righteously, and godly. But the Son of God and Son of Man had to give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus willingly went to the cross. That's where he would abolish death and bring life and immortality to life. But to abolish death on our behalf, by the grace of God, he had to taste death for everyone. Because then defiles us, we need cleansing through the shedding of his blood. We sang of that blood's power earlier in Rock of Aegis Let the water and the blood from thy wounded side which flowed, be of sin the double cure. Cleanse me from its guilt and its power And having drained himself for our sake, Jesus finished his work on the cross, facing God's wrath in our place. He died, he was buried. On the third day, he rose again from the dead. And ascended to heaven after 40 days. After he had by himself purged our sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. We can join Paul and the rest of the saints and be among those who appear, who love is appearing. Turn from sin. Turn from pride. Turn to Jesus and put your hope of heaven in his work of redemption and purification. Become one of his own special people and with gratitude be zealous for good works. Remember that it all begins with God taking the initiative. It's the grace of God that brings salvation. There's no place for our good works to be justified before God. It's all a gift, not earned or deserves. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. So now by God's saving grace, you're enrolled in his school of grace to review. There's divine initiative and salvation, there's training for sanctification. There's the final project of glorification. Now, as we close this chapter, we learn the last foundational principle. There's the ongoing task of instruction. The schoolmaster and the school teacher may have summer, winter, and spring breaks, but the job of the pastor, elder, overseer is never done. Closer to parenting, I guess. They must be ready in season and out of season. Paul sums up their work in four imperatives. First he tells Titus, speak these things. These things are the sound doctrine, especially as it relates to the grace of God as explained in verses 11 to 14. Not even great if we church leaders only have to say something once and our hearers get it the first time. Right. Just need one Sunday school and we're done and you know we just need one awana, you know, lesson per you know Uh maybe every couple months and then we're done, right? Just tell our kids one thing and they're done for the rest of the year. Well, and pastoring will be easy, ministry will be easy, discipling will be easy, everything will be really easy, but Paul's realistic. He knows Titus must not only speak but also exhort and rebuke. In the previous chapter, he already spoke of exhorting and rebuking those who contact him. contradict. The apostle repeats the commands here. Exhort and rebuke go beyond speaking. If speaking is someone on the neutral side Exhorting is encouraging the positive traits, and rebuking is discouraging the negative traits. Exhorting is urging fellow believers to continue in the faith, strengthening the brethren, comforting the crestfallen, rebuking is telling someone his fault, exposing one's hidden evil, committing one's sin. All these things must be done with authority. Titus may not have the long storied career as a famous pastor, not as well known as Paul and some of the other apostles He's been the other guy, right? He's not the brother whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches. But that's okay Haidas can be himself and still have authority. Not by putting some bass in his voice or standing up straight with shoulders back. As stated earlier, in all things he can show himself to be a pattern of good works. He doesn't have to be perfect from day one, but his progress must be evident to all over time. That's how he can develop his authority. But it's inevitable that somebody somewhere will dislike Titus. So Paul says: let no one despise you. If you're the type who wants to be liked by everyone, I don't think pastoring is for you. Some will despise pastors. For being too young? If so, as Paul told Timothy, Titus must not let anyone despise his youth, but be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in truth, uh in spirit, in faith, and purity Some will despise pastors just for being truth tellers, even if they speak truth in love. Some will say to preachers like me today, you're too political or you're not political enough, probably more of the latter. Some will say you don't sound like everyone's favorite radio or online preacher. Regardless, leaders cannot give up because there's the ongoing task of instruction. But we've been warned being despised comes with the job. There's nothing glamorous about serving God. Paul said of himself and his fellow apostles, We've been made as the filth of the world, the off-scaling of all things until now. Pastors are just following in the apostles' footsteps Now lest any of you non-passists feel left out, I want to include you. Be assured the world will hate all of us. Happy Thanksgiving, you know. All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Oh yeah. Put that on your Christmas card. So we'll have well all of us will have our adversaries and despisers. Seems like a sour way to end. It sounds like the school of costly grace is a school of hard knocks. But with God's grace We can endure the world and its hate. And we can do more than survive under fire. We can be filled with thankfulness. Coming back to the beginning of the sermon, it's my parting wish to you. I hope the thought of God's grace amplifies and multiplies your gratitude. Remind ourselves this week that grace has appeared to us first. Grace is teaching us. Grace directs our eyes to Christ who died for us. And in tough times of difficult people and harsh circumstances, we're tempted to give up, right? But we can sing of God's grace and pray for God's grace to persevere. O to grace, how great a debtor, daily unconstrained to be. Let thy goodness, like a fetter, bind my wandering heart to thee. Let's pray and sing. So we thank you for your grace. And Lord, no matter how much we want to simplify it or distort it according to human human thinking, we thank you that your grace is greater than just what we can imagine. Imagine. As we sang earlier, it's it's marvelous grace. There's plenty of grace found with you and there's amazing grace, Lord. Something that really just we cannot wrap our minds around it. We're thankful that you are bountiful and merciful and abundant in showing grace to us. Pray that we'll live according to grace. We'll think about it this season. As you sent your son to us, we'll think about how he's continuing to teach us to deny just ungodliness and that we can look forward to the return of your son. And meditate on his works for us. We thank you that we can remind each other of these truths in discipleship relationships and as we tell the world through evangelism the truth of the gospel. Pray that you would just help us to meditate on these things this week. Pray that our hearts were well love in gratitude to you for your grace. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.