Who has redeemed my life from all adversity. His spirit departs, he returns to his earth. And let the Lord avenge me on you, but my hand shall not be against you. Like a Bible at home or if you want a new King James version of the Bible, please take one home as a gift from us to you. And they came there all the way into the house as though to get wheat, and they stabbed them in the stomach. Just before that, immediately Saul fell full end to the ground on the ground, and was dreadfully afraid because of the words of Sam. Before furnishing it with specific specific details. People are talking about himself. We claim. We'll see if my voice lasts for the next 30 minutes or so. And we'll get a glimpse into our dark sin nature. The name of one was Ma'anna and the name of the other Rakhav, the sons of Rimon the Virodite, of the children of Benjamin. So David commanded his young men, and they executed them, cut off their hands and feet, and hanged them by the pool in Hebron. Now don't take Ed Wilch's word or my word for it. Okay, that's Psalm 118, 8-9. Heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, who keeps truth forever, who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry. They know that Saul's house is about to collapse. They gain access into Ishpo Shah's home, disguising themselves or blending in with those who bring weed into the house Back in 1 Samuel 24, 2 providentially ended up in the same cave. Like Ishwashath, Saul was lying defenseless, unsuspecting, and resting. as Saul's descendant. While David isn't as demonstrative at the news of Ishvoshat's passing, his resting place given there certainly affords him great honor. Art thou not fatal vision, sensible to feeling as to sight, or art thou but a dagger of the mind, a false creation, proceeding from the heat oppressed brain? There's a better source of truth about our fallen condition. And his nurse took him up and fled. And the sons of Rimmon, the Birothite, Rakav and Ba'annah, set out and came at about the heat of the day to the house of Ishfoshat, who was lying on his bed at noon. But when they came into the house, he was lying on his bed in his bedroom, and they struck him and killed him, beheaded him, and took his head, and were all night escaping through the plane. How much more when wicked men have killed a righteous person in his own house on his bed? It's in verses two, five, and nine. Faith in man leaves us vulnerable to disaster. Because just moments ago, the spirit of the deceased prophet Samuel had announced that his reign is about to end. We're tempted to rely on people on earth more than our God in heaven. I mentioned a book by Ed Welch that I read this year, When People Are Big and God is Small. Psalm 118, 8 to 9, it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. Closer to the time of 2 Samuel 4, as the Philistines advanced, the inhabitants of Beurot deserted their city and fled to another city in Git time. Now we're gonna get to know my people share a little bit later in this book, but and so some ask why verse 4 is included here Now, Ishwasha still has time for action. But first the narrator sets up the scene. Any combination of these things or something else. And consider verses 8 and 9 as a hinge. For your own mouth has testified against you, saying, I have killed the Lord's anointing It was the words out of his mouth that condemned the Amalekite. At the most basic level, these wicked men have killed a righteous person in his own house, on his own bed. Especially when life seems unfair, the world seems unjust. For costly sins. And the way of peace they have not known. Always wanted to watch a live play. For Beroth also was part of Benjamin, because the Birodites fled to get time and have been sojourners there until this day. Both the first and last verse mention Abner in heaven. And that's in page 214 as you follow along today. It's their background, their wickedness, and their condemnation that are central, most important to this story. Also important are the words of the inspired narrator in verse 1, the misguided villains in verse 8, and the wise king in verses 9-11. So we're gonna focus on verse one here and I'll read it again. And meanwhile, the feeble chefs, too young, and he can't even walk. That's why the story moves forward and he comes to an ignoble end. That's how we find Eshfosheth in verse 5, the son of Saul's either having a siesta, being lazy, practically dead already because of Avner's demise It could be that Rikab and Ba'ana, let's slip that detail. It's easy to distance ourselves from Rikab and Ba'aana and really all the villains of the Bible. Where the source of these battles and wars and rebellion come from, from our flesh. And they brought the head of Eshfoshad to David at Hebron and said to the king, Here is the head of Ishphoshad, the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life. The nation was on the eve of a peaceful transfer of power, on the brink of harmony and unity Rimen was a man from Buri, a city that once belonged to the Gibeonites. They also snuck in some blade to stab him in the stomach. And then you see how that lust for power gives them that extra motivation to travel all night to reach Hebron. Know not when the Lord has cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth. Chapter 25, verse 5 of Proverbs. emphasizes and exalts the one who has redeemed his life from all adversity We're reminded how by no means does the Lord declares the guilty. James 4:1-2 asks, Where do wars and fights come from among you? The army of Israel will lose to the Philistines. We need we'll need people less and we'll be able to love them more Jeremiah 17:5. Remember, David made a promise with Jonathan to show kindness to Saul's house. Staying where he was would be unsafe. Money, prestige, fame all could have served as motivations, but simply put, wickedness. And then you see the three consecutive verbs in the middle of the verse. He refused to cut corners except for the corner of Saul's robe. But the comparison ends there. You shall not only show me the kindness of the Lord while I still live, that I may not die, but you shall not cut off your kindness from my house forever. The captains present themselves and the evil works of their hands before talking about God. He finds precedence in the events of 2 Samuel 1. What he believed to be good news for David and his friends. There's only one conclusion. But someday he'll punish all those who leap over the threshold, who fill their masters' houses with violence and deceit. To David as judge, who is innocent and who are guilty. All the citizens are warned. You lust and do not have, you murder and covet and cannot obtain. Lust coveting. When it says Ishwashat lost heart, it literally says his hands fell limp, hanging droopy, relaxed, slackened. Like Ish Hoshad and all Israel, you too will lose heart and be troubled. Also compare the words spoken by Rakab and Ba'annah and the words spoken by David. If the ultimate example of thoughts producing actions, the dagger he sees in his mind will soon be the dagger in his hand Jonathan Saul's son had a son who was lame in his feet. Now based on these literary features, I think of three major roadblocks that hinder the path to God's kingdom. There's no hope of acquittal in the city of refuge, not when Rekab and Ba'ana are literally red-handed. And we look at this fictitious character, and we're given a glimpse of the reality of evil that's in all of us. But then the brothers Joab and Abishai messed it all up. Lust for power hastens us toward judgment. Abishai, Rakab, and Baana all wanted to kill David's rival. Well you might say well treason is treason, but it's that much more wicked and cruel to betray your superior in this way The punishment fits the crime as the sons of Ramon are killed and their hands and feet hung by the pool in Hebrew. I don't have ambitions for power like they do. Is this the dagger which I see before me, the handle toward my hand? There's nothing false or fictitious about synonyms. But David answered Rikhav and Ba'ana his brother, the sons of Ramon the Birothite, and said to them, As the Lord lives. Thirdly, disregard for life condemns us as guilty. If our hope is in leaders, politicians, even our spouses or other people that are close in our lives, disappointment is inevitable. I believe the narrative introduces them here to indicate how weak Saul's house has become. Captains of troops who kill warriors in battle, with stoop so low to kill a man in his own bed Same chapter, verse 26, Proverbs of chapter 20. First, somehow David figures out that these captains killed Saul's son in his own house, in his own bed. Now it's shocking that the Bible will speak to everyday people like this. Now Adam was a real power, real source of power behind the resistance of David's house. But the Beerothites were not the only ones fleeing. They did not understand that David passed up opportunities to get rid of Saul, who was hunting him But Rakav and Ba'ana know nothing of the good kindness of the Lord, for the fidelity to the covenant. Well we need to consider first our connections to the treacherous captains and the false king here Opportunists rise to fill that void. Call them stumbling blocks, but roadblocks. So all those on the side of Saul must realize this faith in man leaves them vulnerable to the disaster. In fact, these wicked men know nothing about life. Not surprising. It also says that all Israel was troubled. The solution to fearing man is not just ignoring it, but fearing God more. How can David be so noble? Consider what David must do now as king. It doesn't look like David bought that argument, but he did judge that ghoulish opportunist based on his own words. It's one thing for this kind of treachery to take place in Syria. They stand, they dare stand before the Lord's anointed, thinking they're the Lord's agents Easy to understand. As Proverbs 6, 17-18 says, they have hands that shed innocent blood, hearts that devise wicked plans, feet that are swift in running to evil. Verses 6 and 7 appear to be repetitive at first, but it's not uncommon for Bible writers, authors to give a general overview of an event. The narrator wants us to know clearly that Ishbosha was lying on his bed in his bedroom, unsuspecting. They were the opposite of the valiant men of Javesh Gilead. Well, they're going to get paid alright. This is Macbeth contemplating killing the good King Duncan in his own bed, committing treason to rise to the top. Lust for power hastens us toward judgment. You can't keep coals of fire on the enemy's head if you cut off his head. God's people must not tolerate this among them. This regard for life condemns us as guilty. Now it's true that even seasoned believers face this roadblock at times. Again, verse 7 adds details to verse 6. Now he's a lifeless corpse, lamented and buried in heaven. In this chapter, 2 Samuel 4, four times Ishfosh's house is mentioned, three times his bed, twice that he's lying on it. The violence of the wicked will destroy them, Proverbs 21. See the order is different there. And that gets us thinking about the third roadblock to God's kingdom. So David, the Lord's anointed, does not bear the sword in vain, for he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. In that very day his plans perish. Second comment on verse eleven. Thus says the Lord: Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart departs from the Lord. In verses 2 to 4, the readers are introduced to Ba'ana and Rakab, the sons of Rimen. But even that's not at the forefront here. Like Saw then, my guess is that Saul's son and his followers reacted similarly at the news of Amner's death. You look at the most handsome people on TV, the most influential figures on social media, and think they have it all. It's in page two fourteen in the Pew Bible. The words of Rakav and Ba'ana reveal that they do not know the way of peace or the Lord of peace. David saw these encounters as opportunities, not for vengeance or revenge, but to give place for God's wrath and overcome evil with good. They want to position themselves to rise to the top of David's ranks. That's what they get for trusting in man, but that's what we get for trusting in man too. And it happened as she made haste to flee that he fell and became lame. This is what happens to hands defiled with blood and feet swift to shed blood. There is no fear of God before their eyes. When Saul's son heard that Abner had died in Hebron, he lost heart, and all Israel was troubled. The best option for him is to humble himself, run for his life to Hebron, and beg the Lord's anointed for mercy and protection. This is if then how much more argument? When someone told me, saying, Look, Saul is dead, thinking to have brought good news, I arrested him and had him executed in Ziklach, the one who thought I would give him a reward for his news. Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness. Psalm 146, 3 to 7. Now this is a story of justice. What happens to a marionette when the puppeteer is gone? The sons of Raman emphasize how Saul the enemy saw David's life. They must be punished. Just not what they expected. Disregard for life condemns them as guilty. And here's a line from one of my favorites. When Saul's son heard that Abna had died in Hebron, he lost heart, and all Israel was troubled. It's Jesus Himself who said in Matthew 15, 19, that out of the heart proceed evil thoughts and murders. He and his sons will die. Faith in man leaves us vulnerable to disaster. Uh if the service ends abruptly, we'll know why. That's verse one to four. Recall that an Amalekite arrived in the Zigflag where David was, claiming that he delivered a killing blow to finish off the fatally wounded King Saul. We last saw that word troubled back in 1 Samuel 28-21. I suppose the only thing worse than just sitting there on the couch is just lying there on the bed As for Rakabin Ba'ana, it was not only the words out of their mouth, it was also the head of Ishboshat in their hands. We're told in verse 4 about Jonathan's son of Evil Sheth He was five years old when the news about Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel. Happy is he who has the God of Jacob for his health, whose hope is in the Lord his God, who made heaven That's now three chapters in a row in the early part of 2 Samuel 2, 3, and 4, where someone died with an abdomen wound. While his men urged David to kill Saul and be done with this life as a fugitive, David refused. Struck, killed, beheaded. We see what motivated him back in 1 Samuel 20. 2 Samuel 4. Let me read you a few Bible verses for meditation. Proverbs tells us in chapter 20, verse 8: a king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his eyes. You fight and war. So I don't think I'll make it out to a Shakespeare in the park event anytime soon, but uh They played a part of Nero Jenkins, and they killed Abner, who practically made all the moves to establish David as king. It's a turning point. The son of Jesse was different from the sons of Zeruya and the sons of Rimen. The wise king speaks of God and his protective sovereign hand Or they use the bedroom sheets or the victim's clothing to hide and carry the decapitated head to Hebron. So verse 6 reveals the devious plot of Rikab and Ba'ana. But consider how the scriptures address normal churchgoers, law-abiding citizens First, faith in man leaves us vulnerable to disaster. Do not put your trust in princes, nor in a son of man in whom there is no help. Sons of Rimen, meanwhile, are busy at work. It exposes how cruel and wicked men can be when they're driven by lust for power And we'll see that in today's passage in 2 Samuel 4. In the middle of verse 11, he's more general Remember, they were eager to pay their respects to the king. David's about to tell them how their disregard for it condemns them as guilty. But now we ask: what does this chapter have to do with the greater story of redemption and the good news of Jesus Christ? Here is words to Saul moments later in verse 12: Let the Lord judge between you and me. A wise king sips out the wicked and brings a threshing wheel over them. First, faith in man leaves us vulnerable to disaster. So 2 Samuel 4. We need dramatic reminders of God's righteousness. He's not talking to criminals in the streets or prison. After the treaty of Israel with Israel, the city was incorporated into the Benjaminite territory. David either prevents that sin or he punishes it. The narrator clearly identifies them. We must be told over and over again that faith in man, lust for power, disregard for life, It says in verse 20 in that chapter. There's a world of difference between them. 7 says. David does not verbally recognize Ishbosheth as king, even if his actions indicate he recognizes him. It's about wicked choices and consequences that follow. Come, let me clutch thee. This is murder of innocent life That's verses five to eight. Like Rikab and Ba'ana, David and Abishai drew near and stood over the king. As Hazael will do this in Ben-Hadad and later in 2 Kings 8. We move on to the last four verses of 2 Samuel 4, but stay on verse 8 for a moment. Everyone can truly be Ishbosheth's city of refuge. So it's easy to see this chapter as a unit. In the next four verses, we see another roadblock on the path to God's kingdom. The wicked men arrive, expecting the light of the king's face and favor. When they arrive at the head of Ishboshad and opened their mouths in verse 8, they uttered their last words. Later in chapter 26, David passed up another opportunity to kill Saul. The final word over his dead body was: Your blood is on your own head. His name was Nephebushe. We saw in the previous chapter how David initially welcomed Abner and his men in that city. A quick two comments on verse eleven But they took the head of Ishfolh and buried it in the tomb of Abner in Hebron. Okay, so two, five, and nine. Disregard for life condemns us as guilty. Therefore shall I not now require his blood at your hand and remove you from the earth? It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Maybe you can write the references down, meditate on them today and the rest of the week This regard for life condemns us as guilty. Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? There was no strength in him, for he had eaten no food all day or all night. And here's the main idea. It's called light and heavy in Hebrew, argument from the stronger in Latin. Now perhaps pride and despair blinded Ishpashet because we don't see him do anything. He made a promise with another one of Saul's sons, Jonathan, who asked him in verse 14 to 15. So his death leads to a power vacuum. The only solution is to place our faith fully in the Lord, submit to Him. We'll see in a few verses how that disaster turns quickly from possibility to reality. And what Brother Noah read earlier from Galatians, that also shows us. Ishpo Shaz, nothing without Abner. The Lord gives freedom to the prisoners. The covenant of faithfulness Then Rikab and Ba'anna his brother escaped Secondly, lust for power hastens us toward judgment. What happens when the limbs are disconnected from the head Take the Pew Bible. The son of Jesse I have thee not, and yet I see thee still Perhaps he never saw those who killed him. The Lord warns us in the prophets later in Zephaniah 1-9. See if I need a skull or something, but I would never do what they did. Take note of that phrase, the sons of Ramon the Byrdite. Saul was severely troubled. As for what remains of Ishboshev, he's given a proper burial alongside Abner's body. If justice demanded retribution in chapter 1, it certainly demands it now in chapter 4. But as impactful as Shakespeare may be in English literature. If you don't have a And when we fear God more than people, we're freed, liberated. These two drive the story This isn't pessimism. It's clear as day And the Lord has avenged my lord the king this day, of Saul and his descendants. But these wicked sons of women were eager to be paid by the king. We also make the same mistake. But uh Those soldiers, they acted like delivery men. Who do we fear more? Now Saul's son had two men who were captains of troops. In all of us, there are desires for pleasure. This isn't being a hater. Look inside their hearts and That's verses 9 to 12. God or man? Instead, they face his wrath.