I I really, really enjoy when the Lord takes care of a bunch of details. regarding technology and stuff like that. When you're dealing with technology, you never really know if um everything's gonna work. While I was back there printing these out and copying them, I happen to think that Um my computer does not have a VGA connection. It has an HDMI, although I do have an adapter for that, and the Lord just kind of takes care of things like that and I am just so grateful um how that happens. At the bottom of your sheet the what what I'm gonna share with you tonight is not something that that is original with me. It's something that I uh this is just a very simplistic uh what I call a model that I adapted out of the the two books that are noted at the bottom of your sheet. It's actually again a simplistic presentation of a much uh greater and more detailed study uh from these books. Uh David David Hesselgrave wrote um initially one book and then I think he He uh renamed it and uh made it a second edition, Planting Churches Cross-Culturally, North America Beyond. And then I believe the second edition is Planting Churches Cross-Culturally, A Guide for Home and Foreign Mission. Essentially, these two books contain the same material. And these are available on Amazon. If you have the opportunity to buy one of these books, you find But what um I've d developed here is out of that, again, very simplistic. Um But I think it it really helps uh help us under helps us understand how to reach out to people. When we first started on deputation, if somebody were in the congregation were to ask me, well, how when you get to where you're going? um do you plan on starting a church? I would I would tell them one of two ways. Uh Lord willing, we would have a core group of people who would be interested in in and planting a new church and starting with that core group of individuals, you know, grow it into something much bigger and eventually into a church. The second way I would tell them was, well, we're gonna move, and I'll just use Bowie as an example. We're gonna move to Bowie and we're going to Start a Bible study with hopefully more than one person, but if not with one person. And um as we're walking through that Bible study, hopefully people will be getting saved and And the the Bible study grows with the intention of starting a church. As I thought through it and and as I read this book, I actually changed how I do it. And this is actually, if somebody were to ask me, how are you going to plant this church? This is exactly what I would show them. All right, developed out of these books. Again, it's nothing original with me. But as we study the New Testament, specifically the book of Acts, you will find a pattern that the Apostle Paul Kind of goes through every time he goes into a new city. It worked for Paul And and I believe that even in the twenty first century if we bathe this in prayer and as we walk through these in these steps then um then God will bless and the It's is te um basically um set up on the book of Acts. Hopefully my mouse will work The first step that you can put in step number one is that the missionaries were commissioned. The Apostle Paul and Barnabas were commissioned by the church in Antioch in Acts chapter 13. And if you would like, I can actually email. This is a PowerPoint that, again, I put together with the scripture, Acts 13. one through four and Acts fifteen, thirty-nine through forty. Um we all know that the church in Antioch was the church that sent uh Paul and Barnabas out uh on their first mission. Journey. Alright? Alright. So the next thing that we see that Paul does when he goes into a city, he typically will do what? He'll typically go where? Into the synagogue. And more often than not, he will irritate some of the um Jewish leaders that are in the city city synagogue. And They'll just run him out of town, basically, is what happens. If you look at, you know, the church in Philippi. Uh he irritated some folks there and was thrown into prison. But the idea is that he um goes and contacts um individuals who are not saved. Alright? We think of Lydia in in the Church of Philippi. We think of the Philippian jailer. We believe, when I say we, Jennifer and me, that the best tool of evangelism is one-on-one relationships, introducing people that you already know to the gospel. Alright, and that could be co-workers, neighbors, or whatever. Um but the key is that we interact together with People who are unsaved. This is probably, in my opinion, one of the biggest struggles that we as Christians face because We like our Christian circles. We like interacting with Christian people, and very few of us have unsafe Christian friends. What uh it's really weird, and this is something that I like about our neighborhood and our house where we live in Bowie is that all of the houses for the most part have a front porch on it. And that's something in our American culture that has disappeared. If you see a new construction a new constructed house does not have a covered porch where you could sit out uh in the evening or whatever and watch the cars go by or watch people walk. Um and so the the biggest thing that that I can encourage you to do i if you're interested in in sharing the gospel with people is to prayfully consider who do I know that's unsaved. And and you know, write those names down and begin praying for these individuals that God would give you an opportunity. to share the gospel with them. Now, just by way of illustration, and I'm going to have Jennifer come up as well and We're gonna, you know, some very practical examples of how even in Buoy we've gone out and um, you know introduce ourselves to our neighbors and be you know just establish relationships with them. Um one thing that that I learned um from a pastor in Glen Burney and and and even in other places, as I introduce myself to individuals, um I I d will I I d I purposely do not tell them that I'm a missionary pastor. Is that deceiving? No, not really. I introduced myself as Mark Tailowski and That's who I am. Now, if they specifically ask me, what do you do, then I will answer them truthfully and say, well, I'm a missionary pastor. Um and but but I I find that if they find out initially that you're a pastor then all of a sudden there are a lot of things that cause them just to shut down. And so if um if if I'm introducing myself to somebody at a restaurant or whatever, I introduce myself as Mark Tylafsky. And that just breaks down a few barriers until we're able to to get to know individuals better and help them to realize that that missionaries and pastors are real people. We're not these super people that don't do any wrong and our kids always obey and stuff like that. We we like to help them understand that even if uh if If I'm a pastor, we still struggle with some of the same struggles that nor uh normal people do. Um an an an example of that and and w and and It's easier for me simply because I am not a very bashful person. I will walk up and I will talk to anybody just like Karsten well. And Jennifer's typically the same way. If I see somebody walking down the street, um I will just say, hey, how's it going? You know, my name is Mark Kalaski, we're new to the neighborhood and stuff like that. And just try and establish a neighborly relationship with them. I I also give out um you know cards. I was helping a lady um for example. Um she did I can't even remember what she did. She was having some struggles, maybe um some Something got dumped in her car and she was trying to keep her ch child in the car and clean up the mess and everything. So I just simply walked over and I asked, is there anything that I can do to help you? You know, just if you remember in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, the people there, they interacted and they helped people, uh, really expecting nothing in return. Um and so, you know, I just try and be a a a kind. Um outgoing individual and um jennifer if you come up here and just you know if you have something to interject uh while we're we're while we're doing that. Oh Oh yeah, here's here's a here's a really here's a really practical example of what I'm talking about. When Jennifer and I were first married, we lived in an apartment. And I took the uh the Valentine's Day off from work and she didn't know I'd taken it off, but I got up like at five o'clock in the morning on my day off and I I left the house as if I was going to work. work. And um and so um she left for work and I came back and I baked her a cake and I dress you know I went to her school and made all those arrangements and And we were on our way back walking to into the apartment building, and we had like all of this cake left. You know. And so uh there's a young man walking in and I said, Hey, would you like a piece of cake? And he he said no, he lived right below us in our apartment building. And just by that introduction, you know, we established a friendship. Just interacted with him and I would change my oil. Like one time it took me three hours to change my oil. It usually takes me like twenty minutes, you know, just because I saw him in the parking lot, we started talking and and just simple relationships like that. Eventually I'd been praying about this and so had Jennifer. We'd been over at each other's house and and I asked Jay one time, I said, Hey, I have a question for you. Would you be interested in starting a Bible study? And he said, you know, funny you should ask because my brother said I should start reading the Bible. And so he started reading in Genesis. And he got to Exodus, Leviticus, and started getting bogged down. And he got to Chronicles and he was just really struggling. I said, yeah, I that that's important, but not right now. And so we went and we started in the New Testament. Uh Jay ended up getting saved. He ended up marrying a good Christian uh uh young lady from our church in Iowa and has been on the deacon uh on the deacon board and everything else. All because I asked him if he wanted a piece of cake. You know, God uses things like that. Um you know, another way that that we uh have heard of things like this is y you know, if you if you don't know your neighbor, um simply you know just get to know them and uh w I just found out actually um yesterday at the Bowie Fest that um We had left some cookies on a lady's doorstep that had had visited the church, and her sister came over and said, you know, you guys did that, and you actually made her day. She was struggling and to have that plate of Christmas cookies sitting on her doorstep with your contact information on it just absolutely made her day. Well that was six months ago. But just little things that we that we can do to establish a relationship, have have a barbecue with your neighbors, uh, whatever it is. Get a real a relationship going with your neighbors and and then praying about an opportunity to ask them about a Bible study and and really let the Bible speak for itself. I I have that uh some Bible studies that we can send if you guys are interested, some four-week Bible studies, a whole bunch of tools that we can use or that you can use as you do Um so one of my friends, um, she went to the same grocery store and every time that the same lady was um cashiering, she would make sure that she would go through her line. And, you know, you converse with the cashiers, you know, briefly, but it was continually and, you know, it came out that her husband was a pastor pastor and this lady then was struggling with something and she's like, Will you pray for me? And then something like her husband ended up in the hospital and so this pastor and his wife went and visited and and they got saved through that. And so one of the things that I'm in I am attempting to do is I love all these is where I shop almost all the time. And there's two different cashiers that I'm working on building release really relationships with, you know, and praying that the Lord would just bless those. Um and one of the most exciting things for us is um we moved to Maryland in August and we tried and tried and tried to get a house in Bowie. And like the Lord just slammed that door shut. So we ended up living in Glen Burney, which was great. Well, in February we finally found a house in our price range and it was crazy 'cause I was like Zillow Queen, like, you know, looking for houses houses and and this house just popped up. All that had happened is she had lowered it by a hundred dollars, so then it showed up in my price range what we could afford. And um we were the first person to look at that house. Um she even lower the rent, another hundred dollars, like God just bless that. And like we moved in and I think Karsten just like refriended her instantly and we said, Hey, would you like to do a Bible study with us? And she is coming to our house and it is so exciting watching her um learn about God's word and the things of the Lord because she doesn't doesn't know anything. So her name is Brenda, if we pray for her and her daughter Karina, we've been doing a Bible study um what, a month and a half, two months now? Oh no, and so I guess yeah, longer than that, right? That's been like since March. Yeah. So anyway, that was that was super exciting to see how the Lord just blessed that and I'm like, that's why it took us so long to get help because God knew that we needed to move into the that house so we can have a Bible study. So w the second really the second step is that the audience is contacted. The th third step is that the gospel is communicated. And I never um If you if you want to call it be the people uh over the head with the gospel first thing, um I want to build that relationship of trust with people before I introduce the gospel to them. Now, if they're going through a crisis in their life and s and they know that that um you're a Christian, they might even ask you to pray for um them. In fact we often have made a ha we have made a habit when we go to a um uh a restaurant that we always ask our server if there's any way that we can pray for them when we get our food and and pray for our meal. And there have been a couple times where people said, No, I'm good and and so, you know Ha I don't know what happened there, but those are all my post it notes. But anyway, um you know w even if they say no, um chances are they're really struggling. It's for i in in some area of their life. And so we just take the opportunity, Lord, you know what's going on in their life. Um will you just um work in their lives that that we might come in contact contact again and maybe you know there's no other opportunity for us to interact and pray for them. And yesterday it was buoy fest down in Bowie and it didn't rain. We were super excited. And so we had just some of these really cool um tracks that like one is like an octopus illusion. And so I mean those are super just kind of planting some seeds. But it's still I think is important that you can take up those opportunities. opportunities. There's like one like which one's smaller and which one's bigger and be really explained to the kids and then I'm like, read the back of this and so I think that's important too that sometimes you don't have the opportunity to um build relationships. You have it right there. Yep, that's exactly the one. Yeah, that's exactly the one. You you hold it up and you say which one's bigger and they point to one, you switch 'em, you say, Oh really, which one's the big in in r in reality, they're actually the same size. Um th those are good tools. I was trying to think what else. One of the other things, you know, there are there are never enough opportunities for us to share the gospel. We we try and keep tracks with us and what we do is we write our name and our phone number on the back of it and we pray that God would show us um one person um that that we might share that track track with. Now if we go into Walmart we'll we'll stop at the cashier um and we'll say, you know, I know you're working, but when you go on break we w if I give this to you Will you please read this? If you have any questions, my contact information is on the back so that they can get a hold of us. Um if they have any questions, and there's some way that that we have or they that they have to communicate with us. Now practically they may go home, they may stick it in a drawer and they may not see it again for another ten minutes. or fifteen years, God brings something into their life and th He directs them and runs runs you know, brings that back in with them and they read it, and that contact information is on the back so that they can get get a hold of somebody whether whether it's the church contact information. Personally I would rather see people put their own phone number on there. And and they will seriously even come back and say, uh, you know, I don't know where I got this, but your name and phone number was on the back of it. You know, can you help me through this? And so that's another simple way to share the gospel with people and give them a way to communicate back with you in the event that they have a question. You can buy them for eight cents apiece. I mean there's there's literally thousands online that you can order them from and they're they're all good tracks. But I w I mean we try and keep a variety of them so that, you know, like if it's a kid we can give 'em a cartoon track uh with our with our name and phone number on it. But but we want to communicate the gospel with them. One of the interesting things that I did teaching this year, and I actually may have uh shared it here, one of the occasions where I had our uh the my high school students at the at the school that I teach at uh share the gospel with uh two or three people. And interestingly enough, I didn't have one student that just stopped at a sea. Everybody actually took that step and shared the gospel with some somebody else Understand that people may be a little antagonistic and you know it's not you that they don't like. It's nothing personal towards you. It's it's in fact this was actually a question on one of the tests I give. Why why do people persecute Christians? Because they don't like Christ and what he stands for. And as a Christian, Christian, you represent who he is. And so they're going to direct their frustration, their their anger or whatever it is towards you, but we need to understand that it's it's nothing personal. But it is a responsibility as Christians to share the gospel. Just an interesting statistic, it's been said that 95% of Christians have never shared the gospel with anybody in their lifetime. So that means if there's twenty people here, there's only one person that will ever statistically share the gospel with anybody else in their life. And I'll just kind of leave that one where it's at. The the third thing is if we share the gospel with enough people Eventually, God is going to allow you the tremendous privilege of leading somebody to the Lord And and if that happens, that will make such an impact on your life that you will not want to stop with one person. You will want to share the gospel with people over and over and over over again. Remember, we're not responsible for for how they respond or whether or not they accept Christ. Our responsibility as Christians in evangelism is to share the gospel with those people that we can come in contact with. Because you you folks will come in contact with people that I will never see. And likewise I will come in contact with with people that you guys will never well if we share the gospel, each one of us, with the people that we uh come in contact with, can you imagine the number of people who we will reach with the gospel of Christ? I mean that is exponentially uh it just explodes. And so um as we contact those people who are unsaved and communicate with them the gospel, eventually God will give us the privilege of share of leading somebody to the Lord. That's that's just a privilege that that I've had and uh when it's really kind of interesting because The J that I told you about, we were doing a Bible study on a weekly basis and we did this for probably what six months or or something like that. And I I just got this overwhelming feeling that I mean he has got to get this. I mean he is he is so close to accepting Christ and like about a month later or however long, I I said, Jay, I said, what is what is keeping you from accepting Christ as your Savior? And he's like, I did that three weeks ago. And and you're like, okay, then all of these things, well, did he say the right thing? And And does he understand and stuff like that? But if we do our our job right and communicate with them the gospel in a clear and and understandable way. then then the Holy Spirit doesn't really need us to take it that one step further. And um it was it was really weird because I was concerned For a couple weeks, and then the Holy Spirit just gently reminded me, Mark, you did what I asked you to do. And I took it from there. Well he had gone home from one of those Bible studies and he accepted Christ as a savior right afterwards. And Jay being the private person that he is, he just Didn't share that with anybody. And it was it was so neat to see him take that additional step of following the Lord in in believers' baptism. And uh I'll just I'll I'll never f I'll I'll never forget that that night that he told me um that he accepted Christ. I was just so excited. It it was just It's one of those feelings if you've never felt it, lead somebody to the Lord and and you'll understand what what I'm I'm talking about. Okay, what did I do here? Ah, there it goes. So so we share the we we contact the unsaved people, we share the gospel with them, we get individuals uh to accept Christ as their Lord and personal Savior. And then what we do is we begin grouping them together and helping them to understand understand that our our purpose is to uh establish a a New Testament um church. Okay, we get them together for further Bible study, worship, singing, and the whole nine yards, and and and really we encourage one another. And as as we congregate ourselves together, as we disciple them, which is important because As we um as we get these uh people, these new converts together and as we disciple them, which I think is one of the parts that that we as Christians leave out because we we get people saved and we're so excited that they're that they're saved and going to heaven and we get them baptized And we don't do anything with him. And and I always use the illustration, it's like bringing a baby a newborn from the hospital and walking him in, setting him down in the foyer of the house and saying, Okay, your bedroom is upstairs and the kitchen's over there, the bathroom's off off to your left and you know, i if the there's the fridge if you need anything to eat and if you need anything let me know. And most of us would say that's just that's insane. We would never do that. But when we when we get somebody saved and we get them we teach them and they get baptized and that's really all what we do is we just say, okay, if you need anything, let me know. Did you have any? Yeah, so um there was this this lady that um Catherine was she used to invite all of her friends to go to church. Now she's in a Christian school, so it's a little little bit different. But Jessica was this girl's name and she came to church with a C Wana program like every Wednesday night. Her mom dropped her off. And one Wednesday I'm like, Jeannie, do you want to do Bible study? She's like, Yeah, that'd be great. So we started doing Bible studies together. And she had she had known Christ. She was a Christian. And but she had never been discipled. And so we started going through these different Bible studies and it was so neat. One one night she says, I should be going to church, shouldn't I? I'm like, You should be And so through that discipleship she started going to church and now she's she's at our home church in Iowa and when we go back she's there with Jessica and that's just really neat. So that discipleship part is so The key, I believe, is understanding our roles in the whole discipleship and witnessing process. Um our job is not to tell them everything they're doing wrong. I mean s you know, we want we want to get somebody saved and then we say, now you gotta quit drinking, you gotta quit smoking, you gotta quit you know, doing the go you know, all of this list of things. And you and then you gotta you gotta go to church and you gotta go to Sunday school and you gotta read your Bible and you gotta A lot of times all we need to do is continue to disciple them and allow the Holy Spirit to begin enlightening them and helping them to understand. what it is to obey the Lord. And the great thing is the Holy Spirit is is such a wonderful teacher If he could just like uh this this mom that Jennifer was was discipling and stuff like that, we never once told her that that she needed to go to church. Interestingly enough Um, here's why she didn't go to church. You see, her husband's not saved, and he didn't want to be home uh by himself while she went to church. And so we started praying about this. And wouldn't you wouldn't you know that he got a promotion at work? And guess what day was one of his days to work? Sunday. And so she didn't have that guilt anymore that she's leaving her husband at home while she's going to church. He's at work, and so she's free to go to church. Isn't that amazing how the Holy Spirit can work out those details? I I I mentioned the details of the HDMI thing. That's such a a trivial thing for us, but but God takes care of those things if we trust and pray. uh about the dish different situation. Um I'm going to just for the sake of time, I'm oops I'm gonna I'm gonna put the rest of these up on the board and um because a lot of these things have to do with the church. There's a couple things that I want to just share with you. I'm going to give you time to go. As the believers are congregated, their faith is confirmed, we put them to work in the church. The church is growing. All right. As as they grow in their faith, they start sharing the gospel with people and sharing what what God has done for them. They they mature in their Christian life. They're put in leadership positions. Um, you know, and and These these next couple steps are kind of things that that Paul um has done it as he writes back to the church at Philippi, there he writes back to the church at Thessalonica. He he helps them think through things. And and I take that as uh an additional responsibility that we have as Christians, as mature Christians, to new believers, is not to to tell them what to believe. But as we study the scripture, as we study together, if they as they have issues, we help them to think through things, kind of like raising a kid. You know, when you're w when our kids are Karsten's age, they really have to be told to do everything, what to do, what not to do, how to do it, and stuff like that. But as they get older you you hopefully are able to help them think through things because in two years um You know, th Catherine's going to be off uh to college and she's gonna be making her own decisions and hopefully if we've done our job right we've we've taught her how to think things through and make good decisions. Somebody was once asked, um, well, how do you make good decisions? How do you get to the point where you do this? And the answer to that is wisdom. Well, how do you gain wisdom? Well it's make it's through making bad decisions. You see, through making bad decisions, and hopefully we've helped them through that before they leave home. And we help them understand why th they're b are th those are bad decisions. Then they gain wisdom. And then as they go off, they're able to take that wisdom that they've gained in our houses and make good decisions and teach others. The believers are commended. The relationships continued. Not one time did the Apostle Paul say, you guys have figured it out. You don't need me anymore. And so he continues that relationship, and and that's what we need to do with these believers, these new believers, as they mature and as they um grow in their faith, we continue the relationship and hopefully what they've done is they've learned from us and they are doing the same thing that we did with them. They're reaching out to their unsaved people, building relationships, they're communicating the gospel. People are converted and this whole cycle just continues to go around and around and around. And as I did you have something to add? No. As I was thinking through this the last couple weeks, um I I just jotted um down some some some practical thoughts um as I thought about um just some of the dynamics of of your local church or or really or really anybody. First one is Don't expect quick fixes. Don't expect things to happen. God may in his sovereignty um Allow you to lead people to the Lord the first time you share the gospel with them. But really, it's a relationship-building process. You you Yeah, I messed it up. People don't care what you know until they know that you care. Alright? And and that's that is how I would label the first chapter in First Thessalonians. You know, the people interacted with those that they came in contact with. They demonstrated the fact that that we really genuinely care for them and we're doing things out of Christian love and we expect absolutely nothing else. in return. Because that's who we are as Christians. We love to help people, we love to interact with people, and we love people. And because we love people, we want to do things to show the love of Christ. So it's not a quick fixed process. Along with that, focus on the long term, not short. And I have a note here that says, you know, if if you don't lead the first person to the Lord that you share the gospel with, don't just throw up your hands and say I'm done. You know, it's it's kind of like Caleb, you know, when we first moved in, he wanted to to do something to uh earn some money, and just by chance it snowed and and we're excited that to see see some snow. And so he went to somebody's house and he asked them, you know, can I shovel your driveway? And and I don't know, two or three times he was told no. And he He came home discouraged. He said, I'm not going to do this. Nobody wants me to do it. And I think Jennifer sent him back out and he asked a couple more people and and They said, sure, you know, and they of course they asked him how much you're going to charge me, and and most of more often than not, they actually uh I and I we told him you do a good job. You know, don't do a halfway job and and expect them to ask you to come back. Um and when he would when when he was finished he went and and they actually gave him a little bit more money than than what he had asked for and and I said, you know, now they know that you're going to do a good job, and so now you can go back. And that's the same way with sharing the gospel. You know, when you know, one of the things that I encouraged my students um was to practice two or three times and and um You know, know how you're going to share the gospel. Have several different ways. And memorize the verses. A lot of people, including myself, we have the Bible on our phone. And and here's here's something else that I do. If I know that I'm sharing the gospel with somebody who's Catholic, I will purposely either leave my Bible in my car or at home. Because most cat most Catholics have a Bible in their house. They may not read it, but they have one. And so what I'll do if I know that I'm going to share the gospel with a Catholic, like I said, I'll leave my Bible at home. full well knowing that they may have one uh in their home. And I say, well, you know, I I don't have my Bible with me right now. Do you have one that that I could that I could use? Because you know the Catholics they have their the Apocrypha in that and they think that our Bible is uh doesn't have is not a real Bible because we don't have all the same books that they do. And so purposely um And and and I know that my Bible says the same thing as their Bible. They just don't understand all that other stuff. And so, like I said, one of the one of the things I'll do, especially with Catholics, is I'll leave my Bible alone. And ask to use their, because they're more likely to believe their Bible than than if I brought one with me or had one on my phone. So don't expect a a quick fix or or or you know instant conversions or whatever. Focus on the long term, not short term. Don't abandon if you don't see immediate results. There are some people, there's in fact there's a student, um I had the opportunity to preach during chapel at the school, the last chapel, and there were four students that raised their hand and and I had some interaction with one of the students. And so I asked her, I said I said, Ashley, you know, you indicated that you don't know Christ as your Savior. What's keeping you from doing that? And I said, w and sh you know sh she interacted with me a little bit and I said, Well, how long have you been going to this school? She'd been going to a Christian school at a Baptist church for twelve years. And still didn't know Christ as her Savior. And I fault that partially on the teachers. Because if they don't take the opportunity, even in math class, there's something that you can do to integrate mathematics with salvation. You know, ask your students, you know, do you know Christ? And if not, pray for them. Um and and and She still hasn't accepted Christ as her savior. It's a long-term process. Some people, even teenagers, have to think through things. And so it may not be, I'm going to convince you. uh that that that you're gonna go to hell. I mean it pray for them, uh even your neighbors or whoever it is that you are interested in sharing the gospel with and you may pray for them for six months before you have that opportunity. But I can guarantee you, when when the Lord opens up that door, if you continually pray for them, they will be ready, they will listen, and they will have questions. Let me there are two main reasons that Christians don't share the gospel with people. Do you know by chance what they are? They're gonna tell me no. Okay. So they tell you no. Um I I just you know, I just keep praying for him because eventually um well here's another example with Jay. He um he had a girlfriend um I can't remember if it's before or after he got saved, but his dad had a heart attack. And he called his girlfriend and said, pray for my dad because he had a heart attack. She didn't know how to pray, but she knew we did. And so she she shows up at our door one night, just totally unexpected, and she said, Jay's dad had a heart attack. He asked me to pray. uh for his dad and I don't know how to pray. You guys know how to pray. Can you pray for him? And so what we we did do that and then we took the opportunity to share the gospel with her. And at the end of that she said um So what you're telling me is me and my family are going to hell. I said, Yoshimi, I'm not telling you anything. I said, the Bible says if you don't accept Christ as your Lord and personal Savior, if you were to die, you would go to hell. See, the Bible doesn't need explanation. The Bible is sufficient to stand on its own. And and and I lean upon that and and I in that I'm very careful to tell people You know, I'm not telling you what my religion says. I'm not telling you anything. I'm telling you what the Bible says about how you are to get to heaven. And that way they can't fault you personally because again, the Bible is sufficient to stand on its own. It needs no other help, if you will. The last thing um this is this is actually just a A comment that I picked up from a financial counselor that I've actually adapted to congregations that are struggling. You know, if if if it's taken twenty twenty years and you are meeting with ten people I would allow at least that amount of time to get back where you once were. And and and I say that it's a financial concept that I got from Dave Dave Ramsey. That he says that if you're up to your eyeballs in debt and it's taking you ten years to get in debt, um you know, don't expect to be out of debt in a year or six months. And and I just transferred that that concept into um you know, churches that are struggling, um, you know, and that and that really goes along with the first one. Don't expect a quick fix Um uh allow as much time uh as uh to to recover, if you will, as you've been in in whatever situation you find yourself in, and that can be spurred. virtual or what or whatever. Um any questions uh for either Jennifer or myself? Anything that we've covered, any Anything that we can help you with? We've gone over a little bit, and I apologize for that. Yes, sir. So Where are you recycling to you? We actually are are probably in uh two or three. Interestingly enough, there are two people who are coming to our Bible study, the landlord and her daughter. Her daughter seems to know a lot about scripture. quite possibly could be saved. She said she was raised Baptist. I'm assuming that uh her mom and and dad are divorced or or whatever. Um she could be saved. Um She's got some eschatological uh quirks uh to her eschatology. That's kind of where we're in our Bible study. Talking about Christ's sinlessness and how Christ can sit on the throne in the millennial kingdom. And okay, if if she's got some weird views, that's okay. I can I can deal with those But we're we're in that two and three. Quite possibly, Brenda, in in the next several weeks as we finish up the study could end up getting saved and and you know it's going to come to a point where we're going to ask them If Christ, if if if you went, if you died and went to heaven and Christ was standing at the at the gate of heaven and asked you, why should I let you into my heaven, how would you respond? Just listen to their answer. When we get to that point, I'm just going to ask the question and be quiet. And and allow the Holy Spirit and what she's learned about the Bible just kind of think through that process. Um so we're we're at the beginning stages. Lord willing, is you know, if she if she She accepts Christ as her Savior, then we can begin a discipleship process, which I'll because they're ladies, I'll pass that off to Jennifer. But that's kind of where we're at. Again, it takes time. You know, some people God's been working in their life and and you share the gospel with him and they say, That's what I want. You're like, wow. You know? But then there are gonna be those other people you people you have to walk through the entire thing with and and just you just gotta be patient and let the Holy Spirit work. Do you have a question? Eschatology is the study of end time. What's going to happen after Christ's rapture of the church, the tribulation period, and beyond. Yes, sir. Definitely find that becomes the rest of the last step. That was good in the seventies and eighties and maybe the beginning of the nineties. Here's why Okay, Americans are lazy. Have you figured that out? You know, we've we've we're scared of the the Mormons, we're scared of the Jehovah's Witnesses, and rather than spend the time and find out what truth is by digging into the Bible and and and and interacting with them. I just reject everybody that comes to my door and everybody's happy. God still uses it, God still can use it. I've I've not had success in the last fifteen years with it. It is. It's in Iowa. It's it it's here on the east coast. Although the people in our neighborhood are are generally friendly. And that's why I tend to, when I introduce myself, my name is Mark Tylavski. I really need to get I really need to get some cards that don't have the fact that I'm a pastor on it. Um I I think that um you say door to door that's like just kinda cold going, but I think you know if you're purposely being out and you're you know, yard and raking and things. That's more about building relationships with your neighbors. And it seems like anyone that we know that's had success with starting churches, it's all about relationships. Here here's something that Here's here's something in the in the same vein, I mean, there are some success with, you know, like Easter and Christmas, like, you know, those mailings. But um for every one church that has success with it, you know, nine don't have success with it. So here's that's a good thing. I just uh I f I forgot I forgot to come back to the second one. First first first reason we we're afraid uh they'll say no. The second reason that uh Christians don't show the gospel is they might ask me a question that I don't know the answer to. And and I say that's excellent. Because I don't know anybody besides the Lord Himself that's kind of exhausted the depth of what the Bible teaches, so we all have something to learn. And so if they ask me a question I don't know, you there's absolutely nothing wrong with saying, you know what? I don't know the answer to that, but if if you give me a week then I'm going to do as much research, I'm going to ask people that I think can help me, and I'll come back to you in a week and I'll give you the answer. That does two things. Number one, you learn something. Number two, it gives you an opportunity to meet with them again. And and so if somebody asks there's there's absolute what what is what discredits you is if you try and lie your way through an answer and try and figure it out. It's much easier to say, I don't know. I'll find out and then we can get together in a week and I'll let you know what I found out. It gives you so much more credibility when you do that. Um what w what else was I gonna say? I'll think of it in a minute. Um what were we talking about? Yes, ma'am. Um it's not a good order or less program. Yeah. We are another discount to now to the parents or the children of that Right. Something that Jennifer wanted to start it back in Iowa was something for the parents while their kids are at our Iwana program. They drop them off, they go back home, then they come back later and pick them up. Well that's twice the gas. Why not get something at church that's geared towards them and so that way we can be teaching them. And you're gonna have those parents that use it as a babysitting service. Well great. You know why? Because what I'm gonna do is as a leader What I'm going to do is I'm going to I'm going to follow up with you as a parent what your child is doing in my Iwana program And I'm going to incorporate the gospel into that and I'm going to reach you through your kid. Is that deceiving? Absolutely not. Well I m I my idea was more like like once a month or once a quarter to have a mom's kind and not necessarily like you know Bible study but like just building friendships, you know, doing craft or going out to supper or something like that. Trying to remember what I was gonna do. Yeah, I can't remember. that does have kind of bothered me is you know not all our business things are going to build our church right and I've heard different people like getting down on other Christians who aren't witnessing the way they are or you know The the people who go door to door are bad mouth, the people who do friendship evangelism, and the people who do friendship vandalism, bad mouth, the people that that go door to door And it just it seems to me that, you know, does it really matter when you share in the gospel where these people end up going to church? Um I don't know, I just think it's you know, we all have some people have a real gift of talking to people cold. You know, they can just walk up and other people, you know, they really kind of scared unless it's a heavy you know thing but I think you know God uses all different kinds of handle and there's not like some kind of Mm-hmm. It it doesn't matter to me. Uh I mean here's here's here's my my thought on I I'm not responsible for what you do. Now I'd like to encourage you to share the gospel with people but but I'm not gonna go around saying, Well, you know them people at it face Bible, they don't stand again. You know what? That's between you and God. You know, and and if if somebody's genuinely saved, um w we can introduce them to our church and you know Maybe the way we worship i is just not very comfortable for somebody else. And if they find somebody that another church that's preaching the gospel You know, good good sound doctrine. Praise God. You know, we we're not we're not about I did remember actually what I was gonna tell you yesterday. I was talking to a guy Um we we had buoy fest and so we were just like walking, I saw a guy c walking around with a Ford Mustang T shirt on and I'm like, Hey, do you really own a own a Ford Mustang or or are you just wearing a shirt, you know, 'cause 'cause who knows, you know? You know. And um he's like, Yeah and so we started talking, I said, Yeah, my wife uh my wife owns one. He goes, Well, isn't it yours too? I said, Well no, that's kind of a little bit of a bitterness in there because she actually bought the car when she was single and her mom is on the title and her and we got married and we just too cheap to change the title and every once in a while I tell her to get her car out of my garage and you know we we play around. But but find things that we have in common The the end result is I actually um asked him, I said, Would you mind having a Bible study? And he said, you know, I just he's he's uh uh PG County police And he's like, you know, my schedule's just really weird. It just never really works. And I said, you know what? That's the great thing about what I do, because I can set my schedule to your schedule. And he actually agreed. I said, you know, just to keep us in con uh keep in context, when I email you um and follow up with you, I'll I'll take a picture of my wife's Mustang. And I'll I'll have it in there just so we can help each other remember, you know, where we talk to one another. But it's simple things like that. Maybe, you know, somebody likes woodworking and you go to a wordworking show and and you talk to somebody and just say I I don't know there's there's there's a bazillion different ways that you can ask people and contact people about doing a Bible study. Probably the biggest reason that people don't get involved in a Bible study, they're afraid they're gonna say no and you feel like a fool You know what? So they say no. How many times in your life have you been told no before? Did it you know? And th that's kind of the way I look at it, you know, if they tell me no, oh well that's fine that's somebody else. You know, eventually I'm gonna ask somebody and they're gonna say yes. And and then we're gonna have a good time. Um We are like way over time. Um and I Don't want to stop your questions. If if you want any more questions, I will be f uh willing we'll stick around as long as we need to to answer all your questions. This actually is fun for me doing this type of stuff. So if you have any more questions, feel free to ask. And we'll answer to the best of our ability. and so forth. If you have any other questions, um you've got my email address, I think. Um I was gonna be quiet. But uh again, you know we're here we're here to help. That's what God has called us to do. Um Ephesians 4. To equip the saints to do ministry is what God has asked me to do. And so that's what I want to do. That's where I get my enjoyment. Any other questions before we close in prayer? No? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for today. We thank you for your love. Father, most importantly, we thank you for your Son, the Lord Jesus, who loved us so much that He came to this earth born of a woman that he might pay the penalty for our sin. Father, I just pray that you would just take this time that we've had and be an encouragement to everyone that's here. Father, I just pray that the folks here would be encouraged to begin praying that you would supply an opportunity for them to share the gospel with somebody. Father, I just pray that you would soften their hearts, that they might be receptive of the gospel. And that you would just calm the the fears and the anxiety that that will be there. That that we might take the opportunity, share the gospel, and see what people come to know Christ as their Lord and personal Savior. Father, I just pray that we'd be dismissed as we have opportunity to meet again, Father, that That it might be another opportunity to be encouraged. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.