Daniel chapter 6, verses 21 and 22. We will get there, believe me, eventually. When I was a young boy growing up, three and a half, four years old, I lived and was born in a little town in Lancaster County called Rothsville. Rossville is betwe is on 772 between Brownstown and Lidditz. Perhaps some of you know where Lidditz is. One day my mom said to me, We're oh come on, let's go, all us kids, we're going to the farm. I thought, what to the farm? Now my uncle had a cow farm and he had some chickens and some other things on there, but I thought, oh, this is gonna be great, we're gonna see animals. So we took off, we went to the farm, but there were no animals Nothing but rows of trees. Trees and trees of different sizes. Oh, what's this? Mom said, well we're over here to do some picking today. I said, oh, okay. So we went, I did I can remember it only being three and a half or four. We c we came in and we went off up to the to the right and there were the trees start picking, so I started grabbing. You're not picking ripe ones. Whoa. Ripe ones? No, you gotta pick the ripe ones. Well, which are the ripe ones? So I started picking again. Oh Mom deemed I was unworthy to pick these things. They were round about the size of a nickel, and they were attached to the tree by a little string. So I was dismissed as a pecker and now I was the carrier. They would climb the tree and my sisters were in the trees and they were fricking these things and I was taking them, dumping in the thing. And and it didn't go long, all of a sudden I heard hmm And I mmm another sister over there, some other mmm. And I thought, well, what's going on? I said Mm-hmm. And I thought, well, I too wanted that mm-hmm experience. So I grabbed one of those things and I threw it in my mouth. And I bit down for everything I had. Someone put a pebble in the middle of mine. I did not like it. I noticed that almost every one of them, in fact, all of them had one in it. So We continued to pick till we had our fill and we went home. And we went home. Mom said, we got to get rid of those little pebbles. I said, Oh, this is good. I was too young to know the verse that said, Vengeance is mine, but I was gonna have it anyway. So I started grabbing these things and I was squeezing them and I was shooting them across the room and bouncing them off people's heads and it didn't go long. Mom's like, oh what? You're squeezing the guts out. There's nothing that can I was deemed unworthy again to clean these little stones, and I was dismissed and I went on my very way. Two weeks later. Though it seemed that way, Mom said, get up, we're going to the farm. I thought, huh, this time finally chickens, hogs, pigs We went and sure enough we were right back at the same place. No chickens, no pigs, no hogs, nothing but trees. I said, I know what this is all about. We're going over there. Mom said, uh we're not going up there We're going over here. When I went over here, the trees were smaller. And the things on the trees look like little baseballs. Sort of Yellowish, a little bit of orange attached to them, had fuzz on the outside of them. So I started grabbing them and it didn't go long. And mom said, oh what? You're not picking the right ones. I was deemed unworthy again and dismissed one more time. So I was just hauling them back and forth and it didn't go long. Once again, I heard those familiar Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. And I thought, I know what this is all about. You know, you got me once, you're not gonna get me the second time. My sister said, try one. I said, I don't think I want to go now. Try one. So I grabbed one and I was very cautious and I bit the outside and I got a mouthful of hair. And I thought, This is not good. And my sister said, No, you didn't go in far enough. Go in a little further. So I took another little bite, as big as my mouth was for a three and a half year old, and I thought, ooh, hey, you know This isn't half bad. By now I was watching my sisters and they were like and stuff was rolling down their chin and onto their and I thought, oh it's not bad. So I took another bite And hey, this is really good. I took another bite. I thought, hey, this is great. Finally I decided I'm going to take the plunge. And I took that thing and I went and I shoved it in and bit down as hard as I could. Yeah I looked in. What's this? Someone put a stone in the middle of it. Can you imagine? Years ago. There was a bumper sticker. I don't know if you saw it. It read something like this Life is the pit I want to go down memory lane with you today on some of the pits of the Bible. I want us to consider some of them and some of the people. Of God who had gone through pits. The first person I think of is a man by the name of Joseph, a young boy, perhaps. Did he experience pits? If I recall, nothing worse than being betrayed by your brothers. And before long, they throw him into a pit. He gets out of it, he goes, and before long, he's thrown in another pit. That wasn't a very pleasant pit. Betrayed once by my family, betrayed by the boss's wife, lied, cheated. Everything about me, my reputation ruined, thrown into a pit. And then there's another person that we're going to look at, Daniel. Because of his stand for God, he was taken and thrown into a pit filled with giant kitty cats. Not the kind you have around your house or the ones that you'd like to pet. Right? Now, I don't know how you feel about that, but I'd be like I'd be a little afraid going down in there. Okay? But apparently Daniel was pretty good about it, and uh as we'll see a little bit later. And then there's another person by the name of Gideon. He decided, because food was scarce and in him, he was always taking things, he decided to grab his stuff and jump into a wine press. Uh most versions have in, not by, as one version has it. Uh question about the preposition. But he he he got down in the wine press because he was a little bit afraid of being seen and being caught, but he was in a pit Afraid that the people were going to come and grab the stuff. Facing starvation. Daniel had some friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Do you remember those guys? You know, bow down and worship. They did. So what happened? King had a nice little pit for him, a little on the hot side. Picked up, thrown into the fiery furnace, into a pit. And then who could forget that prophet of God that when he said go, this prophet said no. And he was the first person ever eaten by a fish. Right? His name was Jonah. What a pit. How about John the Baptist? O king, it is not lawful for you to have her. What happened to him? I was preaching the word of God. I was his messenger. Got thrown into a pit. Jesus Christ walked on this earth, did miracles. He grabbed him, crucified him, an innocent person, laid into a pit There's Paul, not so much a pit, but listen to him. I'm sure you're familiar with him. He says Are they ministers of Christ? This is out of 2 Corinthians. He says, I more. In labors more abundant. In stripes, above measure. In prisons, more frequent. In deaths, oft. Of the Jews, five times received I forty stripes stripes, save one. Thrice I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, thrice I was Suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep, endurings often, in perils of water, and perils of robbers, in perils of mine own countrymen, in perils of the heathen In perils of the city, in perils of the wilderness, in perils of the sea, in perils among false brethren, in weariness, and painfulness, and watchings often, and hunger and thirst, and fastings, often in the cold, and nakedness Besides those things that come without, there are those which come within upon me daily, the care of the churches. Who is weak? Am I not weak? Who is offended? And I am and I am burned, and I burn not? In Damascus, the governor under Artisus, the king, kept the city of the Dominoceans with a garrison Desirous to apprehend me, and through a window in a basket was I let down by the wall and escaped his hands. Do you think he had any pits? And then there's the Apostle John, exiled, and some say burned with oil, on the island, right? All left alone, not a literal pit, the figurative pit, exiled, pits of the Bible Different types, different shapes, different intensities, but sooner or later you're gonna have a pit. It's inevitable. It's gonna happen, it's gonna come. Anybody here today in a pit? You know churches, whole churches, can have pits too. The interesting thing I always find out about pits is you only see the light as you look up And from a pit, help always comes from above. And so let's consider some of these things. What happens when people get into pits? Questions begin. Do they not? Why me? Where's God? What's happening? Have I done something wrong? Am I in sin? Why doesn't God answer me? Seems as though nothing seems to change. Doesn't God know? Where is God? Why doesn't he do something? The text I've chosen for today, found in Daniel chapter 6, offers three insights, I think, into helping us And especially a church in this area, when you come and you fall into a pit in life. In Daniel chapter 6, this was Daniel and the Lion's Den. And as you know, he was thrown in there. He was betrayed and tricked, and the king had no choice but to throw him in there. He threw him in, and he came and he asked, and he cried out to Daniel, and in chapter 6, verse 21. Daniel responds, and he says, Then said Daniel unto the king, O king, live forever. My God hath sent his angel and has shut the lion's mouth That they have not hurt me, for as much as before him innocency was found in me, and also before thee, O King, have I done no hurt. From this verse, verse 22, there are three things I think we can gleam and remember when it comes to the pits of life. And the first one is, you are nowhere where God is not aware. Notice it says, my God has sent his angel. He sent his angel because he was completely aware of the fact that Daniel was in trouble. Perhaps you remember Elijah. Elijah had the great victory. He He was going up against the false prophets and the false gods, and he brought down fire, and they went out and they massacred him, and it was a great heyday, and then that wicked woman said, Killing. And what did he do? He took off running. He ran for his life. He ran and he ran, and he said, Oh man, this is I'm no better than my father's. Just Lord, just kill me, get it over with. I I'm just done. Well, no. As if he was the only one? God said, no. I have reserved for myself 7,000. God was aware of his situation. What about Psalm 139? Maybe you'd like to turn there. Psalm 139, this is a famous passage we should be well acquainted with. It says in verse 1: Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my down sitting, my uprising, thou understandst my thoughts Understand this my thought afar off. Thou compass my path and my lying down, and acquainted with all my ways, for there is not a word in my tongue, but O Lord, thou knowest it altogether Thou besettest me behind and before, and thou and lay thy hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high, I cannot attain unto it. Where shall I go from thy spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I send up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me God's aware, and in this passage, there's two things you'll notice about God. First of all, he knows everything. Before he knows what words are going to come out of my mouth, and he always knows where I'm at. We call this the omnipresence of God. He's everywhere. And the omniscience of God, he knows everything. So is God aware? Oh yeah, God's aware. Psalm 31, verse 15 says, My hands are in thy hands. My times, I'm sorry, are in thy hand. Psalm one twenty-one is another passage. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, who made the heaven and the earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor. the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and coming in from this time forth, even forevermore. So the Lord is aware when it comes to the pits of life. We don't have to ask that question. You are nowhere where God is not aware. And the cure for that attitude. And and the interesting thing is, even though we may we say, well I knew that. Oh yeah, I knew that. I knew God always knows where I'm at. Yes, but many times we may not say it. Many times we may think it. And even if we don't think it The cure for this particular aspect is to concentrate, as the psalmist did, on the glory of God through his attributes. He's all-knowing. He's omnipresent. The Lord is my keeper. And so as I focus my attention and gather up my energy looking upon who God is, He inspires me. And that is the cure for that. Second thing I notice here in Daniel chapter 6, verse 22, is that you are nowhere that God is not there Many times when we get into situations we feel that God is not there. Or where is he? Or why have you forsaken me? But Matthew 28, 19 and 20, what's it say? It says Go make disciples, teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them all things that I have commanded, to observe all things that I have commanded, and lo, I am with you even until the end of the age, unto the end of the world. God has promised, I am with you. Psalm or Hebrews 13, 5, it says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. The difference of those two words, as I understand it, is one means you're standing beside me and they come to arrest you, as they did Jesus, and everyone goes The other one is that I'm with you, but I don't really have any help for you. In other words, I will not leave you helpless. I will be here I will not leave you or forsake you. I will not leave you in a situation where you're helpless. Standing there, sitting there, whatever it is, struggling to go through it, I will be there and I will provide the help. The difference of those two words. So if the first one is you are nowhere where God is not aware deals with the intellectual aspect, I think the second one deals with the emotional aspect Isn't that what happens when we get into pits? And isn't it is it funny that when we fall into pits, immediately, where is our attention drawn? Boy, look at them lions. They're big. Big teeth? Ferocious. Look at that flaming fire. We're going in there, what? We focused on what The problem. The pit. It's the focusing on the problem that stumbles us and gets us in trouble Instead of our intellectually knowing from the Word of God, we say, I know, O Lord, you are aware. But then our feelings start to kick in, and suddenly sometimes they take over. In fact, many of us live not by our faith, but we live by our feelings, as you well know. And so this one plays to our emotions. There's two things I think that are important. You have this thing called a trilogy. You've seen it. It's it's very popular. It came out years ago. But you have this thing called fact, faith, and feeling. We touched on it a little bit in Sunday school class this morning. The fact is the word and the promises of God Backed by the faith that the person places in the Word of God, and when we do that, we will notice that our emotions will begin to change But many times we reverse that and we live off by our emotions and the and then there's very little faith and then there's little or any searching of the Word of God. And that's not how we God wants us to handle pits in life. To deal with our emotions, we need to do that. We need to focus then on the promises of God. Psalm 42 has some interesting things to say. It says, as the heart Panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. He says, My soul thirsteth for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? And then he says this, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? And now we asked, David did, the the writer of this psalm did. When I remember these things, I pour out my soul uh in me, for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God. And with the voice of joy and praise, and with the multitude that kept holiday, why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why are they disquieted in me? My hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan. Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of the water spouse, all thy ways and thy billows gone over me. He was in a pit Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime and in the nighttime, his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life. I will say unto God, My rock. Why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a sword in my bones my enemies reproach me, while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou? Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquiet within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance. And my God. And here he said several times, why are thou cast down? And twice, at least twice, he said, Hope thou in God. Hope in God because you have the promises of God right before you. Have you ever taken the time to Go through the promises of God. You know, we're going through a little bit of a pit here in our church. We're looking for a pastor, and I I I I challenge you to to ask yourself this question and start searching the scriptures. What promises do we have in the Word of God to deal with our situation? Does he not say, did Christ not say, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it? Aren't we part of the church? Isn't that including a local church? Why not pray it? Why not claim it? I don't know what you're gonna do, God. I don't know when you're gonna do it. I don't know how you're gonna do it But you're going to do it. And like the commercial in the MTA bank or whatever it's called, MT Bank says Can't wait. What's he gonna do? Don't know. Can't wait. How's he gonna do it? Don't know. Can't wait Why is he gonna do it? Don't know. Can't wait. Wait. Wait. This guy had an accent. Wait. Can't wait. In those words, you know what I see? I see confidence. Can't wait. I see joy. I see expectation. I don't know when. I don't know how. But I know he's going to. Can't wait. Will we come through these doors on a Sunday morning? I'm coming here? Why? Can't wait. What's he gonna do? Don't know. Don't know how. Can't wait! Confidence Joy, expectation, hope, faith found in those words from the Word of God, the promises of the Word of God. Do you remember? God is not a man that he should lie. It is impossible for God to lie. Therefore, if he promises it, you know it's going to happen. So when we go, To God. You are nowhere that God is not aware when you're in a pit. You are nowhere where God is not there. And then Thirdly, when it comes to the pits of life, you are nowhere where God does not care. Notice what it says in Daniel chapter 6, verse 22. My God hath sent his angel and hath shut the lion's mouths. I think, you know, again, I say when we fall into trials, we get so bound up, and I know, I don't know about you, but that's one of the first things that uh that that's about the only thing that looks like it hits you, right? It grabs your attention. And right away, you just focused on it. And your attention is drawn away from the Lord. And sometimes you don't even give him the opportunity or the chance to take care of you. This is Psalm 23, 1. The Lord is my shepherd. How do you read those words? Now I've read scripture here a couple of times and you say I'm a little awkward when I read because I I don't ramble it off. I try to emphasize and think and focus on The meaning of the words and how it should be said. These are bragging rights. The Lord's my shepherd. Who's your shepherd? Your bank account Just fall into a little bit of state of a coma or something and see how long your bank account lasts. My dad went out my three years ago. Had pain. They had to put him out so they could put stuff down his throat so that he could breathe. In no time we were at a half a million. Anybody got that in their back pocket? In no time. It was gone. Psalm 23. My bank account? Is it my job? My job is my shepherd. I shall not want. Really I had a co-worker that worked at Bethlehem Steele. He decided to retire and went down. to Florida, where unfortunately he and his wife separated. She said, well I don't want this to be nasty. I'll just take the house. Fine, I'll take the pension. And guess what happened to his pension? Bethlehem still don't have a pension. I'm 75 years old and I have nothing. What am I gonna do? Driving buses at age seventy-five. First Peter 5. 7 says, casting all your care upon him For he cares for you. And for years I thought, you know, okay, cast all your cares upon the Lord. He cares for me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know he cares for me. It's sort of like when we pass in church, hey Rick, I know you're having problems here, care for your brother. Why don't you know that right now? Yeah, okay, thanks for Appreciate that. And that's about as far as it goes. But that's not what the word means. It means he is responsible for me. He cares for me, not oh I'll care for you, brother. I'm praying for you, sister. It's I'll roll up my sleeves, I'm going to step in, this is mine. Get out of the way, Bomberger. This is mine. You don't believe that? Let me tell you something. We were on vacation a couple years ago. I've told you this before, you know all about it. Our can opener broke. We were camping. We were in nowhere's bell. Okay, and so Jordan and I were gonna go fishing around the lake, and my wife and my daughter were gonna go into town and get a can opener. So they dropped us off a fishing and my plan was we're gonna hit down there with a couple casts go around I'm gonna go to the other side of the lake where nobody is, I'm gonna get good fishing, I'm going for it. And so but it didn't work out. We started Cast in there was a little interesting and all of a sudden out in the country they had them fire sirens, you know. And I thought, oh what a beautiful s Today it was so nice. I say, some poor sap is in trouble. That poor sap was my wife Little did I know, as she was driving into town, a lady who was mixing alcohol with her medications. Decided that the way they drive in England is better than the way we do in America, and decided that our lane was her lane And so she comes up and sure enough here they are headed straight on, almost head-on. Well they were head-on. So with presence of mind, she gasped. First, my young daughter peeked up. She was laying back on the seat trying to take a nap. She went, eep, went back down, said, well, sudden impact is about to happen. My wife swerved to the other lane. The lady discovered that sh what she was doing. She swerved back to get in her lane. Hit us sort of in the side of the car, spun us around, told the car. Well, in the meantime, the volunteer, let me just show you what the blessings of God are and how he cares. Okay. So now I'm off in there fishing. We only got one vehicle. And they're in here with a total vehicle. And so I don't know how we're gonna find out where anyway the volunteer people came in and said, Oh, this is where they're at They came along and they came and they got Jordan and I and fortunately we didn't go fishing. They said, hey, uh your wife was in an accident. We need to take it back here. So blessing number one. These people came along. Blessing number one was no one was killed or hurt in the accident. Blessing number two was they came along and they captured, they brought us back, and guess what? We use our car sort of as, you know, keep everything in it because if you don't, people steal stuff. You know, we we put stuff out already and the campsite came back and somebody else decided to eat our meal. It was like, oh, okay, that was nice. So we decided to put everything in the car. Okay? So we put everything in the car. So she took us. They took us to the place where it was towed, and we got all our stuff out. Then that's a blessing. Then she took us back to the campsite. That was a blessing. And then it was like, Do you need anything else? Yeah, we don't have any ice. We're just about ready and everything's gonna spoil. Okay, well she took off and she went and she got us ice and she brought it back. In the meantime, while this accident was taking place, people from the campground had driven past and said, I know that girl. She's like three campsites down. They came walking past and said, Oh, we thought that was you along the road. She said, we so we're so sorry. She says, we want you to know. She says, we're gonna pray for you. She goes, we're Catholic. She said, I know. I know Everyone says Catholics aren't Christians. That's just not true. We're Christians. And he says, we're Catholic Christians. I'm like, well that's nice. And off they went on their merry way. And I thought, okay, well that's interesting. And then I didn't know that she talked to the lady uh a couple sites up. But she comes walking down and she goes, Oh, we heard about your accent, how terrible. She goes, this is the terrible but I just want you to know that I'm Italian. And I said, You know what that means. And I'm like, Yeah, no Um she goes, that means I have enough food to feed everybody in this campground. And if you need something because your food's spoiling You just come over and have a meal, and we'll just give you some food. And oh my, what happened to your tent? Yeah, I know, the pole sort of broke, and so now it's sort of drain. Aren't we supposed to have torrential downpours tonight? Yeah, we are. I guess I'll have to be up all night doing one of these numbers. Or if maybe I can find a stick, I might be able to pry it up. She goes, let me just tell you this Did you see our camper up there? I'm like, Yeah, it was more like a a mansion on wheels And I was like, Okay She goes, I want you to know that if it gets too bad for you guys, you just come on up. I don't care if it's eleven o'clock, twelve o'clock 1 o'clock, 3 o'clock. I don't care if you're soaking wet and almighty. You just come in. We've got plenty of space for you. You just come up. Unsafe person. Unsaved person that God brought along. I thought, well, yeah, okay. Well that's pretty nice. And then that was round one. Round two came with this creature known as an insurance adjuster. You have to call him. And the unfortunate thing was, I don't know how you get insurance for your car in the other half of the world. Uh their time zone was not the same as our time zone. They were like three hours behind us or something. So by the time they came in to the office and had their first cup of coffee, the day was half spent and trying to get anything in advance was okay we can do this and do that and oh by the way you need a the the police report where do I get that be at the police station Well, it it's like 25 miles away. I'll have a car. Ah, here's another blessing. Lisa's like, aha! We had one of the few police officers stop and help us who had a printout in the car. He says, I'm one of the few that had it, if I recall correctly, and he printed out the accident for him so we could give him all the information so that we could begin to get a rental car. That was round three. Rental car people. They're interesting creatures as well. Did you ever try to get one when you're in a jam? And in the meantime, we're trying to do this all over our phone. Guess what? Our batteries are starting to die. Now, I don't know if you know much about cell phones, because I barely know how to turn mine on. But I know this. They don't work very well when you plug them into a hickory tree. I'm in the middle of nowhere with no electricity. Oh, this is just great. And if that wasn't bad enough, we had one of those plans where you had to renew your minutes all the time. You know what I'm saying? We were running out of minutes. Oh, this is just great. Well, renew the mitch, Lisa. You know how to do that. I don't know how to do it. I only do it on computer at home. I don't know how to do it by the phone. Oh, this is not good. So at any rate, fortunately we got up to the camp place and we got electricity and we called the cell phone people and they helped us there. But getting back To the car people. I went in, we rented a car, and I was very clear. I said, uh, this is once and done. Yep. That's all it is, right? I don't have to pay it again. Nope. This is the only time. Right. Sign here. Bad move. Don't initial or sign anything unless you've read it. Somewhere between me and going to the bathroom, something didn't happen. The next thing I know when we got home and I went to turn in the receipt, you know, turn the car back in, uh the guy looked at it, he went Went behind the counter and there was a little meeting and everyone was going, I said, Oh, this is not good. This is not good. He came back a year, Bill's about a thousand dollars. I said, What? I said, what? Well yeah, they took out this insurance program. I mean Palestinian psychos. Forty dollars a day times your current ocean is about a thousand. I said, oh no I said, I pay this insurance. It's just once and done. $40, that's it. I pay no more than $40? She said, yeah. Yeah, but Mr. Bomberger, you initialed it here, here, and here and here. I thought I was something was strange while I was doing all this initialing. But at any rate I thought, oh, this is just terrible. So I apologized to my wife. I said, Well I got us a thousand dollars and that this is no good. This is just not this is not great. So I thought, well I'm not gonna do I'm not no I'm gonna call him back up. So I called him back up and I started talking to the lady and I said, This is exactly what happened. She said, Well no Our people are professionals. They're trained. They know everything inside and out. They don't make mistakes. So I continued to talk and after a while she says, Oh yeah, well she shouldn't have said that because it's not right. Oh and she shouldn't have said that and that I said, Aha, your people do make mistakes Yeah, well yeah, okay. So as a result, he decided to bless him, knock off about, not half, but about six forty percent of the bill. I thought, oh Wow, so we still owe money. So it's like the next thing I know I get a f we get a phone call and I'm like, yeah, who's this? This is the uh state attorney of Pennsylvania We're prosecuting this person for well, this is like the second time she's done it. Okay. Uh did you want anything? I was like, Oh I don't know, I got this five hundred dollar bill we gotta pay. And it's like, well just submit it with the paperwork and so we sent it in. The judge looked at it and said He shouldn't have to pay this, paid. So it's like another blessing for the Lord. Took it and paid for it. Well, we were still without a vehicle. And it was like, you know, I don't like the way they do this, you know, this blue book stuff. It's like, you you don't understand. I just put brand new tires and I had this done to it and this done to this and this done to it, and it's a whole lot worker in there than what you're saying the blue book is. That's not right. Oh boy, what are we gonna do? Well, looking around, they sent it, they were nice, they sent us like six pages of things that you had to look, and Lisa got online and there was somebody from Fort Meade that was going overseas, that had a car, the same mate, the same model, almost identical mileage with and I was really upset about brand new tires. I lost my brand new tires and they only gave me ninety percent on my brand new tires. Brand new tires. And it cost less. We came out with money in our pockets. Does God care? Does it work like that all the time? No. It doesn't. But God is aware, and his presence is there, and God does care. I want you to think about this. This is the interesting thing about pits. Whether they're cherries or peaches, they're surrounded by wonderful, juicy, succulent fruit. Think about this, Joseph. Everyone's gonna bow down to you. And then he goes to the pit And and it always gets me when his when you read further in the story how his brother says, Did he not beg and plea and cry with us not to throw us in the throw me in the pit? They did it anyway. He gets out and thinks who at least I escaped that. He goes back in Potiphar's wife, guess what happened? She lies. In a pit again. But then what happens? Raised up. Number two in the nation, the saving of many people. Daniel, raised up in a high position with power, betrayed by those that were envious and jealous of him, thrown and tricked The king had no choice, thrown into the lion's den, and yet the opportunity to come out. So that the king said, everybody serve that God. What a witness. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. We're not going to bow down. They were raised up. They were part of Daniel's band. And what happened to them? Thrown into the fire for taking a stand of God. And most times it's like Well, you know, I went down and I taught Sunday school and someone didn't like it, but that's the last time I'm going to do that. Isn't that what happens a lot of times? Isn't that what happens? I serve God, I did this for him, and I got hit If this is what's going to happen when I serve God, I don't need it. And many times it's from Christians. Not from the outside world. But think about them. They got to be thrown alive, maintained, sustained, in a fire. They got to see the Lord Jesus Christ. And were the first ones who could truly say, I don't need any fire insurance. Right? Don't need it. Think about Gideon. He starts out, things are bad. Angel comes to him and says, Hey, a mighty man of fire. You talking to me? Down here fleshing out my wheat so I don't get caught. Okay, Lord, what do you want me to do? Go out and beat those people up. Okay. I'll take a couple ten thousand no, no, no. Just take 300. What happened? Great victory. Fruit. Unimaginable. John the Baptist. Behold, the Lamb of God. I am the one crying in the wilderness. Prepare, make straight paths for the Lamb of God who shall take away the sins of the world. You say he was thrown into a pit. He was. And what happened to him? He lost his head. Absence from the body? What? Present with the Lord. Paul said, for me to live is Christ, but to die is even better. Is gain. Succulent fruit. Jesus Christ. He came on this earth. He healed the sick, the lame, the blind. He walked on water. He multiplied food. We took him. We nailed him to a cross. He was put into a grave. Why? For the honor and the privilege to save your soul. Fruit. What about Paul? Given great revelations. Things that were not supposed to be spoken by any man. And what happened? Lest I be puffed up and I get too proud, there was given unto me a thorn in the flesh. Three times I said, Lord, take this Finally, the Lord said, no, and he said what? This. He said this. We sang about it in one of our first songs. My grace. Is sufficient for thee. Then he said this, most gladly therefore were I rather glory in my pits. That the power of Christ may rest upon me. For when I am weak, then I am strong. Therefore, he says, I take pleasures in infirmities. That's a hard pill to swallow. The key in pits is to find the pleasure in the pit. But be careful because that can have at least three meanings. And if you pick one, you're going to make it sound like I'm a real mean person. I do have compassion. Meaning number one. Oh boy, another beating. Can't wait. I don't think so. Paul said, I don't like this storm. Lord, would you remove it? Pleasures and delights. Second meaning number two could possibly be. We come and we say, What? In the midst of this trial and this trouble and this problem, by the grace of God, I can find peace. And joy and happiness. Let me just say this, just going back to our accident. After all this took place, you know, uh uh I was sitting out outside the restroom 'cause I was about I just wanted to get away. And I was sitting outside the bathhouse and I was I had my Bible open. It was a beautiful day and I was the uh just enjoying the Lord and the lady the Catholic couple came up and they said Oh, she saw me with my Bible and she said, Oh, of course, of course you're here with your Bible. We understand. I said, No, you don't understand. I said, I am experiencing the unbelievable peace of God which passes all understanding. I said, I am really having a joyful time. And I wasn't perfect through this. I thank the Lord for my wife When I got on that cell phone and creature number two came up and said, hey, you need this one, I said, take it. You talk to him. Insurance people. So I had my moments. But at any rate, the peace of God comes into our lives. Wonderful fruit. A third possible meaning is I take pleasure in infirmities. That is, oh boy Another opportunity that Christ might be magnified through me. For Paul It wasn't so much about how can I get out of this pit or pity me or please Lord can you remove this? What he learned was that through the pits of life, Jesus Christ gets exalted. And people see it. That's why I share with you my story of the accident. I wanted to magnify the Lord and all that He had done for us. In that situation, God wants to do the same thing for each and every one of us. What about the Apostle John? Put out onto an island, left alone? That was a nasty pick. But what happened? What was his fruit? He got to read to write the third, the last book of the Bible, didn't he? The revelation of Jesus Christ. Fruit surrounds every pit, either before or after, and even during. And what more shall we say? For time should fail to speak completely and wholly of Gideon and Barak, Samson, Jephthah. Of David also, and of the prophets, Samuel, who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises stopped the mouths of lions, waxed, oh, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong. Waxed valiant in fight, set to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead, raised their dead, raised again to life And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might receive a better resurrection. And others had trial of cruel mocking and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned. They were sawn asunder. They were tempted. We were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, and tormented. Of whom, watch this, the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth. You think you got problems? I think I got problems. Life is the pit. No Life will have pits But seeing we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, the promises of Daniel 6. 22, when you stop to think about the pits of life, They're probably one of the best places you could be. Wouldn't you agree?