Found particularly with new believers is that they'll start in in the jail, they'll they'll lock them their cell, they'll give them a Bible. And they'll start reading in Genesis and Exodus, and they get about halfway through Exodus and they get into the things about the tabernacle and then the Leviticus and They'll say, are we supposed to be doing this? And wow, I never knew this was in the Bible. And of course I'll I'll take them to Galatians and things, but Because of that, I I periodically, at least once a year, I go back to Genesis and I kind of do a walk through the Bible showing not so much all the ceremonies of Israel. I do talk about those a little bit when it comes up, but. but how all the Bible points towards Christ. And uh what I'd like to do tonight is show some things that kind of piggyback on the morning's message The doctrine of the Trinity was definitely there in the Old Testament, but it was really revealed in the New Testament. The doctrine of justification by faith was there in the New Testament, but it shines in the New Testament. Uh even the new birth, I think, as we'll see tonight, was there, at least kind of hidden in the Old Testament. And uh it's kind of interesting when you look at the prophecies of Christ and what's said about him. Uh what Understanding of the New Testament, it makes some things clearer. But let's start out in Genesis. I mentioned this morning several times about the creation of man. God let us make man in our image. I won't go over that, but I do want to go to Genesis 3, verses 15 in particular. This is after the curse was put upon uh the uh Adam and Eve. Uh God had warned them the day you eat of the fruit you'll surely die. And God, of course, drew them out, you know, they till they wouldn't stop asking questions until they admit, yes, I uh I was, I sinned, I disobeyed you. But then he comes to this pronouncement of the curses. He cursed first the serpent, and in the middle of that, uh, or the end of it rather, in verse 15. He says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Well that word bruise there means a crushing blow. It's more than just a, you know, like, oops, I bumped myself. A bruise that's a crushing blow to the head would likely be fatal. If you really get your head smashed bad, it's gonna probably kill you. A smashed heel would be very painful, but not so likely to be fatal. But buried in this, when it says that your seed, who who is the seed of the woman? Well. Interestingly enough, that usually uh it's children are regarded to be the seed of the man, the seed of Abraham, the seed of Jacob, the seed of David. Uh this is really the only place that I can find in the Bible where uh the a child is said to be the seed of a woman, which is implying a virgin birth. And so this virgin-birth child would would somehow be wounded with a fatal wound, and his heel would be uh a um uh wounded in the process. And this would undo the works of the devil. Interestingly, when Jesus came in John chapter 12, he said, I came to destroy the works of the devil. Well, as the whole thing goes along, when Adam and Eve are sent out of the garden, skip down a little bit to verse 21. It says, for Adam and his wife the Lord God made tunics of skin and clothed them. And uh then he sent them out of the garden. That was the first sacrifice. The animal, the wages of sin was death. Adam and the day they ate of the fruit they would die, but the animal died that day in their place and was given those robes. The God gave them the robes. Interestingly enough, later on when that sacrifices were made in the Old Testament, the priests normally skinned the animal. And uh the robes that the the leather was used for whatever it was used for, probably mostly clothing. But uh but so here even even in the beginning, you know in Revelation it says Jesus was a lamb slain from the foundation of the world. But you see it beginning to unfold here even in Revelation with uh or even in Genesis. the uh God's plan of redemption. But I want to skip ahead a little bit now, and let's go to Genesis chapter 22. Genesis chapter 22. In the meantime, of course, all those things happened when I When I do the chronological Bible study, I usually take at least about uh two or three months, you know, at least uh uh twelve, maybe as many as twenty weeks, uh going through different key stories and trying to tie them together I actually wrote a course on the life of Abraham that Emmaus Ministries is going to publish that is something we use in a jail ministry too. But that's not due till the end of the year or the beginning of next year. But this story in Genesis 22 is the story of Abraham being asked to offer Isaac. And uh he told them to go to the land of Moriah. Well, where was Moriah? That was where the temple was built. He was basically to go to the temple mount. And then he told them in verse two, to offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. Well, if the temple mountain wasn't the actual mountain, it but it was near there, it it seems like Based on things happened later in the story, he might have been leading him to the very same place where Jesus was crucified, because it was somewhere near uh, you know, the the Temple Mount. Well, you know the story. I'm sure you're all familiar with it. Abraham goes there. On the way up the mountain, Abraham's son Isaac asked, uh, well, here's the fire, here's the wood, where's the lamb? Abraham's response in verse 8, my son God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering. And they walk on together. Well, when you get down, so the offering actually happening, well, Isaac is bound, he lays on the off altar, Abraham raises his knife, but an angel tells him, don't do it. And we find out, it actually tells us in verse 1 that it was a test of Abraham, and that was the test to see whether he was loved the promised child more than he loved God. And Abraham passed that test. But in doing this, he was allowed to act out ahead of time what the Father did with his own beloved son. God did offer his son. But here's the interesting thing about this, and this is the main reason I went to the story. When that offering was done, in verse 14, Abraham called the name of the place, the Lord will provide. When I teach this in the jail, I say, read this along with me and tell me if I mess it up. And I say, the Lord has provided. And about half the men will say, yep, that's what it says. And I say, are you sure? And no, well actually some will say no, it says the Lord will provide. And I point that out because that that day the lamb that Abraham was expecting, the lamb that would take away the sin of the world, wasn't Isaac. Nor was it the ram caught in a thicket, but it was something that was yet to come. And so even after this event, the Lord will provide a lamb, is what Abraham was saying. You know why that's so important? Because Muslims like to say they follow the faith of Abraham, and uh yet They don't believe that they need a lamb at all. And they don't accept the lamb that God has provided. But Abraham believed that there would be a lamb of God that would take away the sin of the world. And he believed it was still coming. And then he says this in verse 18, In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Now if you go back and look at the promises before this, in Genesis 12 he said, In you all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. But here he specifically says it's in your seed that all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. Now you might say, well, who was the seed of Abraham? Isaac, right? Well, wait a minute. Flip over a couple of pages to Genesis chapter 26. Genesis chapter 26, verses 3 and 4. Here's God speaking to Isaac, who was who was in The child of Abraham, the promised child. And in verse 3, he's telling Isaac, Dwell in this land, and I will be with you and bless you, for to you and to your descendants I give all these lands. And I will perform the oath which I swore to Abraham your father. And I will make your descendants multiply as the stars of heaven. I will give to your descendants all these lands. And In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. So the seed of that he was talking about wasn't Isaac. Well, who is it then? Was it Jacob? Well, Jacob was the one to whom the promises was handed off, but flip over to chapter 28. Chapter 28. This is a story of Jacob after he deceived his father to get the blessing from him that His father intended for Esau, but was really gonna be Jacob's no matter what. Even if he hadn't deceived his father, somehow God would have intervened. You know how we know that Because after he blessed his son Jacob and he realized he'd been deceived, Jacob says, yes, and he shall be blessed. He realizes that it was not just him, that it was the Lord that was uh uh speaking through him. And you know that what that tells us that God would not have allowed uh uh Esau to get Jacob's blessing, even if he hadn't deceived his father. Somehow God would have just not permitted that. But here's the interesting thing about this story. After Jacob has just offended his father, his brother is mad enough to kill him. He's fleeing the land that was promised to him to live with his uncle Laban. God appears to him in the vision of the ladder descending out of heaven. Let's pick it up at verse 12. Then he dreamed And behold a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven, and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. Later on Jesus refers to that in it that same chapter, John chapter one. When he sees Nathaniel, he says, you know, he's that latter. But verse 13, Behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and your descendants. Also your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth. You shall spread abroad to the west and the east, to the north and the south. And in you and in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So the promised seed of Abraham was not Isaac, it wasn't even Jacob. It was still somebody yet to come. And let's look at Jacob's blessing to his sons. Let's go to Genesis 49. Genesis chapter forty nine. In Genesis 49, Jacob is giving his blessings to all of his sons. And he doesn't single out any one of them to say, you're going to inherit the land, because they're all going to inherit the land. They're all going to go down to Egypt. They're all going to come out as tribes. But what about this promise of in your seed all the nations will be blessed? Well, go to Genesis 49, and uh Judah, the blessing to him actually starts out back in verse 8. Uh he mentions in verse 8 that the Judah's brothers are going to bow down before him. And that's an amazing thing because at the time that he says this, everybody's bowing down to Joseph. And uh and Judah was actually in some ways sort of a black sheep of the family. He was the one who said, let's sell Joseph, although later he did step forward and say, take me as a slave instead of Benjamin. But Judah, you know, after that whole incident happened, he moved away for a while and he had that incident with his daughter-in-law. I won't even talk about that, but you know what I'm talking about. And uh he he hadn't necessarily been uh exemplary son, you know, through all of his life. But when you get down to verse ten He says, The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh comes, and to him shall be the obedience of the people That word Shiloh is only used a few times in the Bible. Scholars think that it means the meeting place of God and man because that's what they named initially the town where the tabernacle was set up after they came into the land later that town was destroyed and when Eli's sons were killed and the ark moved around a little bit till it ended up being put in the temple in Jerusalem. But Shiloh here is definitely a person. And both the Jewish scholars as well as Christians today recognize it that way because He's talking about this scepter not departing from Judah. What's the scepter? Well, there won't there continue to be a ruler in Judah until Shiloh comes. And interestingly enough, in the history of Israel, there was a leader of the tribe of Judah all the time from the beginning here, even before they went into Egypt. The Egyptians had were their taskmasters, but they still had tribal leaders. We know that because when they came out of Egypt, they already were organized according to tribal families. And they had that all the way through the Babylonian captivity. We know that because when they came back from the captivity, uh there was a rubbable and and uh shialtil and Uh the they they had they knew who the this the uh leader of Judah was at that time, even though he didn't really become the king, it was people other than David's line that were king at that time. But after 70 A. D. , when the Romans destroyed the temple, there was no more of a leader in Judah. And uh historians say that some of the rabbis felt like this prophecy had failed. that uh the the scepter had departed from judah there was no longer a family tribal leadership even subject to their enemies Uh the the genealogical records were largely destroyed that were in the temple, and we don't have those today. But they felt like it had failed because the the man hadn't come to whom would be the obedience to the people. But he had. And they hadn't recognized him Very interesting prophecy. But let's skip ahead a little bit more. I I did all this so far to show you something about the seed of David. He was prophesied from the very beginning. Let's go to 2 Samuel chapter 7. Second Samuel chapter seven. Somebody says, well, if the seed of Abraham is one and the same as the promised Messiah, then why doesn't the whole Old Testament talk about the seed of Abraham? Because after King David, the seed of Abraham that was promised is one and the same as the seed of David. Uh the only time that he's mentioned again is actually in Galatians 3. 16, where Paul specifically says that Jesus was the promised seed of Abraham, the one to whom the every uh all the promises were given. You know why he says that? Because the promises to Abraham, most of them didn't happen in his lifetime. And most of them didn't even happen, or some of them were fulfilled in type at least with the Exodus. But if you're talking about the ultimate fulfillment of it, it's going to be at Christ's return when he returns and divides up the land and and the millennial kingdom as the ultimate fulfillment of the promise to Abraham. And at that point Abraham himself uh appear apparently will be resurrected and enjoy some of the uh uh uh the the kingdom of being with his children that'll be as numerous as the stars of the sky. But uh Here in Samuel is where the definite thing is handed off to be the seed of David. 2 Samuel chapter 7. This is the chapter where David had intended to build the temple. And he mentions it to Nathan, and Nathan says, Go ahead and do it. You're God's man. And then that night God appears to Nathan and says, This is what you were supposed to tell David. And uh he tells them, no, you're not going to build the temple. Uh it's not appropriate. It's going to be your son. But when you get to 2 Samuel, I mean 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 14. Here's what he says. Let me find it here. He's talking about this this uh son. Uh well let's let's back up to verse 12. When your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. Well, Solomon actually became king while David was still alive. David was the one who put him on his own donkey, and you remember the whole thing where Adonaiah wanted to be king and And so Solomon became king shortly before David died. But this says, when after you rest with your fathers, God says, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. Verse 13, He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the blows of the sons of men. Well, uh, again Solomon's kingdom didn't last forever. In fact it split right after he died. Uh and then later the line of David never really regained power the way it had been, even though they knew who the deceit of David was. After the return to the land, it was the Maccabees and different people that ruled. But notice that first part of verse 14: I will be his father, and he shall be my son. This is not talking about Solomon. It's talking about the promised seed. And there again, you know, the seed of the woman was a hint at the virgin birth. This is another reference to it that maybe you could interpret it some other way, but uh it's clearly uh uh you know in retrospect has to be talking about Christ You say, well what about the second half of the verse? I will chasten them with the rod of men and with the blows of the sons of men. It may be that that's a prophecy of Christ suffering for our sins. Obviously he didn't have his own sins. uh didn't commit any iniquity, uh or it may just be reverting back to talking about Solomon. I don't know But let's go on to the Psalms and look at Psalm chapter 2, verse 7. After David died, the seed of David was One and the same as the promised seed of David. And there were many, many more predictions made about David's seed. And the one here in Psalm 2 is especially interesting because it's, you remember I told you this morning about the guy that said, well, that. The only begotten Son. That's a Roman idea. One of the things that I mentioned to him was I said, well, if that's the reason you don't believe in the old the New Testament, then it's you maybe you just shouldn't believe the Old Testament either. Because in Psalm chapter 2, verse 7, he says, I will declare the decree, the Lord has said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. So the Lord did have a begotten son, even here in the Old Testament. By the way, while we're in this chapter, one of the guys in the jail one time told me, he said. You know, I read through the Old Testament and I couldn't find where it talked about the Messiah. He was looking for the word the Messiah. And I told him, well, I said, actually, usually the word that's translated Messiah, that's a transliteration of the way it sounds in Hebrew. I said normally when it's in the Old Testament it's translated as the anointed or the anointed of the Lord. And you can see that right here in verse 2 of Psalm 2. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. That's the word Messiah. So this is a prophecy of the Messiah, and the Messiah was going to be begotten of God, but notice God is speaking to him before he was born. You are my son today, I have begotten you. Well this this was this was something that was going on. Again, Jesus, as we looked at this morning, existed before he was born. This would be one of those those uh uh things, uh a prophecy about things that uh would be yet future, but the Lord is speaking to him about it. Uh you know, and before it happens. Uh so again, prophecies of of the Son of God here Let's go into the prophets and look at some of the prophecies. Let's go over to the book of Isaiah. We talked about Isaiah 7. 14 this morning. I wanted to come back to that and just point out a couple of things. Isaiah chapter 7 In verse fourteen. Every year at Christmas time I do a message on the prophecies of Christ's birth for the men in the jail. And some of my classes, because of the way it is, I have to give them assignments to uh uh to make sure that the people that come are interested in learning rather than a bunch of people want to get out of their cell and come down and talk to their gang buddies and start something. And I make them read all of Isaiah chapter 7 all the way through chapter 12, because it's all one prophecy having to do with the message that Isaiah was given first to King Ahaz about the in the Assyrians and about the there's a gonna be there it's a a historical thing that you can read about and uh 2 Chronicles 28 or 2 Kings 16, the history of this passage. And I actually have them read that as well before we talk about the prophecy. But we won't go into that amount of detail today. But in chapter 7, verse 14, it says, Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Well who is the sign for? Well in this case it's for King Ahaz who doesn't want to hear what God has to say. God had offered to give him a sign to bolster his faith. He didn't trust the Lord. It caused a disaster. uh a terrible defeat of Israel in very troublesome times. But he says Even though you don't ask for a sign, Ahaz, the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son and call his name Emmanuel. And uh he goes on and says, curds and honey he shall eat that he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. That reference to curds and honey is actually mentioning that As you follow it through later in the passage, down in verse 21 it says, In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep, so it shall be from the abundance of milk they give that he will eat curds, for curds and honey every one will eat who is left in the land. That's an in the old King James it says butter and honey and you say, wow, it means everybody's gonna be eating good things. Well actually that's starvation rations Because the Assyrian invasion that's going to happen is going to destroy all the vines and the crops. Uh it'll be so bad that the only thing left will be You know, uh the animals will go out and eat all the weeds where there should have been crops. And if you milk your animal every day, you'll have a cup of milk and you'll be able to gather wild honey from the bees. Uh And that's the only thing that's going to be around to eat. But it's because of the invasions of their enemies that's going to happen as a result of Ahaz's disobedience. But getting back to verse 14. When he talks about the virgin conceiving, some Jewish people will say, well, that word only means a young maiden. Uh years ago I had Dr. Beale for a class at Capitol Seminary, and he had us do a word study of that word. And it's only used eight times in the Old Testament. But everywhere that it's used, it it it's either not clear, it's talking about basically a a young virgin And uh he said, so even lexicons can sometimes be little biased uh with a liberal bias. And if you ask people, well, why doesn't this mean a virgin? Hebrew scholars will say, well, the virgin will conceive in Barasan, and they link it to Isaiah chapter 8 Where Isaiah's wife had a son, and he said, This is a sign for you. Only they didn't call that child Emmanuel, they called the child Maher Shalahashbaz. That was an immediate sign about the coming invasion of the Assyrians and all the horrible sufferings that they were going to over endure. And the message Isaiah gave with that was: Israelites, hold on. The promised Messiah is coming. Better days are coming. In fact, when he gets to chapter 9, he's speaking to the people. But before we leave verse 14, uh when Jewish people or somebody says that The Septuagint, when they translated this verse 14, they used a word for virgin, the Greek word for virgin, that can only mean a young, unmarried lady. uh uh what we would think of as a virgin. And uh so so that's again a prophecy of Christ there that uh holds up to scrutiny, you know, if if somebody says, Well, that might mean something other than the virgin birth of Christ, uh Not according to the Hebrew scholars that translated to Septuagint, and not according to the other ways that the word is used throughout the Bible But after he gives this warning about this horrible invasion, when you get all the way over to chapter 9, he gives a message that's for the encouragement of the people who will trust the Lord. Who are looking for the coming kingdom. And uh he he really starts back in chapter eight. This is an interesting passage of how he encourages the people. But in chapter 9, by the way, another prophecy of Christ is back in verses 1 and 2. where he talks about the the uh Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who were in darkness, have seen a great light. You know why he says that? Because that was the first area invaded. They were the first people to go into exile. They were already under the dominion of other nations at the time that this prophecy was written, before the invasion, the final invasion But that was where Jesus did most of his miracles. But when you get down to verse 6, it says, Unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. Notice, the child is born. But the Son is given. Why? Because the Word was with God, the Word was God, the Word became flesh. He was in the beginning with God. He existed before he was born. And the government will be upon his shoulders. His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of peace, of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end upon the throne of David and over his kingdom. To order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward, even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Now, no Jewish person expected that some mother would name her child, wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace. Those were titles. Jewish people, the name is the same as their title. It's the same as our description And you'll find throughout the Bible that the Hebrew names were often very descriptive of the person. Adam means earth. Jacob means heel grabber, uh supplanter, but his name was changed to Israel, which means either he strives with God or prince. And Israel did both of those things. He strove with God and he was a prince fighting with God. But this was a description of the child that was be born and and The Jewish people would have understood it as being a description and probably a manual as well, not really believing that the child would be named God with us, as I mentioned this morning. But when I teach this in the jail, I always ask, I say, guys, in this description of Jesus, can you find anything that would hint that he might be more than just a human being, that something more than just And they'll look and read through it and say, yeah, mighty God, everlasting Father. Again, Jesus created all things. Uh he was there in the beginning with God. He's the everlasting Father, not had had no beginning, no end. And he reigns upon the throne of his David. The other thing that was interesting about this, the same prophecy, sometimes people say, well, you know, is there really going to be a literal return of Christ? Well, the angels said the same way you saw him go, he's going to come again when he ascended into heaven. But the same prophets that predicted Jesus' first coming Predicted his second coming. And it it's if you interpret one literally, why wouldn't you interpret the other literally? I mean, when you follow this prophecy through, when you get into chapter 11, that's where he says Uh there's going to be a route. Let's look at that real briefly. I hadn't originally planned to, but let's take a moment to look at it here. Look at chapter 11, verse 1. There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse. Jesse was David's father, you remember, and a branch shall grow from his roots. The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And then he goes on and describes the wolf laying down with the the lamb and uh you know the lion eating straw like an ox down in verse seven. He talks about him as being the root of Jesse that'll stand down in verse 10 as a banner for the people, and the Gentiles shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious. Those prophecies are prophecies again of Christ in his second coming. But it goes back when he talks about it being growing out of the roots of Jesse, what made Jesse of any importance? Because he was in the line of David. If you go back and trace the genealogy in the book of Ruth, uh this is this is It's not just David that accomplished this. This was the seed of Abraham, seed of Jesse, seed of David. But that he grows out of his roots, you know what that's implying? When Christ reigns, it isn't like David handing off his kingdom to Solomon. This is going to be like the root out of dry ground, that it's the the line of David resuming kingship after not having been reigning. It's not like you know, way out here that that the kingdom's being handed off. It's coming up from what had been the family line of David, what is the family line of David? after he has family line hasn't been reigning for a while. Let's uh let's look at a another prophecy. Let's go over to uh Uh while we're in Isaiah, let's look at Isaiah 53 for a minute. This is the classic prophecy of Jesus' death, the most clear depiction of it. Psalm 22 would be the other one. But you say, well, how do we know that this is the Messiah? And how do we know that it's really talking about Jesus? Well, the prophecy in Isaiah 53 actually starts back in Isaiah 52, and the end of chapter 52, verse 13. And there it describes this. It says in chapter 52, verse 13, Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, and shall be exalted and extolled in very high. Just as many were astonished at you, so his visage was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of man, so shall he sprinkle many nations, kings shall shut their mouths, for what had not been told them they shall see. And what they had not heard, they shall consider. But notice it says in verse 13, my servant, and if you're in the New King James servant, it's capitalized. You know why they do that? Because to the Jewish way of thinking, God's servant had to be the Messiah. He was the one who was going to complete the promises to Abraham, was going to restore the kingdom to Israel, he was going to uh uh bring peace and prosperity. Earlier in Isaiah chapter two it talks about a time when uh all the nations would go up to Jerusalem to worship. That was what the Messiah was supposed to accomplish. But here in the beginning of that, he introduces his servant, who's going to be exalted and extolled in very high. before he mentions that he's going to suffer and be, you know, mis visage marred more than any man Well, let's go now to the end of this. I mean the middle is what people normally focus on when they focus on Isaiah 53. He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquity. Uh the chastisement of our peace is upon him. By his stripes we are healed, all we like sheep have gone astray, we've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. Well, if the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all, how does is he the Lord that was being laid on? Well, when you think about it, that's the only way that God's justice could really be satisfied. I wouldn't, you know, I have five children. I wouldn't, when they were little, I wouldn't have said to my son, you gotta pay for what your sister broke. She's gotta pay for it herself, right? But what if it was something she broke that she couldn't fix? Or it was more than she could pay for? Who would pay for it? I would. I wouldn't make somebody else pay for it. And when God's people that he created had fallen into sin, um The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. Who was he laying it on? Well, the Bible tells us in the New Testament, God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself. And it had to be, for it to be just, it had to be God in Christ bearing the penalty for our sins. But that wasn't the main point I wanted to draw out here. Go down to the end of this, so verse 10 here Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, he has put him to grief. When you make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days. And the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. You know, this morning we read about the word that became flesh and dwelt among us. And it said, As many as believed in him, to them he gave the right to be children of God. Well, you notice here that this same suffering servant, the same Messiah, who would be bear our sins and the Lord would lay on him the iniquity of us all. That that was something that would be pleasing to the Lord. Jesus in John chapter 10 says, you know, my father loves me because I lay down my life for the sheep to take it up again. But he also, after he made his soul an offering for sin, it says he shall see his seed and prolong his days. Well, how would that happen if he just died? And especially because Jesus He didn't have any children. He didn't fornicate. If he had, his enemies would have surely pointed it out. He wasn't married. If he was, we would have a record of that So he didn't have any physical children. So who is his seed that he'll see? Well, as to many as received him, he gave the right to be children of God who were born. Not of the will of man, not of the will of the flesh, not of uh, but of God. It's those who are born again that are his children That's his the seed of his seed. And that's the labor of his soul. Notice it says in verse 11, by his knowledge my righteous servant shall justify many. Wait a minute, justification by faith, that's a New Testament thing, right? No, it's in the Old Testament too Here it's his righteous servant is going to justify, declare righteous many, for he shall bear their iniquities. And that's his seed, that's that he'll see And so it is in the Old Testament. It was there all along. It just took New Testament revelation for us to understand what the Old Testament prophet was talking about. While we're here, I just flip over to the next page of chapter 54. I have a just a funny story to tell you. Back uh I think it was the second time the Ravens won the Super Bowl, Ray Lewis, uh, somebody put a microphone in his face afterward, and he quoted Isaiah 54, verse 17. No weapon formed against you shall prosper, and every tongue which rises against you in judgment you shall condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their righteousness is from me, says the Lord. Well, actually, Ray Lewis only quoted the first half of that verse. And uh I think he was applying it to some situation in his own life. But the next morning when I went into the jail Every ten steps somebody said, Chaplin, where's that verse that nobody can condemn you and everybody that rises against you? And uh I didn't even make it to my office until I had correctional officers and inmates all asking me, Where is that verse? And I didn't know off the top of my head. I didn't realize I knew it was in the Bible somewhere, but I said, I'll tell you what, I'll look it up and tell you. And I found it here in Isaiah 54. But you know, this follows right on Isaiah 53 after the suffering servant is declaring people righteous. This is a prophecy of the kingdom of of the time of Israel being in the land And then is the point where no weapon formed against them will prosper. Every tongue that rises to condemn them will be a condemned uh and this is the heritage of the servants of the Lord. But their righteousness is from who? It's from the Lord. It's not that they finally got their act together, followed all the Old Testament laws, and brought the blessing upon themselves. It's a blessing that came through the Messiah who would when they finally, you know, when Jesus returns and they look on him whom they have pierced. uh they mourn, they accept him as our Messiah, and the blessings of the kingdom begin. Very interesting prophecy, but one unfortunately in that day I was caught a little flat footed to to really explain to people what what it uh what he was talking about and what the verse really meant. Let's look at uh at one more verse here Let's go over to Jeremiah chapter 23. A lot of these prophecies of Christ come at really low points in Israel's history. And when you think about it, even the prophecy to Adam and Eve, I mean, they just sinned, did the thing that would bring them separation from God. They're being cast out of the Garden of Eden. when God pronounces that judgment upon them. And it's as if when people hit their low point, God says, yes, but, and he gives a prophecy of the Messiah, a prophecy of the kingdom. uh to to uh bolster their faith to give them something to hope in. This passage in Jeremiah, well you know Jeremiah, he's a prophet of prop introduced you know warning about the Babylonian captivity. He starts out chapter 23 pronouncing judgment upon the shepherds of Israel who scatter the sheep. And then comes a prophecy of the Messiah. Verse 5. Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will raise to David a branch of righteousness. A king shall reign and prosper and execute judgment and righteousness in the earth. In his days Judah will be saved and Israel will dwell safely. Now this is his name by which he will be called, the Lord our righteousness. Notice that This is a branch of David in verse 5. A branch of David that will be righteous, a king who reign and prosper. But what will his name be called? The Lord Our Righteousness. Well, how did a person gain righteousness? You know, a lot of times people say, Well, what do the Old Testament saints do? I I have guys say, Well, what is all this stuff about being born again? What did Abraham do? How did he get saved? you know. Well, Abraham believed in God and he credited to him for righteousness. And it says in Romans chapter 3. 26 that even the sins that were committed beforehand were covered by Jesus' blood. But here in the Old Testament prophecy, it's again prophesying that Christ would be our righteousness. The Lord would impute righteousness. He would give that as a gift to his people. These prophecies that we've looked at here, uh Uh I said that was going to be the last one, I'll wrap it up here, but there's more we could look at. They're a powerful testimony. to God's unchanging plan of the ages. Yeah, things have unfolded. New Testament saints have the Holy Spirit. They have the things that the Old Testament saints did. We have new revelation. But it's not really that anything has changed. It's not that we are making up things and and trying to read them back into the Old Testament. It was really there all along. It was it was being revealed, many of the details, maybe not some of the things about Gentiles and Jews being equal in the church, and Ephesians says that was totally a a new thing. Which was it was hidden in the Old Testament. But the truths of Christ being our Redeemer, of being incarnate, God incarnate, not a new thing. It's consistent with Scripture wherever it is. It's it's never denied in the Old Testament. It's uh it's uh many prophecies about Christ's birth clearly imply that God would be dwelling among us. That He would be an offering for our sins, that He would be the one to offer the gift of salvation, that it would be like a new birth, that we would have rights as children of God, like it The the prophecies all sort of point that way. And so it's a a thing that really bolsters people's faith when they see that this is really the unfolding of God's story. of of how all these things were predicted and came to pass and w it gives us confidence that the things predicted yet future will come about. Christ will return. There will be some sort of a kingdom. People will be resurrected and all those things that are foretold will happen. Let's close with a word of prayer. Father, we covered a lot of scripture tonight, but we thank you that you have left a record throughout history through many different prophets, things that that are rec recorded in a way that could never have been. Changed or falsified by any one person? Why would the Jews even do that since they don't believe the prophecies themselves? And so we thank you for the word of God that was made certain by the things revealed in the New Testament, things that we can have absolute confidence in. Knowing that uh you it was your plan from the beginning that Jesus was a lamb slain from the foundation of the world, that you've given glimpses of it throughout history, and then it was manifest and witnessed by the Pro Apostles. recorded for us today. Thank you, Lord, for these truths. Stir our hearts as we to trust in you more fully as we contemplate these things. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.