Well, it's a joy to be with you once again. I always appreciate the music uh in this church and uh Really appreciated the choir number and the special music. Um I don't know if I've told you folks um and almost embarrassed to tell you, but uh at once upon a time When I was twenty two years old, I was asked by a church to lead their choir, which I did for a year. I was a volunteer. I realized later in life that they must have been absolutely desperate, to ask me. Because I was not a member of the church. I couldn't be because I didn't agree with the doctrine. It was a Lutheran church and I didn't hold to infant baptism. So I told the pastor, I said, well, I really, you know. I really can't, you know, I wouldn't think that that's a wise thing to do because I don't agree completely with the doctrinal position of the church. And uh I said, you know, so mm, you know, you should think about that. And somehow, at any rate, a week later he called back and said, so are you coming? So apparently that didn't make any difference. But anyway, it may be one of the reasons why I appreciate so much uh the choir and uh the special music and everything else. Plus, of course, the hymn and can it be is uh probably one of my absolute favorites uh because of the not only the the uh uh melody, but the words are just so incredible. And of course it does uh fit uh precisely our message this morning Well, ever since the first century A. D. , many people have regarded Jesus as a great example. But not God. In fact, most of the major religions of the world, including Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism, consider Jesus to be a great teacher. and a great example, but they don't believe that he is God. Sadly that view uh seeped into Christian uh seminaries and churches in the late eighteen hundreds and nineteen hundreds So that even in the Presbyterian church where I uh grew up, uh the first uh church in fact that I joined at the ripe age of 14, I found that the pastor wasn't really sure if Jesus was God or not. After a couple of years of listening to his messages, I requested an appointment in his office and asked him the questions, you know, do you believe in the virgin birth, etc. And uh I think I was sixteen at that time. So uh at any rate he failed. And I wasn't all that surprised, but I was pretty surprised that he admitted it to me. Well, many people today have the same view. Jesus could be our inspiration, but he wasn't God who came down to earth to suffer and die for our sins in our place. No, he was simply a great example. Well, that kind of watered-down theology became somewhat of a litmus test for conservative schools and churches. Do you believe that Jesus was simply a great man and that we should follow his example? Or do you believe that he is God who died and rose again for your sins? The result is that in some circles, we have tended to downplay the idea of Jesus as a great man or a great example. But the truth is all these religions and the people who say that Jesus is a great example are right. They just don't go far enough. Jesus is our greatest example, but he's also our Savior and Lord who died and rose again for our sins. And the text that we want to look at this morning says exactly that. Well, since sometimes I am guilty. Of saying that a certain chapter or a certain passage is one of the most amazing passages in the entire Bible, I will not say that about this passage. Philippians 2, 5 to 11. Instead, I'll simply quote from D. Martin Lloyd-Jones, who says, and I quote. This entire passage is one of the most magnificent in the whole Bible. Now I didn't say that. He said that. Another commentator says it's the greatest doctrinal statement in the New Testament relative to the person of Christ. And yet another one calls it a Christological gem, a theological diamond that perhaps sparkles brighter than any other images. And may I simply say I would agree with all of those statements. The context for this incredible passage is given in the first four verses of Philippians 2. Which I'm sure you remember that we looked at way back in October. Well we see we had Thanksgiving and then we had Christmas in between and I'm only coming you know, once a month anyway, so I will forgive you if you don't r uh recollect that with uh great uh certainty Paul, you remember, wants the Philippian church to make his joy full. Philippians is filled with joy, and that's why I love the book so much. Make his joy full by being of one mind, verse two of our text in chapter two says, being humble, verse three, and looking out for the interests of others, verse four. Look particularly at verse 3. Let nothing be done through selfishness or selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better. than himself. If you remember when I was with you uh in October, I'm not too mad about the translation, let each esteem others better than himself because it could imply that we falsely consider other people to be better than us, even though in reality they aren't. But we can consider them more important than ourselves, elevating them more while paying less attention to ourselves Did Christ, the perfect Son of God, consider us miserable sinners as better than himself? Hardly. But he regarded us as more important than his own personal comfort, as he was willing to die for us rather than insist on his own needs and rights. And that's what you and I need to do as well. In one sense, as I said in October, humility isn't thinking lowly of ourselves. It's simply not thinking of ourselves at all. Our passage has the same theme, the importance of humility and considering others before ourselves. It's something that I think for sure I and I'm guessing you need to be reminded of continually. It begins in verse five with Paul's command. Have this the same mindset as Christ. Have the same mindset as Christ. It's actually the only command that's given in our passage. Verses 6 through 11 simply explain what he means by the mind of Christ. But really, verses 3 and 4 have already prepared us. The same root word translated mind is used in the compound word, translated lowliness of mind. In verse 3, possibly your version may have humility, but literally the word means lowliness of mind. And if someone were to object, but no, I am too great or too important or too smart or too whatever to be humble Well, Paul says you need to have the same mind, the same perspective as Christ. And how could anyone in their right minds argue with that? And do we think that we're greater than Christ? Even to begin to think that is blasphemous. I know that he He calls his disciples friends, John 15, 15. But I always need to remember that he is way far above me in every respect. So Paul says, you don't think humility is good? Well, you think it's somehow beneath you to consider the needs of others more than your own? Well, consider Jesus. Interestingly, the Greek doesn't have a secondary verb was or is with Christ Jesus, and instead perhaps saying have the same mindset as Christ Jesus would be a better translation. Paul says our mindset should be the same as his So first we see in Paul's in verse 5 Paul's command, have the same mindset as Christ. And the rest of the passage just very vividly portrays the mindset of Christ, the example of Christ. First in verses six through eight, the humiliation of Christ, and second in verses nine to eleven, the exaltation of Christ. Some people think that verses 6 through 11 represent an early hymn that Paul quotes here, and some translations even put it in poetic form. But personally, even though I don't have any problem if Paul is incorporating such a hymn, I think these words are unique to Paul and they are exalted prose rather than actual poetry. For those who like classical music, you will like the words of one scholar who says that this passage speaks, and I quote, the soaring unanswerable language of a bak cantara, which is best understood by being heard out to the end and then heard again. I like that. We descend then first to the depths of Christ's humiliation, but then we ascend gloriously to the heights of Christ's exaltation First, then the humiliation of Christ in verses 6 through 8. We see three stages of that humiliation in verses 6 through 8. First in verse 6, his willingness to give up his exalted position The passage begins with the exalted position of Christ in verse 6 and then cycles back to that exalted position in a new and grander way in verses 9 through 11. It starts out with his position as God. It says literally that he was in the form of God. Some uh see that to mean that he wasn't really God. By the way, there's heresies abounding all over this passage, and that's why, frankly I was scared to preach on it. I began preaching in 1976, and the first time I tried to think about preaching on this passage was a couple years ago And because it there's heresies like there's you're on a cliff and uh on one side of one the one the other, you know, you could fall off into a heresy. I'm not kidding you. And some people have. And so some people think, well, this is saying he wasn't really God. Well, that's a misunderstanding of the word form. The Greek word morphée means the outward manifestation that corresponds to an inward reality. As Jesus said in John 17, 5. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory that I had with you before the world began. Paul expresses this similar idea in 2 Corinthians 8:9. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. Christ being God had the most exalted position possible. Yet in the second clause of verse 6, We see that he didn't regard equality with God as something to be held on to, used for his own advantage, and kept at his own at all costs. You know, sometimes people in high positions do everything to keep those positions at all costs. Why? Well, they like the perks or the authority or the respect that that position entails. In essence, it's all about them. I remember for years as the assistant dean of Capitol Bible Seminary, I sometimes thought to myself, wouldn't it be nice to be Dean? Well, guess what? When the dean left, I was actually appointed the interim dean for two years. Of course, they didn't appoint anybody to be my my assistant so I was kind of in both positions. But I have to tell you that I found that that position had a lot of negatives and not that many positives. After all, when you're the head You've got to be really careful what you say about anything. Well, I like to express my opinion rather freely, and that was a rather inhibiting factor. And that's actually when I realized that my best gifts were in teaching anyway, not in administration. But that's a pretty silly example, and I would submit that any example that you or I might come up with might be almost as silly when we compare what Christ's position was before becoming a man. He had everything, but he was willing to give it up for us. Well, second in verse 7, we see his willing incarnation. His willingness to become a man. His willing incarnation, his willingness to become a man. And if you are keeping notes, I apologize because I don't think I gave you enough space there and it's my fault because uh um the bulletin is just re representing what I gave to you guys. But at any rate, you're going to have to go over. His willing incarnation, his willingness to become a man. This is the second step of Christ's humiliation. Literally, the verse says that he emptied himself. And in fact, that the hymn that we just sang, And Can It Be, talks about hims emptying himself of all but love. Well, this is the famous Kenosis passage, named after the Greek word for empty, that's used here And some folks think that Jesus somehow emptied himself of his deity. But that is decidedly not the case. He emptied himself of the prerogatives, the trappings of deity, perhaps, but that is all. And in fact, the verb may not even intend any direct object here. He emptied himself may simply mean he poured himself out. How did Christ Pour himself out. The next clause explains that. He took the form of a slave. F. F. Bruce explains this well. He says, this does not mean That he exchanged the nature or form of God for the nature or form of a servant. It means that he dischanged Displayed the nature or form of God in the nature or form of a servant. Bruce notes that a great example of this is in John 13, 3 to 5, at the Last Supper, and you remember what happened as he washed the disciples' feet. He says it was in full awareness of his divine origin and destiny, in full awareness of the authority conferred on him by the Father, that Jesus washed his disciples feet and dried them with the towel which he had around his waist. The divine nature was displayed and most worthily displayed in the act of humble service. It's incredible that Jesus entered our world not as Lord of all, which he was, but as a doulos, a servant of all. Well, verse 7 concludes that he was made in the likeness of men. And as I said, we have all kinds of heresies that are lurking about Paul's words here. And so in the late First century, a group called the Docetus believed that Jesus just seemed to be a man, but he wasn't really human after all. See, that's the other side of the coin here. But the New Testament evidence is clear elsewhere in 1 John 4. 2 and 2 John 7. John says that Jesus Christ came in the flesh. Similarly, Paul says elsewhere that Jesus was truly man born of a woman. Galatians 4. 4 You see, what we have here is beautifully represented is the full deity and the full humanity of Christ. I think that Paul uses these words, made in the likeness of men, to indicate that in no sense did Christ give up his deity when he became man at the incarnation. when he was born as a baby from the Virgin Mary's womb. But the fact that Jesus was born just as we are indicates that he fully participated in our human experience. Jesus was truly man, but was never merely man. By the way, If anybody thinks that the Trinity or the full deity and the full humanity of Christ is easy, I don't think it is. It's not easy for us to understand, but it's what the scripture teaches. Third, in verse 8, we see Christ's ultimate act of Humiliation, death on a cross. His ultimate act of humiliation is death on a cross. The verse the first clause of verse 8 basically He was born as a man, he was seen as in appearance as a man, as a mere man by most, and not God, but that wasn't humiliation enough. No, verse 8 continues, he humbled himself. No one humbled him, for indeed in every verbal battle with the religious leaders of his day, don't you love to read some of those things. I love Matthew twenty-two, especially where he's got all these questions asked him and thrown at him to trick him up, to trap him. Not really for knowledge. I never liked that as a teacher. I love good questions that are asked it with a good heart. But if somebody's just trying to trip you up, That's the wrong motive. And that's exactly what you see in Matthew 22. But Jesus got the upper hand every time. No, he humbled himself willingly. The next clause indicates that his self-humiliation brought ultimate obedience, becoming obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. It's one thing to willingly humble oneself, to be humble for others, but it's entirely another thing for a person to willingly humble oneself to the point of dying. For someone else. That is the ultimate sacrifice. And here it's hard not to think back of the great servant passages in the book of Isaiah, especially Isaiah 53. The servant's willing obedience to the will of the Father to die for our sins, though without sin himself. And that's exactly what Paul is highlighting here. And he didn't simply die. The last uh clause of verse 8, unveiling layer upon layer of Christ's humiliation, says that this was the most ignominious of deaths, death on a cross. stretched out naked for all to see. You know, in our day, and by the way, I have nothing against crosses or anything displayed, but I'm just mentioning in our day with a symbol of a cross taking on a different understanding in jewelry and Christian t-shirts freely depicting a cross. Maybe we can tend to forget about the shame that was associated with death on the cross The Roman statesman Cicero called crucifixion a most cruel and disfiguring punishment. He said that, and I quote, The very mention of the cross should be far removed not only from a Roman citizen's body, but from his mind, his eyes, his ears. Gordon Fee has this to say. No one in the early church, quote, used the cross as a symbol for their faith. There were no gold crosses embossed on Bibles or worn as pendants. around the neck or lighted on the steeple of the local church. The cross was God's and thus their scandal, God's contradiction to human wisdom and power. End quote. And as I said, I have no problem with anybody using a cross today as a representative of being a Christian. But it's important not to forget what the cross actually represented. It demonstrated Christ's ultimate act of humiliation. Setting aside all of his rights in order to die on our behalf, to die on a cross, the most humiliating of deaths, so that mankind might be safe, so that we might be safe. Yes, surely we see the amazing deaths of the voluntary humiliation of Christ in verses 6 through 8. But Paul doesn't leave us there at the cross. In verses 9 to 11, we see the exaltation of Christ. And that is the part that to me is so absolutely fantastic. Is uh humbling oneself really worth it in the long run? All that shame and dishonor? Well, Paul continues with the example of Christ. In the short term, it was humiliation, but in the long term it was exaltation. Verse 9 expounds the Father's exaltation of Christ. The Father's exaltation of Christ Because Christ descended to the lowest depths, God exalted him to the highest height. In the first verse of the fourth uh servant song, uh which I've already mentioned, but Isaiah 42, 13 says, Behold, my servant will prosper. He will be high and lifted up and greatly exalted. And that's exactly what Paul describes here. The verb used here literally means super exalted. His super-exaltation began at Jesus' resurrection from the dead and continued in his ascension into heaven after 40 days. and his exaltation at the right hand of the Father, as Acts 2. 33 declares. The culmination will come at Jesus' second coming, as verses 10 and 11 of our text explains. Verse 9 further explains that as a part of this super exaltation of Christ, the Father gave him the name which is above every name So that he went from a criminal on a cross to one with the greatest name of all. What is this name? Well, it could be the name Jesus mentioned in the beginning of verse 10, in which case it would mean that the name Jesus, once displayed prominently on the cross, now had a new and glorious significance. Of the highest exaltation. And that certainly is the case. But it seems more likely that the name is Lord. Kyrios in Greek, which is used in the Greek translation, the Septuagint, to translate the tetragrammaton, Yahweh. That name truly is above every other name. And indeed, verse 11 explains that the confession that people will make is that Jesus is Lord. Kyrias. He is God, Yahweh himself. Now, since the beginning of this passage indicated that Jesus was God, His super exaltation and name above every name in indicates a gain in official glory, not essential glory. Now everyone would recognize that what was always true of the Lord. Well Paul continues in verses 10 and 11 to describe the universal extent of Christ's exaltation. The universal extent of Christ's exaltation. There are two evidences of that exaltation. First, verse 10 says that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. And second, verse 11 says that every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord. Now, as fantastic as these expressions are, they did not originate with Paul. And sadly, just for fun, somebody gave me a Bible that has supposedly all the nice good cross-references to the Old Testament written in the text of the Bible And so they actually do reference in this passage Isaiah 52, 13, and Isaiah 53, which is fantastic, but they miss. I want to I it was a gift, so I can't give it back, but I would love to give it back. And they miss uh the the quotation that Paul is uh in fact uh uh uh uh giving here which is from uh isaiah forty five twenty-three. Isaiah forty-five twenty-three. Let me start from the middle of verse twenty-one And if you're already bored, just bear with me. We'll be done the boring part in a moment. But I find this, of course, very fascinating. Here's what Isaiah has uh says, and the Lord says. In Isaiah 45, 21. There is no other God besides me, a just God and a Savior. There is none besides me. Look unto me and be saved, all you ends of the earth. For I am God, and there is no other. I have sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return. that to me every knee shall bow and every tongue shall take an oath. Sound familiar? I sure hope so. He shall say, Surely in the Lord I have righteousness and strength. To him men shall come, and all shall be ashamed who are incensed against him. In the Lord, all the descendants of Israel shall be justified and shall glory. So in Isaiah 45, Isaiah says that the Lord is the only one. who can provide salvation and be the savior. There is no other. And one day, he says, every knee will bow to him and will confess Surely in the Lord, Yahweh, in Hebrew, Kyrgios in Greek, I have righteousness and strength. And Paul says that this was written about Jesus. Jesus, after all, comes from the Hebrew Jehoshua, which means the Lord is salvation. Now Paul expands a bit in verse 10 by explaining what every in every knee will bow, what it entails. In other words, everywhere. Under the earth probably refers to dead human beings, or it might simply be Paul's way of saying everywhere, over. under and on the earth. And he says, compare, by the way, Colossians 1, 16 to 20, where Paul says Christ has created all things in heaven and on earth, and later that he reconciled all things to himself, whether things on earth or things in heaven. There's no corner of the universe where someone will not bow the knee to Christ. And finally, in verse 11, Paul says that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Jesus Christ. is Lord. And that is, of course, the uh the amazing and the fantastic uh conclusion to all that. Jesus The Christ, the Messiah, is Lord. Yahweh, the only one of whom Isaiah 45-23 speaks. Elsewhere in Romans 10, 9, I'm sure you're familiar with this, Paul says: if you confess with your lips that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Now, this passage doesn't teach that everyone will be saved. No, the rest of the scripture makes that quite clear. In fact, Isaiah 45, 24, which we just read. ends by saying that all shall be ashamed who are incensed against him. But as James 2. 19 says, even the demons believe and tremble. We have an increasing number of atheists today, and they're increasingly vocal as well, and certainly we have lots of people in our world that refuse to believe that Jesus is God. Well, one day all will bow the knee and all will confess. Some will be bowing the knee and confessing in joy because they've trusted in Christ as their Savior and Lord. But others will be bowing the knee, confessing in torment, because they now know the truth which they had previously rejected and refused to acknowledge How much better it is to accept Jesus the Messiah as Lord willingly right now so that you and I can experience the joys of that salvation that Christ has provided for us by dying on the cross in our place. And I would urge if if there's somebody here this morning that has never done that. that they would consider these things, that they would consider these words and the warning that they are for those who don't believe. That all you have to do is trust in Christ as your Savior, and you will have eternal life and forgiveness of sins and great joy, both now and for sure, in eternity. What an amazing, an amazing passage this is. Paul concludes at the end of verse 11 that all this will happen to the glory of God the Father. I think this clause refers both to the humiliation and the exaltation of Christ. Indeed, the whole purpose of the humiliation and the exaltation of Christ is the glory of God. Jesus says in John 13, 31, on the eve of going to the cross, he says, now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. The humiliation and exaltation of Christ both served to glorify God in an amazing way. What an incredible passage. And I'm sorry if it was a little bit deep and a little bit complex, and I got into all the details, but I just. I well, I just feel like I would be doing it an injustice if I didn't. But as we conclude our study, I want to mention three important implications of these verses for our own lives. First, we see here the unquestioned deity of Christ. The unquestioned deity of Christ. That's how the passage begins. with Christ in his glory before the incarnation. And that's how it ends, with all acknowledging that He is Lord. He is Yahweh. He is God our Savior Paul's quotation of Isaiah 45, 23 makes this abundantly clear. Christ is not mere man. He is God. As Isaiah 45, 22 says, Look unto me and be saved all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. So if you're looking anywhere else, For your salvation, but to Jesus Christ, who is God and Lord, you're looking in the wrong place. Jesus is God, and he alone is our Savior. Second, and for me, this is overwhelming as I study this passage in depth. We see the staggering amount that Christ gave up for us. You know, I often think of the sacrifice of missionaries who are serving the Lord in parts of the world where maybe they don't have the internet or even in some cases electricity on a regular basis or s uh some of what we would call The necessities of life. And there are many that are sacrificing in this way. One of the things I so appreciate about this church is your emphasis and support of missionaries and missions. Yes, they are giving up the comforts of life here in the States. But that pales In comparison to what Christ gave up in order to be born as a baby in Bethlehem, to grow up and to be misunderstood. all of his life. I know some of us perhaps have been misunderstood in various ways, but he was misunderstood all his life. Culminating with being crucified on a cross. And he did all of this for us while we were yet sinners. Romans 5. 8 says, Christ died for us. What amazing love. And finally, we see here the incredible example of humility, obedience, and sacrifice for us to follow as examples. This is an incredible doctrinal treatise that Paul has given us here, but he didn't intend it simply to inform our theology about Christ. He intended it to transform our lives. That's why he brought it up in the first place in the context. Here's what Andrew Murray wrote in his little book entitled Humility, The Journey to Holiness. He wrote it over a hundred years ago, in fact in 1910, and I think it's just as applicable to us today. He says it's important that we know who Christ is, especially the chief characteristic that is the root and essence of his character as our Redeemer. There can be but one answer. It is his humility. What is the incarnation but his heavenly humility, his emptying himself and becoming man? What is his life on earth but humility, his taking the form of a servant? And what is his atonement but humility? He humbled himself and became obedient to death. If humility is the first, the all-inclusive grace of the life of Jesus, if humility is the secret of his atonement, then the health and strength of our spiritual life will depend entirely upon our putting this grace first. and making humility the chief quality we admire in him, the chief attribute we ask of him, the one thing for which we sacrifice all else. Is it any wonder he says that the Christian life is often so weak and fruitless when the very root of the Christian life is neglected or unknown? Is it any wonder that the joy of salvation is so little felt when that by which Christ brings it is so seldom sought? Until a humility that rests in nothing less than the end and death of self, which gives up all honor of men as Jesus did to seek the honor that comes from God alone. Until such a humility is what we seek in Christ above our chief joy and welcome at any price, there is very little hope of a faith that will conquer the world. Now, I could have probably summarized that a little bit. That's the one thing of some of these older writers. They seem to go on and on and on. But you get the point And uh I would say too, and just speaking very personally, one of the key things as you folks are looking for a new pastor, to me. I put it right at the top. Does he have humility? Does that person is he able to laugh at himself? You know, a good sense of humor. Why do I say that? Because if you can't laugh at yourself, you're taking yourself too seriously And uh to me, humility is right there, number one. Okay, I mean there's a lot of number ones in my book, just like there are a lot of favorite passages, you understand. But humility better be there. It can't be absent. Is my point. It cannot be absent because if it is, that's the wrong guy. Because he's not acting the way Christ acted. That doesn't mean, you know, he can't. you know, may be authoritative. You think Christ was authoritative? Oh I think so. Did he have great teaching? Oh I think so. But what about humility? What about humility? That's Way high up there in my list. And it's way high up there, not just for a senior pastor, but what? For each one of us. You and I need to have the humility and the mind of Christ looking at others as more important than ourselves So when we go to the grocery store, are we more concerned and I confess to being guilty on this sometimes, with arguing with a cashier about the price of an item because I saw it was cer a certain price and it's ringing up as something else and of course. If the computer says it, they think it's, you know, that's true. Or are we instead concerned about how that person is doing? Right? And whether they're having a good day, and whether we're helping them have a good day. In our church, are we more concerned Concerned that we you know to get our point across to be heard, or are we more concerned for the welfare of the body as a whole? As husbands Do we really love our wives, as Paul puts it in Ephesians 5. 25, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it? And that's exactly the way it commands us. Are we simply interested in what our wives do for us and judge things according to that? That's not the way we should be looking at it. Are we willing to have the mindset of Christ that he so amazingly exemplified in his incarnation and in his death on the cross? For truly, he is our greatest example. And when we're tempted to insist on our own rights or our own way to the exclusion of others, we need to adopt his mindset and his example. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Father I know there are a lot of folks that are not feeling well this morning physically, but I do pray, Lord, that these words will just touch our hearts again. I'm sure the this passage is very familiar to many of us, but when we look at it again, Lord, when I've looked at it again, I just realize the extent of your love for us that we cannot even imagine. Father, I thank you so much for your love for us. I thank you, Lord, for the Lord Jesus Christ and all that He gave up for us, Lord. I would pray if there's anyone here that This morning, that's never trusted Christ as their Savior, that they would do it today. They wouldn't delay. We don't know if we have it tomorrow. But we do know that we have today. Thank you, Father, for all that you have done. But Lord, I would pray that you would continue to instill in us. The recognition that we need to consider ourselves as less important Than the others around us, Lord. That includes, Lord, those whom we may not know outside in the world, Lord, as a witness, but it also includes folks here in the church and in our own families. Spouses, husbands and wives, parents and children, Lord, we realize, Lord, how often we get upset because somebody Has trampled on our rights. But help us, Lord, to consider the needs of others as more important than ourselves, just as you did Thank you, Lord, for all that you've done in Jesus' name. Amen.