And I don't know. Over the years I've heard some different versions of this leadership quote. You cannot lead if you cannot follow. You cannot lead if you cannot follow. Some trace it back. Perhaps it originates from Aristotle, who said he who has never learned to obey cannot be a good commander. What are your thoughts on that? Agree or disagree? Do you want your leader to be a good follower? I think it's generally true for all Christians. I believe that we ought to be good middlemen or middlewomen, whatever we want to say. We need someone above us and someone below us. We should be like that centurion who was both under authority and have soldiers under him as well. That's why we look for someone like Paul, someone to imitate, a mentor of some sort. But then you should also have someone you can train and bring up as a disciple. That's what it means to have someone below you, someone looking up to you. Of course, if you have younger siblings or children or if you're already in a formal position, finding a follower is relatively easy There's great joy and burden in that. My wife has a mini version of her, following her every moment. She's at home, every moment she's awake. I wonder if that popular police song is about toddlers stalking their moms. Every breath you take, every move you make, every bond you break, every step you take, I'll be watching you. Well back to Titus, he's certainly a middleman in the household of faith. First he got Paul as an apostolic example above him. We've got a glimpse of how he modeled faithful ministry last time in Titus 1:1 to 4. Today we get to see what kind of men Titus had to raise up to develop into elders. We find something like a job description in the sermon text. These five verses amount to something like a resume of a godly elder. So let's read now Titus one five to nine. 1 5 to 9. For this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the things that are lacking and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you. If a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of dissipation or insubordination, for a bishop must be blameless as a steward of God, not self willed, not quick tempered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money, but hospitable, a lover of what is good, sober minded, just holy, self controlled, holding fast the faithful word as he has been taught. that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convict those who contradict. As I often do, I observe some structural features. In tracing the flow of Paul's argument, it's key that we pick up on transitional words. I'm thinking of phrases like for this reason in verse 5. There's a conjunction if in verse 6 and 4 in verse 7. These may not be interesting in and of themselves, but they're like joins that link limbs and like hinges of doors. Pay attention to them as you go through this passage. Besides these, after verse 5 gets us going, you'll notice a key word blameless is one trait of the elder candidate that's repeated. You see blameless in verse 6. You see blameless again in 7. I'll explain more in detail the meaning of this adjective in a moment, but for now just notice the emphasis on the word blames. Finally, Paul also devotes an entire verse to explain how an elder must handle the word of God. The apostle could have kept it short and sweet, as he did in 1 Timothy 3. 2. But here in Titus 1 9, Paul has much more to say about this ability, 21 words to be exact, longest of the five verses today. The teaching must be important in Paul's mind. It should be important in our minds too. So putting all this together, I'd like to present four job descriptions of the elder. First, an elder receives his commission. Train future elders. Verse 5. Second, the elder cares about cares for his closest kin. So be a family man. Verse 6. Thirdly, he develops his character. Seek fidelity and integrity. Verses 7 to 8. Fourthly, he gives his counsel, hold fast the word to teach it. Verse 9. First and foremost, he hears the elders' commission. Train future elders. Paul wastes no time here with Titus as he immediately explains why he's sensation at Crete. Titus must appoint more like him It's the same command for Timothy at Ephesus. Paul told him in or will tell him in 2 Timothy 2, 2, the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. The job of pastors is spiritual multiplication. Find those who imitate us as we imitate Christ. Spawn more overseers. That's how Paul envisioned, right, Titus setting in order the things that are lacking. The apostle had unfinished business at Crete. Flashback, he certainly didn't have get to do much there on his journey to Rome when he stopped at Fair Haven. But after two years of house arrest, he was free to travel all over. Evidently he returned to Crete to do some real gospel work in various cities, but ran out of time It's a good thing that Paul had Titus to carry on the work. And it's a good thing Paul didn't want Titus to do it alone. We find in verse 5 this key idea, plurality of elders over elders. Each church. Paul's been doing this for a while. In his first missionary journey, he and Barnabas appointed elders, plural, in every church. That's Acts 14. Twenty-three. That's not one elder per church, it's two or more elders per church. So that's the elders' commission. Titus, an elder himself, must train future elders, and there's great wisdom in this plurality. It protects the pastor from loneliness and despair. It protects the congregation from unchecked power given to one person. For this biblical practice to continue here at Faye Bible, Carrie and I must be on the lookout for a few good men. Thankfully, we don't need to come up with from scratch a checklist for evaluating prospects. And the beast or elder does not need any prior experience in formal church ministry. Does he look for a man who cares well for his own at home? Does he care for his closest kin? Is he a family man? Verse 6 begins a list of characteristics we seek in a future elder. Again, there's a particular focus on his blameless behavior. Now, blameless does not mean sinless. Then obviously, you know, no one's qualified. Only Jesus can be an elder. Blameless here is not fast-forwarding through our sanctification to arrive at glorification. We're not expecting today perfection before God through Christ on the day of judgment as we see in 1 Corinthians 1:8 or Colossians 1:22. Rather to be blameless in this content, it's of a good reputation among the saints. It's like passing a board examination for licensure or certification. It's clearly clearing some level of standards expected of leaders. Just as there's a test of some sort for deacons according to 1 Timothy 3:10 We infer there's a test of some sort for elders too. And it turns out that training grounds for elders is the home. To discern whether you have a potential elder, visit his abode. Observe his relationship with his wife and children. Don't see them at their Sunday best, but at their worst, maybe on other days. The examination room is a living room and a dining room. First asked whether he's the husband or one wife. It literally says, a one-woman man. This obviously rules out polygamous, having multiple wives. A man who cheats on his wife should not be an elder. And in this internet age, if a man habitually watches pornography without remorse and repentance, he should not be considered for this office. Many also think that the husband of one wife means the candidate has never divorced. I'll be honest, I'm not really sure about that. The issue of marriage and divorce can be quite complex. And it's hard to say all of that complexities packed into this one short phrase. My view is that husband and one wife is simply stressing a man's wholehearted devotion to his wife in a monogamous relationship. I can think of cases where divorce might not disqualify a prospect. For example, maybe there's a divorce before conversion, coming to Christ. There might be divorce because an unbelieving wife has abandoned the Christian man. I'll be glad to talk to you about my views with you later at another time. But now we go on to the elder's relationship with his children. Similar to being blameless, having faithful children does not mean perfection. I don't even think faithful in this context means they have to be saved. It just means kids are dutiful sons and daughters, obeying and submitting to their parents. Again, no one should expect them to be angels. But children of elders shouldn't be in juvenile detention. They shouldn't be truants or thieves. A father like Homer Simpson should not be an elder because of Bart Simpson, his son. If you're like Henry Mitchell and your son is Dennis Demenace, then maybe this isn't the best time to serve as an elder. Now of course you and I have to be gracious as we make these kinds of judgments. I'm certainly not a perfect husband. or perfect dad. You can ask my wife. Actually don't ask my wife, just take my word for it. I'm not a perfect husband or a perfect dad. Now, while your spouse and children may admit you're not perfect, they should be able to vouch for your potential. I remember a few weeks before I started here at Faith Bible, while I was still a member of Capitol Hill Baptist, Mark Deber met me at the church door to ask about this opportunity here. He asked me if I thought I was ready. I said yes. Then he turned to my wife and asked, Do you think he's ready? She also said yes. It might not be that straightforward, but somehow, some way a wife's assessment of a man's candidacy must be put into consideration. If the situation's if the situation at homes figuratively or even literally a dumpster fire, then maybe it's not the right time yet. We have to ask ourselves the same question Paul asked in 1 Timothy 3:5. If a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God? Keep in mind this connection between the household of blood and the household of faith as we move on to verses seven and eight. We're going to double-click on this word blameless in a moment. As we do, we learn that the godly elder develops his character, so seek fidelity and integrity. Notice first how Paul readily switches from elder in verse 5 to bishop in verse 7. This isn't a title. It's not a mistake. Paul really sees elder and bishop as one and the same office. They're synonymous, though they do emphasize different facets of a single role. Considering politics, how are presidents also called the commander-in-chief? Similarly, in church polity, we can call an elder a bishop. You can even add a third title to the mix, pastor. Right. It's not just reserved for me. You can call you know Carrie, Pastor Carrie, okay? Back to that today as you leave. Thank you, Pastor Perry. Um Before I bring all three titles together in one passage, let me briefly comment on the shades of differences between elder, bishop, and pastor. Elder emphasizes maturity. Kind of obvious, right? Most often, maturity comes with time and experience. For many people, you can't really take a shortcut on that. There are, of course, exceptions, precocious and gifted men in ministry. uh in history I think of Robert Murray McShane, Charles Spurgeon, and more closer to our time, H. V. Charles. Uh they were all in their late teens or early twenties when they started at their uh mid ministry positions. Secondly, as for the bishop, we're not talking about the chess piece, right? The Greek word for bishop is episcopal. Where we get the denomination name Episcopalian. Episcopals means overseer. Maybe a modern equivalent would be supervisor. As he stands above others to look over them, there's some level of authority in the rank of bishop. And then thirdly, there's the pastor. Pastor just means shepherd. Picture this. If the elder's got gray hair and the bishop has watchful eyes, the pastor has his hands busy, he has a firm grip on his staff and his rod, he leads and guides them to feed on green pastures, right? Of course, that requires a pastor to be caring and protective and give them something to feed. More on that in verse 9. But first, let me show you a passage that brings all of the three titles: elders, bishop, and pastors together. Um I won't put it up and you can sort of note it later. Um Acts twenty. If you start at Acts twenty, verse seventeen, it says from Miletus, Paul sent to Ephesus and called for the Elders of the church. Skip down to verse 28, where it says, Take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. To shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his own blood. Yes, that overseers in the middle of the verse twenty-eight is bishops, and right after it to shepherd is the verbal form of The noun pastor in Ephesians 411. Hopefully you agree with me that elder, bishop, pastor are interchangeable forms of terms, right? But even more important than their formal titles are character traits expected of them. Thankfully, Paul's straightforward about them. Earlier we discussed blamelessness at home as the head of the house. This time we discussed blamelessness at church and elsewhere as the steward of the house. Stewards By definition, man is what does not belong to them. That's why bishops must seek fidelity and integrity. We should have high moral standards for pastor. So from the middle of verse 7 to the end of verse 8 There's a list of vices to avoid and a list of virtues to seek. Those are five knots followed by five vices. A qualified overseer is not self-willed. He does not see his way in all things, but God's ways. He's not quick-tempered when things don't go his way. He's not given to wine. That doesn't mean he's a teetotaler, completely abstaining from alcohol, but he should have enough self-restraint to avoid drunkenness. He's also not violent, unable to control his passions. He's not greedy for money, that is in love with money, using godliness as a means of gain. And then we move on to verse 8. We have six virtues. Hospitable means an elders willing to open up his home. He's a lover of people. More generally, he's a lover of what is good. Sober-mindedness suggests clarity in thinking, being temperate, self-disciplined David Guzik has this to say about the final trio of qualities. Quote: A pastor or leader in the church must be just. Right toward men, holy, right toward God, self-controlled, right towards themselves. Honestly, I think Paul could have gone on and on to list hundred more qualities. But the point here is simple. An elder develops his character. Seeks fidelity and integrity. That's what we expect from other shepherds who serve under the great shepherd, Christ Jesus. The faithful steward of God, that's fidelity. He's the same person before people as he is in private, that's integrity. As someone wise once said, integrity is doing the right thing even when no one is watching. While that demand applies to all of us, it's especially true of overseers as they watch out for your souls. Now, have we ended at verse 8? We have a solid Christian, a godly husband and father, an exemplary brother in Christ. That's great for all churches to have. But there's more required from elders according to verse 9. We learn that an elder stands out from the congregation with this particular job description. He gives his counsel. He holds fast the word to teach it. Paul casts off the list of qualifications with some emphasis on his ability to teach. Again, the apostle could have kept it short and brief as he did in 1 Timothy 3. 2. Just be just say, be able to teach. Could have just used one word in the original language, but there are 21 words here, and it might help to start backwards from the end of the verse. So picture this elders exhorting and convicting. Enter a church building. And you'd expect to see and hear pastors preaching at the pulpit. Or teaching in front of the classroom. That's exhorting. Enter a church office or follow him to a visitation, and you might see elders confronting an erring erring saint. Or with with some tough love and gentle rebuke. That's convicting those who contradict. We can think of various scenarios, but they all have this in common. They're talking, they're speaking, they're talking about God, they're rightly dividing the word of God, the word of truth, and rightly applying it to people's lives. Now, how does one go about accomplishing this exhorting and convicting? was right there. We do so by sound doctrine. At a membership forum earlier this year I led a short discussion on Sound doctrine. Doctrine simply means teaching, but the quality of teaching matters. We're looking for what's sound By the way, the word sound in the original is etymologically related to the modern word hygiene. Very often in the New Testament, soundness is used to describe physical restoration through a miracle or general safety from harm. But in Paul's pastoral epistles, soundness describes speech. I wrote down here a summary of my findings from relevant passages. Sound teaching harmonizes with the law and the gospel. It comes from God and promotes godliness. It's heard, patterned, and preserved by God's grace. It's contradicted by false teachers, but taught by faithful teachers. is indispensable for the office of the elder. It leads to church-wide spiritual growth. So that leads to this question. Does our church, Faith Bible, have good hygiene? Is it a healthy church? I'm not talking about washing hands before fellowship meals or covering our mouths when we sneeze or cough. I'm not talking about wiping surfaces, taking out the trash, or tossing out expired food from the fridge. We do do that, by the way. Here's a better test. They are a visitor of our church. And you've kept your eyes closed the whole time you were here. And all you had was your sense of hearing. Would you leave our church building saying, I heard a lot of good things here? I heard what's good for necessary edification. I heard things that impart grace to the hearers. I heard psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, the word of Christ richly dwelling in these saints in all wisdom. I heard them teaching and admonishing one another. This kind of church gathering does not happen without biblical elders who are able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convict those who contradict. And such teachers do not appear out of thin air. They're in place because they were taught. So look at all the words at the front of verse 9. By the way, if we're more wooden and literal with the translation, the verse actually reads, holding fast as he has been taught. The faithful word. Paul emphasizes that phrase as he has been taught by putting it more forward than we see it in our English translation. Our hope in prayer is that those who are taught well teach others well. Again, Titus 1:9 is saying the same thing as 2 Timothy 2. 2. The things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. With this faithful word committed to him, the pastor, elder, bishop gives his counsel. You must hold fast the word to teach it. Closing with some application, I'd like to re-emphasize the idea of sound doctrine. A good follow-up question. What are some examples of it? Well the most obvious ones are statement of faith. Ours is a great summary of key biblical truths held throughout the centuries. If I'm allowed to quibble, I might suggest adding a line or two concerning the doctrines of salvation, such as regeneration, justification, and sanctification, kind of like the catechism question we recited earlier Defining these terms biblically sets us apart as Protestant evangelicals, distinct from Roman Catholics. But even as it stands, our statement of faith is still a great example of sound doctrine. If the only time you read it is at the membership interview, And it's a shame. That's why I've tried to discuss it at our quarterly meetings. Sometimes we recite portions of it during worship. But all of us should read it regularly, study it, even use it to train up young ones in the faith. If you want access to it, it's on the website. Here's a second, another relevance of sound doctrine. If the Lord ever leads you to, I don't know, go to another state or look for another church, let me give you a warning. One major sign that a church is healthy is whether their doctrinal statement is biblical. And after it, whether it's promoting sound doctrine. So before visiting churches, go to their websites and look for their statement of faith or confession of faith. Read it. Ask their pastors, elders, and teachers about it. If they say something like, we don't care for doctrine here, then politely thank them for their time. Get in your car, drive to another church that does care for doctrine. Finally, there's no better way to promote sound doctrine than getting the gospel right. And communicating It to others. It'll sharpen you. You might get questions about the gospel. All of us, and I mean every member here, should be able to articulate the good news of Jesus. You don't have to do it up here on stage or out in the streets at the park. You should be ready to share it if someone asks you to share it. You might share like this that the good news starts with the bad news. Apart from God's mercy and grace, all of us are doomed. The fact is in our flesh, we're self-willed, quick-tempered. Some of us may struggle with substance abuse, violence, love of money We're far from hospitable. We do not love what is good. We're not sober-minded. We're far from just, holy, or self-control. Turn aside from God's faithful word. For all these reasons and more, we deserve the Lord's righteous wrath. Eternity apart from him in hell. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way God did not leave us like this. He promised that he himself would search for his sheep and seek them out. That's why God the Father sent Jesus, the Son of God and Son of Man, united in one person. He lived a perfect life. But then Jesus, the good shepherd, laid down his life for the sheep. He went to the cross to suffer and pay the penalty of our sin in our place. There the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Christ satisfied God's just and holy anger against us. There he breeded his last. And completed the work of redemption. But after three days, Jesus rose from the grave. Just as he had power to lay down his life willingly, he had the power to take it up again. He appeared for to many for forty days, giving many proofs of his resurrection. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. Someday he'll return to judge all men. Mankind. Now here's the choice before the fallen and corrupt man. Will you remain an outcast, astray, a stranger, or will you return to the shepherd? You do that by repenting, turning from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Trust in Him only for eternal life. You cannot Earn it or deserve it. God saves, justifies us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And there's nothing like living under the loving care of Jesus. He's our older brother, the great shepherd of the sheep, the overseer of our souls. So we celebrate his love for us today and forevermore. How he watches over his loved ones, died to call them all his own, how for them he interceded. Lord we just thank you that when we think of authority or what makes the headlines or People falling from grace, scandals, people who abuse their power. But Lord, none of that applies to you in your sovereign rule and in your great love for us. That we see in the gospel, in your care for us continually, in the plan to bring forth your kingdom. And Lord we're thankful that we are part of that through your Son Jesus Christ. The Son of your love. And we pray that we will live, becoming more and more like Him in the use of our authority, whether it's at home, whether it's at work, whether it's at church. May we become more and more like your Son Jesus Christ. Lord, help us to pray for those in authority, especially at our churches, or those who have leadership positions. That we can look at these lists and not have our eyes glaze over them, but to really think one by one. This is what we want to see in those who lead our church. This is what I want to see in myself. We just thank you that your word is so clear to us in your expectation of us as we grow in sanctification. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.