I want to describe for you for a moment two boys with two very different attitudes. I am not describing my kids. But I am describing what I've personally and probably you have experienced or observed as you've looked at the behavior of people in particular. Let me describe this one young boy who was enthusiastic. He barely contained his energy. He was sitting on his seat and he could not sit still. Have you ever seen a boy do this? He's just kind of bouncing like this and And going like this, or just kind of doing this with paper. I mean, he was just sitting there and he was so excited about what was going to happen. And his attitude showed it. But then let me describe another boy for you. His shoulders were drooping. He was waiting. He was seated, but it looked like he was hardly breathing. There was a frown on his face, and he really was filled with dread. Both of these boys. Had completely different attitudes. The one was enthusiastic with barely contained energy, the other was drooping and waiting. What was the difference? They're both about the same age. Well, the one boy, the excited one, was waiting for the last day of school to be over. Summer was coming. And he had this hope of a future of being out of school. How many of you have ever felt that way? Surely all of us have loved that last day of school. I really That was just great. But the second boy was waiting in his room for his dad to come in and punish him because he knew he had done something bad and he was in big trouble. He was anticipating something quite different than the last day of school. What this story illustrates is that what we anticipate about the future. Greatly influences current attitudes and actions. One boy enthusiastic, the other sullen. One boy can't sit still, the other can't even move. And this is where we enter into the whole idea of biblical hope. Now, Lord willing, next week we get back to Luke. Okay, I'm looking forward to it. But we are in the midst of a complex situation in our country A presidential race, among other races. And if you are like me, perhaps you could use a good dose of Hope this morning. And so this morning I'm going to finish preaching some more on the biblical view of hope. I want us to see this morning that what we anticipate and what we expect Will influence our attitudes, our actions right here and now. So, right at the beginning of this sermon, I want you to ask yourself Where is your hope? And how is it affecting your attitude and actions? If you remember last week we identified a kind of false worldly hope. The plowman plows in hope that he's going to have a good harvest. He expects that, but there's always the chance of a drought. There's always the chance that the harvest won't be good. But if it is good, he rejoices in the plenty. He's glad that he has a good harvest. And so there is in every person this practice of anticipating the future and acting in the present in hopes of an anticipated future. But for the Christian, our hope is solidly rooted in faith in the Word of God. And it's quite different from the hope that lost people have because they throw around statements like I hope it doesn't rain today and it could rain or I hope the economy is good next month and it might not be. And I hope the job reports that Come out really show that our economy is growing and it may never happen. So, really, what worldly hope is, it's sort of a shot in the dark. It's sort of a statement of maybe this will happen. I sure hope this will happen. But for the Christian, We saw in Romans 8, 24 and 25, Abraham's hope against hope. He was waiting in faith And he was confidently waiting about a future reality. He had a present faith about a future promise that had not yet been fulfilled. And that is why often People define the Greek term that's translated hope in your New Testament as a kind of confident expectation for the Christian. We we're anticipating something And we know that this is going to happen, and so we have a certain kind of confidence in relation to that. But this morning I want you to really, I want to really draw out this this idea of present perspective, present attitude, because so much of what we anticipate affects us in the here and now. How did you feel this week about your future? What kind of thinking went through your mind as you watched television and read articles about your future? If tomorrow is always going to be worse than today, if tomorrow is going nowhere, then I should quickly kind of scoop up all the joys and pleasures and treasures I can. And then I need to just consume them as quickly as I can because tomorrow I might not have an opportunity. Has that been your attitude? You know, you take a five-year-old kid and you put him in a candy store. How would he act if you said, I will, five-year-old, you say, I'll give you ten minutes? You can't carry any candy out of the store, but in these 10 minutes you can eat as much candy as you want. You can carry it out in your stomach. Go. How will he act in those ten minutes? He can't take it with him, except in his stomach. You know how he's gonna act. He's gonna go out of there, one sick kid. His stomach's gonna be bursting with With all these, and they have new candies today. They have sour candies and all these kind of things the kids are eating now. He's going to be sick as he heads out So what can we do? Let me ask you this morning first to go ahead and turn to Acts 26. We're going to look at How hope affects us today and what how makes some applications on this for ourselves. All right. In Acts twenty-six, Paul is standing before Agrippa And the Apostle Paul is going to make a defense for what's happening and why he's being persecuted, and he's going to be very bold in what he's saying to King Agrippa. And so if you look at Acts 26, verse 1, it says, Then Agrippa said to Paul, You're permitted to speak for yourself. So Paul stretched out his hand and answered for himself, I think myself happy, King Agrippa, because today I shall answer for myself before you concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews. Especially because you are an expert in all customs and questions which have to do with the Jews. Therefore, I beg you to hear me patiently My manner of life, from my youth, which was spent from the beginning among my own nation at Jerusalem, all the Jews know. They knew me from the first, and they were willing to testify that according to the strictest sect of our religion, I lived a Pharisee. And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers. To this promise Our twelve tribes earnestly serving God night and day hope to attain. For this hope's sake, King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews. Why should it be thought incredible by you that God raises the dead? Indeed, I myself thought I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Stop there for a moment. He's defending himself and he is embedding himself right into his culture and his people And he is describing the hope that they had as the hope of resurrection. If someone comes to you and says the resurrection is not in the Old Testament, You can definitely say that the Apostle Paul believed it was. And of course, there are passages in the Old Testament that allude to it, not as clearly as the New Testament, But here's the apostle testifying before Agrippa that this was the hope of Israel. But I want you to notice here first of all and establish this fact That, well, let me let's get you look at it. Look at verse 7 again. To this promise are twelve tribes earnestly serving God night and day, hope to attain. For this hope's sake, King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews. There is a connection here between earnestly serving God night and day and this hope that he's saying his people had. And this is certainly a testimony of the Apostle Paul and the way he served. His belief in the resurrection The future resurrection, as that he did not experience, it was not in the present, but in the future, was something that motivated him greatly day and night, and he describes it as motivating an entire nation, in this case, the believing Jews embedded in that nation. Promise to the twelve tribes, earnestly serving God night and day, hope to attain This is one of the passages in the New Testament where there's a line drawn between hope and present actions, hope in future promise and present actions. Now, if you want to see a passage that directly ties hope to promise, you turn to Titus 1, 2. Turn there quickly. And we're just surveying a few passages right now. Titus 1, 2. Abraham received a promise, and he hoped against hope. And in Titus 1:2, we have Paul talking about the elect. Let's just read the first two verses. Titus 1, 1 and 2. Paul, a bond servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledgement of the truth which accords with godliness, in hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before time began. This is one of those passages that links very clearly hope to promise, a present faith about a future reality. Now what if you were, if I were to ask you to get out a pen right now and write down What how often? Let me put it this way. If you were to take a journal of your own thoughts the past month And you were to really write down what you actually thought. It was just between you and God, okay? Nobody else could read it. Would there be any line in the past 30 days? Where you just said you thought about a promise of God, and you really told God that this was where your hope was. That your hope was not in better government, ultimately, although surely we want good government. Romans 13. God created government, but. That your hope is in a promise that God gave. And to be more specific, when was the last time that you really just thought about the resurrection? The fact that you are not going to remain as you are now, but that the day will come when all sickness All disease, all pain, all tears, all suffering will be gone, and that there will be a new heavens and a new earth, and that you will have a resurrected body in that place. Now, I'm talking to some people that are over the age of 40 in this room. Just a few of you, I think. And it seems the older we get, the more aches and pains we start accumulating. For us, it seems to become more, I've noticed in you talking and my own speech as I talk and think. The resurrection, it becomes more precious the closer you get to the end, doesn't it? I've sat with some of you in the hospital And I've listened to what you say. And your hope in the resurrection in that moment is so precious to you. And that's good. But here's Paul in the midst of his ministry. Folks, think about this now. He's defending himself before a king who should know sort of the ins and outs of the Hebrew religion. And he's summing up this entire argument like this. I'm being persecuted today because I have a hope in a future resurrection. This is what my ministry is all about. It's that defining moment before this man. And yet, why is it that I often find myself and even our church, we don't seem to talk about it that much? Let me get you to turn to a few other passages and tell you from the Word of God what thinking more about the hope of the resurrection can do for you. The first thing in Acts 26, we see that it affects your service. There's this earnest service that he's saying his nation had. Now turn to 1 Corinthians 15. Now we're going to do something a little different, maybe you've never done before, but hopefully you'll see I'm not being Out of bounds here with reading the passage about the resurrection. Now, in this passage, Paul's talking about the resurrection, and at the end of it, he says: if there's no resurrection, then we're all in trouble. And let me just remind you by reading through some of this. Look at verse 12. This is 1 Corinthians 15, 12. Paul writes to the Corinthians, and he says, If Christ is preached that he has been raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and our faith is also empty. Yes, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise. For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile, you are still in your sins. Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. Now, he believes in the resurrection, as do you. But he's laying out here the picture of a person who, if we don't believe in it And our hope is only about this life, what how that affects their faith. Look at it again and let look at some of these phrases again. First, verse 14: if Christ is not risen, Empty preaching, empty faith. Worthless preaching, worthless faith. Verse 15: Deceit. Yes, we are found false witnesses of God. Verse 16. And verse 17, again, faith that is futile Still in our sins, still in a state of sin, unforgiven. And then verse 18: if Christ is not not risen and those who have died, we're never going to see them again. Those who are born again who died, that is it. You will never see that loved one ever again. Now let's take this and re let's turn it upside down. If because we believe that Christ is risen Then that means that our preaching is not empty, and our faith also is not empty. Reverse it and see how this works. I'm not changing the word of God. We're only pulling it out and applying it and trying to see what we have because of the resurrection. We have powerful preaching. And we have a faith that has an object that is steady and secure. That's verse 14. Worthwhile preaching and faith. Verse 15, because Christ is risen from the dead, we are not deceivers when we say he is risen. He is risen indeed. What we believe is true. We are not hypocrites peddling the word of God. We're not Selling snake oil or whatever you want to say, a false remedy to life's problems. He's risen. We preach the truth. Because he is risen, our faith is, and then verse 17, when it talks about a feudal faith, this is more than just a faith without an object. This is a faith that finds expression in the world, like a faith that can work things out, a genes kind of faith where I believe, therefore I act. And we have a faith that is fruitful. That is powerful in the way it works out in our lives. And because Christ is risen, we are not in our sins anymore. We're forgiven. Those of us in this room who put your faith in Christ, the cross, the resurrection, you are forgiven, justified, redeemed, cleansed. And he's tying all of this to resurrection. I mean, it changes all the outlook in the present. His resurrection, and of course, then verse 19, our resurrection. I'm sorry, verse 18. Those who have fallen asleep, they have not perished. They have not ultimately vanished from all of existence. Now, I've mentioned this before. When you're at a funeral and you see the dead body before you, sometimes we as Christians say, That's not him. He's not there. That is only partially correct. It actually could be taken as incorrect because a person is both immaterial and material, a body and a soul and spirit. The soul and spirit is, as far as we know, invisible. It leaves the body, but that is still Him. That's part of Him. And one day that body will be resurrected in return, be united with the other part. So what we see from 1 Corinthians 15 is that belief in a future, belief in the future resurrection, the past resurrection of Christ. The future resurrection. It just changes the entire outlook. It's like the bookends of your life experience. And what I just I find it amazing that you and I I just don't seem to talk or think about it except except at Easter time. Let me give you a couple of illustrations. I don't I won't ask you if if you are if you're suffering from a health problem or if you have any trouble. Trials or tribulations in your life. Well, maybe I will ask you. How many of you have trials and tribulations in your life? Anybody? I'll raise my hand. All of anybody have a life that's never had problems? Never. Never had problems. Not not me. All right, we've all had problems. And because we have problems, we look for answers, right? We're always out there trying to find how to solve our problem. And we live in a world that is very preoccupied with solving problems. Solving problems. And so there is definitely a message in the cosmos or this world order about how you can solve your problems. For example, you have spiritual problems, maybe you should take up yoga. It's very relaxing, I've heard. And uh of course, some would argue exercise problems, need to relax, lose weight. I don't know if yoga helps you lose weight, but from what I've read, it helps you relax. Then there's the meditation. Meditation part of things. Okay, so so I've got a person and they're stressed out at work. They're they're managing five accounts and they need to just get away. So so they go to this yoga class in the even Evening they f there's this machine that that that throws out mist, and there's this really relaxing New Age music. Have you ever heard New Age music? It's like three notes played over and over again at a different volume. very relaxing I'm told. So you've got the music, you've got the water vapor, you've got walking crane. I don't know what do they call those poses. I don't know. But let's say, let's pretend for a second That does the trick. They are completely relaxed. And after five sessions, they go tell their co-workers. Their co-workers go. It revolutionizes the whole company. Everyone's doing yoga. They are just relaxed. Problem solved. What about the person who's having problems with his money? Have you ever g went online and Googled financial I don't know investment and looked online at different big companies and you could figure out how to do your investment portfolio and and okay so so I'm I want to invest in the future. I want financial freedom. Anyone in here free financially? Don't raise your hand. I'm not exactly sure what that means. But I guess among other things it means you don't have to. work or you don't have to worry about bills anymore, you don't you're not in debt. So so let's say we have someone who does this. He takes the financial freedom course and his finances are reformed. And he becomes a millionaire in five years. Although that's not much money now. So let's say a uh let's say he has about 10 million to 15 million in the bank. Problem solved, right? We could go on and on, you could too. Political problems, I don't know. Pick a problem. But folks, no one Dr. Phil The latest self-help book, the latest doctor of MD, the latest cancer researcher. No one has ever been able to solve Death. Now they have cryogenics. You can die and get your head taken off and put in a giant vat and be frozen. Sounds enjoyable, doesn't it? But they've never resuscitated anyone. You can be preserved like a mummy and put underground for the future day But no one has ever solved that problem. And folks, that is the real root problem of every other problem. We all die. And in all of us there's a clock ticking down. And we know that the day will come when we'll be in that casket. And yet for you and me let me say this that puts a cloud over every person on this planet And it's different in different countries. In South Sudan, when I was there, I found out that the average age, the medium age of the median age of of a Man in the South Sudan is like 42 years old. 42 years old. And so what does that do to me People. And yet, you and I, think about this, folks, you and I never, ever, if you're a Christian here today, ever have to worry about it. Ever. You, among all people on this planet, know to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And one day there's this future resurrection. And you ain't gonna have any more health problems anymore. Excuse my English. You're not gonna have any more issues whatsoever Shouldn't that affect you day to day? Shouldn't that hope do something to you? I mean, shouldn't that affect you your finances and whether you need yoga and and what you do with your life day to day. I mean, shouldn't it do something to you? I mean Folks, a hundred thousand years from now, I can't imagine this sitting in my backyard, my mansion overlooking the Dans Valley. I've named it. It's Dans Valley, it has a lake. It has mountains in a valley. Pretty cool idea. But like a resort. Dan's Resort Valley. That's what I'm gonna hoping to get. A hundred thousand years from now Folks, it affects your emotions. It affects every part of you. Let me get you to turn to 1 Thessalonians for a passage you know well. Our present hope should limit our emotional suffering. And if you look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, you know this, 13 to 18. We see here Paul comforting the Christians in Thessalonica, and he says, I don't want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others. And then he goes on to talk about the return of Christ and the resurrection of those who have fallen asleep. There's a sorrow that people have who have no hope. And we, those of us in this room who are born again, should not be partakers of it. Our hope limits the kind of emotional suffering that you and I go through. Now, our hope does not really limit our physical suffering Suffering, does it? Christians get cancer, Christians suffer physically. It doesn't always it limit our financial suffering because there are a lot of Christians in Africa. And their suffering and in China. Our hope does not limit necessarily persecution, does it? In Vietnam and North Korea, in Libya and the Middle East, Christians are persecuted. And they suffer. But our hope definitely should limit the kind of emotional suffering that we endure because we know that if the worst comes the worst. If I die, if my wife dies, if my kids die, if their faith is in Christ, I will see them again. And that is the most fundamental, the most powerful kind of hope that outlives every other hope. Money grows wings and flies away. Our bodies break down. Our relationships, we struggle in these, trying to maintain them or have them or whatever. But we know We know that this is not the way it's going to end up. That there is a future that is bright. Folks, you and I in this country, we have been blessed to the point of nausea. I well after nine one one I I saw bumper stickers. Said, God bless America again. And I thought, He's already blessed us so much. And yes, I want America to continue to be blessed, but America is not heaven. It's not. And we have no promise in the Word of God that our country is going to continue to just climb that slope up to heaven. That we're always going to be prosperous and have everything we have. A matter of fact, look, if you put your hope in what is here, temporal, temporary, that's not going to last, then God is going to have to resist you. If you're a Christian and you're here today and you put your hope in your money, you put your hope in your family, the fact that you have a house, that gives you stability inside, God will knock those props out from under you. He has to resist you. You're being an idolater. Your hope has to be in the Word of God. If If your highest hopes are no higher than what's in this world, like the rain clouds of this earth, you're you're you're just that's as far as you're gonna get. God is gonna have to do something about you. About that. Where are your hopes this morning? Folks, seriously, are you really putting your hope in Christ, the resurrection? Do you see your current hope of of About future reality and promise influencing your emotions and your life today? Or is it only what you hope to get out of your 401k? Or the next college degree, or the next trip here, or the next weekend there. Folks, I'm I'm warning us. I'm not indicting everyone in this room because I think you're All terrible sinners. I'm challenging you to challenge yourself, sharpen yourself, reign in your mind. Don't give in to the materialistic culture that we have. God will have to resist. And that leads me then then to to this. Turn to Romans five for our final passage. I'm kind of introducing another concept at the end of this, which I'm not supposed to do, but I'm going to do it anyway, because I know you're all smart and you can think think this through. Why do we hope in the present? Okay, so you have you have a kid, it's the last day of school. He's sitting there anticipating three hours from now, I'm free. The summer is here. Those three hours come, and then he goes out and enjoys his summer For you and me, it seems like those three hours takes an eternity, doesn't it? How long has it been since Christ was here the first time? In his incarnation. Thousands of years. When is he coming back? Well, the scriptures say it could happen at any moment. It's an imminent, it's a present return. But it still hasn't. And even our lifetimes can seem long, especially at the end, when you're 80, 90 years old, if you live that Long, your body is so worn out, you just want to go to heaven. It seems like things take so long. Why do we keep hoping? Well This is how it works. There is that which is ultimately, it's going to be completed, it's going to be finally fulfilled. There's sort of the ultimate completion. The resurrection, the return of Christ, sort of the period at the end of the sentence. But the big promises are kind of made up of the fulfillment of little daily promises. And we see that in Romans 5 and the use of the word hope here. If you look at Romans 5, At verse three, it says, and not only this that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance. And perseverance, character, and character, hope. Now, have you ever stopped to wonder how this exactly works? How can suffering produce hope? Just hang with me here. You've got tribulation, pressure, suffering, trials You have perseverance, and that Greek word is just defined as the is endurance, the ability to stay put when you have all this pressure. coming on you and you uh you can bear it, you persevere through it. The Greek word that's translated character has to do with With proven character. You're in this trial, you're enduring it, and you walk through it, and your character is proven. It's refined, but it's also shown to have strength and reality, authenticity. And at the end of this experience You're left with a feeling of joyful anticipation that the same thing will happen in the future. God was with me in the past. This is how the psalmist would reason with himself. The promises of God were true in the past for me. Lord, help me in the present. I believe in your promises that they will be faithful in the future. As you walk with God, anticipating the fulfillment of the big promises, you see him at work and the little promises of every day. Refining your character, making you like Christ, working through the power of the Spirit in your life. And as you walk toward that day and become more like Jesus. You just have a growing and powerful hope. And this hope, it says, look at your Bible, verse 5, it's not going to leave you ashamed. It's not going to disappoint you. As this hope grows through your Christian experience, it will be fulfilling of itself until that great day. When we we see him as he is, and we are like him, and it's finally over. So we live in hope, we anticipate Anticipate the future. We see God at work in the present. The big promises are kind of made up of the fulfillment of little daily promises. Where does that leave us, folks? We can't place our hope in men. Let's make America great again. How's that going to happen? Evangelism. Evangelism in God, not men. Folks, be careful. Don't place your hope in men. I don't know what political persuasion you might be, I can guess. But still If our church is going to grow, we can't put our hope in just methods and organization. We have to put our hope ultimately in the Spirit of God and the Word of God. If you want to see your marriage succeed, do it by the book. This is what it's all about.