You know, I forget I bring this clock here, but there's already a clock there, so I'm without excuse. Not that that means a huge amount, but it's there. There are two of them. Look at the words we just sang. They're a sermon in and of themselves. Teach us, Lord, full obedience. What is full obedience? That's tough right there Holy reverence, true humility. If there's anything we need in this world, it's folks with what? True humility. Test our thoughts and our attitudes in the radiance of your purity. Wow. I feel like I don't need to preach after that if we're paying attention to what we're singing. And I hope you are. I really do appreciate the songs that are sung here, the words. Oftentimes people just choose uh hymns and songs based on the melody, but uh the words uh are fantastic and I I have noticed that every time I've been here, so it seems to be pretty consistent, and you should praise the Lord for that, because uh The words are very, very important. The tune's important too, kind of needs to be sung, but uh if the words aren't right Well, there's not much left as far as I'm concerned. I still don't get it. Some of you way back here, see, as I think I've told some of you uh or most of you that uh I had surgery in 97, I can't play the piano anymore, but I can watch the hands of the people that are playing. Special music and everything, and I always do that. And so I can enter into that. And you dear people at the back, you're missing that. You're missing that. You can't see the hands as they're moving You say, well, so what? Well, uh, okay, that's fine. Okay, I'm done now. I keep trying to get people closer to the front, and it still it never really works. I understand that But I'm going to be here again the end of August, so I'll try again somehow. That's okay. Well, as we begin uh the message this morning, I want to ask a simple question. What is your greatest delight? Maybe that's too hard, so I can say, you know, well, what things bring you delight? Maybe if you won the lottery and got $100 million, that would bring you delight. Actually, it's interesting, most of the people, but win the lottery end up actually not being very happy and some of them end up poor and I don't know how that happens but apparently you say give it to me and and you know I'll make sure that doesn't happen. Well Uh you know, maybe uh for some people it's owning a piece of fine jewelry or a fancy car, or maybe being the the boss of your own company, being the best student in your class. Maybe rooting for a sports team to go all the way. For my Orioles, it does not look probable. I just said probable, it's still possible. Don't laugh too hard. Yes, uh anyway. Um I I suppose if I were a nationals fan and I lived closer down there, so I should be by all rights, but I don't change allegiance very quickly, so I haven't yet. I'd be a little happier if I were a nationals fan. Well, uh, you know, delight uh uh basically of a winning sports team lasts only so long as the next win. And that kind of delight can be quite fleeting. And this morning I want to speak on, actually, I think it's probably very close to my favorite Psalm, Psalm 19, which helps to answer this question. It is at once it's one of the most beautiful Psalms and one of the most challenging. C. S. Lewis in his little book entitled Reflections on the Psalms says that Psalm 19 is the greatest poem in the Psalter and one of the greatest lyrics in the world. It speaks of two things that should bring us great delight. God's glorious revelation in nature, as well as his revelation in his word. Theologians love this psalm because the first part, verses 1 to 6, speak of his general revelation in creation, available for all to see. While the second part speaks of special revelation in God's Word. But they often fail to discuss the last part of the Psalm, which in my mind is probably the climax of the whole Psalm. where David applies the truths of these glorious first and second parts to his own life experience. And that's what I hope that you and I will do this morning as we briefly study these 14 verses of Psalm 19. Well, my first point in verses 1 to 6 is that God's revelation in the universe demonstrates his glory to everyone. God's revelation in the universe demonstrates his glory to everyone. David makes the sweep sweeping statement to introduce the psalm, the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament. uh or expanse, proclaims the works of his hands. In anthropomorphic language that clearly goes back to the creation account in Genesis 1, David states that the whole universe manifests God's glory because in the design of the universe one can clearly see the work of his hands. Now I am a strong believer in the literal interpretation of Genesis 1, that the universe was created in six literal days. That is the simplest reading of the text, and in my thinking, it's the best. But I know that there are godly believers, perhaps even within this congregation, that have a different view of creation that it took that it took a long period of time. Now I don't agree with that position at all. And in fact, just this week I was asked a question by another pastor about uh something that Tim uh Keller had said uh uh about uh Genesis one, and he says Genesis one is a poem. And so therefore doesn't need to be taken literally. And I wasn't very happy to say the least, and in fact, because Genesis 1 is not a poem. Um many years ago, I participated in a project to parse every single verb in the Old Testament I I don't know, you gotta do those kinds of projects when you're younger. I can't imagine doing that now, but I did that, and so I know every single uh well I uh parsed every single verb. And in in chapter one there's this form called a wow consecutive imperfect, which is the standard narrative form. It's the exact opposite of poetry. And here is a famous preacher that people will listen to far more than they would listen, for example, to me, trying to say that Genesis 1 is a poem. If you want a poem about creation, there is one. Actually, there are several. One here is right here, part of it in Psalm 19, but even better is Psalm 104. Take a look at that. That is a poetic account of creation, not in Genesis 1. So at any rate, I feel a little bit passionate about this issue, and I'd be happy to debate that with you sometime. But that's actually not the key aspect that is stressed in this particular text. So uh the key aspect here is that God created the entire universe in all of its detail from the tiniest excellent to the placing of each of the planets and the stars in the universe. Even Pluto. Poor Pluto. We learned Pluto was a planet, and uh now it's relegated to the status of a dwarf planet, whatever that is. Um anyway. It's pretty funny when I see people classify and reclassify and debate. Regardless, all of it is the work of his hands. The universe didn't somehow come about by chance, as macroevolutionists would claim. It exhibits in every aspect a design. Just as when you open a watch and see evidence of intricate design, especially the old-fashioned watch, by the way, I still have the original watch. that I was uh uh given by my uh parents when I was, I don't know, maybe eight or nine years old. I keep things. for a little while. Uh anyway, and it still works, by the way. And when uh you know this fancy one needs a battery This one's about 30 years old, but you know, that's new for me. Uh when it needs a battery uh or uh something goes wrong with it, I can go always bring that one up. Well if you open one of those watches up, it's just amazing. all of the different parts. For those of you who play piano, I used to have a m I had a metronone and one metronone that wasn't working. And I couldn't believe even the number of parts in a stupid little simple metronome. It was pretty amazing. Well, uh you know that the watch doesn't assemble itself. Anytime you've ever anybody here ever tried to take something apart? to fix it. I just did it this week with a keyboard that I had where the B wasn't wasn't typing. So I thought I can fix this. You know, I take the thing apart. You know there's a lot more things that are going on in the keyboard than I thought there were. And now I know. And and y you end up with that extra part. That's always the fun part. Where did I don't remember this? Where did this come from? Okay, some of you are just laughing at me, but some of you are laughing with me. Because you've been there. It uh these things are intricate. And and uh you know, we're somehow supposed to believe that the entire creation occurred by chance. That is just funny to me. It's crazy. is really what it is. The fall is probably my favorite time of the year. I shouldn't talk anything about the weather, but this, you know, th we are talking about creation here, so I have to talk a little bit about the weather. I love the fall. Because we see the leaves of the turn of the the uh of the trees turn all of these various colors, and the effect is spectacular. Now, the evolutionists would like to tell you about the function of color to aid in natural selection. But here we are talking about dying leaves. Even dying leaves, which can't have any evolutionary function whatsoever, sorry, they manifest the glory of God's creation. Well, we see in verse 2 that this declaration of God's glory in creation is continuous and overflowing. Using personification, where he ascribes human activities to inanimate objects, David says that day after day the heavens pour forth speech. And the verb actually used here literally means to gush. They talk non-stop. I have a neighbor, a wonderful neighbor, but he really, really, really likes to talk. So if if he stops you, you know, unless you're just gonna be rude, which on a few occasions I've had to be, he it's gonna be at least five minutes before, you know, he takes a breath. That's just the way it is. Well Here it says the heavens gush forth. What do they talk about? Well, verse 1 already said they talk about God's glory. In the day, the sun does the talking. In the night, the moon and the stars take over. And they demonstrate knowledge, the knowledge of the Creator who designed them so intricately in the first place. In verses 3 and the beginning of verse 4, we see that this declaration of God's glory is communicated clearly and universally. Ever since the Tower of Babel, communication among different people groups is not always easy. If you don't speak the same language, communication is difficult. I still remember one time when I was teaching a class in Romania, the translator was otherwise occupied. We had a break, and this lady came to me and she starts speaking Romanian. I have to tell her I didn't know any Romanian. She knew just enough English, a little bit of English, and so we finally settled on French that we both knew. And she starts talking nonstop in French faster than I had ever listened in French. And so that didn't work out all that well either. And we got we got somewhere anyway Well, it's tough to communicate if you don't speak the same language. But the revelation from God's creation doesn't depend upon human languages. Their voice, so to speak, can be heard regardless of whether you're speaking Spanish or Russian or Mandarin or German or English. The language of creation communicates God's glory clearly. In addition, the first part of verse 4 says that God's glory is communicated worldwide into all the earth to the ends of the world. Well, in the last part of verse 4 through verse 6, David then gives an example of God's glory in creation. And in fact, it's the supreme non-human example of God's glory in the universe, namely the Sun. People have been fascinated with the sun throughout the ages, from the earliest days to the present. In fact, many people have worshipped the sun as a god. In ancient Egypt, the sun god was the most important god of all. And using highly figurative language here, David speaks of the heavens as a tent for the sun. And just as an exquisitely dressed bridegroom comes out of his chamber on his wedding day, and just as a strong man rejoices to run his marathon, each day the sun comes out of his tent and rises gloriously from one end of the heavens and goes around to the other. And for sure you can't ignore it. Now my wife thinks the sun is amazing. I thought she was going to be here this morning. She didn't have a great day yesterday, so she didn't make it today. But uh uh she would she would approve of this message, or at least this portion of this message. Anytime uh sh uh anywhere she goes, she likes to look at the sunr sunset. and even sometimes the sunrise. Each one is different and unique. She tells me this and uh I have to believe it. And the colors of the sky are incredible. I do not know how many pictures we have of sunsets, but it's a lot. We went on vacation, uh a a short vacation of uh three days and we stayed in Oxford, Maryland. We watched the sunset. Over the water. In fact, I picked the place because I knew it had a good view of the sunset. Now, what I didn't know is I needed to get there an hour ahead of time An hour ahead of time. I knew the sunset at 8. 33, so I think, you know, 8. 20 is good enough, right? Oh no. She was an annoyed at me because I stayed in uh in our uh place until 745. So I only was there, well, I don't know, fifty minutes or so. But it is quite amazing, and I had to admit that the colors as they change are absolutely incredible Of course, the end of verse 6, and I don't think we really need the exclamation point on this for the last few days, says that nothing is hidden from his heat. Right? I don't know about you, but in the last week I have thanked the Lord multiple times for air conditioning. Right? And we you know it just uh and if you don't have it, uh You know, you somehow endure it. I remember many times enduring it without air conditioning, but boy, it is wonderful to have air conditioning in some day like this. Well But those of us who stayed out in the sun too long, certainly we uh without putting on sunblock, we can see firsthand its effects. Uh the now the sun is ninety two million nine hundred and sixty thousand miles away. Yeah, I know. When I when I read that, I thought that is a lot. I mean I knew it was a lot, but 92 million uh 960,000 miles away, and yet we still get sunburned if we're out uh for any length of time. And when we stare at the sun directly, even for a few minutes, we can do permanent damage. to our eyes. But without the sun, we wouldn't have any life on Earth. It provides heat and light. The sun is so bright during the day we can't see the other stars. It's so powerful that it changes the weather. from night to day warming the earth so that we can live and causing plants to grow on the earth so that we can have food. Yes, all creation and especially the sun is amazing. But it isn't God. As C. S. Lewis also wrote, what makes and what is made must be two, not one. The doctrine of creation, in one sense, empties nature of divinity. The sun is simply an amazing manifestation of the glory of God in his creation. Some critical scholars and even some evangelicals have theorized that this part of Psalm 19 was originally a pagan hymn of worship to the sun. But nothing could be further from the truth. David here is saying that the heavens in all of their glory are pointing to the glory of the Creator, not to themselves. So when you and I look at the beautiful fall leaves or a fresh snowfall or a magnificent sunset, As Christians, it can be an act of worship as we worship the God who created all of these things for us to enjoy and to appreciate. So to sum up this first section, the creation demonstrates God's glory for everyone in the world to see. And that's exactly what Paul says in Romans chapter 1, verses 19 to 23, when he says that mankind is without excuse. because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them, for he says, and I'm quoting directly from Romans 1. Since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things which are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because although they knew God, they didn't glorify him as God, neither were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and birds and foot, four-footed animals and creeping things So instead of seeing God's glory in creation, Paul says they decided to worship the creation instead, the ultimate height of idolatry. How tragic. And how sad. God's revelation in his creation demonstrates his glory to everyone who has eyes to see. Well, in verses 7 to 11 of this Psalm, the subject changes from God's creation to God's word. It's a bit of an abrupt shift, and in fact, too abrupt for some commentators. I'm sorry, I just find it rather funny. Uh it's actually sad. These scholars think that maybe originally there were two or three psalms here. The first one, a hymn of creation, maybe originating in a pagan culture where they did worship the sun. The second one, a Torah psalm, a law psalm, where the Word of God is praised, and then finally a prayer psalm in the last part. Recently, I taught an online course on uh Psalms for uh Liberty uh Seminary, and unfortunately one of the text that they used. I won't mention it here, but if you want to know later on, I can tell you. One of the texts they used. I don't pick the required texts, by the way, nor can I change them. uh because otherwise I certainly would. But one of these texts suggests that verses one to six were probably adopted from pre-exilic non-Israelite poetry because it uses the general Semitic name for God. uh L while in verses 7 to 10, which repeatedly use Yahweh, the Lord, for God's name, that was probably a post-exilic Israelite composition. And verses eleven to fourteen were were a third composition. So the whole psalm, they say, was an edited unit put together after the exile and not written. by one author. Well, I hadn't really paid much attention to the text for this class, and several of the students in the course actually wrote their major papers for the course. on Psalm 19 and made these comments to which I responded in the margins of the paper, I'm very subtle, you know, nonsense. And that's when I realized that the reason these dear gullible students had come up with such a crazy idea is that their textbook had suggested it. Of course, the heading of the psalm says what? It was written by David! Thank you. You see how smart we are here? We didn't have to read anything. We know that it's written by David, who is hardly a post-exilic figure, and we have no reason to doubt it. See, sometimes we have these little categories that we put psalms into. A psalm of praise, a psalm of petition, a creation psalm, and so forth. And they can be helpful up to a point. But we forget that the psalmist didn't decide, well, let me see. You know, today I think I'll write a creation psalm. Or a psalm of petition or w whatever, a lament. No, just like a gifted musician, David, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, wrote the words that came to him. He first praises creation just as he does elsewhere, Psalm 8, for example. Then he praises God's word, and then he gives a personal response to everything that he has written. It all hangs together beautifully. So in the first section, as we saw, he speaks of God's revelation in the universe, which is available for everyone to see. And so that's why he uses in verse 1 the universal name for God, El, short for Elohim. But in the next section, verses 7 to 11, David speaks of God's revelation in his word, which is not seen. by everyone, but only by God's own people with whom he has a covenant relationship. And that's why he uses Yahweh. You see, six times he uses Yahweh, the Lord, speaking of not the God who is way up there. But who created the universe, but the God who desires to have a relationship with his people. There is a natural progression throughout this psalm. God created the universe, but he revealed himself as the Lord in his word. As one commentator writes, the psalmist moves in a climactic fashion from macrocosm to microcosm, from the universe and its glory to the individual in humility before God. But the climax lies in the microcosm, not in the heavenly roar of praise. For the heavens declare the glory of God, but the law declares the will of God for mankind, the creature. Though the fast firmament is so high above us and it declares God's praise, It's the law of God alone that reveals to mankind that he has a place in the universal scheme of things. So in this second section, what I see emphasized is that God's revelation in his word demands our joyful obedience. God's revelation in His Word demonstrates our joyful obedience. It's already been read this morning, the entire Psalms, so I won't. uh read it now in verses 7 to 11, but that's what we're focusing on at this point. Now notice in verses 7 to 9 that there are six clauses, each one of which has three parts. a noun that describes the word of God, an adjective speaking of a characteristic of the Word of God, and finally a verbal clause that details the benefit or the result of the Word of God. And the only scripture that has more terms for the Word of God than this one is Psalm 119. Now that's got 176 verses, and you can pray for me because the next time I'm with you, I'm planning on preaching on Psalm 119, and I guarantee that you won't have to stay here all day. to hear the whole message. But at any rate, that's an incredible passage of Scripture as well, with nearly every verse having a term for the Word of God. Well, there are a few nuances of meaning for each term that are used that's used here in verses 7 to 9. I think they're mostly used as overlapping synonyms for the Word of God. And even our English versions translate these words in slightly different ways So we'll look at all of them briefly together. In verse 7, the first word, Torah, translated La, is the most common word. Torah can be used simply to refer to the Mosaic law seen in Exodus through Deuteronomy, or even as a title for Genesis through Deuteronomy, but often it has a broader use as it does here. Its root meaning is instruction. It's not confined simply to specific legal commands, as is our use of the word law. is its instruction that flows from the revelation of God as the basis for our life and actions As one person puts it, it's the teaching from God for life. I like that. And probably our best equivalent would be the Word of God or Scripture For David, that would include all the scripture that had been written by that time, and for us, it includes the whole Bible. The second word used in verse 7, translated testimony or statutes, comes from the word to witness or testify, and it speaks of God's divine witness as to who he is and what he requires. It is truth as attested by God Himself. The third word used in the first clause of verse 8 translated statutes or precepts. emphasizes a set of divine procedures or principles to be followed. And the next uh uh word in the second clause of verse eight, translated commandment, is similar. And it emphasizes that God's word is a divine decree, so it's authoritative and it needs to be obeyed. It's not simply a suggestion. The fifth phrase in the beginning of verse 9 is Fear of the Lord, and here fear of the Lord, the response to the Word of God, is substituted as a synonym. for God's word. It describes the reverential awe in those who read it. And finally, in the second clause of verse 9, The word translated judgments or decrees is used, and that speaks of divinely ordered decisions or verdicts. As the judge of all the earth, his verdict is final. So these terms emphasize divine instruction, witness, principles, decrees, worship, and verdicts. God's word is meant to evoke a response in the curer, a response of reverence, of trust, and of obedience, which we already sang about this morning. Well, those are the descriptions of God's word that are used in these verses. Now I want to back up back to verse 7 and look at the adjectives that are used to characterize God's word Back up in verse 7, then God's word is perfect or complete, meaning that it lacks nothing. It is all sufficient. Do we sometimes think that God's Word lacks anything or is not sufficient for our particular situation? No, it's complete. It gives us all that we need. It is sure that is reliable or trustworthy. You can depend upon it. We can't always depend upon people's word, even sometimes good friends. Well give us their word and then let us down. But that's not the case with God. We can depend upon Him. Third, in verse, it is right or straight. God's word leads us on the straight, morally correct path, not some wayward way. It is our divine GPS for life. I like that anyway. And even better than some of the GPSs that I've used, I will never forget uh traveling to a church in Virginia to uh preach and I put it in the the address and the GPS. And uh had wonderful, great traffic down in Fredericksburg, had fantastic, bad traffic. I'm being a little sarcastic. in uh in in on I-95 and so I was late anyway and I ended up with a GPS uh uh uh on this road. It was you know campus drive and it was Uh it was a campus drive on a campus. Only that wasn't the right campus drive. And uh meanwhile I was in deep trouble. I I did make it to the service uh on time, but Well, exactly on time, which to me that is late, especially when coming from there. Anyway, so the GPS It can be reliable most of the time, right? Well God's GPS, God's word is reliable all the time to give us good direction. It is pure or clear. It is transparent. There's no confusion or deception. I look at the stands of various politicians today and their attacks on one another, and I don't see very much clarity uh there. God's word makes things clear, not confusing. Confusing. Satan and sadly some people will try to lead us astray and make things confusing. Like a slick salesman who's trying to sell inferior goods. But God's word is not like that. Fifth in verse 9, God's word is clean or pure. There's no decay or contaminating substance in it. There's plenty of that all around us, it seems, but not in God's word. And finally, it's true. There is no error in it Do we want truth? Well, we can see God's truth in creation in one sense, but for sure we can see God's truth in his word. There aren't lots of different sources of truth. There is only one. Are you seeking to find truth? As Jesus said in John 17, 17, sanctify them by your truth. Your word is Truth. And we can't compartmentalize truth. The truth on Sunday in church is the same as the truth on Monday through Friday in my job or at school or wherever I am. God's word is truth in all areas of our lives. So God's word is complete, all sufficient for any situation. It's reliable. It's right. It leads us on the straight path. It's clear with absolutely no confusion. It is pure with no contamination. And it is true. And that's why we believe in expository preaching. And hopefully the next uh pastor that you will get is going to uh major on expository preaching, going through passages and books of scripture because it is all relevant to our lives today. We don't have to make it relevant. It is relevant. Let me ask you this question. Do you really believe that Scripture is all sufficient for any situation? Even yours. That it's reliable, right, clear, pure, and true. Or do you rely on other things Other than the Word of God. You think you can take sort of a cafeteria style approach to the truth in the Word of God, picking out what you like and rejecting the rest. That just won't do. All of Scripture is sufficient, reliable, right, clear, pure, and true. Do you think that you can impose your sin-filled judgment, or I can impose my sin-filled judgment, over and above Scripture To sift what is true for you or what's true for me, it just doesn't work that way. Scripture is all sufficient and it is true in every situation for every individual, including me. And including you. Now let's look at the benefits or results of the Word of God that are given in the verbal clauses of verses 7 to 9. First of all, in verse 7, it restores the soul. The word used here can mean restore, revive, or convert. God's word has the power to transform a life. We often think, and I I am uh guilty of this, I may than some of you are, that our words are so important. when we're speaking to someone about our faith. You know, I just want to phrase it in exactly the right way, right? Uh how often have we thought that? But in reality we often need to do less talking and more allowing the scriptures to do their transforming work on the people that we talk to. It's less about having the perfect approach or argument and more about sharing Scripture with them. As Jesus said to Satan in Matthew 4:4, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Food restores and gives physical life, but God's word gives spiritual life that transforms. Second, it makes wise the simple. I love this phrase. Those whose worldview is rooted in the Scripture may not have the world's greatest IQ. But if they are grounded in the scripture, they are wiser than a lot of PhDs with far more education, but who have no real starting point. So now I have a PhD, so I'm not negating all PhD people, just nearly all of them. I'm really serious on this. I mean I've seen seen so many people compromise in so many of these areas. And I'm saying, why don't you just look and see what the word says instead of going off on your brilliant theory, which is not correct. The scriptures will teach even a simple person how to make the right choices as he or she goes through life The third benefit of God's word mentioned in verse 8 is it rejoices the heart. God's word brings joy. And we're going to talk more about that in a moment. But sometimes I think that even as believers, we have the wrong approach to studying Scripture. We'll tell people, read your Bible every day. It's good for you. Something like that, in the same tone of voice that you might tell your child to brush your teeth or eat your spinach or whatever it is. I don't know why spinach so much, but anyway. You know, but for David, spending time in God's word was a delight. Not an obligation. Yes, it is good for you, but it's a source of deep and abiding joy as well. The fourth benefit at the end of verse 8 is that God's word enlightens the eyes. David has already spoken of the sun, which gives physical light to the world, but now he speaks of God's word. and how it gives spiritual life and a discernment. With the enlightening power of God's word, there is no need to grope in the darkness. Psalm 119, 105 says, your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. I'll tell you what, we lost our power earlier this week, and uh, you know, that's when I go and see, hmm, I wonder when the last time is that I change those batteries in that flashlight, right? Anybody uh on the same boat? The good news was we didn't lose for all that uh the power for all that long a time and I changed batteries in like three or four uh uh battery uh operated uh uh devices that I had because I hadn't changed them in a while. Well, God's word is that light uh that we need to lighten our path. The fifth benefit of God's word given in verse 9 is that its effects, strictly the fear of the Lord, endure forever. They don't produce just a temporary impact, but a lasting one. So often you and I choose solutions to our problems that are only temporary, but they won't really be a lasting solution. The effects of God's word are forever. And finally, the end of verse 9 sums up David's treatment of God's word by saying that it is entirely righteous. God's word demonstrates a righteous standard because it comes from a righteous and a holy God. And this is a great benefit to us because God's word is not based on some arbitrary standard that might change. as society's standards appear to be, but it's based on God's righteous standards that will never change. Now, as if these characteristics and benefits of the Word of God were not sufficient to convince a person how wonderful God's Word is. David expands then on the benefits and the value of the Word of God in the next two verses in verses 10 and 11. And they are what I consider to be the icing on the cake. uh as it were. Or in uh our family uh growing up uh we always had ice cream on the cake. So I would put it to call it the ice cream uh on the cake. Anyway, uh how valuable are God's teachings? David says, first of all, in verse 10, God's word is his greatest treasure. It's more to be desired, he says, than even lots of fine gold. I remember when I was growing up, my mother and sister were into jewelry. And they would tell me about 14 karat gold and eighteen karat gold. I think eighteen karat gold is purer than fourteen, but don't hold me to that. It's been a long time since I remember. uh them talking about all that. And you know, but gold is pretty amazing. Solomon's temple was built with huge amounts of gold. But maybe you're like me and gold isn't all that enticing Well, let's put it this way. David is saying if you have the choice between a million dollars or even a billion dollars and God's word, God's word is more desirable. How about that? Well David isn't finished in the second part of verse 10. He says God's word is his greatest delight. It is more pleasurable, he says, than honey or the honeycomb. You don't have to be Winnie the Pooh to enjoy honey or sweets. For most of us, I already mentioned ice cream or chocolate or something sweet is a great delight. But David says that the word of God is his greatest treasure and his greatest delight. And if you're thinking Well, that's a little extreme. Then maybe you haven't really dug into the Word of God the way David had and the way God wants us to. I entitled this message in the bulletin, you can see, Our Greatest Delight. Our Greatest Delight should of course be God Himself. And so this psalm is saying that we can and should delight ourselves in the beauty and magnificence of his creation, and even more so in the magnificence of his word. I still remember one day back actually when George Miles, who was the founder and the first president of Washington Bible College, and he came into my office I was dean of the seminary at that time. It was around 1991, I think. Mr. Miles might have been 86 or 87 at the time. He didn't come by very often. He never wasted time, uh any time in his life that I ever saw anyway. But at that point his eyes were failing so that he could no longer read the Bible. But he came into my office and he told me that he was meditating on two scriptures that he had memorized And he was so excited because he saw a connection between one scripture and the other that he had never seen before. And the delight in his voice, as he shared that with me, was amazing. Now he could have had all kinds of excuses why he wasn't meditating on the scripture. After all, he was kinda old. I gotta be careful here because, you know, some of us are up there, and I'm even getting up there myself, not even near there, but getting closer. And uh, you know, so you say, well, I'm older, I don't feel like it, right? Or I can't see. I think that's a pretty good excuse, right? for not reading the scriptures. I'm older, I can't see, and so forth. But he was still delighted by the scriptures. And I thought to myself at that time, I was almost 40, that I sure hope if I ever live to be his age, I will have that same delight in the scriptures. as Mr. Miles did. I don't know that I do, but I can tell you that a few years ago when I found myself all of a sudden without a position after teaching for 36 years uh at the seminary. I was free in one sense to do anything I wanted. I came to the shocking conclusion There's nothing that I enjoy doing more than studying and the teach and teaching the Word of God. It doesn't matter if I'm paid or not paid. That year I did a whole lot of things uh actually for free. I taught various Bible studies and things in different churches for free in addition to trying to see how I could somehow get a little bit of income. But it didn't really matter. That's my greatest joy. Every time that I study a passage in depth, I learn new things. And they aren't dry, boring academic facts. They are life-changing truths. Now it's not always easy, it's hard work, but it is so rewarding, and it is a delight. So here's the main thing I want you to get out of this message. If you think that Christianity is simply a bunch of doos, and don'ts, a bunch of restrictive rules. If that's how you view Christianity, you've got the wrong view. God's word is a delight And obeying his word brings delight. It's as delightful as a sunrise or a sunset or the delight of fall leaves or freshly fallen snow. When you and I understand God's truth in the universe and in his word, it unlocks all the mysteries and it brings everything into proper focus and perspective. Well, David continues in verse 11 on the value of God's word, not only is his greatest treasure and his greatest delight, but it also serves as a great warning against sin and making all the wrong choices. The scripture acts like the brake of a car, causing us to slow down rather than race blindly over a cliff. Uh I've had Sharko Foot for the last five months, it's finally getting better. Um in the beginning I couldn't even stand to teach. Um uh I I had to sit down. Uh and uh one of the reasons that in diabetics it gets bad is because we can't feel pain the way we should uh because of our uh neuropathy and neurological damage. We don't feel pain in our our foot. And I was explaining this to somebody who says, oh well you don't feel pain. That's great. I said, no, that's awful, because you can do all kinds of damage because you're not feeling pain. You think pain is the enemy. Pain is actually your friend because it's telling you something. Just like if you're going to go over a cliff, you'd kind of like to know ahead of time, wouldn't you? That's what's already built into the body. And the scriptures act like that brake on the car to tell us, oops. We better watch out. And finally, of course, David says in verse 11, there's great reward in keeping God's word. He doesn't specify the reward. But it certainly encompasses an eternal reward if we keep his word and trust in the in his salvation through his son, we will have forgiveness of sins. Now, we're probably virtually over time, so I just have a few minutes to look at the third and concluding portion of the Psalm in verses 12 to 14. And here is where David emphasizes that all of God's revelation demands our contrition, our repentance. and our consecration. All of God's revelation demands our contrition, our repentance, and our consecration Notice the transition that began back in verse 11 when David said, by them your servant is warned. Already David is personalizing the truth that he has expressed. And he also moves to the subject of his own sin. When David looks at the revelation of God in the universe and the revelation of God's truth in his word, David sees a holy and a perfect God. And he realizes that he falls far short of that standard. That's why I love David so much. I really do. He isn't some armchair theologian way up there. He is trusting God in the trenches in an imperfect universe where he does some wrong things as well. He trusts God in all of the situations of his own life, including some less than glorious moments. He's not afraid to acknowledge his sins and his shortcomings before the Lord. Just as in the natural world, as verse six states, there's both heat and light from the sun, which provides welcome, warmth, and yet unrelenting heat and light from which you can't escape. And today is a good example of that. So God's word can be both life restoring, but also scorching and purifying, as it speaks of God's standards. Its searing light reveals the areas of darkness in our own lives. And so now in verses 12 to 14, David invites the Lord's purifying work. In verse 12, David asked for the Lord's help in discerning any unintentional sins that he has committed, sins that may, in fact, even be hidden from him. And then in verse 13, he asks for the Lord's help in dealing with known sins, where he knows that according to God's standards, something is wrong, but he does it anyway, presuming in effect to be wiser than God. Who had warned against these sins. These are intentional sins done with his eyes open. He prays that he will have power over these sins so they don't rule over him. You know, there have been a few times in my life where I have encountered Christians who say that they never sin or they don't sin anymore. Well, of course, 1 John 1. 8 says that those who say that are liars. Sorry, but that's what it says. But somehow what I usually find is they redefine sin. As the big blatant sins, maybe murder or maybe adultery or something similar, not anger or lust. or covetousness or those sins, but God's word does not let us get off the hook that easily. And the longer I have been a believer and studied God's Word, the more I realize that I am a miserable sinner. I am not kidding when I am saying that. I am quite confident of that. I need God's forgiveness and I need God's strength to enable me not to continue down that same path. That's what David is praying for here. And of course, from the New Testament perspective, we realize that God's forgiveness is is freely available to us if we simply trust in the work of His Son, which He's already done when Jesus died on the cross in our place. and rose again so that we might have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. And that is what we celebrate each day of our lives. Well, we've gone on quite a journey in this amazing Psalm from the universe to the individual. We began with God's revelation in the universe, demonstrating his glory and majesty. We continue with God's revelation in His Word, demanding our joyful and complete obedience, and we conclude with David realizing All of God's revelation demands a response from us. We need to respond. And that response is exactly what we sang about earlier of humble contrition. humility, repentance, and consecration. It is not enough for you and for me to be spectators in the universe observing all of nature's beauty, it is not enough for you and for me to hear God's word as it penetrates right into our hearts, but then somehow sit on the sidelines. You and I must be doers of the word, as David was, confessing our sins before the Lord and renewing our commitment to delight in serving in obedience to Him. We close with these words from the final verse of Psalm 19. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock. And my Redeemer. Let's pray together.