The unseen affects the seen, the invisible, the visible, the private, the public Two illustrations. First, the great Michelangelo painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, lying on his back for hours, to finish every detail with great care. It is said a friend asked why he took such pains with figures that would be viewed from such a considerable distance. After all, who will notice whether it's perfect or not? I will, replied the artist. Second, Birch Khalifa in Dubai stands as the world's tallest building Over a half a mile tall with 160 floors. A building this massive can only stand because workers spent a year digging and pouring the foundation. And a foundation that contains 58,000 cubic yards of concrete weighing more than 110 tons Great public artwork and edifices must be designed masterfully, inside and out. In the parts seen and unseen, visible and invisible The same holds truth with our faith, with this private and public dimensions As we continue in Luke, we'll find principles to be strong and firm in our faith, inside and out. So let's read Luke twelve, one to twelve, together. Luke twelve, one to twelve In the meantime, when an innumerable multitude of people had gathered together, so that they trampled one another, he began to say to his disciples, first of all, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, nor hidden that will not be known. Therefore, whatever you have spoken in the dark will be heard in the light And what you have spoken in the ear in inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops. And I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will show you whom you should fear. Fear him who after he has killed has power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins, and not one of them is forgotten before God But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows Also, I say to you, whoever confesses me before men, him, the Son of Man, also will confess before the angels of God. But he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. But to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven. Now when they bring you to the synagogues and magistrates and authorities, do not worry about how or what you should answer or what you should say. For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. How do we strengthen our faith inside and out? One, beware of hypocrisy that God judges, verses one to three. 2. Fear the Almighty, loving God, verses 4 to 7. And 3, trust in the Spirit to witness for Christ, verses 8 to 12. First, beware of hypocrisy that God judges. So not too long after Jesus left the house, the home of the Pharisee. An innumerable multitude of people had gathered together. There were so many that they trampled one another It will be easy for anyone to get carried away by vast numbers, but Jesus is wise. Even if many professed to believe in his name because of the signs, he did not commit himself to them because he knew all men. And what exactly was in a man? Hypocrisy. Man may not see hypocrisy, but God sees it clearly. What is hypocrisy? The word has its roots in the world of Greek playwrights and performing arts. A hypocrite was a masked actor or stage player, literally meaning interpreter from underneath. That is, the character puts on a mask and from underneath the mask interprets the story through acting. By extension, hypocrisy can be a negative trait. In Greek translations of the Old Testament, we see the word hypocrisy used to translate the Hebrew word for ungodliness. Closer to our time, Miriam Webster defines it as a feigning to be what one is not, or to believe what one does not. Behavior that contradicts what one claims to believe or feel, especially the false assumption of an appearance of virtue or religion. The famed philosopher the Duke of Rouchefoucault once observed, quote, hypocrisy is a tribute that vice pays to virtue. Ultimately, we don't need French aphorisms or Greek word studies to grasp hypocrisy. It's one of those words that you understand from your gut. You know it when you see it. We don't need extensive training to be hypocrites either. It's easily caught even if it's not taught. And when leaders lead the way of hypocrisy, it spreads like yeast in a dough. That's the familiar image Jesus uses in verse 1. Yeast, once mixed in, is not something that's easily extracted, and that's the point. Anyone who bakes knows that that's how yeast makes the bread rise properly. In the same way, the woeful Pharisees Along with their scribes, taught hypocrisy thoroughly and pervasively among the masses. Beware of the hypocrisy that God judges. And how will God judge hypocrisy? Jesus warns us of the judgment to come in verses two and three. All cover-ups, every conspiracy, every hidden agenda will be revealed and no. It's not because our detectives or our justice system is perfect. It's not because we're prescient. It's because God is omniscient. There is no creature hidden from his sight. But all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him to whom we must give account. In that day of judgment, God reveals all, knows all, hears all, and proclaims all. There's no escape from him. God created you inside and out and knows you inside and out. You face a judge that has all the facts before him, whether it's unseen or the seen, the invisible or the visible, the private or the public, it makes no difference. He sees them all as clear as day. We can flee from the wrath to come, but there's no earthly refuge to enter. We can cry out to the mountains and rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the land. But behold, the day is coming. Burning like an oven. And all the proud, yes, all who do wickedly will be stubborn. And the day which is coming shall burn them up, says the Lord of hosts. Is there no rescue from God's wrath? There is. Here's the good news Since there is no hiding from him, our only hope is that somehow, some way, we need to make sure all of our recorded sins are not counted against us. Is that even possible? Listen carefully to Paul's words in Romans 4, 5-8. To him who does not work, but believes on him, who justifies the ungodly. His faith is accounted for, righteousness, just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness, apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. We could savor on these promises for hours. Paul notes how King David, a very imperfect and immoral man with his own dirty laundry list. Of cover-ups, secret sins, and scandals, agendas, and conspiracies, came to find pardon, covering an erasure of his stained record. In David's record, there is now nothing covered to be revealed, nothing hidden to be known. Before God, there is nothing spoken in the dark to be heard in the light. There's nothing spoken in the ear in inner rooms to be proclaimed on the housetops. How did this happen? It's not because David made up for his mistakes by trying harder, becoming a better person, or outweighing his bad works with good ones. He was saved because he had faith in God. He trusted in the promises of a savior to come. His descendant, yet his Lord, the one we know as Jesus Christ. We know in much more detail than David what Jesus did for us. He's God's son, and he lived a perfect life. Committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth. Yet he faced a criminal's execution on the cross. He was crucified as our substitute. Dying in our place for our sins. This was the Father's will. He made him who knew no sin. to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him Now, all our moral failures, all our record, the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us, Jesus took them all and bled to wipe them off our books. Then Jesus rose from the dead as proof of this accomplishment and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge the living and the dead. Are you ready to have your books opened at the tribunal that day? Do you want assurance that God won't judge you based on your sins? You can come to Jesus now to the same faith that saved Abraham, David, and Paul. Turn away from your sins and turn to Christ. Trust in Him alone for eternal life and cleansing. You cannot earn it or deserve it. You accept salvation as a gift of grace, not by works. You can have this blessed confidence and assurance. Therefore, there is now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. If God is for us, who can be against us? With God as your advocate, what is there to fear anymore? That leads to the next principle for firm faith. Fear the Almighty loving God. Something being fearless is what we need to live out our faith. Yet Jesus teaches not the absence of fear, but fearing the right thing, or more accurately, the right being. That being none other than God Himself, if we fear God more, we fear men less. If we truly understood God's might and mercy We live in victory and confidence. We must have a spirit to fear God, to revere his power and love. Then we won't have a spirit of fear of man, but of power and of love and of a sound mind Jesus gently leads into this discussion of fear by addressing his disciples as friends. In no way does being Jesus' friend conflict with being his disciple. Being Jesus' friend means doing whatever he commands you. Christ has authority and he chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. And that your fruit should remain. But being friends with God's Son is not easy. To be a friend of God means enmity with the world. And this world is hostile to us. As Jesus warns later, if you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. As Martin Luther observed, and we sang earlier, this world with devils filled threatened to undo us. But our Lord also teaches us the limitations of the world in verse 4. Its inhabitants may threaten to undo us, but after they kill the body. There's no more that they can do. Then Jesus teaches us the non-limitations of God in verse 5. Jesus was even more explicit earlier in Matthew 10, 28. Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Those who have the world as their enemy, death is the end of their troubles. Those who have God as their enemy, that is only the beginning of their troubles. The enemy of the world may have the power of first death to cast into dark graves, but these graves will be emptied one day God, on the other hand, has the power of second death to cast into the fiery lake. This lake will be filled forever. Fear the Almighty God This fear is such a point of emphasis that you see the verb fear three times in one verse, verse five, yet in the same breath. Jesus transitions seamlessly to the comforting words of verse 6. We learn that not only is God Almighty, He's also loving. Not only do we consider the severity of God, we consider the goodness of God. In these verses, we apply what we sang earlier. Ponder anew what the Almighty can do if with his love he befriend thee. God's not only Almighty, He's also loving. The one who reveals all, knows all, hears all, proclaims all, also values all. The argument proceeds from the lesser to the greater. Our Father knows every insignificant creature that has ever lived. He does not forget them. None of them passed without his knowledge. The sparrows were as insignificant as you can get, a cheap source of food. Jesus spoke of these birds earlier in Matthew 10, 29. How you could get two for one copper coin, which was about a tenth of the daily wage at that time. Interestingly, here you get five for two coins. The seller is basically saying, buy four for two coins, and I'll throw in an extra one for free Not highly esteemed before men, but not forgotten before God either God's intimate knowledge also extends to the very hairs on our heads. An average person has about 100,000 follicles there. He knows every one of these as well. If we have confidence that God cares for the sparrows How much more should we have confidence that God cares for the saints? You are of more value than many sparrows. How much value? Remember, you're bought at a price. As we sang earlier, and he will hold me fast. Those he saves are his delight. Christ will hold me fast. Precious in his holy sight. He will hold me fast. He'll not let my soul be lost. His promises shall last. Bought by him at such a cost. He will hold me fast. The same hand of God Almighty that throws the unsaved into hell lovingly holds us out of eternal danger. No one is able to snatch us out of his hand. So then the fear that's commanded in these verses isn't a paralyzing terror of a stormy despot, a capricious tyrant, or an unstable ruler. God's not someone with whom you feel like you're walking on eggshells. He's our loving Father. And yet He deserves our godly fear. This healthy reverence of God the Father helps us to witness for God the Son. And we'll also need the power of God the Spirit And that leads us to our third principle to strengthen our faith. Trust in the Spirit to witness for Christ. Every verse from verse eight to twelve Jesus refers to some kind of speech act. In verse 8, confess. In verse 9, deny. In verse 10, speak a word and blaspheme. In verse 11, answer and say, and in verse 12, teach and say. God never intended for our faith to be mute It's necessary for us to speak for him, just as it was necessary for Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day It's necessary that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations. The followers of Jesus were witnesses of these things. So then if these disciples should keep silent, the stones would cry out. We have in verses 8 and 9 two scenarios concerning our public witness. We must make a choice. In verse 8, there's a bold declaration of faith in Jesus as that faith is proved to be genuine. We might picture Stephen in Acts 7 Rejected in the earthly court, but accepted in the heavenly one. In verse 9, there's a cowardly denial of Jesus. Faith proved to be ingenuine We might picture Peter in Luke 22 denying Jesus three times. But it's important to remember that verse nine need not be the final verdict on us and our lives. Remember God's grace. Apostle Peter, who at the high priest's courtyard failed to make his confession, found mercy from Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession. Satan wanted to sift Peter like wheat, that is, take them apart. But Jesus had prayed for him that his faith should not fail, even after his denial. That's why even though Peter failed in his confession, he did not fail in his faith. The same grace is given to us. In other words, even if you've been more like Peter than Stephen, even if you failed like verse 9 before. You can find grace to fulfill verse 8. The second chance comes from an intimate, saving relationship with Christ that cannot be severed Thank God that our salvation is not based on our courage or lost because of our cowardice. Thank God our salvation is based on Jesus' finished work on the cross. He paid for all our sins, even the sin of denial. So if you've been like Peter, but you've been you're a true believer You may be denied rewards in heaven, but you won't be denied your place in heaven Okay, so you failed to confess Christ bold, but you confessed your failure. Since denial is not an unforgivable sin, you found mercy, and now you're ready to try again. As you go out into the world and live out your faith, the cry of your hearts may be, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. We'll be talking about getting that help in verses 11 and 12, but first we have to talk about verse 10 From verses 8 to 10, there almost seems to be a progression or digression from the best we can say for Jesus to the worst we can say against him. Verse 8, confess Jesus. Awesome. Verse 9, deny Jesus, not good. First half of verse 10, speak against Jesus. Really bad. Second half of verse 10, blaspheme the Holy Spirit working through Jesus. That's The worst thing you can do. Whereas denying and speaking against Jesus can be forgiven, blasphemy the Spirit won't be. What exactly is this blasphemy of the Holy Spirit? This is a difficult topic, so we start with what's crystal clear. I'll repeat what I said from our Wednesday night studies on doctrines: quote: The blasphemy against the Holy Spirit is an eternal sin. And can never be forgiven. That's what it says. By the very nature of the sin, it cannot be committed by the true believer who is permanently indwelt by God's Spirit. End quote. It seems to be a sin that's categorically uncommittable by a true believer. I don't think we can define it simply as unbelief or resistance. Because God has definitely forgiven people of death, and many of us are living proofs of it Based on Jesus' earlier warnings against the Pharisees and scribes, I gather that this blasphemy is attributing Jesus' miraculous works to demonic powers. I believe that this specific blasphemy cannot be committed when Jesus is absent from earth. Just as the sin of Judas Iscariot and Pilate are unique sins at a unique time in history, the blasphemy against the Spirit is a unique sin of that time. These unbelieving Jewish leaders who have access to the clear testimonies of God, Jesus Himself, the testimony of John the Baptist, the works of the Holy Spirit through Jesus, the scriptures and the words of Moses. Chose willingly to go a step further and attribute Jesus' works to Billzebub. They were bent on discrediting Jesus at all costs. And what a cost it was. And their hostility against Jesus will continue against his followers. As they bring them to the synagogues and magistrates and authorities. Now, just from verses 8, 9, 10, and the first half of verse 11, the disciples might be scared out of their wits. They're probably thinking, so Jesus, you're telling us that while we may confess you before men, we might also deny you out of fear. Will face not only people who speak against you, but also attribute your works to the devil. These enemies of God may drag us before the leading Jews of the day and embarrass us with difficult Bible questions. This sounds really tough. Nonetheless, against such immense pressure, Jesus basically says Akunamatara. You won't be tongue-tied, even if you're tied in bonds and chains. The Holy Spirit will teach you. The Holy Spirit is the difference between Peter at the end of the Gospels and Peter in the book of Acts, between the disciples who fled and the disciples who stayed. The disciples in the Gospels could not keep the promises of their loyalty to Jesus, because Jesus didn't send the promise of his Father upon them yet. They have to wait in Jerusalem until they were endued with power from on high. Holy Spirit is the power they needed to be powerful. Holy Spirit is the teacher they needed to teach. We too trust in the Holy Spirit to witness for Christ. Whether it's internal dangers of hypocrisy or external dangers of persecution, we turn to the Holy Spirit for help When we're in power this way, built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit, we can be a city on a hill that cannot be hidden. A spiritual powerhouse. When we trust in the Holy Spirit to witness, we're sound in our invisible structures, and our public faith is impressive in God's sight. Can boldly preach the gospel and even suffer for his name. And today, let's observe the Holy Communion and proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Let's start with that and let's pray. Lord, there are times when we just wish to be home. We want to be in heaven because life is tough. As we faithfully, or as we strive to be faithful to you, Lord, we face rejection from the world. And even beside external dangers, Lord, we know that sin lurks in us. Though we have power over it, Lord, we won't be removed from its presence until the kingdom comes. Lord, we ask that you give us that power. And as you have told in your scriptures We're thankful that you've given us the Holy Spirit, that we can live for you. May your Spirit work within us, transform us, make us bold, make us fear you above all. Help us to be faithful witness to you, for you, wherever we go. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Phil's at first.