Well, it is great to be with you this morning. The last time I was with you, some of you were not doing so well, and you were getting over the flu or something like that. Well, I can't say I caught it from you, but about two weeks ago I um also uh succumbed And in fact, uh if if it had been last week that I was uh supposed to preach here, I would not have been here. I did not have a voice. And uh I apologize for not singing out this morning, but my voice is not there yet. So we're just hoping to uh get through um the message with the voice intact. But I'm sure many of you know exactly what I'm uh uh talking about. So it's uh just a delight to be able to uh be here this morning. And to share the Word of God with you. In the front page of the Washington Post a while ago I I remember uh I I saw this article and it absolutely uh caught my attention right away. The the headline read, College Freshmen have the blues. survey indicates. It went on to say the nation's college freshmen sound more bored with school, less interested in politics or social issues, and just plain lazier than any class in a generation. Survey researchers and the and uh uh uh uh were struck b most by this time by a pattern of growing indifference among many students in their studies And important issues in American society. A record number of freshmen, for example, said they'd missed classes or appointments because they had overslept The time they say they spent on homework is declining, and record numbers of them also said they frequently are bored in classes. By the way, if I ever uh found people bored in classes, uh the one thing uh I was always marked high on was passion and excitement. And I tried to generate that in others. I don't know whether that worked or not, but uh uh board I just don't understand in classes. Well that was a survey of over four hundred and fifty thousand freshmen which uh reported record levels of academic and civic apathy. Well, I think aimless, purposeless living is all around us today, and yes, especially maybe among some of our youth. And part of the reason for this may be as a result of the doctrine of evolution which is taught in our classrooms. As one evolutionist has honestly stated, and I've quoted him before, he says man is the result of a purposeless and natural process that did not have him in mind. Well, that's not too exciting, is it? I think the root uh cause for purposeless living is actually a spiritual cause If there were no purpose for us in our creation, then maybe there is really no purpose for our living. But of course, the Bible says something entirely different from that. Psalm 8, of course, God created man and he created him for a specific purpose So for the Christian, young or old, scriptures tell us clearly what our goals should be and how we should achieve them. Well, the last time I was with you, we spoke of the most amazing example in the world. and that of our Lord Jesus Christ is he gave up everything, all of his glory as God. And he died on the cross so that you and I might might partake of eternal life. It's hard for us to even imagine uh all that he gave up for us. There can really be nothing comparable uh to that example But putting our Lord aside of those born naturally from a man and a woman, in my mind, the Apostle Paul stands out. Sometimes people will tell me, well, no one could be like Christ, or no one could be like Paul. That's just an impossible standard. And uh I confess that I don't understand that thinking. Uh I think it's foolish thinking. After all, there are some people who ended up winning uh gold medals in Olympic uh events these past two weeks. uh were originally inspired by watching athletes a generation ago win these medals and they decided often at a very young age that they were going to try to do the same thing. Do you think they were being foolish or simply too idealistic? Well, no, their performance at these Olympics validated their actions So we too should imitate those around us who are godly. And one of the godliest examples that we have is the Apostle Paul. Not only that, if that isn't enough reason for you, Paul gives us a command. He says over and over again, be imitators of me He says that in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16. And in 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1, he says, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. And at the end of the passage we're going to look at today, Philippians 3, 12 to 16, Paul says in verse 15 that mature believers should have the same mind that Paul does. And then in verse 17, he makes it even more crystal clear. Brethren, join in following my example. So for just a few minutes this morning, I want us to look at Paul's apostolic example. No, it's not quite as grand a height as we uh scale the last month uh with our lord's incredible example that we looked at, but it is still pretty lofty And yes, to me, it is exceptionally awe-inspiring and challenging every time I look at the Apostle Paul. Paul speaks quite frankly about his own goals in Philippians 3, and as we look especially in verses 13 and 14 of this chapter, I think we will see how we as believers can avoid purposeless living and really make our lives count for Christ. One area where, in fact, we all of us here today aren't the same as the Apostle Paul is in his amazing background. He tells us about it in chapter three, in verses four to six. Paul says, uh, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, because he's saying, uh, well, we have no confidence in the flesh. You know, if anyone thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I'm more so circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin. A Hebrew of the Hebrews, concerning the law, a Pharisee. You couldn't get any stricter than that. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. That's what Paul says. Paul had the ideal background for a Jew. He checked all the right boxes. uh for a zealous Pharisee. And indeed he displayed it by his zeal in persecuting the church. He had it all But then the Lord changed him as he appeared to him on the road to Damascus, and all of his priorities changed He saw things for what they really were. And all of a sudden, his old life held no attraction whatsoever. Now what's fascinating to me as I think about it. is that the Lord used all of that previous training that he had, and we'd look at Paul's letters and we see all it's Saturated uh Old Testament scripture. He knew the Old Testament backwards and forwards. So God used that past training But still Paul changed completely in terms of his motivation and his priorities. All those things that he had valued, he now considered rubbish. That's the word that Paul uses in verse 8. And actually that's a kind uh translation of that word. It uh literally means excrement. You know, I think well you You know what excrement is. And that's what he says it was in comparison to his primary goal to gain Christ and to know him. Paul had an amazing background, but he hardly rested on his laurels. In fact, he did the exact opposite. Now mind you, Paul is writing this in prison. I just like to remind you of this because we sometimes forget. Um he's writing this in prison near the end of his ministry. Oftentimes, by the way, when I'm teaching in a Sunday school class, you know, I'll give the background and give the the time period and things like that. And then maybe, I don't know, 10, 12 weeks into the class, I'll say, now, now when was this written again? And I find it people don't actually know. So they weren't really listening to me the first time or they don't remember. And it's anyway, it's Pretty funny. So I'm reminding you, because I just assume everybody knows these things, but this is written in a prison cell. And it's near the end of Paul's life. He's probably had, by my calculations, 25 years of ministry by this time. But does he sound like he's done? Hardly. And that's the kind of attitude that Paul wants you and me to have as well. You know, and as I think of this message, Uh I think of one uh great leader in the faith that uh died this week, Billy Graham, uh 99 years old. Um I turn So that you know, if I have if that's two-thirds of my life, I kind of doubt it. It's probably more like three-quarters, nine-tenths. anyway, something like that. But ninety nine years and we didn't agree or I didn't agree with absolutely everything that Billy Graham did. Sometimes he's a little too ecumenical for my tastes and other things. But my by and large, my goodness You look at all of the evangelical leaders that had one one scandal after another, and Billy Graham stands tall, and uh the kind of ministry that he had for most of his life was just absolutely exceptional. And uh so when I think about that, and when I think about the Apostle Paul, uh he Paul doesn't act like he's done here. At all. And that's what to me is amazing. He's not just starting out in his ministry. He's had twenty-five years of active ministry for the Lord. And that's the kind of attitude I think that Paul wants us to have as well. So my message this morning is keyed in especially on verses 13 and 14 of Philippians 3. And first of all, in verse uh 13, Paul says that like him we should forget the things that are behind. He says, forgetting those things which are behind. And so for many of us, this is not a problem. Forgetting things is becoming easier and easier every day. My memory is getting worse, etc. And uh so that's great. I can finally do something that the uh scriptures tell us to do. Uh well what exactly does Paul mean by forgetting those things which are behind? Two things come to my mind. Um I think actually for Paul it may well be uh very much the first, which is Forgetting past successes. Forgetting past successes. That may well have been what was in Paul's mind because he had so many of them He says in verses 12 and the beginning of 13 that he had not already laid hold of Christ completely, but he still has a ways to go. Instant sanctification, though a popular concept among some, is not a scriptural doctrine. Here is one of the greatest saints of all time, and he says 25 years later, that he has not laid hold of Christ completely. While salvation is an event and not a process, sanctification is a process and not an event. So Paul forgets his previous successes, and by this time in his life they were many, and he concentrates on the work yet to be done. Now uh I know I'm a little abnormal, so I fully understand that, but I don't understand people that are just saying, well, I'm so looking forward to my retirement whenever that is, etc. Um and I don't mind that if they're uh working, let's say, you know, they've got a secular job, etc. , and they're looking forward to it because then they can spend more time in ministry for the Lord. That's fantastic. So if that's your attitude, great. But if your attitude is, well, I'm looking forward to retirement because you know, then I can just sort of put my feet up and watch T V and uh, you know, do whatever I want, I'm thinking Thinking, I don't understand that. And I really don't. And I know I'm a little unusual that way, but I just don't get it. We're here for a purpose. We're here. God has given us life. Let's use it. And certainly Paul doesn't sound like he's ready to put his feet up, does he? Even though he probably is putting his feet up or wherever he can put it in jail, right? And so that that's what he says. So Paul forgets his previous successes. He doesn't rest on his laurels, and he concentrates on the work that he believes God would still have him to do. So if the Lord worked tremendous things or has worked tremendous things in you and through you in the past, that's wonderful. And if you've seen some significant changes in yourself and in others around you, that's terrific. Uh but uh uh we should not just be caught up in all of that, but instead we need to focus on what God wants us to do now. I remember, you know, sometimes we can have a mountaintop experience with God. And remember the apostles, they were so caught up with the ascension of the Lord that the angels had to remind them, hey guys It's time to get back to work. Don't keep gazing up into heaven. You got work to do. And that's the way I see it as well. So forgetting past successes, but also possibly another thing that Paul may have had in mind is forgetting past failures and difficulties They may even include past sins. If you're a believer in Christ and you've confessed your sins to God and made restitution for them as much as you can. then allow God's forgiveness to work in your life. Forgiveness isn't something just future, it is something that is a present reality. 1 John 1. 10 says, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So we shouldn't let our work for the Lord be dragged down because of a continual remembrance of past sins which God has already forgiven and which have been dealt with. And sometimes the past can include bitterness for injustice that is done. I know some folks that were upset many years ago. uh at our school when some people were unjustly uh terminated. And I'm talking about over 25 years ago, nothing in the uh recent past. And uh I you know I I I noticed different reactions from different people. Uh some people just took this and said, well, you know, this is of the Lord, and other people just couldn't get over it. And I say, forgive the people who have offended you and get rid of the bitterness. Jesus says, remember when Peter wants to know how many times he should forgive? And Jesus says, No, seventy times seven, and he's not trying to tell him to count to four hundred and ninety, and then I'm four hundred and ninety one. Let them have it, right? The idea is no, we need to forgive people, to bless people who curse us. We have both positive and negative examples of this, of course, in Scripture Because of Jacob's trickery in obtaining his brother's birthright, Esau was bitter against his brother for years. But in another family situation, we see an entirely different reaction. Joseph was hated by his brothers. He was sold as a slave to Egypt, then he was wrongly accused by Potiphar's wife and thrown into jail. Did that make Joseph so bitter that he sulked and wallowed in misery while he was in prison? No. And in fact, uh he was even Kind enough to interpret some dreams, to help somebody else by interpreting a dream. And finally he ends up being in charge, as we know, and his brothers were sure that he would try to get revenge. They said, perhaps Joseph, Genesis 50, verse 15, perhaps Joseph will hate us and may actually repay us for all the evil which we did to him. But Joseph said, Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God. As for you, you meant it for evil against me. Joseph wasn't just a Pollyanna. He knew what they meant. He said, You meant it for evil against me, but God meant it for good. in order to bring it about as it is this day to save many people alive. That's an amazing response. Am I in the place of God? Are you bitter about something which your son or your daughter or your father or your mother or your spouse or close friend has done to you this year? Forgive them. Leave the judgment. for what they have done to you in God's hands and recognize that He is in control even in this situation. And so these are some things. Perhaps even uh failures and difficulties may have included loved ones who have passed away, or unexpected illness, or other sorrows. And Paul says, put even these things. behind you. David unfortunately showed how not to do this in the case of his rebellious son Absalom. You remember the scriptures say that the b victory over Absalom's forces was turned into mourning because of the king's excessive grief over his son's death. Rather than recognize God's judgment, uh upon his son and God's deliverance of David and his kingdom, David wallowed in self-pity. And the result was that the entire king kingdom for a while was in jeopardy as all the army was about to rebel against David. And it took ruthless Joab to awaken the king and get him out of his self-pitying state. God has each of us here for a purpose. I've said this once, I'm going to say it again. Let us not allow past sorrows or difficulties to immobilize us for God's future plans for our lives. Let us forget those things which are behind both successes and failures and difficulties. But what are we to do? Well, Paul says in the end of verse 13 and in verse 14. He says, reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal. There are three ingredients I see in this passage that are essential. If we're going to accomplish anything worthwhile, the first ingredient is energy. I have to admit, in the last two weeks I haven't had an abundance of energy. energy. I've been sleeping twelve to fourteen hours a day. I didn't know that's even possible. But let me tell you it's very possible ener Energy is a wonderful thing. So you may have some wonderful ideas, maybe even be full of ideas, but without lots of energy, they won't get done. The word for reaching forth here in verse 13 literally means a stretching forth, a straining towards that which is ahead And the picture is that of a runner who is stretching every muscle in his body so as to win the race. I must confess uh that I don't understand lazy people very well. Uh I've seen some store clerks who uh seem as if it's a great effort for them to move a bone in their body. And I don't quite get it. The book of Proverbs doesn't quite get it either. It has a lot to say about lazy people. Proverbs 19. 4 says, the sluggard buries his hand in the dish and will not even bring it back to his mouth. Now that is truly lazy. Proverbs 1026 says the lazy person isn't exactly a welcome employee. It says, as vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the lazy man to those who send him. I have to say one thing I've appreciated so much working at uh Washington Bible College and Capitol Bible Seminary. We didn't have a lot of lazy employees They just didn't last long with our salary. They didn't like it. You know, we didn't have many benefits, etc. Uh but we had one secretary. Years and years ago. And this person was actually hired over my objections. I saw some issues right from the start. And she turned out to be a total dud And uh sh in fact she took off for her birthday without telling anybody and and the and the next day, you know, uh peep people say, you know, well what happened? Well it was my birthday. Well, that's great. That's wonderful. Uh anyway. Uh but she didn't last long. You know. God moved her on because she didn't really like our salary anyway, and that worked out just great. Uh but uh I I don't quite understand. And as much as I don't understand lazy people too well, I really don't understand lazy Christians. We know where we're headed. We have all of the motivation in the world to accomplish things for Christ, and there's a world of opportunity out there. I love reading your uh missions uh uh digest out there and uh we uh end up supporting a lot of the same uh people so uh it it's kind of fun to see all those letters out there and to see what is going on in the world for Christ and it's exciting. There's so much opportunity. Paul absolutely knew that, and so should we. Well, a second ingredient necessary to accomplish anything is not just energy, but focus. We not only need energy, we need focus. A bull in a china shop has plenty of energy, but constructive focus is a little lacking Maybe here we could have had that bird, you know, flying around without aimlessly. If someone said, Well, gee, I could incorporate it into my message. That would be a great time, bird, if you want to well no. You can just stay up, that's fine. But uh, you know, uh fluttering around and never not really knowing where you're going doesn't really do too much. Paul says here in our text, this one thing I do. You can't do two things with the same dedicated, concentrated effort. He is single-minded He says in verse 14 that he presses toward the goal. The word for goal that's used here means literally that upon which I fix my gaze. And so the root meaning is to look into a distance. He has a single focus and he has fixed his gaze on that and he is not distracted by the things of the world. And that is one aspect that I so admire about so many of these Olympic athletes. That they had a goal. They sacrificed in many cases for many years without giving up on that goal and without changing their focus. That's a great example for us as believers. It's so easy for us these days, I think easier than ever before, to get distracted with pleasures or worldly things and to lose our focus on Christ and His work. I actually have to tell myself, look, I don't have to check things ten times a day just because I can. You know, whether it's through a phone or internet or something like that. Um I mean I remember it wasn't that long ago. I used to have to wait for the newspaper the next day to get the sports scores. Well now, you know, I mean, what do you mean you haven't updated it in the last five minutes? I mean, not that I am like that or anything. No, of course not. But it is pretty interesting. I still remember uh my wife's uh uh uh husband who's now with the Lord, uh my Did I say my wife, my sister's husband, who's with the Lord? I said that once before, by the way, in a uh here. I've done that now twice. My wife's husband is still alive. Thank you very much. I am the first. I don't know if I'll be the last, but I am definitely I know I'm the first. Anyway, uh, but my sister's husband, he he was a mild-mannered guy, but if he couldn't get the the uh the final edition of the paper that had all the sports scores in it in the morning, he would have a conniption fit I don't know what a conniption fit is, but you get the idea. Uh he wasn't very happy. Uh and uh and uh you know we thought for this mild mannered person, that's that's the one thing that was just too much for him. And uh you know, sometimes we can be like that and how foolish is it is it for us to get so distracted. I'm remain reminded of the parable of the sower and the seeds in Luke 8. 14. And Jesus says, the seed which fell fell among the thorns, these are the ones who have heard, and as they go on their way, they are choked. with worries and riches and pleasures of this life. What a great combo. I mean it's a deadly combo, but it's so true of each of us, isn't it? uh choked with worries and riches and pleasures of this life and bring no fruit to maturity. So I think you and I need to continue continually work on this and resolve to rid ourselves of these distractions and focus on the goal of serving Christ. How wonderful it is when somebody has energy and focus at the same time. And I know this dates me a little bit, but for me, one of the best examples of an athlete with that combination. was uh Michael Jordan. When he was in a pressure situation, he would drive to the basket and you could see his tongue hanging out of his mouth. You take a look at some of those old clips, his tongue would be hanging out of his mouth, and that's when you knew that his only focus was getting the ball in the basket. And that's when you knew if you were his opponent You were in deep trouble because nothing was going to stop him from that goal. Now that is the kind of focus that you and I need to have. And I would say if I can sp say a word especially to the young people here this morning for my purposes, that's probably anywhere from teenagers to your thirties. maybe even later than that, God has given you lots of energy. Use it while you can. And use it focused on Christ and not on yourself or on pleasures that will soon pass away. It's a tremendous gift, and we need to use it while we have it. Well, the third ingredient necessary to accomplish something worthwhile, I see, uh, in this passage, is to have a worthy goal. It's fun to watch Michael Jordan or uh Bradley Beale or John Wall when he's not injured win basketball games or a great football team win the Super Bowl and hopefully we'll have one of those one of these days, or Olympic athletes win the gold medals. That's wonderful to see. But for the Christian, there is a heavenly gold that is far more worthwhile than these earthly ones. Paul speaks of pursuing the goal in order to attain not an earthly prize, but a heavenly prize. For which God has called him. He calls it the umpires prize, used only here in verse 14 and also in 1 Corinthians 9 and verse 24. And that goal, which should be ours as well, Paul has already discussed in this chapter in verses 8 to 10. He says in verse 8, I count all things but lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. And verse 10 explains further that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. Paul's goal was to know Christ and to be more like him. Notice, by the way, that Paul's goal includes suffering. He says the fellowship of his suffering. Participation is the idea in his suffering. He doesn't exclude it, but he speaks of it as part of his growth process. And again, I remind you, he's writing this letter from a prison cell where he himself is suffering because of his open proclamation of the gospel. Paul knew suffering firsthand. As the writer to the Hebrews reminds us in chapter twelve and verses five and six, My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when you are rebuked of him for whom the Lord loves, he chastens. and scourges every son whom he receives. That is a part of the Christian life. It's not just something for some people, it's something that apparently all of us need to go through. It was true for Paul. And it's true for us as well. And that leads me to my final point. Towards the end of Philippians chapter 3, Paul gives a further reason why our goal should be set on Christ rather than the things of the world. He says in verses 17 to 19 that we shouldn't be caught up in the sensuality of the world, which certainly sounds very familiar to our day and age, doesn't it? But instead, he says, verse 20, we should remember that our citizenship is in heaven. Like Paul, we must Always remember that we are not earthbound, but we are heaven bound. If we don't have a goal, we'll run a about aimlessly, keeping ourselves busy perhaps, but going nowhere. If our goal is set on earth, then we are no different from the rest, who have no hope. And I think that's so true of so many of our day. They keep themselves busy, they may do some things that are worthwhile to some degree, but they don't last. But if our goal is set upon Christ, then it will be heavenward because that's where Christ is now. And that's where we're looking for Christ to return, to take us there for Himself. Uh uh are we caught up in the world and its goals? Then remember, we yes, we are in this world, but we are not of this world. Our citizenship Paul tells us is in heaven. And that's a fabulous thing to remember at all times, and especially as things in the world don't look so good most of the time. I'm actually convinced, and maybe some of you would disagree with me on this, but I'm convinced that people generally reach their goals in life. Or at least they come fairly close. And uh you know it uh uh w uh you say, well that that's uh ridiculous. Well I don't really think it is. I think we come very close to whatever those goals actually are. And so I would ask you Have you set a goal for the rest of your life? Now, I don't know how many years it is. I doubt I've got 33 years like Billy Graham did. Right, till ninety-nine? That's ridiculous. I'm a type one diabetic that already the reduces the age of, you know, way down, etc. You know, if I get another 10 years, that should be probably uh You know, enough. It's not the way I look at it, but uh it probability speaking, and uh that may be it. Well What's my plan for my next 10 years or 15 years or whatever God has given us? Some of you out there are just even a little older than I am. You've got a plan? Do you have a plan? Because if you don't have a plan, you're not going to reach it, that's for sure. Uh some of us who have maybe a lot longer than that, uh what's our goal for the rest of our lives? Is that a silly question? uh to ask, okay, well how about what's your goal for the rest of the year? Let's let's the start small. Uh I trust that our our goal, the goal for each of us is the same as Paul's, to know Christ, to be conform to his image and not to the image of the world, and to make Christ known. Well, how can we do this? As we close, let me suggest five practical things. I've mentioned these before. There's nothing earth-shattering about them. And I'm sure many of you are aware of these things. But so important for us, if this is our goal, how do we reach it? First of all, to spend time in God's Word. I know I've said that many times, but to read and meditate on the word. And I know this is a good church. It's a solid church, and you're in the word a lot. But I know i you know in my own uh uh church at Forcy, in my own Sunday school class where I think I've g been well I mean I've been teaching for 40 years or so, I figure they should probably know something. But then I'll ask them a question and I'll find out, huh, they didn't know quite as much as I thought. I know that's a shock. Well, how do we renew ourselves in the Word? We don't renew ourselves unless we're what? In the Word, continually. uh and uh to to meditate on the word. Uh uh establish a daily time of reading if you don't already have one. Memorize the word. Doesn't matter if you're not gonna remember it in ten years. What it it does is it helps you Focus uh on the scriptures, and uh that would be a tremendous thing to do. Maybe uh for some of you it would be good to start a uh Bible study in your neighborhood. Uh begin something like that, or even just get together, two or three people in this congregation, and uh get together and study the word together. It can be a real encouragement as we study the word with one another. Second, to spend less time watching TV or surfing the internet or whatever, and more time reading God-honoring books, and more time even spending with people. family members and and friends and to encourage one another that way. Third, to pray regularly for the needs of Christ's body around the world. And if you don't have a place to start, I say that missions display out there is a great place to start. There's all kinds of opportunities mentioned there. And fourth, evaluate your spending priorities. Spend less on yourself or eating out or various pleasures and plan to give more to the Lord's work, give to of course to the local church here, but also to other uh uh uh uh Christian missionaries and organizations And then fifth, be an active witness to others around you where you are. And consider if the Lord is calling you to be a special uh witness and uh uh to to some people that you may have thought well no I really am not sure I'm gonna reach out to them but if God has put you in their path He's put you in their path for a reason, and God wants us to be salt and light in this world. Well, summing up, Paul exhorts us in this passage, and I exhort myself and you. Let's forget those successes. or disappointments or difficulties of the past, and let's energetically and single-mindedly press toward the goal of knowing Christ better and making him known to others. That to me is such a worthy goal. And I think we should seek to be exactly, Paul says, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. Would people say that of us? That we have imitated Christ and therefore we should imitate them? I wonder. That's what God wants each of us to do Let me just close by reading Hebrews 12, 1 and 2. Therefore we also, since we're surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, and that cloud of course was the great faith chapter of witnesses in Hebrews 11. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So, Lord Jesus, let each of us run the rest of the days that you give us life here on this earth. Let's pray Father, I thank you so much for your word. I thank you, Lord, for the examples in your word, not only the example of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, but of the Apostle Paul. Who didn't see fit to rest on his laurels even 25 years into his ministry, but continually focused his sight on serving you, on knowing you better. And I'm making you known to those around. And Lord, I would pray that whatever stage of life that we are in, you would help us to renew ourselves again to that purpose. Father, it is easy, we confess, to be distracted with things, even some things that are good things, but they're not the best things And I pray, Father, you would help each of us to focus our energies on those things which are going to count for eternity. Lord, help us again to realize that though winning gold medals here on earth, uh winning various achievements here on earth, uh are are are fine things. These things pass away. But Lord, what is done for eternity indeed will last. Help us, Father, to use more of our time. and store them up as citizens of heaven, Lord. Help us to have that perspective in the decisions that we make even this week. that we will say, will this help us in terms of our ultimate goal? To know you and to make you known among others Help us, Lord, to be salt and light in this world. We pray in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.