Well, it's great to be with you again this morning. I dressed for fall. It seems like it's still summer. I'm not quite sure why that's the case, but uh at any rate it's wonderful to be here with you and to share God's word with you. I'm excited too. Almost everybody is up closer to the front. Am I having some impact? I don't know, but this is exciting to me It doesn't take me much to get me excited, by the way. Well, it may surprise some of you that um my favorite book of the Bible is not Isaiah. It's not Psalms. It's not Genesis or any Old Testament book. My favorite book of the Bible is Philippians. So beginning this Sunday and for the next Sundays that I am with you, scattered throughout the fall I plan to preach from this wonderful uh epistle. I remember it was sometime in the 1990s. That uh uh m uh George Miles, who was the in my opinion, the founder of Washington Bible College, it may not be technically correct, but it's It's pretty close to the truth. He was sitting in my living room and he asked me, What was my life verse? Well, when Mr. Miles, who is the president emeritus of the Bible College and Seminary, asked you a question You answer it. But to that point, you know, I've been uh uh teaching seminary at that point for maybe fifteen years, and uh I didn't really have a life verse. uh so to s uh to speak of. But the first verse that came to my mind, I mean, you better have an answer when the president uh uh asked you a question and the first verse that came to my mind was Philippians one twenty one and so that's what I told him So I guess from that day forward, Philippians 1. 21 has been my life verse. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Why do I love Philippians? Because it is so full of joy. The verb Cairo, which is rejoice, occurs nine times in this book. And uh the um uh a a similar word that that means rejoice together occurs twice, and the noun kara Joy occurs five times. That's sixteen times in this tiny book of four chapters that Paul talks about joy or rejoicing. So how can you not love a book like that? I've entitled this message, Our Greatest Joy. And as we look at the reasons for Paul's joy, focusing particularly on Philippians 1, 12-26, I want us to consider what is our greatest joy. What brings us the most joy in our lives? And as we think about that question, I believe that it says a lot about each one of us. I know that I haven't personally felt overly joyful about the state of some of my favorite sports teams. especially the Orioles, who were in first place in early April and May with a 22-10 record But now are finishing, as of last night's loss, not that I keep track or anything, with a guaranteed losing season. But really, in the grand scheme of things, is a sports game really my greatest joy? Or yours? Well, I hope not. So let's look at three reasons for joy that Paul gives us in Philippians 1, 12-26. I was told that last time I was here I I covered ten verses or ten different verses or something like that. Don't worry this This message is going to be nice and simple right through Philippians, one passage primarily, and that's it. Well, three reasons for joy. First of all, in verses 12 to 14, you and I should have joy in spite of difficult circumstances because Christ is becoming known. Well you and I should have joy in spite of difficult circumstances because Christ is becoming known. You see, this is what amazes me so much about the book of Philippians. It's easy to have joy when, oh, let's say your football team has won the Super Bowl. I don't know, do we have more Ravens fans here? Probably a little north than Redskins fans down more where I am. Uh regardless, you know, you have some joy there, or you just got a pr promotion at work and everything is going fine. And maybe you think that that's what's going on in uh Paul's life After all, he's the greatest apostle of all time. He has preached to thousands everywhere, and people are being saved. Well, that's tremendous, and maybe that's all that's going on. Well, all that's true, but that's not exactly what's going on, as Paul writes of Philippians. In fact, Paul starts verse 12 with a simple phrase The things which happened to me, he says. Well, those things were actually pretty bad. uh at least humanly speaking, uh Paul was currently in a Roman jail towards the end of his life around A. D. 61. And he was awaiting a trial for his crime of preaching the gospel. His current set of troubles began when he insisted on going to Jerusalem. where he was falsely accused by some fellow Jews, Acts 21. 28. He was nearly lynched by a religious mob in Acts 21. 30. He was almost killed when he was in jail in Jerusalem, Acts 23. 12 to 22. He was then imprisoned at Caesarea for two years, Acts 23, 31, all the way to Acts 26, 32. He was finally sent to Rome as a prisoner, and along the way, he was shipwrecked. So instead of traveling around freely, Preaching the gospel, and his other letters indicated that he had lots of plans to do just that. Instead, he is cooped up in prison. and he is shackled to rotating members of the Praetorian or Imperial Guard and awaiting trial for another two years. Acts 2830 tells us that. So the Philippian believers are probably worried that Paul is depressed and discouraged. And that would be, I think, quite understandable. But that is hardly the case. And so we ask, well, why? Because in spite of Paul's difficult circumstances, he says in verses 12 to 14 of our text that the gospel is being furthered and Christ is becoming known. First of all, Paul says in verse 13, he's been able to witness to the whole Praetorian guard as they were chained to him Undoubtedly, some of those soldiers believed. And as a part of an elite force of soldiers, as they were transferred elsewhere, places where Paul couldn't possibly have gone, the gospel witnessed Went to those places as well. Secondly, Paul says in verse 14, because Paul couldn't preach freely, many of the believers stepped up in Paul's place. Evidently feeling that if the great Apostle Paul was willing to be so bold as to risk his life to preach the gospel, that they would preach boldly as well. It's interesting that sometimes we we uh think that uh someone in a church or an organization. is replaceable. But what we often find is that uh when that print uh person for whatever reason is incapable of performing that task Others step up and sometimes do a far better job than anyone could have imagined. I'm sure that's happened here at Faith from time to time in the recent uh months. And that's exactly what Paul says is happening in this case, with the result that Christ was becoming known to more and more people, even despite his difficult circumstances. I'm sure Paul didn't want things to go the way they did, humanly speaking, but he could rejoice because, as he says in verse 12, these things turned out for the furtherance of the You know, our circumstances are sometimes going to be less than ideal A little over four years ago as uh after Lancaster Bible College had taken over the operations of Washington Bible College and Capitol Bible Seminary in early April 2013. In a meeting that lasted less than five minutes, I think it was about three minutes, I was told that my services would no longer be needed. In all, five of the nine full-time seminary faculty and two of the four full-time college faculty were let go So after teaching for 36 years at the school, what had been a fantastic ministry came to a rather abrupt close. Do I miss that ministry? Absolutely. But in the past four years, I've been able to get involved in a number of other ministries. including teaching chess uh to uh uh to high school students for an entire year. That was quite an experience. I haven't been around high school students for a while. That was exciting. Teaching the Bible to international students, including Muslims who had no concept of who Adam or Abraham or David or Jesus was. And being an online instructor for Liberty Seminary, already having taught 37 classes and nearly 800 students in the past four years. Now please don't misunderstand me here. Compared to Paul, my difficulties are nothing. And maybe your difficulties aren't as big as you think they are either. And yes, God can, and I believe that he will use our present circumstances to further the cause of Christ. So when you and I face some difficult circumstances, what should be our response? Do we get down? Do we get discouraged? Do we say, woe is me? Or do we do as Paul did and use look for opportunities that Christ he made known even through those various circumstances? Think of uh Danny, whom you uh uh mentioned uh this morning. Uh and uh thinking about the fact that what's he doing? He's witnessing for the Lord uh to those that he comes in contact with. Same thing I'm sure is true of many of you as you've had some unanticipated trips to the hospital and other exciting things. Uh well some of those nurses and doctors along the way hopefully have been the recipients of your witness. And that's exactly As it should be. And that's exactly what Paul is saying here. But Paul gives a second reason for his joy in verses 15 to 18 of Philippians 1. He says that you and I should have joy in spite of difficult people because Christ is preached. You and I should have joy in spite of difficult people because Christ is preached. These verses have always been amazing to me. Several times in my life I have memorized the book of Philippians. Do not ask me. To quote the book of Philippians. I have memorized it and then I have forgotten it. Alright? But what happens is as you And I'm sure many of you know this, as you try to memorize something, you concentrate more on what? Every word, because you're trying to memorize it exactly. And that uh and and I remember sort of going through this, even though I've read it many times, I went through it more slowly when you're trying to memorize it. This is just amazing because Paul's talking about people here who have been taking advantage of Paul's imprisonment to take leadership roles in his absence. Demeaning the character of Paul in the process. Yes, there are some, he says, who are preaching out of proper motives out of love, Paul says in verse seventeen. But others, verses fifteen and sixteen, uh say, are envious, troublemakers, and selfish. Paul even says at the end of verse 16 that these preachers supposed to, quote, add affliction to my chains They didn't mind destroying Paul's reputation as long as it served their purposes. Well, what good could come out of that? Well, yet Paul amazingly concludes in verse 18, in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in that I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice. Yes, God cares about our motives in what we do. It is supremely important to him, as the rest of Scripture attests. But Paul is leaving judgment of their motives to God. And he is simply rejoicing that regardless of their wrong motives, Christ is still being preached. Paul here is talking about people who are deliberately trying to take advantage of his imprisonment to advance their own agenda. And yet Paul is rejoicing because Christ is preached. Do you see a pattern here? Pretty hard to miss. When Christ is exalted, Paul rejoices because his joy is centered around Christ and nothing else. What would you and I focus on if we were in Paul's shoes? You know? You ever thought about that? I bet we'd be spending a lot of time focusing on those people who had bad motives and were making us look bad. But instead, Paul focuses on Christ. And that becomes even clearer in the third reason for Paul's joy that he explains in verses 19 through 26. The main point in this final section is that you and I should have joy in life or death because Christ will be magnified. You and I should have joy in life or in death, because Christ will be magnified. In verse 19, which is a bridge verse from the previous section to this one, Paul says that all these difficult circumstances will actually turn out for his salvation or deliverance by means of the prayers of the church. and the supply of the Holy Spirit. Now I don't think he's talking about physical deliverance from prison, even though for most of us that would probably be the first thing on our minds. No, Paul's deliverance, he explains at the end of verse 20, was to see Christ magnified in his life or his death. At the beginning of our school year in September 2001, I was asked to share my testimony in a seminary chapel. And in that testimony, I mentioned Philippians 1. 21, the text that I'm preaching on this morning. Life and death are, of course, the predominant themes of that text Little did I know that the next time that we would have chapel together at seminary on Tuesday, which we'd already set aside as Spiritual Life Day with a special emphasis on prayer. With classes canceled, everyone gathered in the chapel. On that same day, around 4,000 lives would be lost by the terrorist activities against the World's Trade Center and the Pentagon. Tom Joyce, a Navy captain, who was also one of our part-time seminary students, was in his office at the Pentagon when the plane hit. And the plane struck right below his office, and he was blown out of his chair and across the office. Thankfully, he and some others were able to lead 70 other people to safety that day. And in his service at his home church that Thursday night after the tragedy, Tom reminded the congregation that no one knows when they're going to die. So we should make sure where we stand with Christ. Times like this cause us to stop and to reflect about the meaning of life, the nearness of death, and the things that matter most. For many, of course, in the Caribbean and in Houston and in Florida, they've had some reminders of this very thing in a different way these past few weeks. For you and for me, like Paul, our greatest joy should be to magnify Christ. Our whole purpose for living should be to magnify Christ. Paul says in verses 20 and 21, according to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all with all boldness, as always, So now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Paul's deep desire was to proclaim Christ, and that's what he eagerly desires to do. And that is his passion, even in uh everything that he does, because it's what he's always done. It's what he wants to do now. Paul says, for him to live is Christ. Now let me stop here for a moment and ask, well, what's your greatest joy? What's your reason for living? What gets you excited? Would you say for me to live is power? Do you seek to uh have uh power, gain power and influence in the workforce or wherever you are? Do you seek to climb your way to the top? Is that your motivation? Apparently, like some of these preachers that Paul was talking about in verse 16. Maybe some of you would say, For me to live is pleasure. I can't wait to enjoy myself. I live for the weekends or for vacations. Uh some people as they get close to retirement say I'm just living you know because the day I retire. I don't understand that thinking. I'm a little weird. I understand that. My wife tries to push me to take vacations, so I guess that is a little strange. And I enjoy it when I'm there, but you know, I also want to get back. Uh so I don't understand that at all. But uh many people are like that. And that's what they live for. If you just live for the weekends, wow, what happened to those other five days Can't God use those use you those other five days? I kind of think he can. Well, and some people would say for me to live is sex. And if you look at some TV shows or movies, you'd get the impression that that's all that matters in life. Or maybe some would say for me to live his riches. My greatest desire in life is to become rich, and that's why I chose the profession I'm in. Uh it's the easiest and quickest path to getting rich. And some might say for me to live is sports. Is your passion watching the Ravens or the Redskins or the Orioles or the Nationals or some un inferior team like the Red Sox. You know, is that your passion? I'm sorry, I don't like the Red Sox very much. They're in first place in our division, but the Orioles did win ten out of nineteen games against the this year. Well, uh again, yes, you are right. I spent too much time following those Orioles, and you were absolutely correct. Well, some might say for me to live is my job. I live for my job and if I ever got fired, I would be completely at a loss for my purpose in life. Well guess what? It just might happen. It could happen. It happened to me, it could happen to you. Or perhaps you would say for me to live is fame. My greatest desire is to become famous and have people recognize me so I would be somebody. And then some might say that for me to live is beauty. If I could be beautiful like so-and-so, that would be my greatest reason for living. People spend millions of dollars in order to change their appearance and look more beautiful. But most of these things are quite fleeting. Proverbs 31:30 says, Charm is deceitful and beauty is passing. But a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Now the things I've mentioned aren't necessarily wrong in and of themselves. I don't think that women are sinning if they put on a little bit of makeup this morning to go to church or that I am sinning if I go to an Orioles game as I did several times this summer. But the problem comes when that is our chief joy, our driving passion in life, our reason for living. And if you and I are honest, we may have to admit that some of these things really have controlled our thinking and our passion. uh and uh you know more than they should. It's interesting that many of the things that I just mentioned really took a back seat after September 11th in light of those tragic events. Sports games weren't played, the stock market closed down, the TV networks were forced to postpone their regular programming. Somehow we all recognize in the face of life and death that these other things really paled in comparison. It's hard to get passionate about a football game in New York when a few miles away under the rubble there were still thousands of people lying dead. It was a time that caused all of us to re-examine our passion and our priorities. And I would submit, though certainly I view these uh hurricanes as tragedies, I view the same thing as true for many of the people there who've lost their homes and their livelihood and many other things. It's a time to resort our priorities. Paul's joy, his passion, his reason for living was Christ That was it alone. His desire whatever he wherever he was was to magnify Christ. And if you and I are truly trusting Christ, that should be our passion as well. We all ought to be consumed with Christ. He should be our greatest joy. I see two sub-points to this third point that Paul develops in verses 21 to 26. And the first sub point is this, we should have joy in death, not fear, because we'll be with Christ for eternity. We should have joy in death, not fear, because we'll be with Christ for eternity. Paul doesn't stop with this bold statement in the first part of verse 21, for to me to live is Christ. He goes on in the second half of the verse to add the amazing phrase, and to die is gain. And you want to say, Paul, are you a little off your rocker? You can't possibly mean that, can you? You know, how could he mean that dying would be gain? And yet that's exactly what he says there. He says, well, you know, maybe that's just going a little bit overboard. But Paul explains in verses 22 to 24 that he's got a tough choice to make. He desires to depart, that is, to die, and to be with Christ, which is far better, or he can keep on living and serving the believers there. Either way, Christ is magnified, whether by life or by death. And I would like to stop at this point and ask you the question, what is your attitude towards death? Our attitude toward death profoundly affects our attitude towards life. It's interesting, in our society, we rarely talk about death. We really use all kinds of circumlocutions. I love the one kick the bucket. I tried to find out, you know, what uh uh how that say don't tell me because I've got like twenty different ways that people say that uh kick the bucket that that phrase originated. So I've heard pretty much every one. It's just a weird, you know, he kicked the bucket, really? You know, how did that cause him to die? I mean I Never mind. Uh but we w my point is we don't like to say he died. You know? He died. We don't like to say that. And that's one of the peculiarities of September 11th, of course, is that we had to face that in a very real way that we couldn't possibly And those, of course, who have served in the military know in fact there are causes that are worth dying for There's no question about that. But usually if we speak of death at all, we have all kinds of euphemisms and ways to go around softening the cold, stark reality of death. Many people are afraid of death. Hebrews 2. 15 speaks of man's fear of death, speaking of those who through fear of death were all their lifetimes subject to bondage. And if indeed this life is all there is, then death is truly to be feared, as Shakespeare's Macbeth so eloquently puts it. Out, out, brief candle, life's but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more It is a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing. For the non-Christian, Death is a fearsome thing. But the sad truth is even some Christians seem to be afraid of death. And I think that it may well be that they haven't thought things through the way Paul has here. What is going to happen when we die? It's clear from this passage that if we believe in Christ, we're going to be with Him. There's no soul sleep or whatever other people are saying. We're going to be in the presence of Christ all the time. Well what a joy. If our passion were sports, I suppose our greatest joy would be sports twenty-four hours a day. If our passion were riches, our great joy would be uh in the company of riches every minute of every day. But if as Christians our passion is Christ, then what better thing to be in his presence? and spend all of our time with him. That's why Paul says to live is Christ and to die is gain. It's truly far better to spend all of our time with Christ than to live this life on earth. If you'll pardon a personal example in my own naive way. I think I understood the essence of what Paul was saying here as a child. One day I came home from elementary school. I was going to a Christian school at the time. I think I was in first or second grade. I'm not quite sure. Anyway, I came home from school and uh I announced to my mother that I hoped my sister would die. Now, my mother was quite taken aback because normally my sister, who is two years older than uh than I was and and I got along great, unlike my older brother, who actually tried to get rid of my sister by pouring an entire bottle of peregoric down her throat. This is a true story, by the way, and my brother who is now a believer will attest to that. At any rate, but me, I had never done anything like that or thought that way. So she said, why in the world would you say such a thing? And I reply, well, since I love my sister so much, if she died, then she would go to heaven, which was the best thing possible. Now I have to confess that over the years I have sometimes lost sight of that truth, which is really rather sad. And from time to time I've lost sight of it. And maybe you have as well. But it's absolutely true. For the Christian, Paul says in verse 23, to depart and to be with Christ is far better. So we need to act that way. Death is hardly something to be feared for the Christian. It is something to be welcomed. An incredible woman, Pick Lau. whom most of you probably have never heard of, went to to be with the Lord just last month. She was the wife of Kevin Lau, whom I uh taught in the seminary, and who's a pastor of the Chinese Bible Church in uh College Park. Maryland. They were married for 32 years. Pick had cancer, but had surgery and was supposedly cancer-free. She had cancer over a year ago. Things were going well. Well, we had lunch uh with the Laues in our home in mid-June, and Pick was her usual uh always serving, always helping, always encouraging self. Uh she told us uh uh a little bit later before they left that they had already found out that the cancer was back And they were just trusting the Lord as they had done all the way through. Well, a little more than about 50 days later, she died. And one of her close friends said this at her memorial service, which was held just less than a month ago. And I'm quoting, he says, I was deeply touched by the way she trusted and obeyed God. From learning about her sickness until she passed, she never doubted or lost faith in God. She believed deeply that even in life or death, God still had the best plan for her life This past year she shared with the group members many times that her sickness allowed her to have the privilege to share her experience with other sick non-believers, since her testimony when she was sick was more convincing. compared to when she was healthy. Even when in the hospital, she continued to praise the Lord, encouraging and comforting us Through Pick's life, I see God's amazing power and how the threat of death is insignificant to his children I love those words. How the threat of death is insignificant to his children. Now I'm not saying that there isn't a natural sorrow here on earth when we lose a loved one. Um Kevin uh lost his bride of of thirty-two years, and I've been praying ever since, every single day for Kevin. I know that these next weeks and months especially especially the first year can be really, really difficult. Of course, there is sorrow because for a temporary period we lose our the companionship of that person. But that is only temporary. And for the believer who has died, they are in far better shape than they ever were on earth. But earth is not our home As Paul says later on in chapter 3 and verse 20, our citizenship is in heaven, for which we are eagerly awaiting for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, if there's someone here this morning who has not accepted Christ as their Savior, then fear of death is not only normal, it is right. Because apart from faith in Christ and His sacrifice for our sin on the cross and his resurrection, the Bible says that you and I will spend eternally uh eternity in hell for our sins. And I hope that fear of your eternal destiny will lead you to come to the Savior and to trust in Him, that you'll have eternal life in place Christ took the form of human flesh that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, that is the devil, and release those who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. You can get rid of that fear of death forever. If you've never trusted Christ, you can do it today. You don't know how much longer. you have in life. And so it's time to simply trust in the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was done on your behalf. Christ died for you. He died for me. Well, for those of us who are believers, we need to adopt Paul's attitude towards death. To die is gain, because then we will be with Christ. I'm not a big one for ceremony, and I've got to tell you. Um when I die, if anybody spends, I'm also rather frugal, if anybody spends money on a fancy casket You know, I'm gonna rise up out of the dead and tell them, you idiots, you know, do this, send it to missions, do something for your money, don't you know put me in a nice box. I'm not there. Do we realize that? I don't know. Sometimes we even believers, I've seen them feel guilty. Well, gee, you know, we need to do this or that and the other thing. I'm thinking, that person is dead. You know, if you want to do something, do something for somebody who's alive. Okay, I know. I'm a little crazy, but I think it's right. Uh to for those of us who are believers, we need to adopt that attitude towards God. The second subpoint that Paul develops in verse 22 and verses 24 to 26 is that not only should we have joy in death because we'll be with Christ for eternity, but we should have joy in life because we can magnify Christ. by serving and encouraging others. We should have joy in life because we can magnify Christ by serving and encouraging others Paul says, if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor. Our greatest joy, the purpose for our lives here on earth, is simply this: to magnify Christ. But to do this takes work. The Christian shouldn't be a lazy person simply waiting for the rapture or for for death. Remember what Paul says to the Thessalonians? I love this. uh uh phrase that he uses. The the Thessalonians weren't working, you remember? They were just sort of sitting around waiting for the Lord's return. And he says, if any should not work, neither shall he eat. 2 Thessalonians 3, 10. Paul wanted his life to count, and he was willing to work hard so that his labor might bear fruit. As he says in 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And Paul's focus was to encourage and to serve others, not himself. He says in verses 24 to 26, he says, nevertheless, to Remain in the flesh is more needful for you, and being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. That your rejoicing from me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. Paul wants to continue to meet the spiritual needs of the Philippian believers. And so Paul says he'll remain and continue with them to build them up in the faith. What a joy it is to see people. built up in the faith. It's that the reason, frankly, that I've dedicated the last 40 years of my life to the ministry of teaching people the Bible It's so wonderful to teach people who are motivated to help them along in their progress in the faith and then see them go out and minister to others. The same reason missionaries serve the Lord. One of the things I've always appreciated about this church is your emphasis on missions. I think if a church uh fails to do that, they're they're failing in a major way. Um and and people are serving the Lord in some really difficult places. uh in the world. I think of uh Cullen and Janet Rast uh who spent virtually their entire lifetime in Brazil since 1970 68 they've been in Brazil. His wife, uh Janet, now has Alzheimer's. They're still in Brazil serving the Lord nearly 50 years later. But you don't have to be a Bible teacher or a missionary to have a ministry of encouraging and serving others. Remember Fred Shupe. A man who worked for the Postal Service for 35 years, but he found time to memorize the entire New Testament, Psalms and Proverbs. Yes, you heard me right. I'm having trouble with the book of Philippians, which I've memorized twice. He memorized the entire New Testament. He wasn't a pastor, he was a postal worker. Okay? Which, by the way, is said with pride and dignity. Okay? But my point is, whatever you're doing, don't tell me, hey, I'm out in the ministry, so I can't do that. No Uh he tuned all the pianos, by the way, Steve, of WBC and CVS for free. And he was such an encourager that President Miles said at his memorial service, He said he was the best friend I ever had in this world. He said his living challenged me. Now I'm sure you've probably never heard of this man. But his heart was to magnify Christ by serving and encouraging others and not himself. That was his greatest joy. For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. I didn't just pick these verses because they make a serm a good sermon. I picked them because they are ingrained in my heart and my life. And I come back to them again and again. When I had an in-neck surgery on January 2nd, 1997 I had no idea that I would be here twenty years later still struggling with the effects of that surgery. There are many things that I can no longer do. I can't play the piano, not that I could ever played as well as some of you are playing it, but I played it pretty well. I can't do a lot of things. Can't play tennis, can't garden, uh can't do all kinds of different things. And sometimes I can get a little bit discouraged by those things. I'm not going to lie to you and say that I've always got the perfect perspective or the perfect attitude on things because I don't But then I look at what I can do. I can still tell people about Christ. I can still teach. Apparently I can still preach. You may not invite me back next month, but I think I can still preach. I can still do all the things that really matter in life. Sure, I enjoy doing these other things. I miss some of them very much, but for me, God has again brought home that truth that to live is Christ. This is my priority in life. And to die is certainly gain. I won't be stuck with this miserable, rather defective old model body. I will have a new resurrection body, just like Christ's resurrection body. And some of you that have struggled with physical ailments, you know exactly what I mean And uh that's one blessing for struggling physically, right? We got a real appreciation for that new resurrection body. What a joy. What a delight. That is where we're headed. It doesn't matter what happens in North Korea. You know, it doesn't matter what happens in the rest of the world. We have a promise of a new resurrection body. So what is your greatest joy? I hope it is to magnify Christ in everything that you do, in your life, and yes, in your death as well. And my prayer for each of us here at Faith this morning is that we will be able to say with Paul, more and more, for to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Let's close in prayer. Father, I thank you. For your love for us, for all that you have done for us, Lord. It's just so amazing that you should love each one of us So much that you sent your only begotten Son to live a perfect life, to die on the cross for our sins in our place And to be raised again, that we might have eternal life and forgiveness of sins if we simply trust in Christ as our Savior. We give our lives over to Him. I pray, Lord, that if there's anyone here this morning that has never accepted Christ as their Savior, they would do it today. And without delay, because we don't know whether going to be here tomorrow or not. But that's a thing that we can know with certainty. and uh assurance, because you have promised that in your word. Lord, for those of us who are believers, Who no longer have fear of death because we know we have eternal life through Christ, not through our own merits. But through what Christ has done for us. Lord, help us more and more to live each day for you that our greatest joy would be to magnify Christ. in how we treat people, in how we serve one another, how we encourage and love one another, Lord, and how we make Christ known. As lights in this world of darkness. Guide us by your Holy Spirit and enable us to be those kinds of lights. We pray this in Jesus' precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.