Danger is all around us. I recently ran into a short danger quiz online. There are four questions with two choices each. All the questions are the same. What's more likely to kill you? Here are the choices. Terrorist attack or being crushed by furniture in your home. A shark attack or a cow attack. A house fire or a mosquito bite, a tornado or a hot dog? The correct answers to all four qu questions are the same. Second answers is the heavy dresser, not heavy artillery. Betsy the cow, not Jaws the great white. A fever, not fire, high cholesterol, not high speed winds. And that's just the dangers of the material world No, we Christians believe in personal evil named Satan and his fallen angels. But we also believe in God the King, eternal, immortal, invisible. We believe he's on our side, and he is our Father because we trust in His Son, Jesus. We were formerly enemies of God because all of us have sinned against him and deserve hell. But God has adopted us to be his own when we repented. And placed our hopes of heaven in Jesus Christ for salvation. Jesus died in our place on the cross for our sins, rose from the dead. and secured our home in heaven. And now we have nothing to fear. Whether we are little children, whether we are older in our age. Because we have our heavenly father with us, we can sing to each other just as Bob the Tomato comforted Junior asparagus in Vegetales. You guys know this song? God is bigger than the boogeyman. He's boog bigger than the gazilla or the monsters on TV. God is bigger than the boogeyman and He's watching out for you and me. And as I said, this assurance is not just for children. We may outgrow the fear of the boogeyman. Man, but we may still fear the wanted man. The world is full of dangers, and we become more aware of them as we age. Today I want to proclaim to you Jesus, the one who is greater than all these dangers. Whether it's the forces of Our Lord Jesus Christ is Lord over storms and demons, over the physical dangers and spiritual perils. So please turn with me in your Bibles to Luke eight and we will read from verses twenty-three to thirty-nine. You will also Verse twenty two to thirty nine. Now it happened on a certain And they launched down. But as they sailed, he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing. Then he arose. And rebuked the wind and the raging of the water. And they ceased, and there was a calm. But he said to them, Where is your priest? And they were afraid and marbled, saying to one another, Who can this be? For he commands even the winds and water, and they obey him. Then they sailed to the No clothes, nor did he did he live in a house but in the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out, fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with you, Jesus, son of the most high God? I beg you, do not torment me. For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For it had often seized him, and he was kept under guard, bound with chains and shackles, and he broke the bonds, and was driven by the demon into the wilderness. Jesus asked him, saying, What is your name? And he said, Legion, because many demons have entered him. And they begged him that he would not command them Now a herd of many swine was feeding there on the mountain. So they begged him that he would permit them to enter them. And he had He permitted them. Then the demons went out of the man and entered the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the lake and drowned. When those Those who fed them saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country. Then they went out to see what had happened and came to Jesus and found the man from whom they were The demons had departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. means he ha he who had been demon possessed was healed. And the whole multitude of the surrounding region of the gatherings asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear, and he got into the boat and returned. Now the man from whom the demons had departed begged him that he might be with him. But Jesus So the passage straightforwardly divides into two scenes, one scene and And in these two separate settings, Jesus proves that one, he has authority over natural forces. That's verses twenty-two to twenty-five. And two, he has authority over supernatural forces. Verses twenty six to thirty nine. Please find these points in your bulletin insert. And under these two general headings we will we will discuss various aspects For Christian life and for those who are not Christians. First, Jesus has authority over natural forces. As we see here, Jesus gets on a boat with his disciples and they depart to the other side. destiny was a gentile territory away from fellow Jews. And without asking why, they obeyed, but ended up in a dreadful storm. Now Jesus slept right through the chaos, no doubt drained by his ministry and constant care for others. He was exhausted, but he was also at peace. Well in stark contrast the disciples panicked and implored Jesus, saying, Master, Master We are perishing. Now, these words give strong indication that this was not an ordinary storm. Recall that Four of Jesus' disciples were fishermen by trade, and they worked right in that sea, Sea of Galilee. Peter and Andrew, James, and John, they were familiar with sudden violent storms that would erupt in that sea. In this case they really fear for their life And the stage is now set for Jesus to display his supernatural authority over natural forces. Thinking about this and there's a nineteenth century hymn entitled Jesus Savior Pilot Me, written by a Presbyterian minister named Edward Hopkins. The fifth verse of his lyrics expresses this miracle well. Wild. Boisterous waves obey thy will, when thou sayest to them, Be still. Wondrous sovereign of the sea, Jesus Savior Pilate. The twelve disciples learned firsthand that Jesus is indeed the wondrous sovereign of the sea. The only logical response to this miracle is to plead Jesus, Savior, pilot me But a just as Jesus asked the twelve, he asks us, Where is your faith? It's not that faith is not there at all. Luke paraphrases What Jesus said fully in Matthew 8 26. Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? But in all practicality, therefore Faith and oftentimes our faith is ineffective and close to non existent. seed size, perhaps down to microscopic levels. Uh it may be there, but it's legitimate for our Lord to ask about his whereabouts. Is your faith visible, detectable, palpable in times of disaster? Instead of waning, can your faith We're gonna look at problems that problems of life that defy normal experiences next. But for now, in application, let's consider how we are shaken by events that may seem out of the ordinary, but really are ordinary In God's eyes. Yes, the storm the disciples endured was more severe than what they have endured. encounter before it was an outlier. Nonetheless, it was a storm within the realm of the natural and physical. And before we go Too hard on these disciples. We often get intimidated by the elements, whether it's hot weather or rainstorms. Sometimes we let A little thing like weather ruin our day, rob our joy, or keep us from fellowshipping with others. And then Jesus might ask, Where is your faith? We let discomfort and inconvenience keep us from commuting and visiting those in need. Then Jesus might ask Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Are we ready for bigger storms of life if we can't handle These verses are recorded for us so that we would respond in faith during the Storms of life. We are reminded that Jesus has authority over such forces. And we are also reminded that as we follow Jesus He leads us out of dry clothes and gets us into cold and damp conditions, sometimes literally. Speed compares the disciples' ordeal with Jonah's experience. Quote, Jonah ended up in a storm because of his disobedience, but the disciples got into a Storm because of their obedience to the Lord. And such is the way of the Christian. Don't let people tell you that following Christ is It's all about getting nice things. That's not true. Be prepared for such storms. Look beyond circumstances to Jesus who has Authority over all. Just as we read earlier from Psalm eighty-nine, that was no accident when we read that. The raging of the sea. When its waves rise, he spills them. Just as Job declared in chapter twenty-six, verse twelve. That God stirs up the sea with his power and by his understanding he breaks up the storm. We see the disciples reacting in a similar way in verse twenty-five. Who can this be? For he commands even the winds and water, and they obey him. I hope that you can reply. This is Jesus. the wondrous sovereign of the sea. So after the tempest they arrive at the country of the gatherings. Now Matthew 828 says however that Jesus arrived in the country of the Kergesens. So whose country is it? Is it the gatherings or the Kergessenes? Well, the city is a Gadeth Gadera and Gargasa were part of a group of ten cities called the Caphalis. Now Gergesa was more famous than the other, while Gadara was like the capital. city among the ten. So either city was a suitable representative for the whole region as a s instead of representative there. It's like saying that I live in Baltimore suburbs and I live in Elk Ridge, and both statements would be true. The key point here is that Jesus arrived in foreign territory, the land of Gentiles, away from the promised land of the Jews. And that explains why there are those who work as pig farmers among the locals. The law of Moses in Leviticus eleven, verse seven, declares So you would not expect to see that in a Jewish region. So they are in a Gentile territory. And Jesus primarily ministered in the Galilee region on the west side of the sea and the Palestine to the south of that. But occasionally Jesus dealt with Gentiles and wandered out to foreign territories. And by doing so, Jesus is preparing his disciples for their later ministry to the Gentiles as they go and make disciples of all nations. Now that will be a daunting task and I don't think this encounter here is a easy warm up. for that. One commentator observes that this is the most detailed description of a demon possessed man in the Bible. And Mark and Luke mentions only only one present there, but Matthew records that there were actually two men there. Now Mark and Luke do not deny that there could have been more than one, but it is clear by looking at these three accounts that one was much more violent and memorable than the other. The man we see here had a chronic Spiritual issue. He did not dwell with the living, but lived among the dead. The citizens would not or could not help him because he was like an unconscious Wild animal, and he possessed unnatural strength. And see how tragic this is. The demons have taken hold of a man. God God's prized crown of creation, of being created in his image and turned him into an insufferable beast. They have used them as a horrific weapon. To offend God's glory. And once he is isolated from all other humans, the demons force them to attack the only other human in the world. vicinity himself. Mark five five records that he would cut himself with stones away from everyone else. You know, just stopping here for a second. In life there are problems that can be measured, predicted, indured until Yet in verse twenty eight we see the supernatural problem Problem The demons within dispossess man in despair, submitting, defiant yet drawn to Christ. Now we might find that surprising that these evil spirits identified our Lord quite accurately as Jesus, Son of the Most High God. Don't interpret this as some show of piety. It was believed that in the practice of exorcism, the exorcist needed to identify the exact name of the demon in the the host in order to establish dominance over it. So once they these demons realized that they could not withstand him demons panic and try to fire back at Jesus, maybe try to get identify his name so that he they can establish dominance over him. Jesus is undeterred. He demands to know the name of the demons, which they give as legion. You may recall that legion is the main unit of the Roman army consisting close to six thousand soldiers. Now whether there were actually that many demons inside this man we are not hundred percent Certain. By saying legion as their name, the demons may be employing an intimidation tactic. The demonic force in this man is cornered like Like a wounded beast, and now they attempt to make themselves look big. That's what animals do, right? When they get scared, they want to make look big. And they are doing that with the name here. Of course, Jesus is not intimidated by such supernatural forces, even if an army of demons came at him. He refuses to back off. And these demons will never haunt this man again. So in verse thirty one, they desperately try to get away from Jesus by entering pigs. Uh Mark 513 tells us there were about 2,000 of them. And it should not surprise us that demons can possess animals since Satan controlled the serpent. in Genesis three. But you might wonder why Jesus did not just obliterate these demons or lock them up lock them up in the above This right away. First, Jesus didn't obliterate them because the time to judge demons will come later, eventually in God's time. Jesus' mission for the moment is to save this man from oppression and possession, and God has preserved this man's life up to this point for that reason. Secondly, Jesus didn't lock them up right away because he wanted to use this incident to publicly warn the Gentiles against demonic powers. The demons of course did not want to be locked up early like the fallen angels mentioned in Jude chapters uh Jude 6 and 2 Peter 2, 4. I encourage you to look at those verses, Jude 6, 2 Peter 2, 4. And by permitting the demons to enter the pigs and drown them, Jesus would visibly demonstrate to the onlookers. that evil spirits are not to be trifled with. See, their aim all along was to steal, kill, and destroy. Just So at the expense of pigs, Jesus restored a human and warned others, Of supernatural dangers. By the time the herdsmen brought the news of this miracle to the people of the area and they arrived at the scene, the man Ans was sitting near Jesus clothed and in and clear headed. And once the details began to surface, including the cost of this spiritual deliverance, that is The two thousand or close to two thousand pigs gone, they asked Jesus to leave. Now the fear they had was not merely of a numinous dread. the fear of the unknown or supernatural or otherworldly. I think part of it was they feared the further loss of property. Business, commerce. Maybe this man even brought attraction to that region. Because they feared material loss, they dismissed the Spiritual gains that could come through Jesus. This incident foreshadows the persecutions to come for believers in the book of Acts. What when Gentiles Not Jews initiate persecution of saints in Philippi and Ephesus, monetary loss was the fuel for their fire. Again, following Jesus comes at a cost. Even if the world does not want to pay it, we don't know what We should. If we are to obey Jesus, we need to care for other human beings, like this demoniac. No matter how oppressed this man was, he was still a man Man created in God's image. The efforts to preach the gospel to the lost, help those suffering, just loving our neighbors as fellow humans created in God's image It demands time, energy, and money. Let's just base the facts there. The twelve disciples, likely still drawing their clothes from the storm, How Jesus left behind the multitudes who followed him everywhere, to come to multitudes who reject rejected him, do not appreciate what he has done for them. They did not want to pay the price of swine for human dignity. Like the twelve disciples, all we need to do is to bring Jesus to the lost. Now we may not take our Lord physically on a Boat. He's in heaven, right? At the right hand of God. But we take the message of his grace in our mouths to those who would hear. That's the best thing we can do. For this fallen world. Because Jesus has authority over the supernatural forces of the world. That's the best thing we can do as American citizens. Who live here tell the gospel to our neighbors, to our fellow citizens. And as we bring the good news of Jesus to others, those who receive Repeat the process and spread the gospel through their network of relationships. And see how Jesus commands the rescue man in verse 39. He wanted to be with Jesus by his side continually, but our Lord replies, Return to your own house and tell what great things God has done for you. So this man became an early Gentile proclaimer of Jesus, leaving behind his demonic past to become a preacher. There are legions too. Consider relationships and problems in your life that are impossible to contain or solve in human strength. It could be an unsaved person in your life you've been praying for. It could be an addiction, simple habit that has people trapped. It could be dimensions to these problems that cannot be managed with iron feathers and chains. But here's the good news of Jesus, and I'm not here to be Some sort of um person who can discern all the things that are going on spiritually behind your problems. But I do know one thing that the same Jesus that saved this man from a A legion of demons is with you. The same Jesus that died for your sins can empower you to die to your sins. The same Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead can raise you from the catacombs and restore you to life. I'm reminded of that verse from Charles Wesley. Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin and nature's night, Thine eye disfused a quickening ray, I woke the dungeon flame with Light, my chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed deep. And this is the power of salvation over sin. When I was a young Christian, I learned about the three aspects of salvation. Now to establish this idea, we begin with Hebrews. Which tells us that Jesus became the author of eternal salvation to all who obey him. Eternal salvation. How is salvation eternal? Well in Jesus Christ, his person and his works, we have salvation Past, salvation future, and salvation present. The gospel has you covered every moment of life as you progress toward heaven. Salvation passed. By the blood of Christ, you are forever set free from the penalty of sins. By the blood of Christ, you are forever set free from the penalty. Every simple moment that you pass through, God has removed sin and its penalty as far as the East is from the West. Salvation future. By the return of Christ, you will be forever set free from the presence of sin. By the return of Christ, you will be forever set free from Set free from the presence of sin. We look forward to the day when the battle against sin comes to an end. As God glorifies our bodies and purges this world. of sin. But not let's not forget salvation present. Through the indwelling life of Christ, you are here and And now set free from the power of sin. Through the indwelling life of Christ, you are here and now set free from the power of sin. Of sin. That means that when we face sinful bondage as numerous and incurable as a Roman legion, we have Christ living in us to grant us power over How is this power of over sin channeled? Well I've heard testimonies of people who became sober or clean overnight through God God's grace. And I do believe in such miracles that come straight from Christ, the head of the church. But I also believe in the means of grace that is through the body of Christ. Through commitment to one another, intercessory prayer, informal counseling, spiritual friendships, just Loving one another and telling each other, reminding each other of the gospel. We can help each other to really live out the salvation. present. The wrong approach as Christians will be to emulate the gathering neighbors of this man in today's passage. They've given up, stayed away. Scared and hopeless. But we're not like that. We I hope that our church can be uh a community that Overcome sins. As we prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper, let us remember that we are approaching Jesus, who has authority over us. all as Lord over natural and supernatural forces. I don't know about you, but as I think about the time of confession, I've often failed to trust in him. during tough stormy times. Like the gatherings, I've given up on praying for certain matters and individuals. Because I've only focused on my limitations. Not the power of Jesus. Where is your faith? Jesus asks me. Through the scriptures. Let us go to the Lord confessing. A lack of faith, for underestimating and refusing Jesus' authority over our lives.