Everyone, it is a joy to be with you all this morning. It's a joy to be starting the new year with you, people who are uh caring about uh taking uh the time to uh make the local church primary in their life, uh deciding to say we're gonna start the new year by gathering together with the people of God. To worship our great Father, the Son, and the Spirit. Since it's my first time being with you all, I wanted to give you a chance to get to know me a little bit. By God's grace, I heard the gospel uh growing up. My parents took me to gospel preaching churches. Uh I heard the gospel at home. uh through Sunday school teachers, uh in the cars that we uh in the songs that we sang in the car. Uh and so in the Lord's prophet is that I don't have much of a time uh that I remember where I I didn't believe the gospel. At the same time, I grew up in an environment and community that emphasized worldly success in the pursuit of the American dream. Be involved in the community. Do well in school so that you can get into the right college and that you can get the right job. My peers would take on mountains of debt to attend well-known schools and get degrees so that they can move to big cities and look well amongst their friends. It was an environment of competition for who could achieve the greatest worldly success and have the best reputation. And very often it was a competition that I didn't just want to be a part of, but that I wanted to win. Social media arrived in the form of Instagram and Snapchats. Photography apps on your phone for you to literally filter your life so that everyone else might see that you are living your best life now. It's perhaps no coincidence that YOLO, a saying that stands for you only live once, became popular during my middle school and high school years. Affluenza, a term which refers to the single-minded pursuit of accumulating wealth and success, entered into our lexicon while I was growing up. Anxiety and depression began to skyrocket amongst the kids my age as they pursued the good life. Even one of the large universities nearby, where many of my friends went, had a required course entitled, What is the Good Life? For many, church was a part of this American dream and this good life. If you maintained good morals and upheld the Christian traditions, you were doing okay. You were someone to be modeled. Most people I grew up around believed in God. They were involved in church in some capacity, but few saw it as something that should cost them anything. By God's grace, through the influence of godly men in my local church, I was confronted with this reality. And I began to realize that following Jesus and the elevation of the American dream as the highest end were at odds with one another. I began to see that the gospel required sacrifice of my time and resources for the sake of God's fame amongst the nations. I began to feel the weight of sin in my friends around me. My friends and my schoolmates who weren't pursuing Christ were going to spend eternity in hell if they didn't repent. Even in my incredibly over-church saturated environment, I remember sharing the gospel with a friend on a school bus to a field trip. And at the end of it, I had asked him if he had ever heard this message before. And he said, to be honest, I hadn't. He had heard the message that God loved him and that he had a wonderful plan for his life. He even went to church occasionally. But what consumed his mind was that the pursuit was the pursuit of success and good standing amongst his peers I praise God that I was shaken out of mala out of this malaise. Set your mind on things above and not on this earth was a was a verse that became one I regularly quoted. Because it reminded me of the fact that my mind, my heart, should be fixed on what lies ahead, namely the opportunity to be reconciled with God, face to face. And that it's in his relationship and his love is far superior to anything this world can offer. Today we're going to consider two stories in Mark's gospel. That answer Mark's larger question of what he's writing. He's writing a biography, and he's trying to tell readers and answer the question: who is Jesus? If you want to go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter 2, I believe it will be on page 703 in the Bibles provided in the pews. We'll be examining a very early part of Jesus' ministry in Galilee. He has begun preaching that the kingdom of God has come. He has started healing. And right before this section, Jesus has claimed the authority to forgive sins. He has dined with sinners and tax collectors in the home of a tax collector who had just become his disciple. His works and teaching are garnering the attention of larger crowds, including those of the scribes and Pharisees, who were the religious authorities of the day. In this portion of Mark's gospel, chapter 2 and chapter 3, up through 3, verse 6, are arranged into five different stories of increasing conflict. We'll be giving a special attention to the third and fourth conflicts this morning, two stories about the traditions of the Pharisees, covering verses 18 through 28. Let's read. The disciples of John and of the Pharisees were fasting. Then they came and said to him, Why did the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast? But your disciples do not fast. And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, or else the new piece pulls away from the old, and the tear is made worse. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine bursts the wineskins, the wine is spilled, and the wineskins are ruined But new wine must be put into new wineskins. Now it happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. And as they went, his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain. And the Pharisee said to him, Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? But he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and those with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar, the high priest, and ate the showbread, which is not lawful to eat, except for the priests. And also gave some to those who were with him. And he said to them: The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. This morning, here's what I want you to take away in one sentence. Jesus has ushered in a new kingdom. Marked by a new people who are completely satisfied in him. And I'll say that again. Jesus has ushered in a new kingdom. Marked by a new people who are completely satisfied in him. I'm planning on showing you why that statement is true with three points. First, we'll consider the Pharisees' old religion, seen in verses 18 and 23 and 24. Then we'll consider Jesus' new kingdom, which is seen in verses 19 through 22 and 25 through 28. At the end, we'll see why we should rejoice in Jesus' identity. Two points: the Pharisees' old religion and Jesus' new kingdom, and then one point of implication. Rejoice in Jesus' identity. And by the end of this message, I'll hope you'll be convinced that the good news of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection should mark his followers with everlasting satisfaction in God. We'll begin by considering the Pharisees' old religion in verse 18. Our passage begins with a question about fasting. A group of observers ask Jesus why it is that his disciples aren't fasting. Jesus the teacher that he was bore responsibility for the behavior of his disciples. So the question is directed directly at him. Why did the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast? But your disciples do not fast. When you look around, you see that the Pharisees are fasting. You see John the Baptist and his disciples are fasting. They're a pretty religious bunch. They're trying to lead people into greater religious devotion. What gives Jesus? What are you and your renegade group of followers up to? It might be helpful for us to know why it is that these two groups of disciples were fasting to begin with. It's possible that John the Baptist's disciples were fasting because John himself was fasting. He ate bugs, lived an ascetic lifestyle, and spent most of his time in the wilderness. A bit of an oddball to most who would see him. He's the kind of guy who would have fasted as a practice, particularly since he was preaching about the coming land of God. So his disciples might have just been copying him. It also could be that at this point John was already in prison and his disciples were fasting because they were mourning. The Pharisees, on the other hand, fasted on a regular basis. They fasted twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays. You may remember the account in Luke 18, where the Pharisee and the tax collector are praying next to each other. And the Pharisee, in all his self-righteousness, thanks God that he is not like the sinful tax collector. And the other evildoers, because he fasts twice a week. The Pharisees did this as a way to separate themselves from the Jewish people around them who were living compromised lives. Accepting Greek and pagan ideals during the Roman occupation. Religious devotion and holiness were decreasing. Sin and idolatry were on the rise all around them. And the Pharisees' response was to follow the Mosaic Law with even more strictness, even more firmness. They were very literally holier than thou, and they carried that attitude with them. It's why they looked down at the sinners that Jesus had been dining with just before our passage. The Old Testament, however, did not require a practice of regular fasting. In fact, there was only one day in the Jewish calendar that required fasting. It was the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur. It was a day to express sorrow over sin, to repent. To mourn before God, to sacrifice before God and seek the forgiveness of sins. There were other instances in the Old Testament of fasting, regular instances, but they were usually one-off instances. People would temporarily forsake eating or drinking to express mourning or repentance, as a means of showing sorrow over sin and seeking God's forgiveness. You may remember that the people of Nineveh fasted after Jonah preached to them. But the Pharisees had developed a very long and robust oral tradition of how to interpret the law and how to live in accordance with the law. Their traditions Included the practice of fasting twice a week. They had gone beyond the law and had developed their own traditions, traditions that had grown still accustomed in their hearts. That they were treated as binding as the law itself. And so that's why the observers ask this critical question of Jesus. Were they not interested in being holy and righteous, like the Pharisees were? Were he and his disciples not interested in speeding up the coming of the promised Messiah as John the Baptist's disciples were? We see a similar kind of critical question in verses 23 and 24 in the next story about Jesus and the disciples' approach to the Sabbath. Now it happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and as they went, his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain. And the Pharisees said to him, Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? Along with food, the maintenance of the Sabbath was one of the most highly regulated practices among Pharisaic life. It comes from the fourth commandment from God given to Moses to keep the Sabbath holy and separate from the rest of the week. It was a day not to work, but to rest, not to harvest and to till the fields, but a day to worship God and follow his example and resting from creation. You may consider that while all the other cultures around them are living normal lives on Saturdays, they're working, they're toiling on Saturday. The Jewish people took the day off. There was a cultural distinguishment about them. God had designed it to be a day of restoration and refreshment, and everyone around the Jews was aware of this practice. In fact, the Sabbath was so important for the people of God that Exodus 35 required a death sentence for those who intentionally broke the Sabbath. Yet, even with this importance that the Sabbath had for the Jewish people and in the law, the law was still relatively concise about what was forbidden and what was considered work. There were a few things that defined his work, including harvesting, lift-carrying heavy items, and starting a fire, but for the most part, work was left to interpretation. And so that left Jewish leaders and thinkers like the Pharisees to create their own set of rules about the definition of work. Their codebook, their book of rules, contain 39 different categories of work. With more than a thousand different scenarios about work that was forbidden. And they treated this code with the same binding authority as the law itself, even though the law gave no uh clarity as to the Prohibition on these matters. And breaking their rules, their code, their oral traditions was akin to breaking the Sabbath. Some of this code in the code books, some things you might uh expect were in there, such as hunting and butchering. Uh but as the Pharisees got more extreme and as the thousands of years went by uh in developing this interpretation, rules became more absurd. Knots, for example, could not be tied unless you could only untie it with one hand. You couldn't write more than one letter or so more than one stitch. And you weren't allowed to walk more than 1,999 paces Now the Pharisees had taken the Sabbath, which was a gift from God, to God's people for rest, and they had warped it into a chore. It was no longer life-giving, it was exhausting. And so all the Pharisees and Jesus are out for a Sabbath stroll, and they meet each other in the grain field. The Pharisees object when the disciples are plucking grain to eat, and they accuse them of working. Of course, the disciples weren't actually working. None of them were farmers, none of them were harvesters, and they weren't harvesting. Deuteronomy chapter 5 even explicitly gave them permission to pick up some food on the outside of the field. But the Pharisees, who were so wrapped up in their regulations, would rather the disciples go hungry. Then see them be satisfied and enjoy the presence of Jesus on the Sabbath. The Pharisees are looking for anything they might be able to use to accuse Jesus, as the crowds are garnering and his message is spreading. And so they essentially ask: when we're here keeping the Sabbath rules, counting our steps and untying our knots with one hand, why do you think you're about the rules? And so that leads us to our second point, Jesus' new kingdom. Let's look again at Jesus' response to the Pharisees as it relates to fasting in verse 19. And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, or else the new piece pulls away from the old, and the tear is made worse. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine bursts the wineskins. The wine is spilled, and the wineskins are ruined. But new wine must be put into new wineskins. Jesus responds to this question regarding his disciples' lack of fasting by expressing how inappropriate it would be for them to fast. Rather, instead of condemning the practice of fasting, he gets to a deeper matter, why it's wrong for the disciples to fast. And he does so with the image of a wedding. He compares himself to a groom and his disciples to wedding guests. And weddings, of course, are a time of great celebration. They're a time of feasting and joy. Particularly within ancient Israel, where weddings would involve the whole town. The entire village would come, and the celebration would last all week. Can you imagine a full week of celebration, feasting and rejoicing over God's care for his people through the institution of marriage? Everyone in the town would be enjoying food and enjoying each other's company, remembering God's promise to Abraham that his offspring would be like the sands of the sea, numerous. Then, right in the middle of this joyous celebration, someone cries out, I'm gonna fast, I'm gonna go away, I'm gonna mourn, I'm gonna weep. Now's the right time to do that. Nobody would do that. That's a completely wrong time. It's inappropriate. The same goes for the disciples. It's a completely inappropriate time for the disciples to be fasting because Jesus is with them. The same kind of rejoicing and cheer that a wedding inspires is present in the disciples because Jesus, the bridegroom, is here with them. And Jesus pushes into this wedding illustration with two parables about new wine and new clothing, two things needed for a Jewish wedding celebration. He first says that you don't use new cloth to patch a tear on an old garment. If you try to mend it on there, then the new cloth will fall off and the original tear will become worse. Your efforts to combine the new with the old will fail. What you really need are new clothes. He then said that you don't put new wine into old wineskins. Wineskins, which were usually made from goat skin and were good for one use. One batch of wine would be fermented into the wineskin, and then the skin would have expanded and hardened And if you put a new batch of wine into the old, the container would crack and explode, spilling the wine everywhere, losing the good thing that had been created. In other words, the attempt to combine the old skin with the new wine will fail. The new is incompatible with the old So at the end, here's the image Jesus is giving us. He has just finished feasting with sinners in verse 15 through 8:17. A new group of people who is completely different from the self-righteous Pharisees. He has come onto the scene, bringing with him a new kind of joy. It's a whole new celebration with new wine and new clothes, rejoicing as if at a wedding celebration. The old way of doing things is gone, and the new wedding celebration with the new people has come in his person. And while the Old Testament did not describe the Messiah with wedding imagery, it did use the image of marriage to refer to God's union with his people. Consider Isaiah 61:10. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for He has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorns herself with jewels So if the Pharisees were paying attention, they would have understood Jesus is making a divine claim here, a blasphemous claim in their eyes. But because they're so wrapped up with the upholding of tradition and rituals, they are blind to the fact that God has announced this coming wedding in the person of Jesus. The people of God, united with him once again, is coming in Jesus' new kingdom. Mark is showing us that Jesus is doing something completely different from the Jewish leaders of old. He hasn't come to sow a new patch onto the old religion of the Pharisees. He hasn't come to put new wine into the old wineskin of Judaism. His message is going to be incompatible with the Pharisees' way. It was incompatible with the former lives of the disciples. They had left all to follow him. And he's making it clear that those who enter into his kingdom will not be merging their old way of life with his gospel message. We cannot tack on some gospel onto our busy schedule. We can't try and sew on some Christianity with our old sinful ways. We can't have prideful, self-centered living plus Jesus. Right standing before God won't come through Jesus plus our good works. We need new clothes. As we read in the Ligonier Statement on Christology, we praise God for the fact that He took our filthy rags and gave us His righteous robe. This same message of a new kingdom, something new onto the scene, different from the Pharisees, is present again in Jesus' response to the question about the Sabbath. Let's read again in verse 25. But he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry? He and those with him. How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the showbread, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests, and also gave some to those who were with him. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath Jesus begins his response to the Pharisees' critical question about Sabbath keeping by citing an example from David's life. I know you guys are all studying David's life right now together as a congregation. And this particular incident occurs in 1 Samuel chapter 21, which you'll be studying next week together. And because you'll be studying, I won't give too much time to it, but I did want to give you some preview since it's in the text this morning. And you don't have to turn there, but if you remember from as you studied last week in 1 Samuel chapter 20, David has left Jonathan fleeing for his life because King Saul is after him. David is on the run for his life. And in chapter 21, he arrived before the high priests and asks for bread. He's feeling hungry. But the priest didn't have any bread available, except for the bread of the presence, the show bread. This bread was a sacrifice to God. Twelve loaves were placed in the temple every week on the Sabbath as a sacrifice. They were membering God's protection and provision for the people of God as they wall wandered in the wilderness with the provision of manna. When the new bread was brought in on the Sabbath, the old was taken out, the priests, and only the priests were allowed to eat from it. This was the law. Why then were David and his men allowed to eat this priestly bread? Was it not a violation of the Mosaic Law? Why did God not condemn David in this incident? This is Jesus' question. Had the Pharisees not thought hard about this? Certainly they had read it. His question is sarcastic. Have you ever read? They were religious leaders. They were well bred in the law. Jesus is able to say that easing the hunger of David and his men was the right thing to do. In the verses after ours in chapter 3, Jesus will push into the Pharisees' beliefs, push into the Pharisees' beliefs on the Sabbath with an even deeper question. Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good? This is the deeper question. It's not just about not working and upholding Pharisees' traditions, considering what is right and good. In his response, Jesus is pitying the Pharisees' traditions against their reverence for David and the intent of the law But Jesus doesn't stop there. He pushes even further into the Pharisees' thinking and tells them: the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. Jesus redefines the Sabbath back to its original intent of rest and restoration and announces that he can do so because he's the Son of Man, the Lord of the Sabbath. Jesus used this same title, Son of Man, earlier in Mark 2, to claim the authority to forgive sins. It's an important title that harkens back to a prophetic vision of Daniel in Daniel chapter 7. Where Daniel in the future sees the Son of Man, the Messiah, in all his glory, receiving an eternal kingdom. All nations and kingdoms will bow before him, and his dominion will have no end. The one who has an everlasting dominion must also have dominion over the Sabbath. And yet you can't have dominion over the Sabbath unless you created it, because it was created by God. And so Jesus can approve of David's action because he is the promised Messiah in the line of David. As a member of the Triune Godhead, he established the Sabbath and knows what it is for and how the Pharisees had corrupted it. That's why, instead of debating the Pharisees about what is and what is not work, Jesus gets to the heart of the matter. The Pharisees had failed to recognize that a new kingdom had arrived in the person of Jesus. They needed to understand that in this new kingdom, favor before God is not defined by your ability to keep the Sabbath traditions. It's defined by our relationship to the Lord of the Sabbath. And the Pharisees had exchanged Sabbath rest and true fellowship with God for their own rules and for the esteem of man. The disciples, just as before, when they were choosing not to fast, here are choosing to walk and eat with Jesus on the Sabbath. They're not concerned with counting their paces or trying to remember the very specific regulations about pharisaical interpretation of grain picking. They are experiencing true Sabbath restoration because they are in the presence of Jesus. The difference could not be more striking. Mark is recording this story to help us see that Jesus' ministry and kingdom, Jesus has fulfilled the law. Jesus does not reject fasting, and Jesus does not reject the desire to fulfill Sabbath rest. He upholds the Sabbath and perfects it in himself. And those who are looking for saving rest outside of Christ, like the Pharisee looking for rest in their ability to uphold their rules They prove to be outside the people of God. The disciples get it. In Mark 7, Jesus will rebuke the Pharisees for elevating the tradition of men over and above the Word of God. Their hearts were far from him, and they had become like whitewashed tombs, beautiful on the outside, but dead on the inside. We can now turn to our third point, our point of implication. Rejoice in Jesus' identity. We've seen that in Jesus he announces a new kingdom, one that brings joy and restoration. True Sabbath rest in him, his person, his character. But here's what I don't want you to do. I don't want you to think that in this new kingdom, the gifts of joy and rest are the ends. They are not the highest, ultimate, most glorious good. They are great gifts, and we praise God that He is merciful in granting them to us. But they are gifts. And Mark's purpose in writing is to lift our eyes to the gift giver. He introduces the gospel story in chapter 1, verse 1, by saying: the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. The gospel, the good news, the tidings of great joy that Mark is proclaiming is that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, God Himself, has come incarnate into this world. The Pharisees' ultimate failure was not that they were not pursuing rest. They certainly were pursuing rest. They were pursuing comfort in the eyes of men. They were searching for comfort in their ability to uphold right rules and right traditions. They had developed a whole code of rules to do so It's not that that was not their greatest thing. Their greatest failure was that they didn't recognize that the Lord of the Sabbath was right in front of them. Instead of looking to God for rest and looking to God's purposes in his Sabbath, they trusted in their own merits. Believing that they could rest well if they appeared well in the eyes of men. Salvation, they thought, would come through the temple in strict legalism, crossing off all the right boxes, all the right traditions. But as we know from Matthew's account, from this same encounter, Jesus tells the Pharisees, something greater than the temple is here. The Pharisees wouldn't recognize it. And as we learn from the Pharisees' ignorance and their elevation of the wrong thing over and above Christ. I don't want us to elevate God's good gifts above God Himself. His good gifts of joy and healing and restoration. Praise God for them. But they're only good because they come from God. He, God, Jesus Christ, is the joy-inspiring, pleasure-providing, all-sufficient bridegroom who has called us into eternal union with the Creator of the universe. In all his beauty and glory, we are welcomed into the presence where we experience ever-increasing joy in making much of him. We weren't made to make much of ourselves. We were made to glory in his name. Our lives aren't to be spent as reflections. of ourselves, but of his awesome love and character. All glory be to Christ, as we just sang. All glory be to him The very one who established the Sabbath rest, the one who created the world in seven days, has entered into this world to give his life as a ransom for many. He came so that sinners and rebels might dine with him, both in his day and at the heavenly wedding feast. He came to lead us away from our self-righteous traditions, away from the trust in our own merit. And to lead us to Himself. God Himself is the good news that Jesus has come. Out with the old, in with the new, the new restoration to God We were made to glorify God and help others glorify God and see him as the most awesome treasure that he is. And Jesus' greatest message is not that joy and rest have arrived. His greatest message was that the bridegroom has arrived. Emmanuel, God with us, has come. And it would be completely backwards for us to think that the gifts that God gives us in joy and mercy and healing and restoration are greater than the gift giver. As John Piper writes, gratitude that is pleasing to God is not first a delight in the benefits God gives, though that will be a part of it. True gratitude must be rooted in something else that comes first, namely a delight in the beauty and excellency of God's character. Intrinsic in Jesus is glory and majesty that causes the hearts of the disciples to rejoice. Of course they aren't fasting because God is here in our midst. What we gain most through the gospel is God Himself. He has restored the epicenter of our lives and the treasure of our hearts. The Apostle Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 4, For it is God who has commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shun in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Friends, in this new year, I pray that you see that this new kingdom has dawned in the face of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the old year passing away, but we gather collectively here today to celebrate something even greater than a new calendar year. That the old system of religious tradition has passed away and Christ's kingdom has arrived. What will your reaction be in this new year, friends? Will you resolve to make much of Jesus? To use your resources and time to know him better. In these days of goal making, do you have a plan to know Jesus better? Are you purposeful in surrounding yourself with believers like members of this church who are pointing you to greater love and knowledge of God? Are you looking forward to spending an eternity seeing and savoring the glory of God? If not, today is a great day to start. I'll be hanging around after the service and I'd love to chat with you about how good and precious our Savior is and how good this news is that He has come into this world. We should conclude. Started at the beginning, hoping that I could convince you of one thing. That Jesus has ushered in a new kingdom marked by a new people who are completely satisfied in him. We saw that the disciples found joy and restoration in Jesus' new kingdom because he is the promised bridegroom, the Lord of the Sabbath The disciples understand that he is the Son of Man and the joy-inspiring bridegroom who unites us back to God and frees us to know him, to love him more and more. And we saw that the Pharisees did not rejoice, and that they could not find rest because they elevated their own traditions and practices over and above the intent of God's law and over God Himself. Their quest for holiness and their quest for self-righteousness had hardened their hearts and blinded them to the fact that they were speaking To the promised Messiah. Theirs was the old system that Jesus was ushering in a new kingdom. In the old system, the people of God were given the gift of the Sabbath. But the Pharisees had twisted it and distorted it to the point where it was no longer a gift, but a burden. And in this new kingdom. The people of God are given God Himself, the Lord of the Sabbath. They are granted access into the future wedding feast where God in all his glory is made visible to us. Here, Revelation 19, the future glory that we have to look forward to. And I heard. As it were, the voice of a great multitude, as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God, omnipotent, reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. Then he said to me, Write, blessed. Happy, satisfied are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Let's pray. Father God, you have commanded us to believe in Jesus. May we flee to no other refuge. May we build our lives on no other foundation, and may we seek no fullness other than the source of you. May we find rest from nothing but you. God, cause our hearts to repent of sin and of self-righteous living. May we not seek to be known, but to make you known. You are our soul's restoration. You are the one our heart is united to. May we ever sing of the joy you bring to us And cause us to use every resource we have for the sake of this new kingdom, which is dawned in the person of Jesus. Amen.