Mr. Darren Jiao King is going to lead us in this moderated discussion. And uh Darren, I'll let you take it from here. And uh as Pastor Dan said, for those who may not know me, we don't go to church here. Um I'm Darren and uh we've got no I thank you for the list of questions that were put into the box. Proverbs fifteen twenty-two says, without without counsel plans fail, but with many advisors they succeed. And we are fortunate today to have some pretty awesome pastors here sharing God's word and giving some advice on how our marriages and families can better succeed in ways that God would have envisioned them. As Pastor Fox mentioned at the end, we are going to open up the floor for questions. When we get to that point, if you could make sure that you come up to this microphone right here on the floor and ask your question directly into the microphone, it'll do two things. It'll allow everyone the chance to hear what your question is. including our panelists. And it'll also allow us to capture your questions that are being recorded for this session as well. How just we'll work the panel here is uh we have the questions, I'll ask you. What I'd like to do is just for any one of you who would like to answer the question. To answer the question, if uh if multiple panelists want to chime in and answer the question and assume a forum discussion, that would be perfectly fine also. For our first question, when a husband and wife disagree on a plan of action, what should they do? For example, Say one wants to move and the other doesn't. Panelists. Anyone want to take that one? I wouldn't either. I got the mic, so I'll I'll just go ahead and look at it. Yeah, I'd say that um uh first of all that uh what you definitely would want to do is uh is pray. I mean when it comes to any any decision. Uh uh you want to bathe that in in prayer and um also with the principles of of Scripture as well. Uh so uh as as husband and wife you're you're you're meant to be one and you're uh in your marriage. So part of that uh oneness involves communication uh with one another and um uh coming to a uh a consensus when you when you when you run into a a serious uh uh disagreement uh about something um you want to understand where that disagreement is is coming from uh Um at certain times it's it comes because uh you're not really understanding where the the other person is uh is is coming from and uh you know just taking a little bit more time to kind of rustle through through that, you know, often often helps. Uh but when you you come to a a point where you know uh I feel strongly one way, the other person feels strongly another way, this is also where submission comes in. And um You know, it's it's probably a a word that that people don't like to uh to use these days, but it's a biblical word. It's a right word. Um uh the the Bible talks about, you know, uh uh even Christ submitting himself to to God, so it it has nothing to do with inferiority. Um Um but when it uh comes to a a relationship, um uh the husband is is meant to be the leader uh of his home and um uh the the the wife and and family are to submit to their uh to their head. That doesn't mean that he does that in a uh heavy-handed uh sort of way. Uh he's supposed to be a servant leader making sure that he's taking everything into account. But ultimately the the person that God is going to hold responsible for that decision. uh in the final analysis is it's gonna be the husband. When God uh came uh after the fall um and and walked through the garden he didn't say, Hey Eve, where are you? He says, Adam, where are you? You know, the the buck stops somewhere and uh it stops with the the the head of the household. Um so for my wife that that incredibly frees her up because uh she knows that if I goof it up and make the make a horrible decision uh for our family. I'm the one that's held accountable for that. Uh for for me it it uh it heightens um uh just my uh dependence on the Lord uh because I know that that I'm not just making a decision that affects me. I'm making a decision that affects the rest of my family as well. And it's also not to say that a husband shouldn't seek um outside advice, you know, seeking advice from a uh pastors, from trusted friends, people that are mature in the Word of God when it comes to uh making certain decisions that uh have great uh impact on the on the family. family, uh but ultimately um as long as it's not sin, and uh you know we're kind of barring any kind of sinful uh kind of decisions that we be be made, uh as long as it's not sin, um the the wife would be called to submit to the uh to the husband. Um but But again, that the husband should be loving and careful in whatever decision he decides to make for his family. Uh the only thing I would add is um in the question it was sort of what if one wants one thing and another wants to the other. I think we need to ask the question, uh, what does the Lord want? Um and I think uh asking ourselves what will what is the best decision for the purpose of for the furtherance of God's kingdom. If we can come to uh so I would establish that as the as the basis. I think that would be helpful. And uh Um so I that would be my I agree with everything George said. uh to provide you information that you might not necessarily see um because of who you are. And so listen extremely carefully to your wife with wives she disagrees with you. Also try to discern try to discern in the conversations how important the how what level of importance the person who's disagreeing with you Okay. Great answers. The next question is a big picture question. Husband, wife, Christ, Church. Please explain. Wide open field. I'd be glad to. And there is no question mark or any other pronoun punctuation, but husband, wife, Christ Church. Please explain. Okay, I'm gonna look at the future file because we want to talk about you guys. Jim's a chimp. Well I'll try to I I uh I don't know. I I guess they're asking about priority? Is that w I'm not sure what they're asking what the question is really. Uh there you could you know you could talk a lot about the husband and the wife and Christ in the church. We could be here all day on those subjects. I if if what the question means is priority, well the priority needs to be Um our focus needs to be on serving God and everything else comes under that. Um I think you're probably asking like how does uh that illustration Yeah. I started the I started the the the debate. Is that what it happened? Um So how they all work together is that we and if it's you take the mic. If if if this question is yours you can you can uh let us know if we're uh if we're wrong. Uh but the way that I understood the question is um Um how does um Christ relate to the to the husband, you know, in Ephesians five, and how does the the church relate to uh the wife in Ephesians five? Like, you know, how do how does does that illustration work? You know, how does the husband exemplify Christ? How does the the wife exemplify the the church? I I think that's the the question. Am I am I right? I see a head nodding so I think I'm good. All right. Oh yeah, okay. All right. Well, um in the passage in Ephesians chapter five, um verse in in in twenty two through thirty-three you have the commands that are given um to the sub to the subordinate person in in each case. first. That's most likely because in verse 18 it says uh that we need to be filled with the Spirit, and the result of that is verse 20, which says, submitting yourself themselves one to another in the fear of God. And so how does submission one to another work in our relationships? So everything everything after that really has I think hinges on on that. That's how I didn't I would interpret it. When it comes to there's a lot of there's just so much I could say here. When it comes to the wife's role, she is to arrange herself under her husband. And that is the responsibility of the And the church does the same thing with Christ as the head, so there's a there's a connection there. Um and the same thing with the husband loving his wife as Christ loved the church. Um so those are the connections that the the general connections that Christ made. I'm not sure. I'm I'm not sure I'm still grasp grasping what they're asking, so I could So it's just think of it this way, uh I think. Um so the wife is in the subordinate real not subordinate, I might not sound right, but her responsibility to love her husband, older women are to teach the younger women to love their husbands and children. A wife's primary primary Expression of her love is respect and submission to her husband. A husband also is commanded to love primarily two ways, sacrificially as Christ loved the church And gave himself for it and with sensitivity, because no man hates his own flesh, he nourishes and cherishes it. So his expression of love is sacrificial and with sensitivity. He is also, 1 Corinthians, the head of his wife, so he is like Christ to the church. He's the head of his wife. He has a authority. So authority and love from the husband, sacrifice and sensitivity. A wife loves in her submission And in her respect. And so there is the authority relationship, and then there's the expression of love. And that's part of sort of the big picture of what the New Testament teaches. us to be. And just as a reminder, if if you had a question and perhaps it didn't get answered quite at the angle you were looking at or as fully as you were hoping. Uh we'll have the opportunity for you to clarify your question when we open up for uh the floor for questions. So you might want to remember that and give these folks a Second and third try. Um the next question I can't help but think is directed at uh at Pastor George. But again Everyone's welcome to take a shot. Could you give an example of how anger could turn into murder in a marriage, symbolically? Yeah. Um so think about uh uh the passage in in in Matthew five where uh Christ is talking about um, um you know the the uh uh the heart of of of murder and actually charging uh people who say Seek to uh retaliate against others, um, those that um speak evil about others, those that fail uh And refuse to reconcile uh with others. Um I mean that's actually the the illustrations, you know, that he gives, you know, the the way that we um we speak about others, what we desire for others, you know. um uh the distance that we place uh between ourselves and others. It's so when you think about these these commands, right, and and this this might be helpful for you When we think about the commands, there's not only a negative aspect of the command, there's also a positive aspect as well. So when we think about the command, thou shalt not murder, what does that really mean? That that were to uh to seek uh life, were to uh protect life, uh were to to seek the benefit of one another, not one another's harm. So when we think about this command, not the murder, what what Chrys actually did is he he showed us what's what's behind this this command. I'll put it another way. Just because I'm uh Uh anti, you know, gay marriage doesn't mean that I'm pro-marriage, right? Uh doesn't mean that I'm actually, you know, pursuing my wife in a Christ-honoring way because I'm against, you know, the opposite. Doesn't mean that I'm for, you know, the positive. Um And with with uh you know with Christ giving that that command, you know, uh uh or explaining that command not to murder, uh what he was actually explaining is that there's an intent behind this, that uh God actually intends for people uh to seek the good, the benefit, the blessing of others. So anytime that we're we're violating that, we've actually violated the heart of that that command. So, you know, how does that look practically? It looks like when you when you say things that are that to tear down somebody instead of building somebody up. We do that in our marriages all the time. Uh when we uh uh again failing to reconcile, I mean the silent treatment is is huge, especially with uh with husbands, uh, you know, just refusing to to speak to their their wives. Um Um, you know, when they come come into odds against uh other you know, basically what you're saying and and the to to think about it, it's If if I if I if I choose not to talk to you, I'm actually acting as if you don't exist, right? That's it's the same kind of heart. It's like I'm not gonna kill you, uh, but as far as I'm concerned, right now you're not even here. I'm gonna act as if you don't exist. It's the same thing that that murder does, right? Uh murder actually eliminates the person, you know, physically. Uh when I ignore a person, when I refuse to speak to them, uh it eliminates that kind of relationship that I that I have with them, you know, emotionally. So um It's seeking that that same kind of um uh uh thing in in the end it's it's you know, I don't want anything to do with you. Um if if it wasn't for you know any kind of uh external restraints, maybe there's something that that would happen, you know, with within the home. I know it's wrong to to to fight, to hit, to you know, say certain things, but but that's still what's like inside my heart. And uh and that's really what the the Lord was getting at in the sermon on the And and I think it it really helps answer so many questions because there's people that that feel that uh you know I you know, I haven't really sinned, I haven't really transgressed the law of God because nothing externally happened yet. Um there's certain people that say, oh, I don't consider myself an enemy of of God because you know I'm not out there you know uh shouting blasphemies against God. But God still calls people enemies Why? Because you're you're engaged in your life in such a way that you're not even recognizing my authority. You're acting as if I don't exist. You know, you may not declare yourself to be an atheist, but you're acting like one. You're acting like I'm not here. And in our marriages, we we may not uh declare ourselves, you know, uh divorced from from our spouses, but in in some ways you have uh you know husbands and wives that are living together as as if they were roommates Living together as if they were bitter enemies against uh each other. Uh even though they're they're still, you know, they still have the ring on their uh finger, they're still in the same house, uh, but the way that they treat one another uh is as if they were uh enemies. And um uh like I said, that that distance that you place between yourself and and your spouse, you know, oftentimes it's as if, you know, I I wish you weren't here. I I really wish I could do everything to get away from you right now. And uh that's ultimately what um you know when you murder somebody, you know, you've actually consummated that act, you know, to to get rid of them permanently. Uh but we act in uh in our marriages a lot of times as if we wish they weren't. there. So uh so that's you know just I guess some expressions of of what we would mean by that when we talk about anger related to to murder. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Uh does any one of our panelists have anything to add or no? Okay, another really big picture question. Uh almost global or society. Why does our culture seem to hate traditional marriage Because I hate God. I'll elaborate on that a little bit. Because what he says is absolutely right. And uh and Again, let's go back to the elephant in the room right now, uh, as we're thinking about all that we saw in uh in Baltimore over the the past you know couple of weeks. Um what you actually witnessed uh going on in in Baltimore was a the the posture of the the hearts of many people to throw off authority, right? But when they throw off that authority of government, whose authority are they really throwing off? They're throwing off God's authority. In Romans chapter 13, it says, every person is to be in subjection to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God And those which exist are established by God. Therefore, whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God, and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves Any authority, any rightful authority that people attempt to throw off is God's authority. You know, so whether that comes from government, uh whether that comes from parents, uh, whether that comes from the ordinance of of marriage trying to throw off that authority, The authority that you're really struggling against is God's authority. Because God is the one that instituted marriage. God is the one that instituted government. God is the one that gave parents the right and responsibility over their children. Anytime somebody that's underneath that authority attempts to throw that off, what they're really saying is this is what I would do to God if I could get to them. And uh some of the pictures that I I saw over uh this past uh week with uh You know, people burning cop cars, jumping on the top of the hoods, throwing on the cops hat and freighting it around like it's a trophy. Uh what they're actually saying is this is what we would do to God if we could get If I could take God's authority, you know, and parade it around like this is this is mine, um, uh that's what I would would do. So uh what you have going on with uh this you know uh hatred of of marriage and wanting to kind of throw off the institutions that God has established. It's because the heart is bent against God. We're enemies of God. And we express that in our actions and um the way that we live. I just want to I want to point out that there was one time when God dwelt among us, and and what did we do to him? We killed him. Um and so we need to understand that that this This is that this is this is the way human beings um act against God. Um and and Brother George is completely right about what he won what he said. I do want to take a Step back and talk about some of the philosophical and cultural issues that have led have led to the decline in traditional marriage. When Western Culture decided that they were going to completely reject the Bible as their foundation, they then turned to philosophy. The difficulty with turning to philosophy is Is that philosophy is essentially a tradition eating machine. This is why they killed Socrates. They killed Socrates because Socrates taught the children of Athens how to question tradition. Now, by God's grace, in most cultures, he uses tradition as a common grace method of preserving the culture. So in China, there is often a respect for parents. That respect for parents is not at all driven by a desire to please God, but rather by cultural traditions Related to the religious and philosophical traditions of the Chinese people. When the Western world first threw aside scripture, they then threw aside tradition, the next thing that That is being attacked is now nature. And the way that we're attacking nature in a in a philosophical and theological way is that we are attacking nature in that defense Defining human beings now not merely as animals, but animals who are defined by their erotic freedom. And what I mean by erotic freedom is that you have a sexual Itch and you fulfill that sexual itch in whatever way you want. This is why we we have before the Supreme Court the issue of gay marriage. This is why gender confusion is is becoming so wide is that we are overthrowing all of God's revelation. God's revelation in nature, the law is written upon our hearts. Um boys are boys, girls Are girls. Dr. Muller, down at Southern Semine, read a book by a lesbian who is attempting to raise her child not in a non-gendered way. The little boy at age three chewed a pistol out of a piece of toast and shot her. Um now she wrote an editorial saying, you know, there must be more to this gender stuff than I had thought. Um he was being a little boy even though his mom was putting him in Pink underpants and and all this other stuff. Nature tells us what we're doing is wrong, but because we hate God and because we're hating God progressively, first in the overthrow of scripture, then in the overthrow of tradition. Tradition which was related to common revelation, we're now attempting to overthrow nature, and there is nothing left after nature nature um but chaos. And I would assume the coming of So just remember sin ultimately is is uh illogical and self-destructive and against nature The ultimate course of sin is always self-destruction. Inherently, that's where we're headed without God. Tough question. Helpful answers, in my opinion. So thank you very much. The next question really gets at Sort of the the family structure and roles in um in contemporary times, twenty fifteen to be precise. And probably onward. And the question really gets to um where two parents work outside the home have children, is this really considered to be biblically wrong? No. Um we find in Proverbs thirty-one uh examples of a woman who worked outside the home. And um She was selling purple in the gate, she was buying and selling land. So that would give us at least one example, and there are probably others that I can think of where the woman was involved in vocational work. So no, not categorically. Now there might be wisdom involved in in these kinds of things, but categorically it would not be I don't think personally that's biblically there's a problem with a woman working out inside the home. Nobody's gonna yell at me if I don't speak on this one. No. Let me just read the scripture. Um 1 Timothy. A lot of us know this passage. Here. Oh make sure I got it right. The younger woman. Titus two. Oh I got the wrong one, sorry, I was going at the L. Sorry, thank you, brother. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So slide is two. And then this is a of course a little I well I'm gonna tell I'm gonna say no, it's not wrong to work outside the home. However, Mark Deverton Did a great thing on this, talking about the primary responsibility of a mother is what who? What? Who and what? It's the children. You know what I mean? I'm gonna praise my wife. My wife, you know, homeschools, I'm not saying everybody's got a homeschool, but My children are older now and I look back and the the greatness of my wife being there. continually with my children and loving them because dads are harsh. You know what I mean? We're like I like one person said, we're like gorillas trying to um nurture a baby rabbit. Okay? And we're trying to be kind and gentle and we're just not that way. We're not built that way. Um we're a little harsh, you know. Our kids need to do it now. You know what I mean? And we mean now like now. You know I mean and the mother gives that side of love and care that I I I learned so much from my wife and watching her with my children, but it's because she was there, it was time, you know what I mean? And so With um if if the wife is taking so much time and can't be with the kids in that nurturing aspect, you know Um it says that they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste keepers at home. um good, obedient to their husbands, that the word of God be not blaspheme. I mean that is such I mean I I I wouldn't put that on there. I mean put that little stable there, that the word of God be not blasphemed. Why is that? Because, you know, and us raising our children, I'm not just raising my children. I'm raising my grandchildren. I'm thinking generational. I'm the first generation Christian, and I'm sorry, but I've watched a lot of y'all or second, third, and like the third generation ain't even saved. They're going to church. They're being nice and sweet, but there's something lacking there. There's something lacking there. And um and it it really breaks my heart. I'm not saying the guarantee is I'll be doing a professional raising older children, but in reality is that mother is critical. And so I'm not against necessarily working outside the home, but if a lot of times what happens then um when you're working outside the home. And believe me, I know I know women in in um they're not working outside the home, but their church got them so busy they're never home with their kids either. I I know m I know mothers like that 'cause they're just so tr 'cause a women woman's tendency is to do what? Now all the women hate me of course. Women's tendency is to do what? It's yeah, uh my wife said it this way. She said it very well. Um The curse of the man is to do what after the fall? What's the curse of the man? I'm sorry, I get my my church to interact with me. That's to make sure they don't fall asleep on me. What's the curse of the man? What's there to do? What's the curse of the woman? Then women want to take the curse of the man. Why's that? Yeah, you g you guy you women, you're taking two curses. I'm not saying that's they work outside the you can't work outside at home, but are you, as Mark Dever actually said it, a lot better than I am right now you know, is it are you taking your primary and removing the primary responsibility of your children and putting them on a shelf for somebody else to raise them? The reason my wife stayed home is see because she was a um helping before our kids were born, taking care of little kids. And she said, I'm teaching them how to walk. I'm teaching them how to talk. I'm teaching them teach them everything and mom doesn't have time for them. And she saw that and it just radically changed everything in her mindset. And the beautiful thing of of that is I'm watch anyway, I'll just stop on that. But we've seen a lot of uh people that we have interacted with, young couples, and um they're dead set on as all as possible that the wife would actually stay home with the kids. kids and I've had many people tell me that that have left you know our ministry and have lived in different states and it's just so wonderful and now they're being blessed, you know. And so um and it really helps me out too because I told my wife, you know, I'll fight the demons, I'll fight the lions, but when I come home I want a peaceful home. But if I'm coming home to chaos, it just makes more chaos Um and so by her being home and making sure believe me, I used to come home and wife's like, honey, I just cleaned five minutes ago, but Jordan Eden tore up everything. Okay, that's that's normal. I'm not talking about that. Of course. But um and so I'd I'd really be careful, ladies. And I know it's hard because some of you already plugged in. And so please in my bashing, I'm not trying that, but um but I see the blessing Lord would uh allow my wife to raise my kids instead of somebody else. Um but I know that there are situations where uh it's difficult and there might be the reasons why a wife would need to work outside the home. And in those kinds of cases, I think most importantly the wife does have to understand her primary Responsibility, as Pastor Steve already said, is in the home. If she can't do both, then she needs to stay home. However, and then there might be some that really desire to be home, and maybe in this room that desire Desire to be home, but yet but can't because of whatever situation. In those kinds of situations, the best thing I think you can do is really pray and say, Lord, and just ask the Lord to give you the ability the the patients to wait on him for provision, the is there things we can do to rearrange things in order to be able to to not have the situation that we have. And then ultimately to allow the Lord to open the doors for you to come home if that's what you believe the Lord wants you to do and you have that desire. But I um so I I would just encourage you there that uh there's an not a wrong thing to work outside the home biblically. However, there's a lot of wisdom in what Pastor Steve said. I'll stop on that. Promise, promise. We're all rich. We're Americans. Beware. Do we really need to have that nicer house, two cars, all the cell phones, all that? You know, I'm sorry I'm not stealing your thing. Yeah, and debt and all that. I mean it's just you know, the idea of just being really cheap, you know. I just say it this way and I'll say it again. You have eighteen years and then you reap the 18 years the rest of your life with your children. And that's what you're gonna get. Um if you have two people who go to college and and look, I needed my wife to go to college to be my helpmate. I I needed um I I read too many books, I'm a I'm a loser. Um completely open about it. One of my deacons showed me this, it means loser from all angles. That's me. I I needed I needed a wife who had had gone to college. If Kimberly had graduated with from college um with let's say seventy to eighty thousand dollars in debt of debt, she would have had to have worked when the kids started coming. And what she decided to do instead is in part she went to the University of Iowa where tuition was about $3,000 to $4,000 a year. Um And and so please be real thoughtful, both husbands and wives, be thoughtful about educational debt. Recognize that the debt that you go into to buy a house before you're married, or to buy a car or or to do an education or whatever, that these things are going to have ramifications in the future when you begin to have children and when you begin to have Now in I think in all of us, our wives have been home at least most if not for a large portion of our children's um of our children's Lives. But just be real careful with that. Be real careful with thinking that you gotta have a ski vacation and that the ski vacation is going to make up for the fact that mom's working 12 hours a week day outside the home, it it won't. So be careful. I I think Steve has probably been the most disciplined about not having She's worked part time, she's currently working part-time. Um but just be real thoughtful about debt, especially. The the easy credit is is crazy. Crazy. Um some very good practical advice. We want to open it up to the floor for questions for just a in just a minute. But there are a couple of um pretty good questions here I want to try to hit real quick before we do just that. Uh again, a very tactical question. Specific question. Thinking about the Sermon on the Mount, Pastor George, I think this is again coming your way. But thinking about the Sermon on the Mount, at what point should a spouse confess the sin of the heart? And what advice would you give to have these types of discussions? Yeah, it's a it's a good question. Um I wouldn't necessarily advise um a a husband or or wife to share absolutely everything that runs through their minds. And um you know, so in so in that sense, like even when we think about, you know, uh uh the idea of of lust uh being seen as as adultery. It's not like every person that I've you know seen that I need to now go and confess to them that, you know, hey, I I just want to let you know. I I noticed I noticed you the other day and uh I just want to confess it to you. I mean that's just you know, we we haven't actually, you know, manifested that that sin outwardly, so there's really no need to drag them into that. So I'd say just be be careful when when it when it does come to those uh uh kinds of confessions. I would say uh that if a a husband or or wife is having a a serious struggle uh with a particular sin, uh that there's uh a sin that they're they're not able to to shake off, even if it is internal, um, that that's the point where I I think it would be be be wise to to bring you know somebody else into that uh conversation, at least to you know, just pray for me. I'm I'm my my mind is struggling right now. And maybe uh it's to to find a an accountability partner and you know another you know if it's a guy find another brother that you can uh confide in, if it's a woman finding a lady that can uh help you uh with that. I think that that's um Um you know, when you look at the the the pattern of of scripture that, you know, it's the older women that are to teach the the younger women and you know, men with men in the the same kind of way. So I think that with some of those uh things that um you know a a man is gonna be better to able to understand you and and give you help and a woman would be able to better understand a um a woman and and give her help. But but if I if I realize that you know I'm I'm not really able to to contain this and Uh, you know, so say for a husband he's actually pursued, you know, uh uh looking online for something, uh that that would be a point where where I, you know, personally feel like I'd have to confess that, you know. uh, to my spouse and just let 'em know I've I've I I messed up. I just want to let you know. Um and to to kinda uh hold things like that when you've actually started to pursue uh after a after a sin. Um Um uh that's when I think you're gonna uh feel uh and actually recognize the big break in the the oneness and the unity uh between you and and your spouse. Uh the the goal is is is to be one. You know, you've you've been made one. You want to be able to share yourself freely with uh you know your spouse. You don't want to, you know, uh Adam and Eve or naked and not ashamed, you you you're kind of trying to work towards that that I I want to be unashamed uh before you. But but here's here's the key. The only way that you're able to confess things like that, you know, confess serious sin, um, you know, as lust or anger or, you know, other things. things that might even be going on in your mind is that you that you need a a healthy understanding of what grace is. Once once you understand what what grace is, that you're all equal at the foot of the cross, that we're we're, you know, as I said before, we're sinners that that have said I do. Um I need grace and and you need grace and if we're we're both sinners that understand that, I have now a a a freedom to confess that before you uh knowing that I'm not gonna be beaten up because of that, uh but that you understand that that I'm struggling just like like you're struggling in in other ways. It might not be my particular sin, um, but there's sins that that you struggle with as as well. And uh once we both have that that kind of understanding it it just opens up a whole new level of uh really being able to share uh with my my spouse. Um but I I I'd want to be careful that it in that that I'm that I'm also shepherding my spouse. I don't want to put too much on them that they they wouldn't be able to handle, uh, but uh if there is that that freedom to uh to speak, um I I definitely would advise, you know, as as much as you can to share, um share your life, share your you know, your your Christian life. with your uh with your spouse that's the one that the goddess placed you with and um it's your your greatest companion so I I think practically um the the husband's uh really s a man's strong temptation is an area of of lust more than a woman. Um but what I found personally when when uh talking with folks is that A woman will often get extremely angry over a situation where a husband does confess his sin of lust. And in fact, will cause hold resentment against him and things like that. of that nature. And one of the things I will remind I'll I'll I'll I'll sort of go say this. Um I'll say she'll point out to him that the Bible says that if you look on what They're very clear on that passage. They know that passage. The w wives know that passage well. And um I'll sometimes say to the wife, um Do you r do you know what the Bible says about anger? That if you if you are angry against your husband, you're committing murder. Um so I that is to really just sort of add to what he said, what Um Pastor George said at the end there, um there has to be an understanding that we are all uh it's not to diminish uh the sin of any of that, frankly, but um we do need to under understand the um the that we are all in need of grace and um pride in on either side in this in the in the marriage will cause uh just a rift and and prevent oneness. Really good discussion. We're running a little long, but I still want to have to open it up uh if we can, uh if we've agree for for the floor for some open or some questions from the floor. So if you have a question you want to ask our panel, please get up and line up in front of the mic and we will try to get to them as many as we can. And in the spirit of that please come, please. We're running late. Let's try to keep the answers as short as possible. And if you need more, perhaps you can follow up with one of our panelists. afterwards. Boxers or no, sorry, wrong question. Sorry, please. Forgive me. Uh yeah. Uh this is again that's right. Um in talking about Matthew five, uh Pastor George, I you know, other folks can respond to and talking about again the idea of losing our dignity and our our possessions and and in the context of marriage. I think we can look probably with chagrin historically at how the church has used that to allow for abuse within the context of the marriage. Could you tease that out a little bit practically for the wife or the for the husband who may be dealing with someone? um where they are again setting aside their rights and then where is this getting into verbal, emotional, and potentially physical or sexual abuse? And and what does that person do in that kind of context. How do they navigate those? Let me see if I can uh so I I work at a church um and uh Um people call and they always want money. And our church does not give money. We give food. Most of the time I get yelled at when I tell them that we will give them food food. And when I have an opportunity to talk with the people, they come to me and they say, Look, God says in the Sermon on the Mount, if we have a complex theological conversation, that you're not allowed to loan money, that you're not allowed to You're just supposed to give to everybody what they're what they ask. Now that's not true. I'm not supposed to give you something to destroy you. And so if my son comes to me and says, Daddy, can I have a semi-automatic pistol? Um I'm gonna say no. At least not until you're eighteen. Or is it twenty-one in Maryland? Twenty-one. Twenty-one. Or never or however it works. I grew up in the Midwest. We got guns everywhere. So i in that it it's right, you you do want to give up rights, but you're not giving up your rights for the purpose of the other person destroying themselves themselves or destroying you. It would be a greater wickedness to allow your wife or your husband to to murder you or to to continue in sin against you. So for instance, Pastor Dan asked, I thought it was a fun question, what if your wife is 100% wrong and you're 100% right? First off, I have some real real questions about that scenario. That never happened in my my marriage. Um the the time to the time to lose is that when the best thing that could happen To serve your wife is for you to give up your rights for the purpose of serving her. So what we see in the Bible is that God refused, or excuse me, Paul refuses to circumcise Titus. But he does circumcise Timothy. And so what that means is that he required Titus to not give up some rights that he required Timothy to give up. And so the whole idea is to try to decide what is going to be best for the other person and also it Um please, marriage is not a mutual suicide pack. And you as a Christian are not required to be a punching bag. You are only supposed to allow someone to slap you when it will be best for them to slap you. And if if they're a police officer and they got a gun and they're gonna blow your ass. head off if you don't let them slap you. Because my understanding of that was it was the Roman soldiers who were allowed to give that punishment um to people. So marriage is not a mutual suicide pack. You are allowed to preserve your life As long as the purpose in doing that is to serve the other person. One more example, then I promise I quit. We'll quit. Take the command to honor your father. Jonathan's father is demon-possessed. He's trying. To kill the anointed of God. Jonathan spends a lot of his life trying to make sure that Saul doesn't kill David. But when Saul's enemies and God's enemies overlapped, Jonathan dies beside his demon-possessed father on the battlefield because he was honoring his father. And so there are these really helpful ones. For instance, Abigail and her uh husband. And those things to those uh examples in scripture to help you navigate those things. Uh add to that in uh Proverbs 1919, it says, A man of great anger will bear the penalty, for if you rescue him, you will only have to do it again. If you're in a situation where there is real abuse, physical danger, that person needs to bear the penalty. And that's the most loving thing that you can do in a situation like that. is for that person to to bear uh the penalty uh because it doesn't help um uh an abusive uh spouse uh to continue to cover, uh to continue to make excuses excuses uh to even fall into sin and start lying. Uh when it comes into a a conflict between, you know, honoring your spouse and honoring the Lord, uh the Lord always wins. You know, we'd rather obey God than than man. So uh uh a spouse should never be put into a situation where they're in physical uh danger or uh forced into a sinful uh situation to to dishonor honor the Lord. So I I definitely agree with Shane that uh the the way that we love people is by doing what's best uh for them. Uh even if that's not necessarily their wishes. And uh even if they don't perceive it as the the best uh for them, uh we want to make sure that we're uh honoring the Lord and um and doing what's right. We're really running late, but I'm gonna grab this one last question right here. And if we can have very quick responses with the agreement that if someone needs to follow up with you later, that will be okay. shape. Um I think we're all going to have to start dealing with people on the subject of homo homosexual marriage. And um We're ready with these, well, God has forbidden it and the tradition and it's icky and those sorts of responses that I have I think they're prepared for I think um a uh a a more gospel centered way is to reflect it back to um that the man Represents Christ and the woman represents the church. And so when you have two men, what you're doing is denying the gospel. You're saying there is no salvation, there is only Christ. Christ. Or if you have two women, then what you're doing is you're denying Christ and you're saying there's only the church alone. So I mean I guess how can we use homosexual marriage as a doorway to the gospel and how is it actually an attack on the gospel. I guess Well I I yeah, I I think you you you summed it up well. I think uh a uh uh a denial of the the beauty of of marriage. And and that's the other thing that I I guess I'd want to add to this and and uh hopefully this is what we get out of this uh conference and walk away with is that the the better marriages we have as Christians is the the better that we're able to put the gospel on display for the watching world. I think that what the world needs to see is a compelling alternative from the church. A lot of what some people are running away from in traditional marriage is uh there's this uh you know uh kind of door mat mentality and you know wives are taking advantage of uh I think that if they they were able to see the beauty of what a Christian marriage looks like, uh that that would be uh attractive and and I hope that that our marriages would uh reflect that. And uh you're exactly right. If there's uh if there's only Christ, if there's only the church, there's no salvation. So uh uh our are our marriages are supposed to be a model of that. There there are no commands in scripture for gay marriage. You know so for for people that that would actually attempt to use scripture to defend themselves, I mean they ha they have nothing to stand on. I mean besides the uh uh the clear commands that again against homosexuality. You know, when you actually look for the commands about marriage, where do you find any instruction for a gay marriage? There is none. It doesn't exist. Um so for for people to to try to defend it they they have they don't have a like to stand on but I think it's uh uh for for us we have a great opportunity uh to present before the watching world the beauty uh of of marriage and uh just showing that the uh the the complementarity of of marriage actually displays that in a way that you can't see any other way. Okay, very good. We need to wrap up. Before we do, a real quick lightning round for each and every one of you. What is the number one, in a quick statement, in a quick sentence, the number one takeaway you want each of us to get from your session today? I'll start with Pastor Jim. Uh your marriage should be our marriages and families should be for the purpose of glorifying God for the furtherance of God's kingdom through a and for our our objective. Pastor George. I guess my goal would be that that true righteousness is displayed in a God-honoring marriage. Love your kids, play with them a lot, love God's word, read it a lot, pray a lot, make God the Father. your model for parenting. Pastor Steve. The greatest commandment is to love God and as a result we'll be loving our children, which means influence, because we're the most influential people Under understanding your justified status before God The grace of God is the one foundation that that will give you the ability to weather the storms of complex family situations. Tough questions, great answers on the fly. I think we deserve a hand for our panel. Pastor Man? T