Prayers reveal much about a person. They can encapsulate particular and exceptional individuals Who's the one who prayed? God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. Why is the widely famous and respected American theologian Reinhold Nieber? Who cried out after translating the Bible into English and just before martyrdom? Lord, open the King of England's eyes William Tyndale. One more. Who's the one who asked, Lord, make me an instrument of your peace? Where there is hatred, let me sow love. Where there is injury, pardon, where there is doubt, faith, where there is despair, hope, where there is darkness, light, where there is sadness, joy. Francis of Assisi, who also supplied the lyrics to the hymn we sang earlier, All Preachers of Our God and King. We are beneficiaries of prayers uttered by saints throughout the centuries. We're encouraged and edified by their written works Some have a way of expressing words that really bring out what we want to say ourselves. We hear someone pray and say amen because we could not have said it any better ourselves. You hear a prayer and say, that's exactly how I want to respond to God's goodness and mercy. And while church history no doubt supplies us with many excellent examples, we must start with the Bible The Psalms are replete with them. You'll see Paul burst out in prayer during his letters, but you'll also find samples in the narrative portions like the Gospels. Luke 18, 9 to 14 actually contains two prayers, a good one and a bad one. But before we read that, let's locate the passage. In proper context. From chapter 17, verse 11 to the middle of chapter 19, 1927, we're dealing with the last major unit of the tribal narrative. middle chapters of Luke. Joe B. Green sees running through this unit the theme of responding to the kingdom. As we're moving through this section, we're getting a better sense of the kind of faith God wants from us. Consider among the ten lepers: the one who returned, the Samaritan. His faith made him well, his faith led him to return, give glory to God, and give thanks to Jesus. Next, we saw how proper faith looks ahead to that day when the Son of Man, Jesus, is revealed. It forsakes this world, doomed to perish, even at the cost of one's life. And then last week we discussed the kind of faith that Jesus seeks upon his return. It is the prayerful faith that resembles the persistent widow crying for justice. The subject of faith and prayer continues in Luke 18, 9-14. Let's read and see what more can we learn about those two vital topics of our religion. Luke eighteen, nine to fourteen Also he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and despised others. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and And the other a tax collector, the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the tax collector, standing afar off, would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven. But beat his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For every one who exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. The parable setting is the temple Is consistently seen throughout Luke and Acts as the place of prayer. The Pharisee and the tax collector both arrived there, but they could not be farther apart. Literally and symbolically. The Pharisees were meticulous followers of Moses, scrupulous in their devotion to tradition, eating, tiding, and They were respected by many for holiness and everyday living The tax collectors, on the other hand, were branded as traitors to Israel. They took money from their own people and worked for the Roman Empire who ruled over them. Them. They were despised by the masses. Yet ironically, we as we continue to consider the proper response to God's kingdom were taught, at least in this parable, to avoid the example of the Pharisee and follow the example of the tax collector. From these two, we can derive two basic principles. One, avoid man-centered righteousness for justification. Verses nine to twelve. And two, see God-centered humility for mercy, verses thirteen to fourteen. First, avoid man-centered righteousness for justification. Sometimes we Christians do a poor job of explaining the jargons of our faith. We assume that the unbelieving world understands just what we're talking about. We throw around big words like justification and righteousness among the unsaved and the unchurched. The fault is with us at times, and I hope we don't add to the confusion here. So if we're gonna talk theology, we should properly explain the terms. Also, it will be a good review for us, anyways Let's start with justification. I like the way Guy Waters, a New Testament, test New Testament professor, summarizes it. Teaching that justification is easy as A B C D. He uses the first four letters of the alphabet as As an acronym. First, justification is a act of God Justification in the context of today's passage deals with God's act of declaring us just, innocent, not guilty of our sins. We're pardoned by God as when a judge pounds the gable and passes the verdict of innocence in a legal courtroom. We walk away free. Not because we're good people. Far from it. We're actually guilty. We deserve the sentence of eternal condemnation. In hell that were graciously and mercifully forgiven by God. So when asked, who can forgive sins but God alone? We answer indeed, only God can. Justification is an act of God. Next, we go to the letter B. Basis. Justification is based on or finds its basis on Jesus God doesn't just wave a magic wand so that all our records of faults disappear into thin air. No, someone had to pay Dearly. Not only do we need someone to wipe away our debt, the wages of sin, we need someone to give us the gift of God, eternal life In Christ Jesus, God and man in one person, we have that someone. He perfectly obeyed God's demands, yet he became our substitute. He suffered and died in our place at the cross He was cursed for our sake. He redeemed us through his blood. God the Father made him who knew no sin to be sinned for us. Us, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. Here's an illustration for this wonderful exchange that I found useful. Suppose that in one book there's written all the things I've ever done or will do, including all my stuff. In the other book is all the righteousness Christ did, including his perfect life, obedient death, and glorious resurrection. These two books have two different book covers. Through a process called imputation, God swaps the book covers So that when he looks at my book, he sees the book cover of Christ's book. And when he looks at Christ's book, he sees my book cover. The perfect record of Jesus is counted as mine. Jesus is the basis for our justification. Next, we have C for confession. Justification becomes personal as one confesses faith in Christ Now we're not talking about empty or impersonal confession of lips. We're talking about genuine confession of faith from the heart. Paul speaks of this in Romans 10 9-10. If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the death. the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. This true faith is reliance on Jesus alone without any trust in self or works. Genuine faith confesses hope in Christ and His work. No one else and nothing else. But to be clear, even though we're justified by faith alone, faith that justifies is never alone. That leads to D of justification demonstration Saints do not possess a faith that relies on works for salvation, but their faith does work through love. In Ephesians 2, 8-9, we're reminded that we're saved by grace through faith, not of ourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. But look at the very next verse. Ephesians 2. 10. God planned all along that we do good works because we believe and because we trust in God for justification. Imagine if Nathaniel comes to me later in life and tries to be a good person to earn my love and approval as my son. I tell him, I already love you and approve of you as my son. There's nothing he could do to change that. But then I'd go on and say, be a good person because of my love and approval, not to earn my love and approval. Once he understands that, he'd have the right motivation for good works, which is to express gratitude and love to us. If you want specifics nothing Daniel. Daddy and mommy don't need much. Mom likes to travel travel. I just need books and coffee, but It could be whatever, showing expression of love, right? And gratitude, not to earn my love and approval So justification is easy as ABCD is an A act of God, B based on merits of Christ Secured by C, confession of faith alone in Christ alone. D. Demonstrated by good works of gratitude and love It's simple enough for a child to understand. So now I must ask, if you're not a believer, do you wish to be justified by God? There are no mountains to climb, no quests to complete. Jesus has paid for it all. Will you turn to him for salvation? Turn from self-reliance and self-gratification. And that's repentance. Turn in faith to Christ alone for justification. If you have questions or need guidance concerning this decision. Our church will be glad to help you. Please speak with me after service or one of the members of our church Now, do not be like the Pharisee in this parable. He demonstrates man-centered righteousness. Instead of looking outwardly to Jesus, he turned inwardly to himself. He is typical of those who persuaded themselves that they're righteous and despised others He represents those ignorant of God's righteousness. He's among those who, seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God. He's like the hypocrites who love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by If you want to know how not to pray, we have the perfect model right here. The only respectable aspect of his prayer is that it begins with an address to God, everything goes downhill from there. It's not truly a prayer of thanksgiving because he takes too much credit for himself. Unlike the psalmists, he does not recount the great works of God as grounds for gratitude. It's not a prayer of adoration because he exalts himself more than God. Commentator C. Marvin Pate writes The man was full of joyful praise, not for who God was, but rather for who he was. It's not a prayer of confession because he doesn't humbly acknowledge that he has sinned, just as all have sinned. Instead of saying there's none righteous, no not one, he'd say there's no one like men, like no one like me. It's not a prayer of supplication. He's sufficient of himself to think of everything as being from himself, not that his sufficiency is from God. In short, this Pharisee boasts of man center righteousness. You must avoid it at all costs. As an application, I recommend that you watch how you pray and watch your thought life. If I were to record your thoughts and put them on display, how would you refer to yourself in the first person? How would you refer to others in the third person? What are your I statements? And what are your day statements? What does it sound like this? I am not like other men or women. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. I am this, I do this, I do that. Would you compare and exalt yourself over the extortioners, the unjust, the unjust adulters and the tax collectors. Would you believe that you're not as one of them? That you're built different? Of course we should not be condoning, but we should be condemning extortion, injustice, adultery, and greed. Read. But we must look inwardly first. Judge yourself first before you judge others Hear the words of another Pharisee who understood his depravity. You are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge, for in whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. Hear the words of Jesus. Why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not consider the plank? In your own eye. Avoid man-centered righteousness for justification. Now, this parable not only provides a poor example that's true, there is a good example to pursue. And it's from a tax collector of all people. But we should have seen something like this coming since Jesus props up a Samaritan as a good neighbor back in chapter 10, the unjust steward for shrewdness back in 16. Shall we really be surprised by his praise of a tax collector? And that leads to the second point: seek God-centered humility for mercy. So see how different is the position of the tax collector? He was separate from the Pharisee, standing afar off. While the Pharisee looked around horizontally to lift himself above others, The tax collector could not so much as raise his eyes to heaven. The Pharisee may have lifted up his hands as a show of piety, But the tax collector was beating his chest in sorrow. The tense of the verb beat could imply repetitive action. Some of the English translations capture that idea. New American Standard Bible says he was beating his chest. Holman Christian Standard Bible says he kept striking his chest. You see a man desperate for mercy, pounding on heaven's door and pounding on his heart. His humility is on full display. Then you have the actual words of the tax collector: God be merciful to me, a sinner. He begins the prayer in the exact same way as the Pharisee, addressing God, but unlike the Pharisee, this man actually has God at the center of his prayer. His simple request does not come at the expense of others. The petition is focused on him and God alone. There are two notable features here. First, the verb be merciful is unusual and rare, found only one other time in the New Testament, in Hebrews 2. It's translated there as make propitiation. The verb however is found several times in the Greek translation of the Old Testament is translated as relent, provide atonement, pardon, forgive. is reserved exclusively for God in relation to us as sinners. It always has God as the actor You see, the tax collector has not only come to the right place, the temple, he's praying to the right God, the only one who can be merciful and And forgive his sins. The second remarkable feature of this prayer is his self-reference as sinner. For second week in a row, I have to make a grammatical point about the article in the original language. Sorry if this bores you you a little bit but it literally says be merciful to me the sinner this time the article is not there as the article previous reference This time we have the article of par excellence according to one grammar book. That is, the tax collector refers to himself as the most excellent in ranking, but not in a good way. He's the worst of the worst. The article duh is there, and to say he's the sinner is tantamount to saying I am the chief of sinners. In the same way, who are we compared to God's holiness? We are the sinners. This is God-centered humility that obtains mercy. We're not surprised by the verdict of Jesus. In verse fourteen, I tell you this man went to went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted See how wonderful and gracious are the words of our Lord. The Pharisee referred to this humble man with disdain as this tax collector. Someone he's far from. Jesus refers to him with delight, this man, as the one just The Pharisee may be admired by all, but Jesus wants all to admire the tax collector. Like him, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. As John Bunyan once advised He that is down needs fear no fall, he that is low, no pride, he that is humble ever shall have God to be his guide. Again I address you, the unbeliever, this day. Will you humble yourself and return home just Justified. Humility is the first step for the unbeliever. But I tell you what, humility is also a continual lesson for the mature Believer. Humility is not confined to the characters of this parable or the first century Jews of Jesus' time. Everyone in every age and all times who exalts him or herself will be humbled. And likewise, everyone who humbles himself or herself will be exalted So everyone, I ask you, how will you humble yourself this week? I suggest three three applications for all of us Christians. They are all from Paul's letter to the Philippians. First, instead of exalting yourself above others, as Pharisee did, do the opposite. Exalt others above yourself. Philippians 2, 3 to 4 has the principle: Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. When you pray this week, thank God for others and esteem them. Not thank God that you're not like them. Pray for their interests along with yours. Second, look to Christ as the ultimate model of humility. Philippians two, the Son of God will lift you up, once humbled himself, and became obedient to the point of death, even the death Of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. That's in verse 8 to 9 of Chapter 2 of Philippians. Greater than the humility of the tax collector, and greater than the humility of even Moses, was the humility of Jesus Christ our Lord. He is the perfect model of humbleness. Look to him Thirdly, take that personal resume of yours filled with accomplishments that you might cite for self-righteousness. Consider them rubbish. Here Paul in chapter three, verses four to nine, again, still in Philippians. If anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so circumcise the eighth day of the stock of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin. of the Hebrew of the Hebrews concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted loss for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things loss for the Excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. Boast in Jesus Not in yourself. In Christ we have all that we need. Justified by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Sanctified as we continually seek God centered humility. And as we continue to Humble ourselves, we know we'll be exalted, glorified someday. Let's remember that as we sing our last song. Yea, justified, O blessed thought, and sanctified salvation wrought. Thy blood had pardoned both for me And glorified I too shall be. Let's pray Lord, we humble ourselves before you. Lord We ask that if there is anything like disphares see in this parable in our hearts, may we become like the tax collector in this parable. Be merciful to me, the sinner, the chief of sinner. We come before you In humility. We're thankful that you pronounce us innocent, not because of what we have done, but because of what your son Jesus Christ has accomplished. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. Let's rise and turn to page twelve