You may have heard of the phrase Hound of Heaven, and it's talking about God who pursues his elect through the thick and thin. But our Lord often uses human instruments. So you could say there are hounds on earth deployed for his purposes. That's how church historian Stephen Nichols describes one woman named Monica. Monica was a godly woman, and she was burdened for her son. was a young adult, turning away from the faith that she taught him. But the prayerful mother didn't give up. She followed her son to Rome and then to Milan. She reflected later, telling him, quote, there was only one reason and one reason alone why I wish to remain a little longer in this life. And it was to see you. Become a Christian. At Milan, under the ministry of Ambrose, Monica's son, Augustine, finally converted. After seventeen years of resistance and tearful prayers I wonder how many conversations there will be in the other side of eternity that will begin with, I prayed for you for many years. I can picture some even saying, I pray for you though I suffered at your hand. Children saying to parents who betrayed them, I pray for you that you believe before you died. I wonder if we too can say something like: I pray for decades that you know Christ and become a godly man. That's certainly what I hope for my child. But it's not easy. As Henry Francis Light wrote in Jesus, I my cross have taken In this tough journey that we're on, in this difficult life that we're in, we need to be armed by faith and winged by prayer. You'll find in today's passage Luke 18, 1 to 8, a model of faith and prayer. Let's turn there and read. Then he spoke a parable to them that men always ought to pray and not lose heart, saying, There was in a certain city a judge who did not fear God nor regard man. Now there was a widow in that city, and she came to him saying, Get justice for me from my adversary. And he would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself, Though I do not fear God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubles me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. Then the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge said, and shall God not avenge his own elect who cry out day and night to him, though he bears long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he really find faith on the earth Even though we're beginning a new chapter in Luke, chapter eighteen. We must remind ourselves that these chapter and verse numbers are not inspired by God. They're artificial additions that help readers locate passages They're not meant to be hindrances to reading the Bible in context. I say this because we must understand Luke 18, 1 to 8. In close relation to the previous passage, chapter 17, 20 to 37. At first glance, the parable setting does not appear related to the end times. But see how Jesus in verse 8 derives lessons from it in light of future judgment. Note how the lingering question transports us to that day when the Son of Man comes. That takes us back to the subject of the previous passage. Recall there how Jesus repeatedly mentioned the coming of the Son of Man, that is, his second coming. Of course, there are some differences between the parable here and the teaching there. Chapter 17, 20 to 37 were filled with some dramatic action-packed scenes. Counterfeit messiahs, Jesus appearing in the skies, saints running for their lives, unbelievers snatched away to judgment. That's enough material for another Left Behind series. But our response to Jesus' imminent return need not be so dramatic. It may look unremarkable to others. It should look like the widow in this parable. From this persistent widow's example, we learn how we should respond to Jesus' second coming. As we wait for him, I hope that you can be one, faithful in prayer. Verses one to five. And two, have prayerful faith. Verses six to eight. Be faithful in prayer and have a prayerful faith. First, be faithful in prayer. The passage here easily divides into two sections with the story itself From verses 1 to 5 and Jesus' commentary on it in verses 6 to 8. We don't have to guess why Jesus told this parable. It says why right there in verse 1. He spoke this parable so that men always ought to pray and not lose heart. Let's dissect this phrase by starting with the basic idea of prayer. For those who are not Christians, please know that prayer is not just something we do at a prayer meeting because we need another event in the week. Prayer is not just a show during the Sunday service, so you see how eloquent or pious we are. Rather, prayer is no less important for our spiritual life than breeding is for physical life. That's how one pastor, John Amuchequa, illustrates it, and it stuck with me. We serve a living God who speaks to us and breathes out his word from his mouth. Mouth, we inhale and respond not only in praise and testimony, we breathe out to Him prayers, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. But for that exhaling to take place, we need God to breathe in us a new life. This truth is taught in John 3, when Jesus spoke of being born again. You see, you can't truly understand prayer. Unless you become God's child first. For that we must understand the gospel, which is God's good news. And it goes like this. God created us to have an intimate relationship with him, but we turned away from him in thought, word, and deed. The price for our sins is eternal separation from God. And without Him we have no life. We're condemned to suffer forever. But Jesus came and suffered in our place, facing the ultimate injustice to satisfy God's justice. Christ prayed for us with more persistence than this widow, for those who would believe him through the teachings of his apostles. He died on the cross for our sins, paying the penalty of hell as our substitute. He rose again on the third day and ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return as the Son of Man. Jesus God's Son did all this to restore the relationship we were meant to have with God the Father. The price has been paid, the way paved. To enjoy lasting intimate prayer with God. Take that first step and pray to Jesus. Jesus asking him to save you. You do not need to be good enough, nor can you be. Jesus offers life to you by grace as a gift that cannot be earned or deserved. As we sang earlier Earlier, heed the voice of Jesus. Come unto me and rest. Lay down, O wary one. Behold, I freely give the living water, thirsty one I am the dawning light. Look unto me, your morn shall rise. This can be a new day for you. Turn from yourself and your sins in repentance and turn to Jesus in faith. That's the only way to experience a prayer life as God the Father intended, through the mediation of His Son, Jesus Christ. So that's prayer 101 for you. Journey to faithful prayer begins with the first prayer of salvation through Jesus. Now, let's talk about what it means to not lose heart. And here's a quick word study. Paul talks about not losing heart in his letters In 2 Corinthians 4, he says, we do not lose heart twice, as he speaks of his ministry of the Spirit and righteousness. As wonderful as it is, gospel work is hard. But because of God's mercy and promises of eternal glory, it's all worth it. In Ephesians 3:13, Paul arrives at the same conclusion, asking the saints to not lose heart as he suffers. But such exhortation is not only applicable to apostles and those in the front lines. Paul told the Galatians to not lose heart while doing good works. And that's in 6. 9, Galatians 6. 9. Doing good here relates to sharing material resources with others and living by the Spirit. Similarly, doing good in 2 Thessalonians 3:13 relates to working for one's own living and obeying God's word It's interesting that as much as Paul's concerned about persistence doing extraordinary things, he's worried that Christians would lose heart doing ordinary things. The daily grind at work, regular giving at church, everyday holy living in the world. Have you become wary in the calling God has given you? Are you losing heart when it comes to the routine task? The Lord has assigned you. Good, honest living may seem mundane. You wonder whether your charitable giving makes any difference Sowing in the spirit seems so disheartening when you see others sowing in the flesh for immediate gratification. God knew we'd need encouragement for our spiritual growth. Now coming back to this passage, God knew we'd need encouragement to pray faithfully. Our Lord was concerned about believers losing heart when it comes to this all-important work of prayer. That's why this parable is here. He begins the story in verse 2, but it's interesting how little background Jesus provides. Only the bare essentials are given. We don't know the city name, we don't know the exact office this man held. We may assume he's no more than a local magistrate, but still a man with status in the community. We don't know exactly what injustice this widow suffered. We may assume that she's fighting for material resources that are rightfully hers. But she has no kinsmen to represent her, no brides to make her appeals, well, more appealing. What we do know is that this judge did not fear God, nor regard man. This is emphasized and said twice, once by Jesus in verse 2, and later in verse 4 by the judge in self-reflection. In biblical language, not fearing God and not regarding fellow man are not qualities we want in our judges. He has mostly ignored and shrugged off the widow for some time. But her incessant continual coming to no end wore him down. Interestingly, the word uh the verb weary there is used by Paul in 1 Corinthians 9 27. As he speaks of disciplining his body, this judge is now subdued by this widow's persistence. Persistence. Pays off. So pray faithfully. Pray like this persistent widow. Pray like the persistent friend we saw back in chapter eleven, verses five to eight. night woke up the wife and the kids and said, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has come to me on this journey, and I have nothing to set before him. It was not friendship that got him his request, but his persistence. Exemplary prayer life has no bounds of time and manners. Godly prayer life looks obsessive and intrusive in your schedules. This is what it means to be faithful in prayer. Are you praying persistently? If you are, I commend you. But I want to ask the more specific question. Are you praying persistently concerning the bad things that happen to believers? We should not only pray about our daily bread and the filip. Of the Holy Spirit. We should also pray for justice and vengeance. Jesus is not only teaching us to be faithful in prayer, but be faithful in prayer for vindication. While persecuted. Is this a topic in your prayer requests? Do you faithfully pray for justice and concerning absence? adversaries that they will stop being unjust or that they would be converted. When I hear prayer requests I usually hear topics related to family, friends, fellow fellow believers, former members. But how often do we pray about injustices that Christians face? You may say, well, I don't really face trouble for my faith. In response, I implore you to ask yourself two questions. One, am I really living off my faith? And two Are you looking at the bigger picture? I read a Christianity Today article dated January of of this year reporting that every day thirteen Christians worldwide are martyred, twelve churches or Christian buildings are attacked, twelve are arrested or imprisoned unjustly. And five are abducted. That should be enough to get us on our knees to pray. Also, considering that we have family and friends at or near some of these dangerous countries and regions, it's a wonder that we don't pray more. To wrap up this first point, I encourage you to meditate on two verses for application. First, we have a simple command of 1 Thessalonians 5, 17, pray without ceasing. That leads us to be faithful in prayer. Secondly, meditate on Hebrews thirteen, three. Remember the prisoners as if chained with them. Those who are mistreated, since you yourselves are in the body also. That should lead you to be faithful in prayer for justice. And as we lift up such prayers, we'll reveal the strength of our faith. That leads to the second duty of those waiting for God's kingdom. Have prayerful faith. When you think about the name of our church, Faith Bible Church, what images come to your mind? Let's take each word separately. When you think of the word church, I hope you think of the early church in Acts. Many gladly received Receiving the gospel, getting baptized, devotion to apostolic doctrine, fellowship, helping each other materially, one accord, praising God, favor with the outsiders, regular additions to church membership. When you think of the word Bible, I hope you think of the fair-minded Bahrainian Jews Paul met in his second missionary journey. When Paul preached the gospel at their synagogue, they received the word with all readiness and searched the scriptures daily to find out whether these things were still. That's in Acts 17 Now when you think of the word faith, I hope you think of this persistent widow. You might say to me, what does this woman have to say? do with faith. I thought she's modeling persistence and determination, not faith. Let me try to convince you that this widow is a model of faith. And take a look at the question in verse 8, the second sentence there, it goes, Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he really find faith on the earth? In the original language, there's an article in front of the word faith. So you could translate that literally as will he really find the faith on the earth? That sounds awkward for even the most literal translators. That's because faith is an abstract noun, and in English we don't put an article in front of abstract nouns. So we understand why it was left out in our Bibles. But there's something else going on here with that article in the original language. It's there as an anaphoric article. That sounds like a mouthful there. It's called an article of previous reference. In other words, the faith that Jesus is seeking is the one that's been referenced previously. The Holman Christian Standard Bible captures this idea well by translating it as, Will he find that faith on earth? So you ask, what fate was referenced previously? Did we see fate appear as a specific word in the parable? No. But do we see faith in specific action in the parable? Yes. Obviously, not the judge who does not fear God nor regard man. We saw that faith in the widow's persistence So putting it all together, the question is: when the Son of Man comes, will he really find that kind of faith? The faith that the widow displayed, the faith that is persistent. On the earth. This is the prayerful faith we need It's not some emotion-based faith that floats in a vacuum and is focused on the subject. It's an active and transitive faith that takes God as a direct object. It's a worshipful faith that praises God. My faith has found a resting place, not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one. His wounds for me shall plead. It's a desperate faith that cries out to God as the righteous judge. It's a secure faith that answers the question, shall not the judge of all the earth do right with the resounding yes. This is the prayerful faith we want And this prayerful faith looks to God who avenges us. Through the parable, Jesus sets up his lesser to greater argument. If the lesser is true, then the greater is true. We saw some of these earlier in Luke. them for you. If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? That was in chapter eleven, verse thirteen Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which have neither storehouse nor barn, and God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds? Chapter 12, 24. Same chapter verse 28. If then God so clothes the grass which today is in the field and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? Jesus continues that line of reasoning. He's saying that if the unjust judge, who does not fear God, nor regard man, is willing to grant justice to the widow. How much more would the just judge, feared as God, mindful of man, be willing to grant justice to his own He will certainly avenge those who cry out to him day and night. He will also speedily avenge. The word speedily in verse eight may seem may sound command. Confusing since it's been about 2,000 years since Jesus was on earth. But the phrase behind the adverb conveys an idea closer to imminence Then quantitative calculations of time. A commentary and an illustration might help. And I talked about this a little bit in the sermon series in Revelation 1. If you want to go back and listen to those, and I referenced commentators like Alan Johnston, or Johnston. And he said, The church in every age has always lived with the expectancy of the consummation of all things in its day. Immincy describes an event possible any day Impossible no day. Jesus' return is possible any day. Impossible, no day. Here's the illustration. Imagine waiting at the motor uh vehicle administration. You receive a piece of paper with the letter and a number. Let's say you got E97, just a random number. Number and letter. You spend your time waiting. You see E94, E95, and E96 flash on the displays, and you see someone taking care of her business with the representative. Now you know that your time will come shortly, but what was promised to you at the beginning of the MBA's experience Was not a quantifiable time like 40 minutes or an hour. You, E97, were only promised that you would go after E96. Consider the three customers ahead of you as events rather than people. E94 is the birth of Jesus. E95 is the death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus. E96 is the church age, the present epoch when the fullness of Gentiles comes into the kingdom, while Israel is blinded as Romans 11. 25 tells us. Now you know Jesus' second coming is next, but it turns out that E96, the present church age, is taking longer than expected. But you don't mind because between Jesus' ascension and his return, not only were you saved But there's a possibility that your family, friends, neighbors, people all over the world, people across generations, will hear the gospel and be saved So you hold on to that sheet of paper knowing that the time of deliverance is coming shortly. In the same way, we hold on until Jesus Christ returns. We know his return is certain, and so is our salvation. But such assurance and confidence in his return does not mean we become complacent and idle. We don't twiddle our thumbs while we wait We fold our hands in prayer. We don't complain in unbelief, but cry out to heaven. in faith. Oh Lord, come. This is the prayerful faith we want. I find the unique combination of phrases in verse 7 fascinating. His own elect who cry out day and night to him. Individually, those words are not remarkable. The omniscient and eternal God graciously elects those he saves. That's clear throughout the Bible Also, feeble and weak saints cry out day and night to God. I didn't know what crying out day and night really meant before, but then I became a parent. Now I know exactly what that means. The way that divine sovereignty and human responsibility come together Together here is significant. God's job is to elect and redeem. Our job is to cry out day and night. Jesus didn't write contradictions or combine incompatible truths. The biblical message has always been that God is sovereign and we're responsible to obey. In this passage, our responsibilities are namely faithful prayer and prayerful faith. I like Spurgeon's explanation of God's sovereign grace and our need for faith. These two truths I do not believe can ever be welded into one upon any human animal, but one day shall be in eternity. They are two lines that are so nearly parallel that the mind that shall pursue them farthest will never discover that they converge, but they do converge, and they will meet somewhere in eternity. Close to the throne of God, whence all truth thought spring Even if we don't get close enough to see how the lines meet, we can still come boldly to the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. So by all means, cry out to Him day and night, Let's pray for such prayerful faith. Cry out like this widow in this parable. Serve God with prayer and fasting night and day like Anna, another widow we saw earlier. In Luke 2. Seek the crumbs of God's bounty like the woman of Canaan in Matthew 15. May your faith look like the faith of these godly women. Join me and make the words of our last song your prayer. Whatever my God ordains is right. Patiently Lord, give us persistence today and this week. Lord, there are prayer requests that We have forgotten about their faces and names and burdens that we have cast aside. May we pick up those prayer requests again With a renewed sense of persistence. May we be faithful in prayer. May we have a faith that prays. And we're thankful that you hear us. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Please rise with me and Turn to page twelve and sing our last song together, Whatever My God Ordains is right.