So it was good to celebrate Father's Day last week and just looking around my family and just like, wow, how did I get here? and If you told me like many decades ago that I would meet my wife through a online dating service, I would have thought it was ridiculous. I guess it's more accepted these days. And among the many dating websites and matchmaking services today, there is one whose name I find clever. It's just lunch. It's just lunch communicates levity. I'm sure that this lightness is part of the draw. But even so it's hard to fool ourselves to think that such a meeting's just lunch, right? You're probably going to doll off, clean up nice, look spiffy that day You're not showing up in sweatpants you pulled out from your full laundry basket. Leave those for days after marriage. When you have two kids, trust me on this. So you're thinking this day could be the first of many. Is this guy husband material? Is this gal wife material? You might look back decades later and be like, this is how I met your father, this is how I met your mother So really there's a lot of potential. It's not just lunch, is it? And that potential is a good potential, or at least it should be, as long as we seek to be equally yoked in a Christ-centered marriage. Now here's the connection to today's passage in a negative parallel way. The Corinthian Christians were going to certain religious events outside of the church. Once there, they're convincing themselves or trying to convince themselves that it's just meat, it's only a meal. It's nothing serious. But they need to realize, and we need to realize, that there's a lot more at stake here Eating of things offered to idols is serious business. You sign up for more than just lunch when you do this. There's real participation, there's true fellowship as you commune with spiritual beings, not just dumb and mute idols. That's what we're about to see as we turn to today's passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, 14 to 22. And as you go there, I'll make some comments about the section we're at We're at the third of three chapters dealing with this topic concerning things offered to idols. The eating of things offered to idols. At first blush, it doesn't sound so relevant today. Why spend so much time discussing false gods that do not even exist? Well, it turns out that we do have a complex issue here. Here's a list of just a few big relevant words that relate to idolatry: knowledge, love, conscience, evangelism. Gentiles, Israel, temptation, sanctification. What seems initially so distant from us in time and space The idolatry of ancient Greece is in reality very close to us. The matter cannot be easily dismissed in our ongoing fight against the idols of the heart. Hopefully you're at the passage now. The connection between general temptations against sins and the specific sin of idolatry is made clear. The jump from 1 Corinthians 10 12 to 13 to verse 14 is not forced, but quite natural. Let me read all three verses at once. Therefore, let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man. But God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will also make the way of escape that you may be able to bear it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. Put it all together. If we get proud, if we underestimate idolatry, we will fall. If we don't look for the way of escape out of it, we won't be able to bear it. So what's the best way? Flee from idolatry. You may not be surprised by the simplicity of Paul's forceful command, but maybe the arguments he makes in support of his command may surprise you as you waken to some awaken to some important spiritual realities. Before I get to that, let's read today's passage in full, 1 Corinthians 10, 14-22. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we, though many are one bread and one body, for we all partake of that one bread. Observe Israel after the flesh. Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idols is anything? Rather, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to have fellowship with demons You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the table of demons. Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He This passage is mostly about participation. If you're not convinced, look again again with me. There's a maybe not so apparent in English, but there's a key Greek word that's repeated. And I should be more specific Greek root that's repeated. Some of you know it, at least the noun form, is koinonia. It's a noun we often translate as fellowship. Not only that, koinonia can also be defined as association, participation. Intimacy, contribution, depending on the context. In today's passage, koinonia, Translated is translated as communion in verse 14. It appears twice there. Its root also appears as adjective in verse 18 and 20. Koinonos, I could convey better this word connection by translating the last part of verse 18 as this are not those who eat of the sacrifices fellows of the altar? Similarly, the last part of verse 20 could be translated as, I do not want you to be fellows with demons. All together now, combine the noun koinonia in verse 16, the adjective koinonos in verses 18 and 20 with the verb similar in meaning, meteko in verses 17 and 21. And you have a passage that's all about participation. You have this constant reminder from Paul that attending a pagan feast is not just lunch. Now to observe some structural form in this passage, I think there are four times Paul strongly asserts himself, three times saying do this, one saying don't do this. The first is in verse 14, and it's straightforward: flee from idolatry. This is really Paul's main point. The second imperative is in verse 15: Judge for yourselves what I say. Skip down to verse 18 for the third imperative. Observe Israel after the flesh. Finally, Paul asserts his will straightforwardly in verse 19. I do not want you to have fellowship with demons. So as you flee from idolatry, here are three boosters to get you to accelerate. And run with more, even more fervor and energy. You might call these sermon points participation points First, enjoy your spiritual communion with Christ and his church. Enjoy your spiritual communion with Christ and His Church. That's verses 14 to 17. Secondly, study the implications of Israel and their sacrifices. Study the implications of Israel and their sacrifices. That's verse 18 Thirdly, avoid the provocation of the Lord and his discipline. Avoid the provocation of the Lord and his discipline. That's verses 19 to 22. And I'll repeat these points later, but again, Giving it to you all at once now. So I'll get start with the first point. Enjoy your spiritual communion with Christ and His church. Just as Paul did earlier when he began chapter 10, he combines gentleness with strictness in verse 14. His tone is warm and firm at the same time. He calls the Corinthians my beloved, but he calls them out of dangerous idolatry. He also gives them the benefit of the doubt in verse 15, treating the believers as wise enough to discern what he's about to say. He's about to use the Lord's Supper as a way of illustration, and it's key that the hearers take it seriously. Now we know that Roman Catholics and Lutherans go too far, saying the bread and the wine literally become or coexist with the real flesh and blood of Jesus. That's taking this ordinance out of biblical proportions, out of its boundaries, that's straying into the realm of superstition. That's taking the matter too seriously if that's such a thing But it's likely that many believers in our circle today have an opposite problem. They don't take the communion seriously enough. They don't see it as holy. They might say it's just supper. It's just a wafer. It's just grape juice. That's closer to the attitude of the Corinthians. But they and we should take the communion seriously because a regular practice of this supper is the basis. For fleeing from idolatry. Symbols are not as important as the real thing, but they're still important. It's a quick illustration: this ring of mine is not my marriage itself, but it's a symbol of it, right? That's why I get nervous at the gym in the rare times I get to go when I need to take it off before exercise, like, what if I lose it? So more relevant to the passage here in our church setting. Let's take the cup of blessing Paul mentions there. Maybe it's the special cup set aside for this occasion. When the Corinthians drank the communion wine out of it, they celebrated redemption through Christ's blood and the forgiveness of sin. When they broke the communion bread, they remember how they're sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ once for all. When they ate from that one loaf, they recognize that they're joined together in one body under Christ's headship. I understand we get the wafers separated, but they the original practice was this one loaf that they broke off of. The elements of the Lord's Supper never stand by themselves. They're connected to something greater. They point to the finished sacrifice of the past. They signify the ongoing relationships of the present. There's both a vertical dimension with God and a horizontal dimension with one another. Paul is going to explore this further in the next chapter, but suffice it to say, now we should enjoy our spiritual communion with Christ and his church. So as you remember the sanctity of our union with Christ and fellow saints, we should resist idolatry. But Paul's not done with this argument. He's still sort of building up his argument. But first he asks the Corinthians to look outside of their corporate gatherings. Here's another motivation to flee from idolatry. Study the implications of Israel. and their sacrifices. I'll be quick here as we're only dealing with one verse When Paul says in verse 18, observe Israel after the flesh, he's saying, look at Israel of history, look at his own people. The lesson is simple. One cannot dis associate, disassociate the sacrifice from the altar. Let me just read one verse from the Old Testament to prove this point. It's Deuteronomy 12. 27. You can look it up later, but I'll read it for you now. Deuteronomy 12. 27. And it's in the context of sacrifices. And you shall offer your burnt offerings, the meat and the blood, on the altar of the Lord your God, and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of the Lord your God, and you shall eat the meat. So you don't have to live in some culture where there are sacrifices. Okay, just read the Bible. It teaches you a lot about it. Now, in most cases, only the priests ate the meat. In the case of what's called the peace offerings in the Old Testament, the worshippers could join, as we find in Leviticus 7, 11 to 22. But regardless, the point is simple and clear. You're connected with the altar through the sacrifice. So from verses 14 to 18, Paul has used two illustrations, one from the church and the other from Israel. But the point is one and the same, whether it's the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ or the many repeated sacrifices of Israel Whether it's at Corinth or at Jerusalem, whether it's at the table of a house or at the altar of a temple, you cannot sever the connection between the person and the place, the actor and the action. Alright, let's sped through these verses because I was eager to show you how Paul puts it all together in verses 19-22. There you see the ultimate motivation to flee idolatry, avoid the provocation of the Lord and his discipline. Paul's anticipating the question. What are you trying to say? So he says in verse 19, what am I saying then? He starts with what he does not mean. He's not teaching that an idol is anything. Remember what he said back in chapter 8, verse 4. We know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no other God but one He's also not teaching what is offered to idols is anything. Back in chapter 8, verse 8 again. Chapter 8 again, verse 8. By itself, food does not commend us to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do not eat are we the worse. Of course, there Paul went on and asked the strong Christian to consider the weaker brother, who has his scruples about it. Paul's lesson here, however, is for all, for everyone, strong and weak, all seeking to be wise. It is unwise for any to go to a pagan temple and eat meat taken out of the altar. We are to walk in wisdom. Again, this is not because the idol is anything or what is offered to it is anything. This is about recognizing a spiritual reality. We're moving past the images. We're going beyond the nutrition nutrition facts labels. We're provided insight into the supernatural in verse 20. Immaterial persons lurk behind the impersonal material. Immaterial persons lurk behind the impersonal material. An idolatrous sacrifice is not an empty ritual with an imaginary friend. It's fellowship with demons. Even if this idea sounds new to you, it's not really new, I could go back as far as Leviticus 17, but another passage from Deuteronomy is better. Is part of what's called the Song of Moses. And here's the relevant portion, Deuteronomy 32, 16 through 18, where the leader calls out Israel for their idolatry. So this This is again Deuteronomy 32, 16 to 18. You can write that reference down and read it over later. I'll read it for you right now. They provoked him, the Lord, to jealousy with foreign gods. With abominations they provoked him to anger. They sacrificed to demons, not to God. To gods they did not know, to new gods, new arrivals. that your fathers did not fear. Of the rock who begot you, you are unmindful and have forgotten the God who fathered you. So there it is. The ungodly link between icons and demons. It's been going on for thousands of years. The same problem persists as we jump from the time of Moses to first century, just a few years before Paul arrived in Corinth. Jewish Christian leaders gathered at Jerusalem to guide their Gentile brethren as they grow in Christ. There's a lot going on in Acts 15, but I just want to focus on this one command. Abstain from things polluted and offered to idols. So the early churches were On the same page, or at least getting on the same page with regard to the dangers of idolatry. And as Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles, was pushing the borders, the boundaries of missions. It was up to him to warn his churches about the demonic powers behind the images. So, with that in mind, we're back at Corinth. Let's imagine you're one of the saints there. One Saturday evening, you and a small group of fellow believers go on an Audi. You attend some sacrificial feast in town, you drink wine dedicated to some Greek god, you eat some goat meat slaughtered at the temple altar. You don't care for details because you're just hungry and thirsty. Who cares? You don't believe idols exist anyways Next evening, you gather for Sunday service with the rest of the church. In the order of worship is the Lord's Supper The elements are distributed by the servers. The leader asks the congregation to consider carefully what they're about to partake. You don't think much of the words and go on. But the fact is, only 24 hours ago, your lips tasted wine dedicated to Dionysius. With the same lips, you drink the wine that symbolizes Christ's blood. Only a day ago you chewed meat dedicated to Poseidon. Now you place in your mouth the bread that symbolizes Christ's body. Here's how Paul would see it, how he'd react to what happened that weekend. Here from the man himself in First Corinthians ten twenty-one. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of God. demons, you cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the table of demons. Let's say you push back and say to the apostle Paul, don't tell me what I can or cannot do. I'm all about coexisting. Right? Guess what? I just did it anyway, so I didn't choke on the drink, I didn't get a stomach ache from the food. It's just meat. It's just wine. It's just the meat. But it's not. Food sacrificed to idols is not just a meal. If we revere Christ, the Lord's Supper is not just supper. What if uh tomorrow I were to dress up, go meet a woman one-on-one at some romantic restaurant for lunch, come home, eat dinner with my family and act like nothing happened? What would I say to my dear wife when she finds out? It was just lunch. How would I feel if the roles were reversed? I'll truly understand what's said in Proverbs 634. Jealousy is a husband's fury, therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. If such is the only natural reaction of a human spouse How much more God, who is a consuming fire, whose very name is jealous, the one who avenges and is jealous for his own holy name. So I ask, as Paul did, do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? Obviously, the answer to both questions is a resounding no. That's why we flee idolatry. Avoid the provocation of the Lord and his discipline. Now we got through today's passage and you say to me, okay son, agreed, I got you, I won't go into Hindu temples, you know If I'm cornered and forced to eat polluted food, I'm going to be like Daniel and his friends in Daniel 1. That's the true meaning of the Daniel diet. That would be a good start in our application. But if we can but we can go a bit deeper. See, much like what we observe in human civilization and technology Satan and his demons have developed and improved their craft of idolatry. Not only about huge stone statues and images and us bowing down to them. Not just in some faraway lands of pagan cultures. There's idolatry here. In our hearts too, as we read earlier in Ezekiel. There's something more insidious, and it goes to the heart of the gospel. Let me offer some applications based on a parallel passage that also talks about jealousy. Now here are some words of Paul from his later letter to the Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 11, 2-4. Again, mark that passage down and read on it, read it later, but I'm gonna read it for you. Second Corinthians eleven two to four I am jealous for you with godly jealousy For I have betrothed you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. But I fear lest somehow as a serpent deceived e. by his craftiness, so your minds may be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. For if he who comes preaches another Jesus whom we have not preached, or if you receive a different spirit which you have not received Or a different gospel which you have not accepted, you may well put up with it. Picture Paul as this father of a daughter. He's arranged a marriage between her and a great prince, let's say. The daughter here is the church, by extension, including us saints today. But here comes trouble, right? It's an old flame, Satan himself, you two got history, but the seduction here is different than before. Now the devil's got something else up his sleeve He talks of Jesus, but not the one preached by Paul. He speaks of spirits, but not the Holy Spirit of promise. He preaches good news, but it's not the one found in the Bible. Will you put up with it? I hope you don't. So it's application not only flee from plainly obvious idolatries of Hinduism, Buddhism, and animism. Watch out for the more subtle isms and deceptive forms of idolatry. For example, we must realize that Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses preach a Jesus that's not in the Bible. Theirs is a Christ less than God Not a person of the Trinity, not in the image of the invisible God. Theirs is a corrupt idol. Perhaps false teachings about the Holy Spirit are even more subtle. This could be tricky here, but we must be wary of certain, not all, charismatic movements that promote a different spirit. We heard of name it, claim it, right? Seed faith and holy laughter. Recently I heard of something called grave sucking Grave soaking is something about like mantle grabbing of deceased saints. This is a strange practice of walking over the burial grounds of great Christians. They can they can extract From them, some of their spiritual powers they displayed during their lives. That is not something the Holy Spirit who inspired the scriptures would promote Then of course there are those who promote a different gospel than the one we have accepted. And here may be the most relevant warning for us. Living in Maryland, right? It hurts to hear it. I'm not sounding mean, but as much as we love our Roman Catholic and Orthodox neighbors and friends, we must accept that theirs is not the evangelical faith. We cannot call them brothers and sisters in Christ. That's because we differ on the definition of the gospel. Check off history. The Roman Catholics said their anathemas to us, and we say our anathemas to them, according to Galatians 1. Practically speaking, you cannot partake of the Holy Communion at the weekly Mass and then turn around to join us for the Lord's Supper here. Again, please note that I'm not trying to be provocative here. But as pastor, shepherd, and spiritual leader, I must warn you: do not provoke the Lord to jealousy. Don't fall for syncretism or synergism. Don't minimize differences between religions. Start by getting the gospel right. Here's a review of the good news, which begins with the bad news. From the beginning, our Creator knew our tendency to bow to created things. Instead of fleeing, we run towards idolatry. We change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made by corruptible man. We worship and serve the creature rather than the creator. We multiplied altars and divided our hearts. We broken the first command and that led to the breaking of all others. Coveting, lusting, stealing, blasphemy. For the deserving of God's jealous wrath, eternity apart from him in hell. But the same zeal that prevails against his enemies preserves his own people a promise. It is with that same zeal that the Lord of hosts fulfills the promises of heaven. He accomplished this by sending his son to earth, who is the brightness of the Father's glory, the express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power. God's son became man, a royal descendant of David to reign and establish everlasting peace and justice. But the people rejected Jesus. He came to his own and his own did not receive him. That's because Jesus exposed our inner sins. and hidden idols of covetousness and greed are selfish devotion to mammon, not God. Yet he loved us. He was a friend of tax collectors and sinners. He was among his disciples as to one who serves And it was at a table that he predicted his upcoming suffering at the cross one last time before his arrest. The bread symbolized the body taken broken and given to us. The wine represented the blood of the new covenant, Shepherd many, for the remission of sins. And what he predicted, he soon fulfilled himself. He obediently went to the cross. He was broken to break our idols. He fled to cleanse us of our spiritual adulteries. He became our substitute, once at the end of ages. He has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. One sacrifice for sins forever. One was all he needed. Having paid in full our sins penalty with his own life He died, he was buried, he rose again on the third day and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. You haven't already get right with God today. What Paul and other eyewitnesses have seen and heard, they and we also declare to you. That you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. This is the only fellowship that matters. The only belonging you'll ever need. You can have peace with God the Father through God's Son and share in this joy. Do this by repenting, turning from sin and self-righteousness and your idols. Turn to Jesus and trust in him only to enter heaven. You cannot earn it. It is undeserved, unmerited. Be saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So once we're welcome into the Lord's presence, into fellowship, into participation, we're motivated by Christ's sacrifice. By the mercies of God to present our bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God. So let's sing our final song with gratitude By your perfect sacrifice, I've been brought near. Your enemy, you made your friend. Once your enemy, now seated at your table. Jesus, thank you. Let's pray. So we thank you that you're a holy God. You're a powerful God, and indeed you are a jealous God, passionate for your own name. And whereas if we were to take that and apply that to us, it will not be for our good. It will not be for the good of this universe. But it is truly best that you are jealous and passionate for yourself and that you want us for yourself. Not just part of us, but all of us. All of our being. That we were to, that we should love you with everything we have. But Lord, just cleanse us of our idols. Take us away. Show us where we have given our hearts to lesser things, to empty cisterns. To idols, to vanity, to futility. And Lord Having recognized those things, may we break those idols and come before you and worship you through your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.