Well, we are in the Gospel of Luke, and we see Luke chapter 1, turn there quickly, that Luke has told us ahead of time what he is attempting to do. He is attempting to give, he says here, verse 3, having had perfect understanding or complete understanding, that does not mean perfect in the sense of every single detail because that would be too many details. It's just an adequate, a good, a comprehensive understanding. of all things from the very first, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus. What Luke presents to us is an orderly account. We see that by the way his gospel unfolds. For example, in chapter 1, verse 23, he says, as soon as the days of his service were completed. I'm sorry, in chapter 1, verse 5, he wants us to know that certain events took place when Herod was king of Judea. In chapter 1, verse 23, he moves time forward, and he wants us to know that as soon as the days of his service were completed, In chapter 1, verse 24, he mentions that a certain person hid herself for five months. And then on the sixth month, something happened. He wants us to know in verse 39 of chapter 1 that Mary arose in those days. In this time period, Mary arose. And in verse 56, Mary remained with her, Elizabeth, three months. What am I pointing out right now in this idea of orderly account? First, that Luke is a historian that is bringing the time element into his story. He is detailed with the things he writes. He wants us to know, chapter 2, verse 1, in those days there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. were registered. But that's not enough detail. He wants us to know in chapter 2 verse 2 that this this census took place while Cyreneus was governing Syria. So here is an author and a historian who is writing an orderly account, laying out events as they proceed one after another. And what have we seen so far in Luke? What has happened? Well, first we've seen the movement of angels. We've seen the visitation of angels. We see in verse 11 of chapter 1, it says, an angel of the Lord appeared to him, Zacharias, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. Can you picture Luke interviewing Zacharias? And Zacharias says, yes, I was standing there looking at the altar of incense, doing my work, and suddenly on the right hand, this angel appeared. In his moment of doubt, the angel has to respond, I am Gabriel, verse 19, who stands in the presence of the Lord. We also see an angel coming to Mary in the sixth month. The angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. Same angel Gabriel. The angels appeared to the shepherds, and perhaps it was Gabriel I who spoke to them, but it says in chapter 2, verses 9 to 10 Behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them. And what did they say? I bring you good tidings of great joy. So one of the things Luke really emphasizes the visitation of angels before the birth of Christ and even during the birth of Christ directly after he was born. The faithful historian also, we could add doctor as well, but he also wants us to know that there was a response From believing people, from people who walked according to the law of the Jews, who were faithful in their walk. And how did they respond? Well, the first thing you should notice, just by way of reminder, is that their response was not sort of a response from their heart. As it was sort of empty. No, the scriptures let us know that Elizabeth and Zacharias, at least, although it doesn't say it directly with Mary, were filled with the Holy Spirit. It was a Holy Spirit-filled response. From faithful, devout people. And so it was with Elizabeth. This is chapter 1, verses 41 to 42. The babe leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. And she spake out with a loud voice. And so we have Zacharias. Now his father, Zacharias, was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, that's chapter 1, verse 67. Mary, in her response, she says, My soul magnifies the Lord. This woman, whose mind was saturated with Old Testament scripture, so that when she burst forth in a hymn of a psalm of praise, She makes so many allusions to Old Testament statements about God and his dealings with Israel. So Luke, He gives us this chronological account, this timely account of visitation by angels and response by faithful people. Holy Spirit-filled response by faithful people. And what did they say? Luke wants us to know what they said. So in chapter 1, verse 54, Mary is talking about this fact that the Lord has helped his servant Israel. She is with child, and this child would help Israel, the servant of the Lord Zacharias speaks in terms of redemption and visitation. He says the Lord has visited and redeemed his people, that he's lifted up a horn of salvation. Chapter 1, verse 69. So there is this person coming and redemption, salvation, and the result, chapter 1, verses 74 to 75, is that the people of Israel will be able to serve the Lord without fear in holiness. And righteousness. Put all this together, what do you get? Well, you get people and they're speaking out and prophesying under the control of the Holy Spirit. And they're saying that someone is coming who will help Israel, save Israel, redeem Israel, and Israel will at last be free to serve the Lord in holiness and righteousness. Luke is letting us know, and I'm saying all this by way of introduction of what we're getting into next in the narrative. Luke is letting us know that there is this gradual awakening of Israel. This heightened anticipation that the Lord is bringing along individuals who then testify what they've seen to the group. And people wonder at John the Baptist what kind of child this is. And Mary hides things in her heart, but but there's also the angels, this public visitation of angels to the shepherds, and they tell everyone. So that this anticipation is just brought. It just grows and grows through the narrative. Who are these people? Who is John the Baptist? What exactly will Jesus do for his people? And this morning, as we continue on in the narrative, and I want to ask you to turn now a few more pages into Luke, and we look at Luke chapter 2 And we look at verse 21 and we look at Simeon's prophecy. We'll see that Luke lets us know very quickly that the Messiah is not just for Israel. That he in fact is going to have a ministry greater, or the effect of his work will do more than just bring consolation to Israel, although certainly it will. So Luke is someone who's interested in detail, geographic locations, time periods, and he's like a news, a faithful news reporter. He is not adding in his commentary. He is just writing sort of the, I don't want to call it dry facts, because how can these facts be dry? But he is just laying out what's happening step by step. So what do we have this morning? Luke chapter 2, verse 21. It says, When eight days were completed for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Now, when the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were completed, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord. Every male Who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Now, just as we're an aside, you'll notice that Luke is letting the reader know why they're doing what they're doing. He's given an explanation. And this is why many people think that this is the gospel written to Gentiles. For the purpose of letting them into the gospel story, not just Theophilus, but anyone who isn't really that Jewish in their background. And I think I've mentioned before that in the Middle East, They don't typically give out the Gospel of John for evangelism, but they give out the Gospel of Luke. So here she is, and she's obeying the law. She's taking Jesus. And so verse 25. It says, Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So he came by the Spirit into the temple. Alright, so here's this man Simeon, and this is the only time in the Bible that he's mentioned. We don't know a whole lot about him. But we do know that he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Now in the New King James the word consolation is capitalized, and many people believe this is not just. He's waiting for a kind of consolation or comfort for Israel, but that this is a type of title for the Messiah. They had sort of made, they had sort of labeled the Messiah as the one who would comfort, the comforter of Israel, the consolation of Israel. He That he would come along and help Israel in certain ways. And so let's talk about that for just a second now. Turn to Isaiah 66. What does this kind of comfort look like? What does God say about comfort? Well, how many of you have heard Handel's Messiah? A lot of people in here. Are you familiar with how they sang, comfort ye, comfort ye, my people? We're not looking at that passage this morning, but Are you familiar with the fact that there are passages in Isaiah where the prophet is crying out for Israel and comforting them and trying to encourage them that after they're judged, God is going to be with them and help them. And these are the kind of statements he makes if you turn to Isaiah 66 verses 12 and 13. You find these statements not just in Isaiah, but you find them in Jeremiah and the other prophets as well. Statements that after judgment, a day will come of comfort Verse 12, Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream. Then you shall feed on her side, shall you be carried, and be dandled on her knees, as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you, and you shall be comforted in Jerusalem. Now, the people in the Old Testament, I mean, and when I say Old Testament, I'm talking about your first part of your Bible. You know that Israel went through a great deal of chastisement from God. They were carried away. They were battered and bruised as a nation. It would almost seem they were forsaken by their God, but they weren't. We know that, right? We know that eventually they came back to the land, they rebuilt the temple and the walls of Jerusalem, and they tried to get re-established. But there is still this need of comfort, this need of consolation. Obvious, explicit, if I could put it that way, open. Resolution to all the chastisement, all the suffering, and all the judgment. At the time of Christ, the Israelites were still living under the hand of the Romans. They were oppressed. They had no future as a nation. They couldn't see their way clear of the events of their days. So this man Simeon, look, go back to Luke chapter 2. This man Simeon, he was waiting for this consolation, capital C of Israel, an individual. who would personify these Old Testament prophetic ideas of consolation for an entire nation. And the Holy Spirit was involved. Look at your Bible again. This is chapter 2, verse 25. It says, And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So he knew because of the internal witness of the Spirit, and he was an Old Testament believer, the Spirit's ministry was a little different at the time. But the Spirit is still involved in giving messages to God's people at this time, and he knew this. He knew that he was not going to die until he had seen it, seen the Messiah. Wow, can you imagine that? What if I came and said, you know what? Or not me. What if somehow the Spirit of God made it known to you that you are not going to die until you see Christ return for his second coming? And you were totally convinced in your lifetime. Now, I gotta be careful here, because we have a lot of false prophets out there, and this is exactly what they said, right? They became convinced And they became convinced, apart from the New Testament and the teachings of the coming of Christ, what is explicit and clear here they ignored. And for some reason they became confused and convinced that Jesus was going to come on May 19th or that Jesus was going to come back on whatever, whatever. And they pick a date and they become convinced of that date. That is false prophecy. Those are people that are not relying on the written word of God for direction. That is not what is happening with Simeon. He lived in a different time, in a different age. And he was clearly taught of the Spirit that this would happen, that the consolation would come before he died. And it must have been an amazing thing for him to walk around day in and day out, go through his duties with a sense of anticipation and hope. Now, folks, we might not know the exact day when Christ is coming, right? We don't know. But we do know that he is returning. He said it. If I go, I'll return. I'm going to prepare a place for you that when I come again, you may be with me. Right? Didn't he say that in John 14? Didn't the angel say on the hillside, why are you looking up at the clouds, guys? This same Jesus, he's going to return. And don't we have in the whole New Testament these These statements from the writers, like the day is at hand, walk in the light because you're children of the light. You know, we they they lived in anticipation of the second coming of Christ. They believed it. Now, you and I, as Christians, have heard a lot of bad news even this past week when it comes to the morality of our government. We're anticipation, anticipating the change of a Supreme Court judge. The balance of power moving away from any kind of biblical morality in that realm. And we look to the future and we think, what's going to happen? What where is this country headed? You know, I've heard that my entire life. My parents said it, my grandparents said it, everyone says it. Where is this country headed? I don't know. But I know where I'm headed. Do you know where you're headed? I'm 40, I'll be 45 this year. I don't know. Will I get 40 more years? I kind of maybe, I hope. So either I'm going to see Christ face to face, what absent from the body is present with the Lord, or We're going to all see him together when he returns. Now, this is something you have to believe without sight. You can't see, you have no hint in the atmosphere, there's nothing around that tells us that his return is imminent except the word of God and the way the New Testament believers Sh demonstrated their faith in his return. Simeon lived anticipating the first incarnation. He was living with that expectation, that joyous expectation hanging over his head. The Holy Spirit had convinced him. The Holy Spirit has written to us About the joyous expectation of the second return of Christ. Is that something you've thought about as you've watched Americas continue to decline? I hope so. I hope you see and believe that Christ is returning. So he looks for the consolation of Israel, this personification of comfort for his nation. Look at your Bibles. He expects that the Christ will be seen. And so, verse 27, he came by the Spirit into the temple. God led him at the exact moment when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law. And he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples. A light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Now he is picking up on the same kind of themes that the other, if we could put it this way, three psalms. Zacharias and Elizabeth and Mary, and even what the angels said. He's picking up on the same theme when he says in verse 30: My eyes have seen your salvation. But he is really going out on a limb here, if we could put it that way, because he is talking about verse 31, that this salvation was prepared before the face of all peoples that this salvation would be a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people, Israel. Now you look at verse 33 at the response of Jesus' parents. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. Hmm. What part did they marvel at? Mary said that her child would be a helper to the servant Israel, to the Lord's servant Israel. Surely she had heard what Zechariah said about Jesus, that he would be someone who brings salvation. So Jesus' name means Savior So there's really the idea of salvation here would not have been new to her. She already knew this. It had already been a theme about the child that she held in her arms, or that Simeon held in his arms as he said this. But this idea of all the peoples, the Gentiles, light coming to them, I think that is what caused Joseph and Mary to marvel Because it's one thing to believe that this is the consolation of Israel, that my child that God has given will affect my people. But to find out that the ministry, the scope, the effect of the ministry of this child would be for all people and all the Gentiles, now that is something else entirely, isn't it? So let's just consider for a moment these words. Will you walk with me through this? The first word, and its opposite, a light to bring revelation to the gentle. Now what does light do? Well light reveals what's in the dark When you put together these ideas of revelation and light in Gentiles, you kind of get a two-fold ID here, I think. The first Would be the whole new idea that the Gentiles would be partakers and become part of the church, the New Testament church. That's from Ephesians, right? So the Jews did not fully understand the mystery that was revealed to Paul, and that's Paul's word, that one day the Jews would be a part of this, I'm sorry, the Gentiles would be a part of the Jews in the church together. And then there is also the fact that the Gentiles, all of us without Christ, live in darkness. in need of light and revelation. The word revelation has to do with something previously unknown and unknowable Except that God comes down into this dark world, this dark planet, and reveals it. Let me get you to just turn quickly to two passages. If you will, turn to Ephesians. And we'll look at some descriptions here of the darkness that we live in. Look at Ephesians chapter 2, the first paragraph there. What does it look like to be in the dark? In Ephesians 2, verse 1. He speaks, Paul in writing to the Ephesians, speaks of what they were before they became Christians, and he says that they were dead in trespasses and sins. Trespasses, crossing over the lines God has drawn in the sand, beyond the boundary of God's law Sins, a general term for any kind of disobedience to God, whether it's in word or heart or action. And this, verse 2, was what they walked in according to the course of the world. The whole world is like that. And it is ruled, verse 2, by a prince. According to the prince, the power of the air. And this is verse 3: how they once conducted themselves in the desires, the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh. And of the mind. Folks, what this is talking about is insensitivity. They're dead. Their trespasses and sins is the smog that covers their life. Internally, there are these desires of the flesh and of the mind, and they're sinful desires. That's why the New King James translates it lust, because typically we understand lust as a sinful thing. Although you can certainly lust after righteousness, that would make it a little different, but typically the word lust means sinful desires. So, verse 3, we have the sinful desires of flesh and mind. Walking this way, conducting our lives this way. This is one of those passages that describes a life without Christ, a life in the dark. How do I know it's in the dark? Look back at chapter 1, verse 18. Paul's prayer is that the eyes of your understanding being enlightened In other words, they're currently in a state of enlightenment because they know the truth. There's this former life. And now there's this enlightened life, light that's been brought into the darkness. You go to a passage like Romans 1, and I'm not going to go through the whole thing, don't worry, but go to Romans 1 and remind yourself of these of the the state in which God releases people into, and you look here, and he's really look at verse 24. And you see here that God gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their hearts. In verse 26, he gave them up unto vile passions. This is the language of desire, sinful desire. And then in verse 28, he gave them over to a debased mind to do those things which are not fitting. It's the same kind of terms. There's the lust of the flesh, the lust of the mind. They're out in the dark, filled, verse 30, with all those things that are listed there. Folks, what happens when you take people that are ruled by their sinful desires and by their sinful thoughts, and you just let them go on a planet and they all speak the same language and they all get together? What do they do? Well, one of the first things they want to do is anything. Anything. No limitations to anything. Pleasure, violence. And so you have in the days of Noah, remember this passage? Every man did what was evil continually. Every imagination of their heart was only wickedness. Can you imagine an entire group of people and not once are they thinking anything that is close to a righteous thought? The response from God is devastation and judgment, except for Noah and his family. What else do they do? Well, they lift up their fist to God and they build the Tower of Babel because they want To make a name for themselves in opposition to God. Psalm 2 says that they want to break his chains asunder. They want to reject the law of God. And so they imagine a vain thing, they're always scheming, how can I get away from this God? Folks, the world and The world is in a darkness of desires of the mind and flesh. It is organized according to the course of the world. It is under the dominion of the prince and power of the air. And the scriptures go on to say blatantly that it is utterly hopeless for man to trust in man. Someone had to come from the outside to bring light. If we're left in this cons this The smoggy dark planet where there's no hope. There's no salvation from man to man. You cannot discover salvation through empiricism or exploration or scientific discovery. You cannot You cannot uncover it in the depths of the ocean or under some rock or in some volcano. And that leads me then from light to revelation. If you will turn quickly to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And we have here Paul telling us That there are certain things that cannot be seen or heard and have not even entered the heart of man, God has prepared them. He must reveal them. And this is revelation. I'm trying to figure out the best place to start us out here. Let's just go with verse 6. 1 Corinthians 2 verse 6. He says, we speak wisdom among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are coming to nothing. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory, which none of the rulers of this age knew. For had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. This is one of those texts we take out of the New Testament to build a theology of revelation. There is a mystery, that which was not previously known, made known. That is the light of revelation found in Jesus Christ. And Simeon is prophesying he's holding up a child. And saying, this child will reveal what is in the dark, will bring hope to these all people's salvation. He'll bring light because of the revelation that he brings. That is an amazing thing. What happens when a nation turns its back on God? Folks, I think the United States of America will be one of the best illustrations of that in the eternal future. A thousand years from now, God will say, look, here's a country that had immense light and turned their back on that light. Do you remember America? Do you remember what she used to be and what took place in such a short amount of time? When the light is turned off, where do people run? The sinful desires of their mind, the sinful desires of their flesh. The conduct of the world, ruled by the prince and power of the air, it's the same old sinful, sad story. And Simeon holds up Jesus and says, Here's the answer. A person, not a religious methodology, not a way of life per se, but an individual. If you go back to Luke now quickly, Luke 2. And this light to bring revelation to the Gentiles. This is the glory of your people Israel, verse 32. Now, this kind of thinking, where you look at the fact that God brought the Gentiles into the church. And you read in Romans Paul writing about how God has hardened Israel so that the Gentiles can be grafted on the vine. And you see how Paul gets to the end of those paragraphs and he just praises God. For his wisdom. And who can think like God thinks is what he essentially says. This is the kind of thing that should cause us as Christians to really praise God for his wisdom. Because look at verse 32. While Jesus is the light to bring revelation to the Gentiles, he calls them to salvation, brings them out of the dark, because the gospel is revealed. And he calls the Gentiles to bring them in. Other sheep I have, which you do not know. They're of another fold. He's going to bring them in, Jesus said. That's John chapter 10. Jesus simultaneously remains the glory of the people Israel. He saves the Gentiles, but he remains the centerpiece of the consolation of Israel. He does not stop being a Hebrew man. Born in Bethlehem, a son of David, the king of kings and lord of lords, having as his people the Jewish people. He doesn't somehow become a Gentile to save the Gentiles, but God, in his amazing wisdom, over hundreds of years creates Makes a promise to Abraham and creates a nation. And even though they reject their own Messiah, it turns to the good of the Gentiles and the glory of Israel. You know what Paul said? He said, look. If Israel rejecting their Messiah meant glory for the Gentiles, how much more will eventually Israel accepting their Messiah be so much more glory for the Gentiles? And so we have a Bible that is the Old Testament and the New. And there is no conflict here. It is the fulfillment of Old Testament in the New. It is incredible the wisdom of God that he could do this. Do you ever have trouble with your weak? Keeping your life together? Do you do to-do lists? Do you put it on your phone or a piece of paper? Have you ever had your plans messed up? Who usually messes up your plans? Well, I think you might agree with this. First, other people. Because they unexpectedly enter into your life and they ask you for things. So, people, not sin, just interruptions. You might mess up your plans because you get diverted or you get distracted by a rabbit or you come up with a better idea. So you mess up your plans. Or what about this? There really are times in our lives when the sins of other people mess up our plans. Someone sins against you or you sin against them. And so you have to go and make that right How many people are in your life, folks? Try to stay within this. How many people? Do you have 12 friends? 24 friends? I'm not talking Facebook friends. I'm talking friends that you actually interact with on a weekly basis. You know, I tried to count mine the other day. Who are my closest 12 friends that I can depend on to help me or rebuke me if I need that? And I came up with some. I think I have maybe Maybe about eight other pastors who will do that for me. How many people were in Israel? Okay, well, they left Israel, they left Egypt, maybe 600,000 to a million. How many people were born in the wilderness as they wandered around? And what about over a hundred-year period, how many people were born? We're talking millions and millions of sinners. Who become idolatrous and then kind of follow the Lord, become idolatrous. I should say downpour. Idolatrous, follow the Lord, book of judges. Then they come up with a king. They want Saul, well, God anoints Saul, but Saul's a failure, then David, then Solomon. It's all downhill from there. Folks, I'm trying to magnify the complexities of Israel's history. All the little pieces on the chessboard. Imagine a chessboard and it has a billion pieces on it. And God in His wisdom is able to move each piece Organize every event so that eventually the Messiah would come. And that Messiah will remain the glory of Israel and the salvation of the Gentiles. And here's this probably old man, and he's holding this baby in his arms. Here he is. Here he is, Simeon, the one you've been waiting for. It's remarkable. And so, verse 34. And I'm going to try quickly to get this in. If you'll try to keep following verse 34, Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother. Now, the first was a psalm. Praise you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. Now, there's some hard news to go along with this. He says, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel and for a sign which will be spoken against. Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Now that speaks of conflict That speaks, look, those are words that are not comforting words. There is the fall and the rising of many There's a sword that pierces. There's the revelation of many hearts. That was a mouthful for Mary and Joseph to hear. On the one hand, there was this great glory, and now personally, for Mary and Joseph, there would be struggle. There would be conflict And isn't that the way it is for you and me? We believe in the Messiah. We believe he's the light of revelation to the Gentiles and the consolation of Israel and the glory of Israel. But you and I are like Mary and Joseph. We hold Jesus not in our arms, but in our hearts. And we must go out and be like them, salt and light, the church of Christ in a fallen world. Just like Mary, you might be a humble woman with not a great background, and you are just someone trying to follow God. Just like Joseph, you might be a carpenter. You you might be a man here this morning who works with your hands. And you know what? These are the kinds of people that God chooses to do his work. Not many mighty, not many noble or calling. So when it comes right down to it, we have an amazing God.