In 1904 and 1905, a rich recent high school grad named William Borden was treated to a trip around the world. He saw Asia, the Middle East, and Europe. But during the trip, he felt the burden for the lost and the hurting and expressed the desire to be a missionary. A friend responded in disbelief, lamenting that Bill would throw away his future. It's reported that the young William wrote on the back of his Bible two words. No reserves. As a recent graduate of Yale University, William had before him some high-paying job offers. But though he came from a rich family, he had no greed for money. It's reported that he wrote on the back of his Bible two more words. No retreats. Bill finished his graduate studies at Princeton, where he committed his life to evangelize the Muslims in China. Next, he gave away half a million dollars and left for Egypt in his 26th year to learn Arabic. Within a few months, he contracted cerebral meningitis in Cairo. As the story has it, prior to his passing, the young man wrote two more words on the back of his Bible. Underneath, no reserves, no retreats, no regrets. Can we say the same when it comes to our devotion to Jesus Many are concerned about the political decision 2020, but I may ask whether you made any significant spiritual decisions this year, this year for the Lord. Today we take a break from 1 Samuel and shift back to the New Testament to resume our studies in the Gospel of Luke. Before we read today's passage, which is chapter 9, 51 to 62, let's review what happened earlier in this chapter. Jesus has been in public ministry for some time now. He has the end in sight, and he's been giving a lot of attention to his twelve apostles. He sends them out in a sort of a on-the-job training, granting them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. But having apostolic authority wasn't as important as having faith Can they trust the Lord when they're without provisions, whether it's out on the road or out in the deserted place? Their faith needed a lot of work. To grow their faith, they needed to truly understand who Jesus is and what it means to follow him. Peter, as their spokesperson, correctly identified Jesus as the Christ of God, so they had the right profession of faith. But do they have the right progression of faith? After all, Jesus said: if anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. The disciples needed the strength of faith to endure suffering from Jesus. They needed eyes of faith to behold the glory of Christ. They needed a humble faith to be childlike and lowly as their master. Indeed, Jesus gave them a perfect example to follow. He didn't just prepare classroom lectures, he showed them real-life demonstrations. He talked the talk and then walked the walk. Jesus didn't just talk about going to the cross, he went to the cross. So, Luke combined both the talk and the walk. He records Jesus' journey from Galilee to Jerusalem and many of his teachings, lessons, and parables on the way. In a large central section, portion of the book, from chapter 9, verse 51 to chapter 19, verse 27. This section is often called the travel narrative, and it's one of the salient features of Luke. Much of the material in this section will show what it means to follow Jesus as Jesus follows the Father's will. So let's begin with the first few verses of this central section, chapter nine, verse fifty-one to sixty-two. Now it came to pass when the time had come for him to be received up that he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. and sent messengers before his face. And as they went, they entered a village of the Samaritans to prepare for him. But they did not receive him because his face was set for the journey to Jerusalem And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, they said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, just as Elijah did? But he turned and rebuked them and said, You do not know what manner of spirit you are of. For the Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village. Now it happened as they journeyed on the road that someone said to him, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Then he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. Jesus said to him, Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and preach the kingdom of God. And another also said, Lord, I will follow you, but let me first go and bid them farewell, who are at my house. But Jesus said to him, No one, having put his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. A good way to divvy up this passage is to look at the four conversations Disciples James and John, that's one in verses 51 to 56, and three more corresponding to three would-be disciples in verses 57 to 62. Notice how at each conversation Jesus is addressed as Lord, but do they really understand what it means to relate to Jesus as Lord? And how about us? Since we don't commonly use this word in our society, we need Jesus to teach us what it really means to say Jesus is Lord. So let's listen to him from this passage. As Lord Jesus teaches us four discipleship principles. One Respond to rejection with mercy. Two, expect hardships, three, follow urgently, and four, maintain focus First, respond to rejection with mercy. We begin the travel narrative of Luke with Jesus' keen sense of timing, his Acknowledgement of his destiny. The words time for him to be received up are referring to Jesus' eventual ascension to heaven. To be received of is a noun here in verse 51. And not surprisingly, its verb counterpart is found three times in Acts chapter 1, verse 2, 11, and 22. But reception into heaven meant rejection on earth. The glory road goes to Gogoth. To cross over to the other side, he must face the cross. He did not settle for the path of least resistance. He went through the path of most resistance. Our Lord did not cower from this road. He charged with a confident stride and head forward. He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. And this reminds us of Ezekiel and his difficult ministry with the people. God had to strengthen him for that. We read in Ezekiel 3, verses 8 to 9. Behold, I have made your face strong against their faces, and your forehead strong against their foreheads. Like Adam and stone, harder than flint. I am made your forehead. Do not be afraid of them, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house. Prophetic stubbornness matches and surpasses people's stubbornness This determination is what Jesus as the servant of the Lord needed. If you have your Bibles, turn with me andor look later at Isaiah 50. Verses four to nine. So God grants his son there not only the tongue of the learned to speak a word in season to him who is weary. Not only an awakened and open ear, but he grants his son a face like Flint to face the suffering ahead. Verses 6 to 7 show us vividly what's to come in Jerusalem. I gave my back to those who struck me, and my cheeks to those who plucked out the beard. I did not hide my face from shame and spitting. For the Lord God will help me. Therefore, I will not be disgraced. Therefore, I have set my face like a flint, and I know that I will not be ashamed. See now I need to park here to proclaim this gospel truth. The reason that our Lord gave his back, his cheek, and his face to such mistreatment. is to save us. He, the Son of God, came from heaven to earth. As the Son of Man, he went from Galilee to Jerusalem. He was resolute about the solution to sin. And though we, as simple humans, caused the problem, ruined ourselves. And we should be the one to suffer. Jesus lovingly suffered in our place at the cross, rose from the dead, and he was received up into heaven. Now he waits the day of his return to judge all mankind. And he's also waiting for you to turn away from your sins and turn to him for salvation. He offers you eternal life as a gift, not by works. Come to Jesus by faith. And follow him so that like him you too may be received up into heaven. Okay, now back to Luke 9 Jesus sends messengers ahead of him to announce his arrival. Now this wasn't the first time our Lord encountered Samaritans. In fact, he had a divine appointment with them in Sakar, according to John chapter 4. It went from a conversation with the woman at the well to many believing Jesus and even him staying with them for a few days. The village the messengers entered here is probably not the same city, but there's no reason they shouldn't welcome Jesus, except they wouldn't welcome Jesus. What gives? Knowing some background on the Samaritans can help us. See Marvin Pate comments, quote The origin of the Samaritan people seemed to have been intermarrying of Jews from the Northern Kingdom with imported non-Jewish colonists from after the conquest of 722 BC. That's in 2 Kings 17. These mixed Jews Gentiles developed their own translation of the Pentateuch. That's the first five books of the Bible, called the Samaritan Pentateuch, built their own temple of worship on Mount Gerizim. is talked about in John 420, which was later destroyed by John Hyrcanus in 128 BC. And they celebrated their own Passover. End quote. So maybe the Samaritans initially thought that Jesus was here to legitimize their separate existence, religion, and lifestyle. Our Lord had no such intentions. In fact, later in the book of Acts, he would make sure Samaritan Christians submit to Jerusalem church. Here, as unconverted people, they were not ready for that. The Samaritans could not stand the fact that Jesus was just Passing through, not stopping to settle with them. His real mission is in Jerusalem. Not getting the hospitality and the warm welcome Jesus deserved. James and John wanted to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, just as Elijah did. And perhaps you read these words and appreciate their passion. Who doesn't like passion? They were living up to the name Jesus gave them, sons of thunder. But James and John got carried away with their emotions. They wanted to imitate Elijah in 2 Kings 1, that time when fire from heaven twice consumed the wicked king's men. They wanted to make Sodom and Gomorrah out of the Samaritans. They wanted instant and immediate justice. Sadly, the power and authority James and John received at the beginning of this chapter, the power to heal the suffering, they would rather employ to cause suffering. You know, except for one time with the fig tree, Jesus never performed a destructive miracle. And he was not about to let some hot-headed brothers in his group perform one. James and John have to learn that mercy, not vengeance, is the way of the master. The spirit of revenge they harbored was not from the spirit of Jesus. The spirit came upon Jesus to preach the gospel to the poor. To heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. The spirit that came upon the Zebedee was nothing like that. It was bad news. It broke, it not healed. It enslaves, not liberates. It blinds, not illuminates. As James warns us, the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. The sons of thunder came to destroy men's lives, not save them. The Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. Can we follow Jesus' example? Can we respond to rejection with mercy? There will be ample opportunities for the world to provoke us. Our views on family and marriage will be under attack eventually. Don't expect hospitality and warm welcome from those who consider our values bigoted. What will our response be? Of course, we need to prepare for the worst actions against us, but we also need to prepare for the worst reactions from us. That simple reaction is a quick reflex of wrath, vengeance, and unrighteous anger. Respond to rejection with mercy. As Jesus commanded back in chapter 6, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you. As Jesus preached on the mount, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. As we move on from the Samaritan, there's another type of quick reflex that we should be concerned about Pastor Ray Fowler calls the next encounter in verses 57 and 58, the roadblock of hasty commitment. And that leads to the second point: expect hardships. Jesus and his followers leave the Samaritans and go another route. Along the way, Jesus encounters three unnamed men in quick succession. The first one comes up to Jesus and declares, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Boxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head D. A. Carson explains this poetic reply: In the immediate context of Jesus' ministry, the saying does not mean that Jesus was penniless, but homeless. The nature of his mission kept them on the move and would keep his followers on the move. Such physical instability is just one of many hardships that await the faithful disciple. But be assured a hardship for Jesus' sake is a privilege. Meditate on Paul's words in Philippians 1:29-30. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having the same conflict which you saw in me and now here is in me. So you have two divine gifts: the gift of believing in Christ. And the gift of suffering for Christ, expect hardships And don't let prosperity theology preachers tell you otherwise. They will tell you that if your faith is strong, you will not have pain in this life. I wouldn't touch that with a 10-foot pole. As application, if you happen to turn to a cable channel called Trinity Broadcast Network, you shouldn't assume every program there is safe. I mean some are fine. I saw names like Bill and Gloria Gaither, Greg Lori, David Jeremiah, Veggie Tales. That's a weird list. But I also saw names like Creplow Dollar, Joe Austin, T. D. Jakes, and Bethelmusic. Unless some dramatic repentance took place recently, and I didn't hear about it, I would probably avoid these ministries. They seem generally to overlook or misunderstand passages of hardship like this one. After the first unnamed man goes away, Jesus recruits another. The second man's response and Jesus' reply demonstrates the third principle. Follow urgently. There are some different interpretations of the man's response: Lord, let me first go bury my father. One option is that the father just died, so the man needs some time to grieve. This seems unlikely. If his father just died, why is he out here talking with Jesus right now? Shouldn't he be with others grieving and arranging the funeral? Another option is that the father was sick and on the verge of death. Commentator John Martin wonders whether this man wanted to secure his inheritance before following Jesus This is an intriguing option, but here's the same criticism. If the father was about to die, why is he here? A third option, and I think it's the best one, is that the father was simply elderly and not necessarily about to die right away. The son felt that his filial duty was to stay with him until his passing, whenever that may be. His words may sound pious, but it disguises either fear or double-mindedness. Whatever the underlying reason may be, it's clear he lacked the urgency to follow Jesus. He did not prioritize the kingdom of God enough to go and preach it. Being a follower of Jesus means shifting priorities. No, I mean, in a few months, my wife and I will have to shift priorities for our son. How much more for the Son of God? Your secular work and boss demand you adjust your schedule. How much more your kingdom work and Lord? Accordingly, Jesus' reply, let the dead bury their own dead, shall be understood in the following way: Let the spiritually dead bury their physically dead. Let the spiritually dead bury their physically dead. The kingdom of earth groups humanity between the physically alive and the physically dead. The kingdom of heaven groups humanity as either spiritually alive in Christ or spiritually dead in trespasses and sins. If you're spiritually alive, the world has been crucified to you and you to the world. If you're spiritually alive, you belong to God's kingdom. If you're spiritually alive, you have a spiritual family. And Jesus, he's the ultimate patriarch in the household of God. More important than the patriarch in the household of man Jesus' name supersedes surnames. You belong to Jesus Christ. And he can make radical demands because he is Lord. Because he is King. Because he is God. So are we following urgently? To those with living parents, please know that following Christ urgently is the best way to honor them. Jesus himself honored parents best. He was obedient to his own, Joseph and Mary. He condemned the hypocritical use of tradition to bypass the sixth commandment, as in Matthew 15. He made sure his mother had a caretaker as she grew older and he departed. And while doing all that, he accomplished the will of his heavenly father. I've learned from Christ that the best way to honor my living mother and my late father's name is to honor his name. Of course, urgently reconfiguring priorities requires wisdom, prayer, and counsel. As we consider specific application, let us maintain focus, which is the fourth principle. Joseph Fitzmeier observes this about the final unnamed man in this chapter, quote: The third follower resembles the first in that he spontaneously offers to be a disciple. But also the second one in that he adds a condition. Later he says, plowing for the kingdom means sacrifice. It can tolerate no distractions. Following Jesus means devotion to kingdom work and transcends even ordinary family affection. Sacrifice, no distractions. We must maintain our focus on Jesus. And if we pay close attention to Jesus, we may notice how his mention of the plough harkens back to another incident in Elijah's life. In 1 Kings 19, God commanded Elijah to look for his successor and anoint him. Turned out to be a man named Elisha, the son of Shapat. Elijah found Elisha while ploughing with 24 oxen, which indicates his rich family background. But Elisha left all that behind to pursue his prophetic calling. Yet as he left his home, he made a request to Elijah. Please let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you. Elijah not only grants this proper farewell, he allows a parting feast. Like Elisha and unlike the previous guy, this third man was willing to follow Jesus almost immediately, but even almost immediately is not good enough. Not when it is following Jesus. Focusing on Jesus meant letting going, letting go of the peripheral. To keep the straightway, one must not be sidetracked by the wayside. R. Ken Hughes provides a helpful summary or commentary. Quote: It was proverbial in ancient culture. Now one could not look back while ploughing and drive a straight furrow. Those who pine after what they left behind, who are always remembering the comforts of home and hurt. Who dream about how life might have been if they had not stepped onto the road with Jesus, who keep looking in the rare view mirror, will not do well on Jesus' road. If we're honest with ourselves, we fail to run the race while looking on to Jesus. We're like Lot's wife. Like Peter who began to sink. We remember, not forget those things which are behind. We reach backwards instead of reaching forward to those things which are ahead. We often fail to maintain our focus on Jesus. And we can review the other principles in this passage, the three principles. Are we following Christ urgently? We may announce, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go, but then we never go anywhere because of hardships. When we face rejection from the world, we lose patience and retaliate with anger. We may call Jesus Lord, but often do not understand fully what it means to follow Him as Lord. Thankfully, our Lord Jesus is merciful. For those here who think that you have to be perfect to follow Jesus, be assured that none of us follow Jesus perfectly. But as Paul testified, the grace of our Lord is exceedingly abundant. We fall and he picks us up again. We stray and he leads us in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. We're prone to wander, yet he never forsakes us, never deceives us. Whatever my God ordains is right. He never will deceive me. He leads me by the proper path. I know he will not lead me. Let's follow this path in faith this week and the rest of our lives. No reserves, no retreats, no regrets. Let's pray. Lord, we see these demands that your son makes of us. And made thousands of years ago, we traversed the old paths of your word And we hear your son beckoning us to follow him. Lord, we confess that we fail. Like John and James, where we don't understand what it means to follow the way of your son. We rather blow up in anger. But we don't know what we're getting ourselves into with the hardships that follow. No, we often put our spiritual lives on the back burner and not follow urgently. No, we're so distracted By what's on the media? We're so distracted by lesser things, shadows, things that are not as important Lord, you speak to us through your word. May you challenge us. May you convict us. May you transform us so that we would follow you. That your spirit would empower us to fulfill the Great Commission, to go to places Where we would ordinarily in our own human strength would be fearful to go to. And we're thankful that your son is with us Your spirit is with us, and we are not abandoned. Pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.