Good morning. It's a pleasure to be back here with you again. Let's just have a brief word of prayer before we get into God's Word. Father, again, as we open your word, we invite you to search us, know our hearts, show us any wicked way, lead us in the way everlasting. Lord, equip us to share your word with others, fill us with your boldness, your love. Help us to understand your plan of evangelism and discipleship. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Turn your Bibles, if you would, to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians is a letter that Paul wrote to the church at Corinth, as you know. In it, because of problems that he's had with the Corinthians, and because he had spent over a year and a half there with them, When he writes this letter, he shares some really personal insights of how he thinks And what I'd like to do this morning is just walk through chapters 2 through 5, not looking at every verse, but looking at certain places where he reveals some of his inner thoughts. that uh uh show what he's thinking. But before we do that, I I I have a little story I want to share Um it's a story that might seem unrelated, but stick with me. It's a story about a uh young lady who understood that a young man was interested in her and and uh Because of that, she became interested in him. In fact, uh, it came to the point where one day he popped the question, and no, not You know for sure what happens when you die. But the other big question, will you marry me? And uh and when he asked that question, she gladly accepted. But then our story takes a unusual turn because She decided that she would keep it a secret. She wouldn't wear a ring. She wouldn't tell anybody what had happened. Even though she loved him very much. And, you know, you look at, you hear that story, it's a made-up story, but you might say, well, there's not much hope for that marriage. But yet that's what it's like for believers who never share their faith. Because collectively, we're the bride of Christ. We're looking for the marriage supper of the Lamb, where faith is turned to sight. to go and and be in his home. You know, we're called by his name now when we come to Christ. And yet some believers Don't want to. Well, why would a lady do that? Well, I kind of botched my story a little, but the reason she wouldn't share was this. Some people despise the man she was engaged to. And other people didn't so much despise him. They just had that attitude, well, be your own woman. Why would you commit to love and be faithful and you know all that kind of stuff to anybody? And it's very similar reasons why today it should be a joy for us to present Christ. The thing that robs us of that is that we know that the world needs to be reconciled to God. Later in this same letter, Paul says, I beseech you in Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. People are at odds with him. They suppress the truth and unrighteousness. And we'll look at those things in a little bit of detail here this morning. But Let's start out in chapter 2 of 2 Corinthians and look at how Paul looked at this, because if there was ever anybody who was faithful and and keeping on, keeping on. It was Paul. And this has been a very, these passages, I preach this On numerous occasions, as my wife can testify. But it's always been a challenge to me every time I I preach this. Let's go to chapter 2. Start at verse 14. Now, thanks be to God who always leads us in triumph in Christ, and through us diffuses the fragrance of his knowledge in every place. For we are to God the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To the one, where the aroma of death leading to death. And to the other, the aroma of life leading to life. And who is sufficient for these things? For we are not as so many peddling the Word of God. But as of sincerity, but as from God, we speak in the sight of God in Christ. I want to focus your word on that word triumph here. Paul saith, now thanks be to God who always leads us in triumph in Christ. Did Paul's ministry always look triumphant? Well, it certainly didn't on many occasions, uh what not when he was being led over the wall of Damascus in a basket, uh probably not when he was uh driven out of Thessalonica by an angry mob. Probably not when he was stoned and left for dead. And yet Paul says, God always leads us in triumph in Christ. What does he mean by that? Well, that word triumph, as many of you probably already know, talks about a triumphal procession, a military victory parade of sorts. And the triumph that he's talking about here is not the way that we experience in this world is by always doing what pleases the Father. Because if you're measuring it by the the effects with what you see with the eyes, then Jesus' ministry wasn't a triumph either. His disciples fled when he was arrested. He was crucified, you know, and uh and you can look at it if you look at it that way. Then that wasn't a triumph either, but we know by faith, we understand what Christ accomplished, and we know that there was a tremendous triumph that day. But here is the point. What is this triumph? How do we experience that? He says, we are the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved. And among those who are perishing. Notice in this triumphal procession, triumphal processions normally had soldiers, they normally had the commander, and then they would also have incense. And in this illustration here, we're not the soldiers, we're not even the captives. We're the incense, we're the fragrance of Christ. And as this fragrance would go forth, it would be to those who to to if the the parade when it happened, to those that were conquered, if they were captives in the parade, it would be the stench of defeat. To the soldiers, the smell of victory. But who is the primary person that this fragrance goes forward to? Well, in the the Romans would have been to their pagan gods, imaginary gods. But For us, we are to God the fragrance of Christ. The most important thing when you witness for Christ is what the Father thinks of what you're doing. That's why, you know, imagine a person, here he is, and you name whatever closed country where Christians are persecuted, being held captive in front of his tormentors, demanded to renounce Christ. Would it be better for him to say, well, you know, I will deny Christ today so I can have more years to witness for him later? Well, no. It's better to be faithful unto death. Why? Because the fragrance goes forth. And that's true in your situation as well. Whenever you are in a situation where you're in one way or another being pressured to deny Christ. or to to shut up and and not you know to to conform. When you put your your job or your your your reputation on the line There's a fragrance goes forth. And it doesn't matter whether those people are among those who despise it or appreciate it, because the fragrance is going forth to God. And if we look at it that way, it brings meaning. You know, uh you you you share your faith at work and you come into the lunchroom and and you know you find out you were the topic of conversation, but it's not flattering. You know, you're on the job and you're threatened with the fire, being fired because uh somebody has complained that you talked about God to them. These things happen. And uh if we have to, you know, I mean there's I'm not making a blanket statement saying every situation you have to be forcing things to happen. But we have to acknowledge like the apostles did, it's more important to obey God than man. And so we have to learn to live that triumphant. And he is talking about their testimony here because in verse 17 he says, we're not as so many peddling the word of God. But as of sincerity, but as from God, we speak in the sight of God in Christ. He wasn't just doing this as putting on a show of acting, peddling religion. This was just his heart motive, like, you know, sharing what he knew about Christ, what Christ had for him to share. So the first thing, if we're going to have Paul's zeal for evangelism, we learn, we need to learn to be triumphant. Do what we do for the Lord's sake, not for the results. You'll quickly get discouraged if you're evangelizing just for the results that you see. Because when the fragrance goes forth, it's going to make a reaction. If you were here this morning, Tim, I I thought it was interesting. Some of the thoughts Tim shared this morning were very much related to what I'm going to share right now. One of them was the godly in Christ will suffer persecution. But let's go on to the next point. Let's go over to chapter three. I'm kind of skipping chunks here because I'm trying to focus on Paul revealing things about his inner motivations. Chapter 3, go down to verse 4. And such trust have we, and we have such trust through Christ. Toward God, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think of anything as being from ourselves, but our sufficiency is from God Who also made us sufficient as ministers of the new covenant, not of the letter, but of the spirit. For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. Second point I want to make is where is our trust? Paul says here in chapter 3, verse 4. Such trust we have through Christ toward God, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think of anything as being from ourselves. Wait a minute, Paul? If anybody could get the job done, it was Paul, planting churches all over the place. Paul, yeah, you could handle this one. No, Paul says we're not sufficient to do anything. Sometimes as mature believers who know the word, uh we can rely on ourselves. I'm speaking to myself. You know what I just because I'm a chaplain and have been one for eighteen years and I know A whole lot of things and I've been through other battles, does that mean today that I can accomplish God's will without full dependence on Him and humbling myself under Him? No My confidence, I don't believe I could change one criminal's mind by myself or change his behavior or anything about him I'm completely dependent on Christ, not on my experience. Our sufficiency is of God This point was brought home to me in an interesting way many years ago. But before I share that story, I want to mention one other scripture here. Do you remember in John 16 when Jesus was talking to his disciples? And he said, it's good for you that I'm going away. Did you ever think of what a shocking statement that must have been to the disciples? What in the world could be better than having Jesus with you? I mean, the next time a storm comes up on the Sea of Galilee and the boat's going to sink, who's going to stand up and say, peace be still? Next time that they're in the temple and somebody has hard questions, who's going to stand up and answer those questions? Or when they were Jesus was up the Mount of Transfiguration and the disciples Can't cast a demon out of a man, but Jesus takes care of it like that. But Jesus said, it's good for you that I'm going away, because when I go away, the Holy Spirit will come. And when he comes, he'll convict the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. And the same spirit that's convicting the s world of sin and righteousness of judgment is in you. He said he'll be with you, he'll show you things or bring to your remembrance what What I have said to you, he'll take of mine and show it to you. And we have that same comforter today that that we can draw upon. He's also in the world today convicting of sin and righteousness and judgment. Do we live day by day as though that's true? Do we believe that God's at work in the lives of those around us? uh lost and and and you know that he's convicting of sin and righteousness of judgment, we ought to wake up every morning saying, God, show me today Even if I don't understand, just prompt me, do use me as a vessel to accomplish your will today. Because I know that you're doing things all around me that I don't even see. This thought was brought home to me very much many years ago now. I was doing open air ministry and I was asked to go to Burton'sville day to work with a particular church. Another friend of mine was gonna do it, but he couldn't. And so I went up to Burton'sville and when I got there there was a terrific downpour just you know, cloud bursts, the the threatening clouds finally it happened. And uh everybody was kind of leaving and I was there, I was trying to find the people I was supposed to meet, and I ran under a tent and it turned out to be the Baha'i Faith tent and so I got out of there and and uh uh but I found the people and they had basically they had thrown everything in the back of like some kind of a uh a hatchback jeep or something. They had Gideon Bibles they were giving out as long with an invitation to their church. And I set up my sketchboard beside them and I painted up my sketch, but because of the rain, there was nobody walking around. And so I sat there and I chatted with the the church people about all who knows what, just small talk. And finally, it was getting late in the afternoon. Here comes a lady, two ladies with two little children, and uh the lady comes by and the one lady they she she s she gets a Bible and I say, Do you want to see a chalk talk? And she didn't say no. And so I just start racing through my message, you know, to to get it done because I didn't want to leave without and And she kind of looked at me and her kids went over to the next thing and she looked at me and she looked at her kids, she looked at me and she looked at her kids. So I was hurrying to get done before she left because I didn't want to be left talking all by myself. And then I I finished up, boom, bang, you know, whatever my message. I don't even remember what message I preached that day. But uh then she chased after her children. And a a week or so later, my friend who had asked me to fill in for him there called me up and said, you know, a lady came to our church and she she was being baptized and She made a profession of faith and she said it was because of a chalk talk she heard at Burton's Hill. Of all the days that I went out to to try to be faithful and share with the Lord, I went home that day with kind of a bad attitude. What a waste of it. Afternoon, you know, why did I You know, why did I even stay um and and I I had sort of a bad attitude, not having any idea what God was doing. Uh but the Lord was there that day and and his word has power even when our attitude may not be exactly what it should be, and even when we're just trying to finish our sketch because it was what I was supposed to do. God is at work in the world. And we need to be faithful even when we don't see what he's doing. Let's move on to the next point. Go over to chapter 4. So the first thing we need to learn is to do what we do for the Lord's sake. Second, we need to trust that God is at work in the world, and our trust needs to be in Him to fill us. Fourth point, or third point, let's go to chapter 4. Start at verse 1. Therefore, since we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we do not lose heart. But we've renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness nor handling the Word of God deceitfully. but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But even if our gospel is veiled, it's veiled to those who are perishing, whose minds the God of this age has blinded, who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them. Now let me back up a little and just summarize something in chapter 3. After he talks about this confidence in God, he talks about the difference of the ministry of the Spirit and the Ministry of the Law, and he says, you know, we've been given this ministry of the Spirit. Moses had to put a veil over his face when he came down the mountain But if if the glory of Christ is seen, it's not scary, it's a transforming thing. And he says, we're being changed. If anybody saw the glory of the old covenant. They died. If they went into the holy place in an unacceptable way, if they went up the mountain when God was there. But the glory of Christ is a transforming thing And he says, that's what we are with unveiled face beholding and being transformed into his glory. And this is a spiritual ministry that we have. And then he starts chapter four saying, Since we have this ministry, As we have received mercy, we do not lose heart. You know what it means to lose heart? The old King James says we do not faint. Here comes an opportunity to witness. Hmm. You lost heart. You lost heart. You know, maybe I should witness to that guy. No, I don't think so. He probably doesn't want to hear it. You lose heart. That's giving up. Verse 2, but we have renounced the hidden things of shame. We don't lose heart. But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully. We're not advertising agents for Jesus. We're not spin doctors, you know, political advisors. for for Jesus. We're not trying to twist everything around and make you know make it appear like it's not. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God, manifesting the truth. That's what it's about. It's not a sin, Doctor. But what is this commending ourselves to every man's conscience? That word commend means to stand with. I've been commended by the elders of South River Bible Church. They stand with me in my ministry. You know, it's a commendation. But this is commending ourselves to every man's conscience. You know why we need we're doing that? Because there's some things that people already know. Paul says in Romans that God's invisible attributes are clearly seen through what has been created. But yet people suppress the truth and unrighteousness And if a person is suppressing the truth in unrighteousness, here comes a believer living his life day by day, doing what he does heartily as unto the Lord. And living as a child of his heavenly father with this loving relationship. And as we do that, people take notice. And uh uh that's commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. Um I want to share Let's go to another scripture for a minute here. We're going to come back to 2 Corinthians for a final two points, but let's go to 1 Peter chapter 3 for a minute. 1 Peter chapter 3. And I want to explore this. How does this work, commending ourselves to every man's conscience? Because this is where the rubber meets the road. This is where we either. Fail or succeed most of the time. First Peter chapter three Love that sound of pages rustling. Let's go down to verse 13. And who is he who will harm you if you become followers of what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. And do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. And always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conscience, that when they defame you as evildoers, those who revile your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed. For it is better if it is the will of God to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. Now the verse I want to focus on is verse 15, but sanctify the Lord God in your heart. You know what that's saying? Do what you do for God's sake. Do what you're witnessing, do it because you're doing it for the fragrance to go forth to God. Sanctify the Lord God in your heart And always be ready. That's be trusting in God. God's at work in the world, like we talked about with our second point. Always be ready for what? To give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that's within you. Well, how do they know that there's hope within us? Well, if you go back into chapters 1 and 2, in the first part of chapter 3, he talks about husbands, love your wives even when they're unlovable. Wives, obey your husbands, even though they may not even know the Lord. And servants and masters, you know, servants obey your masters even when they're not looking. And obey the governing authorities and do whatever you're doing as if you're doing it for the Lord. And when you live that way, people will wonder. What is acting causing you to act this way? And you may say, well, nobody's ever asked me a reason for the hope that's within me. Oh, but they probably have, but you didn't recognize it as such. Look at the verse before this. Even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. Do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled. Verse 16, having a good conscience that when they defame you as evildoers, those who revile your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed. You see, there's two ways we can subvert this. One would be to be a hypocrite. You know, in the jail, you can tell who's a hypocrite and who isn't by the influence they have on the other inmates If somebody is really living his life for Jesus, there is, you know, there's a whole bunch of occasions to give a reason for the hope that's within them. A lot of them. But the question of what's the it usually comes like this. What's the matter with you? Why can't you be like everybody else? You know, and and if you're working on the job, doing what you do heartily under the Lord, even when the boss isn't looking, oh, you think you're you're trying to make us look bad. That's asking a reason for the hope that's within you. You know, one time when I I this is going back a few years, I was working for a company down in Washington before I started a jail ministry or any kind of ministry. There was a man there who complimented me one time. He said, You have a nice family. I really admire that. You're a good family man. You know what I said to him? I said, yep, the famil the family is the cornerstone of society. I said, you know how in you know in Russia, in the Soviet Union, the old Soviet Union, one time When the the communists took over, I said there was a time when they were said, marriage, that's a Christian idea, we're atheists. And they actually made it hard where husbands and wives would be sent to separate cities to work, you know, and just had no regard for marriage But the communists soon learned that that that was a bad idea because alcoholism and crime and just just all kinds of nasty stuff spiraled out of control and in the latter days of the Soviet Union The communists made it very hard for people to get a divorce. In fact, they also clamped down on all kinds of immorality. And that's what I told the man. Did that give a reason for the hope that was within me? Everything I said to him was true, but I sidestepped the issue. You know why? Because this guy He was a nice guy. We got along good, but he liked to make fun. You know, he would come by my door on Monday morning and say, Well, I I was hoping to do this this weekend, but I couldn't because I was in church all weekend and he would always emphasize, church. all weekend, you know. He was kind of funny and I I would laugh at some of the stuff that he said. But I've dropped the ball and giving the reason for the hope that was within me Have you ever had somebody compliment you on your work? Oh, I just like to work. You know, my mom taught me to work when I was little, and I I just enjoy it. But if you're doing what you do heartily is under the Lord, give a reason for the hope that's within you. And it's easy to sidestep it because you don't want to face, you know, if I would have said to that man, you know, the reason I love my wife is really because of Christ's love for me. The reason my family is any different than any other that I'm any different, it's not in me. It's what Christ did for me. And we give a re and that's that's the first line. You know, giving a defense is usually we have sermons about this talking about proving the resurrection and proving the Bible is true, but you never get to that point if you're not willing. If you're not willing to take that that first step and a and and and be bold to the point of being scoffed at. And sometimes we shrink back, we lose heart, we faint when we face those kind of situations. Let's go back to 2 Corinthians. My time's ticking away here, but I want to share at least one more point, maybe two quick ones. Go back to 2 Corinthians 4, verse 7. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us We're hard pressed on every side, yet not crushed. We're perplexed but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus That the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body. For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. When are we at our best in evangelism? When we are weak, he is strong. Some of you had heard me when I talked about the jail ministry, you know, one of the strengths that I have is that I'm different than other people. I am not a city preacher, if you know what I mean. If you just turn on some of the black Christian stations in the city and you'll know what I mean. But It's, you know, Paul the Pharisee was sent to the Gentiles. Paul the one who, you know, and sometimes God uses us in our weakness when we humble ourselves before Him. I'll tell you an interesting story here quickly. When I was in college, there was a Jewish guy, Wayne, and his family had rejected him because he believed in Jesus. And we prayed for his family, and he said, Oh, they won't listen to anything I have to say. Fast forward another 10, 15 years, I was in an open-air meeting with people up in Philadelphia. And I met a young man named Glenn. Turned out to be Wayne's brother. And when I figured out that he was Wayne's brother, I said, Glenn, how did you come to know the Lord? Did did Wayne witness to you? He said, oh no, when Wayne would come home and start telling something about Jesus, he said, I'd put my hands over my ears and yell so I couldn't hear what he had to say. I said, wow. Wayne said it was bad, but I didn't know it was that bad. I said, well, how did you come to know the Lord then? And I was thinking, you know, Jews for Jesus or something. He said, this is what he told me. He said, I was working in a restaurant, and I was back there in the back washing dishes and stuff, and there was this African guy who'd just come over from Africa, and he didn't dress like us, and he didn't talk like us. And he started witnessing to me. And he didn't tell me the rest of the story. I have a feeling he gave the guy a hard time. But he had that the guy probably had to take some ridicule and laughing at him, but that's how this proud Jew came to know Christ. Put yourself in that man's position. Would you have had the boldness to witness to that proud Jew? And yet God used him in his weakness. Where is it that the gospel goes forth with power? In the persecuted church. Why is that? Because they they're they're commending themselves to people's conscience, they're giving a reason for the hope that's within them, sometimes at the cost of A very hard cost. And that's how it works. My time's up here. Let me just close with this point. A hundred years from now, none of us will be here. Our opportunity to testify of Christ will be all gone. Those who know Christ, faith will be turned to sight. Those who don't know him will be lost And uh we know that this is an opportunity. And so do what you do for the Lord's sake. Don't worry about the results. Put your trust in him. Wake up every day believing that Christ has some mission for you today if you're his child. Ask him to guide you. And be aware, when you're commending the truth to people's conscience, don't shy away from opportunities to witness just because it's going to cause you a problem or a little bit of scorn or ridicule. When you're weak, you're strong. And as you do that, God will bless your ministry. The fragrance will go forth. And uh don't think, you know, sometimes people say, well, I'm too old, or I'm just not as what I used to be. God knows all about your weaknesses. You know, he knew how old Abraham was, and he had a child anyhow. He'll do give you an opportunity that's right for you. Let's close with a word of prayer. Father, thank you for all these dear saints gathered here. Thank you for this church. Lord, help us to encourage one another in our witness for you. Fill us with your boldness. Convict us when we sidestep, giving a reason for the hope that's within us. Father, bless each of these saints. As they meditate on these things, may they today they recognize an opportunity to testify of you. And Lord, make them wise. and and in how they share the word with other people. We pray these things so that you would be glorified, that your church would be built up, that this church would be built up. It would be filled with people being disciples for you. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.