Tell me the truth, give it to me straight, cut to the chase Have you ever found yourself thinking that in a conversation? If you thought that while speaking to your spouse, I have no and I hope no words were expressed But if the thought escaped your word uh as words out of your mouth, um well I'll be praying for you. Um my wife tells me Trader Joe's has pretty flowers, but uh Now there is a place and time for straight talk. We want our doctors, salesmen and pastors to be honest, transparent, real, and genuine in their words They are professionals, supposed to be, whose job is to serve others and deal with major life-changing decisions, serious diagnosis, costly purchases. Eternal destiny. One of the charms of our Lord Jesus Christ is that he tells you the truth, gives it to you straight, and often cuts to the chase. Last time we saw Jesus on a mountain appointing twelve of his disciples as his special envoys or apostles. Afterwards, he descended with them to the rest of the followers, and a great multitude of people from nearby regions. This could have looked like some outdoor mega church Sunday worship, but Jesus completely goes against modern man-made church growth models. With a sermon about suffering, loving enemies, and moral living He is going to tell them plainly what it means to be a disciple of Jesus This speech, this passage for today, is often entitled Sermon on the Plain, or Level Place, as verse 17 puts it in chapter 6. You will see that the contents here look very similar to the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5-7, but without the Jewish portions from the Old Testament. J. Carl Laney notes other important differences. Matthew's sermon is found after the call of the first four disciples. While Luke's sermon takes place after the appointment of the twelve, about a year later. Jesus sat down to preach in Matthew 5. 1, but stood in Luke 6. 17. The Sermon on the Mount contains 107 verses, while the Sermon on the Plain contains 30 verses. Same truths are expressed with different language and phrases. Jesus, like any good teacher or college professor, had a body of teaching material such as Matthew 5 to 7 that he would reuse and repeat during his ministry. So I think that's what's going on here The sermon is relevant to all kinds of people throughout every age, for all who are following Jesus or considering following him. Commentator C. Marvin Pate writes, quote, It may be surmised that the sermon served as a two-fold function. to encourage faithfulness among Jesus' disciples and to challenge non-disciples to follow him. End quote Now with such a demanding message, certain disciples may quit, and those on the fringe may be scared off. Nevertheless, we appreciate Jesus for not putting the cost of discipleship in fine print. Let's read the passage for today from Luke chapter 6, verses 20 to 49 Luke chapter 6, verse 20 to 49. The passage is also in the insert inside the bulletin. Luke six, twenty to forty nine, the end of the chapter Then he lifted up his eyes toward his disciples and said, Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who hunger now, for you shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they exclude you, and revile you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice in that day and leave for joy, for indeed your reward is great in heaven, for in like manner their fathers did to the prophets. But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are full, for you shall hunger. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for so did their fathers to the false prophets. But I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you. To him who strikes you on the one sheep, offer the other also. And from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either Give to everyone who asks of you, and from him who takes away your goods, do not ask them back. And just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them likewise. But if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? For even sinners lend to sinners to receive as much back. But love your enemies, do good, and lend, hoping for nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High. For he is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore be merciful, just as your father also is merciful. Judge not, and you shall not be judged. Condemn not, and you shall not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. Give and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over will be put into your bosom For with the same measure that you use, it will be measured back to you. And he spoke a parable to them. Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into the ditch? A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who is perfectly trained will be like his teacher. And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not perceive the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, brother, let me remove the speck that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the plank that is in your own eye? Hypocrite. First remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother's eye. For a good tree does not bear bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit. For every tree is known by its own fruit. For men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart Brings forth evil. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. But why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do the things which I say? Whoever comes to me and hears my sayings and does them, I will show you whom he is like. He is like a man building a house who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently against that house, and could not shake it, for it was founded on the rock. But he who heard and did nothing is like a man who built a house on the earth, without a foundation, against which the stream beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. So I'm about to give a sermon on a sermon. You see that Jesus covers a lot of material here in a short amount of time. We may not be used to the rapid movement and sudden shifts in ideas. A commentator, William Barclay, comments Quote, this may be an instance of the Jewish method of preaching. The Jews called preaching karas, which means stringing beads. The rabbis held that the preacher must never linger more than a few moments on any given any topic, but in order to maintain interest, must move quickly from one topic to another. So that could be what Jesus is doing here. Nonetheless, I believe there are some major underlying principles. Jesus was establishing for those who would follow him, or those who are ready following him. And I list three there in the bulletin. 1. Experience true blessings as you suffer. Verses 20 to 26. 2. Love enemies as God loves all sinners. Verses 27 to 38. And three, avoid hypocrisy as you obey Jesus. Verses 39 to 49. First, experience true blessings as you suffer. Verses 20 to 26 The first part of the sermon neatly divides into four blessings in verses 20-23 and four woes in verses 24 to 26. In the Old Testament, authors asserted frequently that true joy, true blessing, belongs to those who fear the Lord, trust in Him, and wait for Him. Jesus continues this line of thought as the greatest prophet. Now consider how paradoxical these verses may sound to a normal, unchurched person. Jesus is saying that following Him does not improve your social and economic status. Discipleship will not get you out of poverty, hunger, sorrow, or rejection. Quite the opposite. Unlike honor societies and degrees from I believe schools, discipleship is a badge of shame in the eyes of the world. Nevertheless, it is worth it. And I emphasize is. Not it will be. Not just because there is a payoff to come. You are in this very moment blessed, even if it doesn't seem like it. As the famous preacher, Charles Spurgeon points out, quote, note with delight that the blessing is in every case in the present tense, a happiness to be now enjoyed and delighted in. It is not blessed shall be, but blessed are. End quote. You do not have to get out of some rut or some painful circumstance before declaring yourself blessed. Jesus has said you are blessed. This might be a total change in perspective for you. Now Jesus could have just said, Blessed are you poor, blessed are you who hunger now, blessed are you who weep now, etc. But thankfully, each beatitude doesn't end at the first comma, but goes on. Those who gave up careers and wealth for Christ to be poor are promised God's kingdom. Those who miss meals for ministry will have their fill at the marriage supper of the Lamb. Those who weep now because of their faith, God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Those who are hated, excluded, reviled, and cast out for Jesus' sake have their great reward in heaven. So great that right in the middle of a day of persecution, disciples can rejoice and leap for joy. People may think you're crazy, but you are blessed. Their situations parallel what happened to the righteous prophets of old. Now to heighten and emphasize the blessings, Jesus turns our eyes to the other side of the tribunal on the day of judgment. The reverse of the blessings are woes presented in verses 24 to 26. Every soul will stand under God's blessing or curse. There is no middle ground. Woe is a Hebrew interjection, an Anomatopeia. It actually sounds more like oh in the original language. Not the sound we make when we realize something, but more like the sound we make when we face calamity as when we say, Oh no. Many woes or I should say o's will be heard in hell when the rich become poor, the foe become hungry, laughter turn into mourning and weeping. Then it will be eternal regret and suffering for every unsaved soul. Praise God that followers of Christ have brighter days ahead. But for now, suffering is a part of their present reality. Now that doesn't mean that we will be living every waking moment, every second under persecution. Yet at any given moment, any second from now, we could face suffering. Just like many of our brothers and sisters in other parts of the world But those are occasions when we are blessed the most. Much more than when we get a promotion or buy a house So verses 20 to 26 help us endure tough times as a disciple. But that's not all we do. We don't just survive and hold on. Verse 27 begins a series of imperatives that moves us beyond just being blessed as a state of being to being a blessing in an active way of living. And that leads to the second principle. Love enemies as God loves all sinners. Verses twenty-seven to thirty-eight. Now we read up to verse 30 and realize none of these commands align with our natural tendencies. I'm sure the disciples, right off, especially the ones that just became apostles, thought that association with Christ, association with Jesus meant power over foes. But they would be wrong. Verse 31 is often called the Golden Rule, and it is a guide for interpersonal relationships. New Testament scholar D. A. Carson notes its significance. Quote: The golden rule was not invented by Jesus. It is found in many forms in highly diverse settings. About A. D. 20, Rabbi Hillel, challenged by a Gentile to summarize the law, in the short time the Gentile could stand on one leg, reportedly responded, what is hateful to you, do not do to anyone else. What is hateful to you, do not do to anyone else. This is the whole law. All the rest is commentary. Go and learn it. You see how Jesus is different. Apparently only Jesus phrased the rule positively. That means in the face of hostility, Jesus didn't want us to shrink back. Rather, he wanted us to extend love to our enemies. He wants his disciples to be different from the rest of the world. From verses 32 to 34, Jesus asks three questions that all end with What credit is that to you? The word for credit here is the same word for grace, caris, which we have seen four times before in Luke already. We saw the same word in reference to grace which Mary found with God, chapter 1, verse 30. Grace to God which was upon John the Baptist, chapter 2, verse 40. Grace that Jesus had with God and men, chapter 2, verse 52, and words of grace that Jesus spoke, chapter 4, verse 22. You see that up to this point, cares or grace has been with extraordinary circumstances and men. But now we, Jesus' disciples, are invited to experience God's grace. For that to happen, we must go beyond loving those who love us, doing good to those who do good to us, lending to those who pay us back. See how in reply to each rhetorical question, Jesus begins with, for even sinners. Disciples of Jesus are called to a higher standard. We must stop trying to even the score Make an unfair situation equal. Restore the balance. Avenge the fallen, etc. etc. When we stop striving to get even, we situate ourselves for God's grace. We create a deficit that God promises to fill and exceed Your reward will be great. Of course, reward should not be the sole motivation for obeying Jesus. We see in verse 35 that when we love our enemies, we get a chance to show off our Heavenly Father. When we lower ourselves in humility before our adversaries, we will be the sons of the Most High. When we lend without expecting payment and do good to those who do evil to us, we in a miniature way reflect God the Father, who is kind to the unthankful and evil. As we see in verse 36, we must be merciful, just as our Father is merciful. Now to be clear, these commands are not promoting work salvation. You don't become God's children by good works. At the moment of salvation, we are regenerated and born again by the life-giving power of the Holy Spirit, and through his power, we become sons and daughters of God. That is accomplished by God alone without any assist from us. We just trust in his saving work. But those born again are new creation. With new desires, new power from above to obey and follow Jesus. God's children who cry out, Abba Father, will live out their calling They will live as sons of the Most High. Jesus continues this section with more specific applications in verses 37 to 38. If we are to love our enemies, we should not judge or condemn. Now, these commands do not forbid the judicial system or appointment of judges in society. But warn against the human tendency to criticize severely and find fault with our neighbors. Instead, we ought to forgive and give With each of these commands there is a promise of reciprocity from God. A biblical image of giving is provided in verse 38. Again, William Barclay is helpful. Quote: The Jew wore a long robe down to the feet and round the waist a girdle. The robe could be pulled up so that the bosom of the robe above the girdle formed a kind of outsized pocket in which things could be carried. So the modern equivalent of the phrase would be people will fill your pocket. But we gotta be careful not to apply this as just primarily about financial giving, right? Even though that could be a major application. The command to give here is in the context of judgment, condemnation, and forgiveness. So it is more likely that the disciples are asked to give second chances, the benefit of the doubt, an ear to our antagonistic neighbors. All of these acts, and there's plenty, all of these imperatives fit the profile of a Jesus follower who live their uh who love their enemies as God loves sinners. Disciples of Jesus must strive to live lives consistent with their calling. Because we belong to the kingdom of heaven, we are rejected by the kingdom of the world. We should expect that. Because we are God's children, we will live as sons and daughters of the Most High. Now, the direct opposite of Such consistency, sincerity, and integrity is hypocrisy. And that leads to the next point. Avoid hypocrisy as you obey Jesus. Verses 39 to 49. At the root of hypocrisy is losing sight of our perfect example found in Jesus and those who try to imitate him. We may turn inwardly to ourselves as guides or fallible teachers and role models. The inevitable downfall is vividly pictured in verse 39. Two blind men falling to their doom. To avoid such a faith, we must follow Jesus, who is perfect. There is no hint of hypocrisy in him. He leads us in paths of righteousness. We will never be above Jesus, our teacher, but we can be like Him. To avoid the pitfalls of hypocrisy. We must have a clear view of Jesus who goes before us. We must keep our eyes on him. And when we see Jesus clearly, we can see ourselves clearly and then see others clearly. And that's the point of verses forty-one and forty-two. And Jesus, I don't know if you know this, but he has a sense of humor. Have you ever seen a man with a beam of wood stuck in his eye trying to help others? I'm not sure if this was actually an incident because remember Jesus was a carpenter. I wonder if it happened to one of his colleagues or something. But It is ridiculous to think we can critique others without addressing our own blind spots, especially when it's a glaring blind spot Now let's say we did extract that plank. What does it mean for us to look at others to help them? Jesus tells us to look for fruit in verses 43 to 45. The quality of fruit reveals the identity of the root. What is true in plant nature is true in human nature. As we reveal with our mouths, our actions, what lurks in our hearts. If our everyday speech does not systemally reflect our confession of Christ, we have some reasons to doubt the so-called faith. Now, just to make the connection here, note how this fruit inspection does not contradict the prohibition against judging others that we saw a few verses ago. Now, even if we don't condemn people, right, we do not do away with discernment. We must always be discerning. Genuine faith in Christ produces fruit. There is a famous saying attributed to the reformer Martin Luther. Quote, we are saved by faith alone. But the faith that saves is never alone. We are saved by faith alone, but the faith that saves is never alone. End quote. So now we based on this principle, which I believe to be biblical, we can comfort those who produce good fruit and warn those who show no fruit, lest they become hypocrites. As verse 46 says, true disciples do not merely call Jesus Lord, they follow Jesus as Lord in their words and actions. Moving from the illustration found in nature, Jesus shifts to an architectural one. Faith that is obedient. True faith is pictured as an unshakable house built on a firm foundation. Faith that is shallow, false faith, is pictured as a house without foundation. The same deluge affects both, but only the house founded on the rock remains. Someday there will be a day of destruction, judgment day, when all will stand before God. Are you ready for that day? All of us will breathe our last breath on earth and stand before our Maker to either enter everlasting life in heaven or everlasting torment in hell. I am telling you this moment that if you have rested the hopes of heaven on your good works, how you compare relatively to fellow humans, you will be swept away by God's wrath. Build your trust upon the firm foundation of Jesus Christ and his work. He is the stone which the builders rejected, but has now become the chief cornerstone. You will not be disappointed that last day if you trust in him and follow him For now, experience true blessings as you suffer if you are a disciple. Love enemies as God loves all sinners. Avoid hypocrisy as you obey Jesus. Jesus made all of these demands of his disciples, and he was fully aware that they would fail him many times over. He knew that when he chose his twelve, they would flee from suffering, despise their enemies, and be disobedient hypocrites. Us too. He knew our sins before we came to him, and he knows our failures even after we became Christians. But our Lord is merciful. Not only did he demand, he met the demands of penalty for our sins. Jesus declared blessings for disciples who would courageously suffer for him, but he himself courageously suffered for us. He became poor, hungry, mournful, hated, excluded, reviled, cast out for our sins. For our blessings, Jesus became a curse for us at the cross, taking God's wrath upon himself. He told us to love our enemies, and he himself did just that. He prayed for those who crucified him. Father forgive them, for they do not know what they do. While we were still enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Jesus suffered for our hypocrisy, bad fruit. evil speech, corrupt hearts, disobedience, though he himself was full of integrity, good fruit, good treasures in his heart And perfectly obedient to God the Father. Risen from the dead and sitting in heaven, Jesus calls each of you to be his disciples Will you respond? He has provided all that you need to follow him as a disciple. He has told you plainly the commands. He has secured the forgiveness for the times you fail. He has granted the power for the time to succeed. Come follow him today. Let's pray.