We have children's Sunday school going on right now. I'm sorry, Children's Sunday school earlier and then we have junior church going on right now and we do this regularly. And uh during the school year, uh we have Awana on Fridays, and there's the homeschool tutorial, Grace Academy on Tuesdays and Thursdays Days. And sometimes when health's available, we prepare a special multi-day summer events like the Vacation Bible School. Here's a small collection of things we've done in the past, a sample. So, no doubt evangelism and discipleship of children are priorities here. Now, how will we measure the success of such efforts? While we might keep track of attendance or tally of decisions for Christ, we pray to see those turn into public professions of faith through baptism. A long view would probably take into account where they are now as they grow older and approach adulthood. In 2025, we're trying to do more to reach those in high school age and maybe young adult stage of life. But to take it a step further, picture with me the following Just imagine this room filled with children worshiping each Sunday morning. Don't worry, this vision includes lots of parents and young volunteers. Maybe in addition to ladies' ensemble, we can have children's ensemble or something like that. I want my kids in that. And together with them we fulfill the mandate of Psalm 1. forty five verse four. One generation shall praise your works to another and shall declare your mighty acts. Now whether this happens or not, each Christian grandparent, parent, uncle, aunt, and church Leader must set an example and teach younger ones how to worship the Lord. The little ones take note of your attitude concerning God. His word. They watch and hear you pray and sing. I think David knew this, and though he failed in many ways as a father, he was at his best when exemplifying worship. We'll see that in one of his Psalms today. We're continuing in our short sermon series on the Psalms in Times of Change. and transition political, seasonal, and calandrical, we must stay grounded and rooted in the word. For that end, I suggest we We keep calm and read Psalms. And I mean not all the Psalms and not just any Psalms, but those messianic psalms We're talking about those psalms that are connected in some way to our Savior, the Lord's anointed Son, Messiah, Christ Jesus. Now, even under this heading, we need some nuance. Recall I said that instead of one broad category of messianic psalms, Tabil, frequent guest speaker. Here promotes three subcategories. There are, I put them in different order than I showed them last time, but they're one strictly messianic psalms, two ultimate messianic psalms, and Three extended messianic psalms. First, there are strictly messianic psalms. These look directly to Jesus. They do not have any near fulfillment, that is near the time of its writing, in the life of David or other kings of the past. Psalm 110 is a famous one. So is Psalm 2, and we saw that last week and the week before that. Secondly, in the ultimate Messianic Psalms, there's a partial fulfillment in the David's life, but his ultimate fulfillment can only be in Jesus. Examples include Psalm 16, 22, and 40. We'll look at Psalm 40 before and after Christmas. Thirdly, in extended messianic Psalms, the primary subjects, not Jesus according to a plane Reading of the passage, but then the inspired New Testament writers reveal how the extended meaning is messianic. One well-known example is Psalm 8. We'll look at that today. And next week. Today I'm mostly introducing the psalm and setting the stage for a polar discussion next week. But even those first few words of Psalm 8 are filled with significance. Let's read the passage now. And I'm reading also reading the superscription above verse 1 to the end of verse 2. To the chief musician on the instrument of Gath, a psalm of David, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent! Excellent is your name in all the earth who have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of bays and nursing infants, you have ordained strength because of your enemies that you may silence the enemy And the Avenger. From the short passage, I'd like to observe two features of intergenerational, God-centered worship Okay, so two features of intergenerational God-centered worship. First, there's a congregational concern for the creator's reputation. That's the superscription. Again, the verses above verse one. The words above verse 1 to verse 1. Secondly, there's a powerful praise from the younger generation, verse 2. First in intergenerational, God-centered worship, there's a con Congregational concern for the creator's reputation. I'm going to spend a few moments explaining what you see above verse 1, that is part of the inspired text. uh word of God. It might not seem like this superscription, what we call that, it um amounts to much. Maybe you think they're just technicalities, but we do gain some insight into the pattern of worship in ancient. Let's take a look at what's above verse one verse phrase by phrase. I've talked about the chief musician when I went through Psalm 49 Around Easter time. It's a title mentioned 55 times in the Psalms, once in Habakkuk. A modern parallel might be a choir director or worship leader. We know a few who held this office in other passages, but no one ones named here. The next phrase is on the instrument of Gath, which you also see in Psalms 81 and 84. I discussed this phrase while covering the life of David in verse. Samuel in chapter, uh, in 2022. My guess is that during his time as a fugitive and spy at Gath, which is a city of Philistia, David learned about a new instrument. We're not sure what this instrument looked like. Actually looking at the original language, it may not even be an instrument at all because of this uncertainty. Some translations took a more literal approach. You'll see the word game They offer to transliterate the original word. Others guess that it's some specific melody type or it's a reference to wine presses and by extension a certain Feast. So all over the place in terms of interpretations. I tend to think again that it's a musical instrument of Gath. David brought it back to Israel and used it. For his own worship ministries. Well, even if we don't know much about the lead music director or the main music instrument, we know who wrote the lyrics. Right? Psalm 8 indisputably a psalm of David. It says it right there. The answer to that's the answer to who But when and where are questions more difficult to answer? The mention of Gath has led to speculation that David wrote this just after his victory over Goliath in 1 Samuel 17. The giant man was from the city of Gath, but that seems to be a stretch and hard to prove. Well, whenever or wherever Psalm 8 was written, David intended it. To help in congregational worship. So there's a congregational concern, and that concerns for the Creator's reputation. So David begins the song with this declaration, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Verse 1 is significant for both for literary literary reasons and theological reasons. Skip down to the final verse of the Psalm, verse 9. You'll see it reads, just like the first part of verse 1: O Lord, our Lord, how excellent. Excellent is your name in all the earth. This is a literary device called Inclusio. By repeating what was said at the very beginning, there's a particular emphasis on the repeated words. The words are thematic, and the theme here is the excellence of God's name. David has a congregational concern for the creator's reputation. So that's why verse one also sets the tone theologically. It begins with David addressing God by his great names. Also the two words our Lord is one suffixed word In Hebrew, Adoninu. So we find here two words in the original, and they're two names. Okay. Lord with all capital letters says Yahweh, it's the covenant name of God. It was held to be so sacred that instead of saying Yahweh aloud, Adonai is set in its place. They did this even if it led to repetition, like Lord, Lord, as we see here in our English. translation. Now Lord would only the initial capital letter is Adonai, as I just mentioned, combined with the possessive pronoun, it's adonenu. It's the Transcendent name of God. By putting these two names together, in Hebrew Yahweh and Adonenu, in English Lord with all capital letters and Lord with initial capital letter, David is leading us to this. This conclusion, we are to see the one and the same God as both close and far. He's intimately near, yet he's highly exalted. As Yahweh, he binds himself to his people, and as Adonai, he's sovereign above all. The one who relates to Israel in particular is the one who created the whole universe in existence. David demands that we see God as both covenantal and transcendental. There's more evidence for this Notice carefully in the next part of Psalm 8. 1 how God's name is spoken of in the singular. How excellent is your name singular in all the earth? David says. That's interesting because he just began the psalm with two names. names Yahweh and Adunenu. But again David wants us to see the two these two names collectively because it's in one being Further reinforcing this idea is how God's most excellent name is synonymous with God's glory, in the last part of verse one. And the word excellent elsewhere in the Bible refers to majestic shifts and noble leaders. So while the excellent name denotes the public, visible, outward display of God's being, God's glory refers to his inward essence. So it's his name that gives us some access into God's. God's greatness. The Dutch Reformed theologian Louis Burkhoff sums it off well While the Bible records several names of God, it also speaks of the name of God in the singular. In such cases, the name stands for the whole manifestation of God in his relation to his people, or simply for the person so that it becomes A name was never regarded as a mere vocable, but as an expression of the nature of thing designated. In the most general sense of the word, then the name of God is his self-revelation. So what's in a name? Not much in Shakespeare or Human Sphere, but with God there's much in his name. His name has to do with his glory. So it's imperative that his excellency must be globally recognized. His glory must be set above all the stars of the universe. The Lord Himself has spoken in Malachi 11, from the rising of the sun even to To his going down, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. In every place, incense shall be offered to my name and a pure offering, for my name shall be great among the nations So as Psalm 148, 13 demands, all creation must praise his name, for his name alone is exalted. His glory is above the earth and heaven. Likewise in Psalm eight, there is a congregational concern for the Creator's reputation. And again, as I said at the beginning, as adults assemble and repeat David's words and proclaim God's great name, faith is exemplified for the little ones. By all means, first and foremost, sing for God, but do also sing for others, those around you, especially the children who look to you as a model of worship. Do this regularly each week, faithfully over the years you have with them. Over time, we pray that God would grant that the genuine faith of a grandparent. Where a parent also resides in a child. That's what happened with Lois, Eunice, and Timothy. It has happened and it can happen again. Do we believe that as a church? So, another feature of intergenerational God-centered worship is the following. There's a powerful praise from the younger generation. Now we must admit that after the praise and adoration and and comium of verse one, verse two may sound Strange. We go from majesty and renown to daycare and stinky diapers. Not only that, looking at verse 2, you got on one end the most tender and softest image you can that tug at your heartstrings, babes and infants. At the other end you have the rough and tough folks that give you heartburn, right? God's enemies and those who think to take revenge against them, those who think they're morally strong. Superior to God. Here we have it. After verse 1, there's verse 2. Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, you have ordained strength. Because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy and the avenger. So what's up with this? Well, the message of verse 2, in light of verse 1, I believe is this: God's greatness is shown through weakness. Pagan deities might show off their power to sheer size and strength. Canaanite Baal was believed to control weather. Greek titans were well titanic, right? The chief Norse god was Odin and he rode an eight-legged horse. Wow, eight-legged horse. That sounds cooler than Mr. Ed Bree Quinn Unicorn I guess this I don't know all the weird horse types out there mythical. But instead of mighty C's and Mighty D's, we got little kids and a donkey We don't go to an armory but a nursery. Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, you have ordained strength. That word strength o's is most frequently used describe physical power. We do s now we do see in Psalm twenty nine verse one and first chronicles sixteen twenty eight is synonymous with giving glory in worship But it's still odd to see the source of strength as the weakest of people. Yet God has ordained that there be a powerful praise from the younger generation. Youngest generation it seems. Now if you think about it for a moment though, that's what God so often does in history, doesn't he? That's how he exalts himself. Remember when his people were pinned against the Red Sea with the Egyptian armies marching towards them, Moses assured them in Exodus 14:14, The Lord will fight for you, and you shall fight. Hold your peace. Just sit tight. Be still. This is how God brings down rulers from their thrones, but lifts up the humble. Or do you recall later when Gideon rounded up his troops, the Lord said to him in Judges seven two, The people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into your into their hands, lest Israel claim glory for itself against me, saying, My own hand has saved me. Tear down the army. Again. People are still too many. Small numbers, never limited, God. And as Joshua reminded them earlier, one man of you shall chase a thousand, for the Lord your God is he who fights for you. You. Or think of David who wrote this song. He experienced God's victory firsthand. He arrived on the scene and entered public limelight by defeating Goliath, a mismatch for the ages. But before that happened in 1 Samuel 17, we note in 1618 that the Lord was with him. As pre as impressive as that is, you have to admit Psalm eight two is the most impressive. So you know just let me try to think of a modern example Imagine for a moment that a quarterback Lamar Jackson took a bunch of kids in your neighborhood and played professional football. Just think about Wait a minute, I I don't like that. Imag that's about imagine for a moment that quarterback Jaden Daniels took a bunch of kids and played professional football. That's better. I like that. You might be impressed by Daniel's ability, you know, but more impressive is how he can take make up for such a weak roster Right. Imagine then going to the playoffs and winning the Super Bowl. That makes Jaden Daniels the most valuable player, no doubt. It's my imagination In a much greater way, right? In a much greater way, the Lord our Lord proves without doubt his name is excellent in all the earth His glory is set above the heavens. The greatest being employs the weakest of humanity, bathes and nursing infants. Their babbles are weapons for battles, their utterances cause their foes utter defeat. This is a reminder of what we find in First Corinthians one twenty-seven to twenty-nine. God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to So whether it's New Testament or Old Testament, there ought to be a powerful praise from the younger generation That corresponds to the weakest, the poorest among us. Don't neglect the youngest or the oldest among us. Don't despise the unborn or the in. Confirmed in the society, if they can give glory to God, they can receive dignity from Him. So, in our effort to have intergenerational, God-centered worship, let's have a congregational concern. For the Creator's reputation. Also, let's pray for powerful praise from the younger generation. So give David credit for knowing these eternal truths. Truths, but it's likely he didn't know how this would apply to the coming anointed Christ, the Messiah to come. We, however, have the benefit of hindsight to see how Psalm 8. 2 explains. Beyond David's life to Jesus' life. We saw earlier that Jesus himself quoting Psalm 8:2 when he entered Jerusalem. after his triumphal entry. It was in Matthew twenty-one, one through seventeen. We read it earlier, so I won't reread it. Let me just sort of set the scene and explain this. You think that after years of public ministry, everyone everywhere would believe in Jesus, young and old, poor and rich, lady and clergy Laity and clergy, but that did not happen. Among the multitudes, the blinds who now see, the lame who now walk, there were insulted money changers and merchants, indignant chief priests and scribes. Those who possess money and power opposed Jesus. They couldn't stand his widespread popularity. They tried to silence him. followers, even his little followers who shouted Hosanna to the son of David. So they asked Jesus, you know, do you hear what these are saying He responded, citing Psalm eight two Yes, have you never read out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, You have perfected. Praise. What's amazing here is how Jesus not only encourages the children to continue in worship, he also uses their powerful praise to point to his own deity. Remember Psalm 8. 2 is by Yahweh Adunai, yet Jesus is claiming that praise due to him for himself Also, notice how he allows his enemies to finish the thought or fill in the blank. Just after the sided portion, the first half of Psalm 8:2, there's the word because, right? If the Chief priests and the scribes know their scriptures, and we grant them that they complete the verse that Jesus started because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy and the avenger. Then they know how Jesus really felt about them. He considers these super moral moral elites enemies of the Lord. Imagine that. We're talking not talking about witches and warlocks, murderers and adulterers. Priests and scribes are the most respected religious types of The society. Jesus is saying they're the enemies of God. Why? It's because Jesus exposed hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. Behind the outward appearances of chief priests and scribes for jealousy, rivalry, and greed. And if they're exposed, absolutely no one's safe. From Christ's penetrating gaze. We find in John 3 19, this is the condemnation that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are not going to be able to do that. For evil. And this condemnation, rightly and justly, extends to all humanity at all times. We blaspheme and profane the Lord's excellent name when we We commit idolatry, when we use careless words. We do not give unto the Lord the glory due to his name. We do not worship him in the beauty of holiness. We desire So, and Paul outlines in Romans 1, 22-23, why we have no excuse for this I'm just paraphrasing, but since the creation of the world his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Even his eternal power and Godhead, so that all are without excuse. All humanity knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were they thankful. They became thankful. Feudal in their thoughts, foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, we became fools and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and burden And four-footed animals and creeping things. But Paul goes on to say that despite all their privileges, the Jews are not any better. So the law speaks even to those under the law that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may become guilty before God. So all humanity, apart from grace. Will be silenced as God's enemies. So whether we're chief priests or chief of sinners, vandals or scribes, we're all in trouble But look at the gospel hope here. Even as Jesus spoke against religious authorities, he spoke on behalf of children crying out in the temple. Their worship has dignity because it rises from genuine faith. There's a powerful praise from the younger generation It originates from humble, regenerate hearts, typical of those greatest in the kingdom of heaven. If we understand what they mean by Hosanna to the Son of David. That we become like these children. Hosanna is a plea for salvation. We get the meaning in Psalm 118, verse 25. Save now. I pray. And Jesus is the answer to that prayer. He came to save us from sin, as indicated by his name Jesus. God the Father sent forth his son, born of a woman. Though fully God, he's also the seed of David, according to the flesh. He lived upon Perfect life and did great wonders in his ministry. But then he went to Jerusalem on what we call the Passion Week, where he gave up his life for our sakes, died on the cross to pay the penalty of sins. We should pay. He was buried and rose again from the grave. After showing many proofs of his resurrection, he ascended to heaven, and he'll return some day to judge Judge all. Until then, he sits at the Father's right hand. He's able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Again, so naturally apart from grace, we're his enemies. We're God's enemies, but it's not too late. We can be reconciled to God to the death of his Son. So get right with the Lord by surrendering, repent, turn from sin, turn to Jesus and trust in Him only for eternal life. Access to heaven is a free gift. Undeserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So with a childlike faith, let's sing our final song, Jesus loves me, this sign of, or the Bible tells me so. Little ones to him belong. They are weak, but he is strong. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Lord, your name is too great for us to just give you an hour of our time, just give you a few minutes in our week. Lord, you deserve glory beyond us, beyond this world, beyond this universe. You are the creator of all things. We want to see your name declared to every single being, every single creature. And we look forward to that day. When you return, when Christ returns. And then the world will see as the waters cover the sea. So your glory will be filled filling the world. Until that day help us to disciple, help us to share the gospel with those in our family. Just uh those who are bedridden, those who are uh little, those who are sick, those who are weak, those who are poor, and Lord that they would find their purpose in Honoring you, glorifying you. Pray that all of us will join in that mission. Help us to just uh worship you, not just beyond this day And just in our lives, in our daily devotion, in our work, and our schools, and all that we do. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.