Well, when I uh think of uh Thanksgiving, uh I automatically think of the Psalms. So many Psalms are filled with Thanksgiving. You remember I was going to speak on Philippians, but uh uh when we had Thanksgiving I had to come back to the Psalms. And we will resume in Philippians, Lord willing. And however, if you get a senior pastor next week, that's great. I'll be Praising the Lord, and you'll just have to wait and maybe invite me back in a year or two, and we'll finish Philippians. But uh, so many Psalms are filled, as you know, with thanksgiving and praise to the Lord. Um, at last. Pierre's Thanksgiving dinner at my sister's house in Pennsylvania. At one point everyone around the table, and there were eighteen of us and a lot of children, and uh they said what they were thankful for. Some of the children, you know, mentioned certain toys and things like that. Well, my uh uh then uh eight-year-old uh granddaughter Narayash uh said, I'm thankful for God. Wow, that's pretty fantastic, you know, not uh an Xbox or who knows what else, but uh thankful for God. Well actually this year she and her eleven year old sister uh just got baptized a few uh months ago. And I think to myself, well, that's exactly what you and I should be thankful for. I'm just not used to hearing that in the mouth of a uh a young girl. But that is the Indeed, what many of the Psalms say, including Psalm nineteen, which we I spoke on here at Faith this past summer. Psalm nineteen says we should delight in God and in his revelation, both in creation and especially in his work. And the Psalm we're going to look at this morning, Psalm 103, similarly shows us how much we have to be thankful for, and specifically showing how God cares for us. And what he does for us. Many, and I would say even most of the Psalms, have a mixture of praise and petition. They have a little of both. Many contain a complaint along with a value. of trust. Even Psalm 23, the the wonderful Psalm that so many know, and Psalm 8 mention the psalmist enemies. But that is not true of Psalm 103. This psalm is one of unadulterated praise to the Lord. Charles Spurgeon said of this psalm many years ago, he said, as in the lofty Alps, some peaks rise above. all others, so even among the inspired Psalms, there are heights of song which overtop the rest. He says, our attempt at exposition is commenced under an impressive sense of the utter impossibility. of doing justice it to sub so so sublime a composition. There is too much in the Psalm for a thousand pens to write. It is one of those all comprehending scriptures which is a Bible in itself, and it might alone Almost suffice for the hymn book of the church. So, with some trepidation but great delight, let us look into this magnificent psalm. The psalm contains 22 verses, the same number of Letters as the Hebrew alphabet. It's as if David has covered his topics thoroughly from A to Z. The psalm may be divided into three basic parts. The first and the last sections beautifully match each. each other and form what's called an inclusio. Give honor to the Lord, O my soul, in verses one and two, is echoed by a final chorus of give honor to the Lords in verses twenty to twenty two. culminating with the exact phrase in verse 22 with which the psalm began. So the first section, verses 1 to 5, introduces the theme of giving honor to the Lord for all that he has done. Done. And the final section, verses nineteen to twenty two, echo that same theme. In between the main body of verses six to nineteen basically explain in detail the reason. Why we should give honor to the Lord. So let's look in a little bit more detail at this Psalm. I've divided the middle section into two parts so that I see four main points overall. My first point in verses Verses 1 to 5 is that we should give honor to the Lord for all that he does for us. Give honor to the Lord for all that he does for us. As mentioned a moment ago, the Psalm begins with a command. to give honor to the Lord. The Hebrew word used here, barak, means to declare God to be the source of special power or to praise God. And I must admit I'm a double-minded man, unstable in all my my ways because and the outline in the uh well not entirely unstable but uh uh if you notice these the uh the title of the message was what? Praise the Lord but see as Steve has already helpfully pointed out this morning, there's another word that means praise and praise the Lord, which is hallelujah. Right? You weren't listening? Of course you were listening to Every word he says you're listening to, right? Well, mostly. Okay, maybe not. Alright. So hallelujah. And so this is not the same word, uh, so but it it means almost the same. same thing but there's a different word that uh that the stresses that halelu uh and then ya the Lord. This one is Barak which uh many translations including mine have blessed the Lord. Lord. Now, that's a fine translation too, except what when I consider somebody blessing someone else, I consider someone higher blessing someone lower. And so therefore I won't say bless the Lord because I'm for sure not what higher than God I'm way lower so that leads me to give honor to the Lord but it doesn't sound Okay, now that I've finished that and bored you all to tears, uh yes, you can say praise the Lord if you want. If you have no problem or hang up with saying bless the Lord, that's great too, or but I'm gonna Say, give honor to the Lord. Notice that David begins with himself. He says, Give honor to the Lord, O my soul. And this is a very personal psalm, and that's exactly Where David begins. Even though this is a deeply theological psalm, David starts with the personal. David says, I need to give honor to the Lord. And that's where I think it needs to start with you and with me. We need to give honor to the Lord in everything that we do. And it isn't something for David that's rhetorical. It's something that is very practical. And how much of David's David should give honor to the Lord. Well, his soul, his very being should do it, according to the first part of verse one, and everything within him is to do it according to the second part of the verse. All that is within me, bless his holy name. This isn't a half-hearted effort. Our whole being should give honor to the Lord. Reminds me of what Jesus called the first and the greatest commandment. Uh in Matthew twenty-two, thirty-seven and thirty-eight, uh, love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. Of course, Jesus is quoting from Deuteronomy. 6. 4. In verse 2, after David repeats uh the same line for emphasis, he explains that we shouldn't forget all of the Lord's benefits. As one uh uh commentator mentions, forgetting is not Not a slip of the memory, but a deliberate act of ignoring God's goodness and disobeying his will. This reminds me of what Paul says in Romans 1, 20 to 22. The creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things which are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, uh so that they are without excuse, because although they knew God, they did not Did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools. In a nutshell, the road to destruction. Instruction is to know God but to forget Him. I remember a number of years ago now, I was asked to speak at a Bible conference in Michigan, and the pastor of the church uh and I was staying at his house and he had the the habit of before we would eat breakfast we would have a long prayer time together. And uh when I say long, I mean Law. And he would thank the Lord for everything. He would thank the Lord for the lights, for the heat, for the electricity, for the water. I mean, go on and on and on. And I must admit, you know, the first time I heard it, I thought, well that's pretty interesting. And then the next day, because I was with him for several days, he would do exactly the same thing. And I would think, well, this is rather mundane. And the third day he would do the same thing. But I have to say that when I thought about it, I realized Yes, how often I don't give thanks to the Lord for these things. Now, I give thanks to the Lord for electricity once what? It's gone out for a couple days, right? Then you give a tremendous remember we had that thing called a what, the rake show or something? something I I don't even know how to pronounce the thing, but it was over the fourth of July a few years ago. And uh that was an exciting time. And then for sure you're what? You're thanking the Lord when the electricity goes back. Uh but why not it it every day. Wanna do it all the time. And I have to admit that the because of staying at this gentleman's house, I mean I was the one uh ministering the word, um, and I think he had me doing it like seven or eight times. to different groups and different things. So in like three days time it was pretty pretty uh intense. But I I came back thinking, you know, I need to be more thankful uh to the Lord for these things that I tend uh to take For granted. Well that's exactly what uh David is uh saying here. David says we dare not forget God and all of his benefits. And then he proceeds to list them in verses three through five. Of sins, healing of diseases, redeeming life, crowned with steadfast love and acts of compassion, and satisfying us with life-renewing goodness. Each of these really could be a sermon in and of themselves. And really, the rest of the Psalm serves to expand on these benefits. Forgiveness of sins is so basic and central to all that God does for us, since it's our sin that separates us from the sins. God in the first place. Ultimately, Christ's death on the cross provided forgiveness of sin for all who would believe. As uh one commentator says, there's no blessing that is greater in scope. for poor sinners, nor any that is so unentirely undeserved. The second phrase heals all our diseases might cause us some problems, because all of us have known folks who believed in the Lord but have not been healed from diseases. Whether in my case, uh type one diabetes, which I've had for uh fifty two years, uh other people have had uh cancer. My sister's brother, uh uh well one m younger brother already has uh died of uh brain cancer. The second one uh had brain cancer uh diagnosed five years ago through some amazing treatments, was able To uh um to live and live a good life for five more years, but he's back now, almost certainly going to die with the same brain brain cancer. Is it a matter of his faith? I don't think so. Uh I don't think that's the case. case. And so how do we explain this uh when it says who's heals all our diseases? Well first of all, I think we need to realize there is a close link between spiritual and physical healing. As Isaiah 53 verse 5 makes clear, which says, But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. And uh the actual uh phrase there in the phrase uh who heals our diseases is actually a singular your referring to the soul. It's possible that both lines of verse 3 refer. Refer to spiritual forgiveness and healing. But I think that the second part of verse 3 in our Psalm may also refer to the healing that will be true once we as believers have our new resurrection. resurrection bodies, when our redemption is complete. That's the one thing about Christianity. It doesn't just talk about the redemption of the immaterial part, the soul, it also speaks of the redemption of Of the body. Philippians 3 21. Both physical and spiritual healing. Well, the third benefit redeems your life from the pit is talking about eternal life. By implying a resurrection. The same term is used in Psalm 16:10, for you will not leave my soul in Sheol, nor will you allow your holy one to see the pit, which Peter and Paul state clearly in the world. The New Testament is referring to resurrection from the dead. But that's not all. The first three benefits were deliverance from something bad. But the fourth and the fifth are the bestowal of something. That is good. David says that the fourth benefit is that the Lord crowns us as if we were kings. I don't know. I always love that expression, crown me from checkers. You know? Play checkers? You always want, although some people would say what? King me or something like that. But crown me is, I think, more appropriate. At any rate, uh that's just a little uh sample of what God is going to do for us. He treats us like royalty. Psalm 8, verse 5 says, You've made man a little lower than God, and you have crowned him with glory and honor. Here in Psalm 103, the Lord crowns us with his steadfastness. Love and his acts of compassion. The terms steadfast love and compassion each occur four times in this psalm. And they're variously translated, by the way, so don't worry if you don't have those exactly. Words. But those expressions are used each four times in the Psalm, and they're really central to the whole theme of the Psalm, as we will see in a moment. And finally, the fifth benefit is that he satisfies. us with light renewing goodness, so that we are renewed with the strength and the vigor of an eagle. I think of Isaiah forty, verse thirty-one. Those that wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings as eagles, They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Wow. No wonder David says that he and we should give honor to the Lord for all that he has done. Done for us. Well, the second and third points, which form the main body of the Psalm, really expand on these benefits. They further explain why we should give honor to the Lord. And they centered the Lord. in on the Lord's compassion and his steadfast love. And really these two themes are interchanged throughout the section, but I've highlighted each one separately in my next two points. The second point in verses 6 through 14 is that we should give honor to the Lord for his amazing compassion. We should give honor to the Lord for his amazing compassion. David unveiled Layer after layer of this truth in these verses. But the background to the verses is undoubtedly the Lord's compassion and his graciousness to Israel in the Exodus. And this provides the supreme example of the Lord's compassion and his grace. David says in verse 6 that the Lord performs righteous deeds and acts of justice for all of those who are oppressed, as the children of God. Israel surely were when they were uh in Egypt. And uh David explains i uh how the Lord made known his uh ways or dealings with Moses in a very special way. And through the plagues and the other miracles he made known his miraculous acts to the children of Israel. And then in verse eight of our psalm, David quotes directly from Exodus thirty-four says. six, where the Lord says to Moses that he is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. Now, this is significant, I think, in and of itself. Just because it's an amazing truth. But to me, what is more significant is the context in which the Lord said it in Exodus 34. Because uh both of these statements there's an allusion to Exodus thirty three in verse thirteen and then the actual quotation in Exodus thirty four, both of these statements come after Exodus 32. What happened in Exodus 32? The golden calf. Praise the Lord. We have one. Amen. That's all we need. That's all I need is one. Uh I otherwise the whole church would have been chastised by me public. Okay, I'm only kidding. I I don't expect you necessarily to have the chapter and verse down, but that is such an a uh an incredible. Here is Moses Right? Up at Sinai, they're scared to death at first, and then they're kind of, you know, they're saying, wait a minute, you know, how long is it gonna take? And then they decide, oh gee, this would be a great idea. Let's start a party and let's worship a golden calf. How many commands? Can we break, you know, uh of the Ten Commandments commandments that were just given. I don't know about you, but if I were the Lord and you're very glad that I'm not the Lord, because what would I have said? I would have said, for example. Get this, I'm gonna pick somebody else. And that's it. You got no more chances. This is ridiculous. I've had it with you people. Ever thought that way with somebody that you've been working with and they not really responded too well. Yeah, I imagine perhaps you have. But here in Exodus 34, the Lord gives Moses a second set of stone tablets. Containing the law. Now I can't think of a worse time in Israel's history when they flagrantly disobeyed the Lord, they worshipped idols, and yet the Lord's compassion and his great grace was evident even. Even after that horrible event. Doesn't that give you and give me great encouragement that if the Lord could still bless Israel after that, then he can do the same with us? That's what is so amazing to me. I know I fail the Lord. I fail the Lord continually. I'm sure that you have as well. And that's why verses nine and ten are just so amazing. This incident in mind tells us that the Lord sets limits on his own righteous anger against sin. Exodus 34, 8 tells us that he does judge sin, but he is gracious and And he doesn't always accuse or stay angry forever. And he gives us far less punishment than our sins and iniquities really deserve. Notice that while David celebrates the Lord's compassion, he does. Don't totally ignore the reality of the Lord's anger. The mention of sins and iniquities, also from the context of Exodus 34, in verse 10 of our psalm, leads David to expand further on this wonderful truth of the Lord's compassion in dealing with our sins. No doubt in David's own life, as we as he thought back on it, he was deeply aware of Both his own sin and the Lord's compassion and his forgiveness. And that's what he emphasizes in verses eleven to fourteen of the Psalm, with three beautiful comparisons and a concluding statement. First of all, in verse eleven, how great is God's steadfast love? He says, as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy towards those who fear him. It's way greater than anything any human being can achieve, just as vertically the heavens are high above the earth. But this isn't a blanket statement for all people, only for those who fear the Lord. God's mercy is And his love are available to everyone, but only those who fear him will reap the benefits. Then there's a second comparison in verse 12, this time measuring horizontal distance instead of vertical. Distance. How far has the Lord removed our transgressions from us? As far as the east is from the west. And you can't get any farther than that. The east and the west. are very far apart. We've had the students uh uh live in our house uh from uh China, some from Korea, and when they go home, uh you can't really get get any farther across the globe uh than China. It's a very far away. And that's how far the Lord has removed our transgressions from us. And just by way of application, I would ask you this morning, I wonder about us. You know, if somebody else wrongs us, do we forgive them? Do we put their uh sin far away? Uh or is it always nearby, you know, kinda underneath uh well maybe not the pulpit, but some table or something like that, right? And uh and and so it's always lurking. And so somebody uh if if someone the same person does something again, guess what we do? Boom, we bring it out again. You see? And we make it a story, don't we? Yes, we do. I've seen it happen and probably have done it myself. So are we really forgiving the person or are we just sort of Temporarily putting it aside. That's not what the Lord does with us. Well, the third comparison is in verse 13, and it's even more beautiful. It says, Just as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord The Lord pities those who fear him. Just as a father has compassion on his children, God has compassion on us. I think of the parable of the prodigal son, where the father shows such compassion on the sins. son after he has sinned. It is natural and it is right for a father to show that compassion for his children. Sadly, today I am seeing more and more uh people who have trouble understanding God as compassionate because their own fathers were either out of the picture entirely or they were always harsh to them. We fathers need to make sure that we heed the admonition of Of Ephesians 6:4, which says, Fathers, don't provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. But the normal picture of a father or a mother. Mother is that of compassion. You ever seen a father h uh holding his newborn baby for the first time? The child is so frail, and the father will do anything to protect that little one and to show it love. seeing it sometimes, you know, the formerly macho man will then what? Coo and have a different voice, a different tone of voice. You all look like you don't know what I'm talking about, but you do, and uh e that's exactly think about it. Our Heavenly Father has the same kind of compassion for you and for me. I think that is amazing. Why does he do this? Well, one reason he gives in verse 14. God knows all of about us. He remembers that we are dust. He knows that. He knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. He made us from the dust of the ground. We who often think we're what? superior in some ways and so strong apart from God. I read a wonderful article in uh Time magazine today that said, Oh no no, we invented God after our image. God didn't invent us after his Oh my goodness gracious. Well we often think we're so strong apart from God, but really, in reality, we are weak and frail, just as a newborn baby in his father's eyes. And that meet us we us to our third point in verses fifteen to eighteen. We should give honor to the Lord for his everlasting steadfast love. We should give honor to the Lord for his everlasting steadfast love. As verse 14 said, man is weak, but God is strong. The contrast in verses 15 to 18 is between man's fleeting life and the Lord's everlasting steadfast love. He says, as for man, It his days are like grass as a flower of the field, so he flourishes. For the wind passes over it and it is gone. Kind of like the leaves on the trees today. Boy, I looked outside in the backyard and leaves were go were gone. Going down, falling down at a rate almost faster than snowflakes in a snowstorm. Uh and its place remembers it no more. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him. And his righteousness. To children's children. The comparison David makes in verses 15 and 16 is between man's life and grass. That same comparison was made by Moses in Psalm 90, especially verses 4 to 6. Thousand uh years in your sight are like yesterday when it's passed, like a watch in the night. In the morning they're like grass which grows up. In the morning it flourishes and grows up, in the evening it's cut down and withers. And the same uh comparison is given. given also in that wonderful chapter in Isaiah chapter forty of verses six to eight. All flesh is grass, all its loveliness is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades, because the breath of the Lord blows upon it. Surely the people are grass, the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. Eccles Ecclesiastes tells us over and over again that man's life is fleeting. It doesn't last. But while man's life may be fleeting, the Lord's steadfast love lasts forever. Verse 17 says it goes from everlasting to everlasting. People. Can let us down. They can disappoint us. How often? Probably that has happened in your life and in my life. But God never will. He demonstrated his steadfast love to us yesterday. He does the same thing today, and he will do the same tomorrow. We can count on him. There is no sickleness with God. He isn't a fair weather friend. We can depend on him because He's trustworthy. The end of verses seventeen and eighteen again give a qualification, just as we saw in verses eleven and thirteen. The Lord's steadfast the Lord's steadfast love is everlasting only for those who fear the Lord. Lord, as verse 18 explains, those who keep his covenant and remember and do his commandments. Verse 14 said that the Lord remembers us, and here in verse 18, we are told that we need to remember him. Well finally, in verses 19 to 22, David returns to that great command with which he began the psalm. So my fourth point is we should give honor to the Lord along with all of creation. We should give honor to the Lord along with all of creation. Just as a carefully crafted musical piece, so David comes back resoundingly to his opening command. Give honor to the Lord. It was given two times in verses one and two of our psalm. Now it is repeated four times in these final verses. But now it is not simply the psalmist lone voice. Now the command has widened to include all of creation. And uh he he says in verse 19, it then introduces the section by explaining the Lord's dominion is over all, his throne is over. Is in heaven and he rules over all. And so all that are in the heavens are told to give honor to the Lord, including the angels in verse 20, his heavenly hosts in verse 21, which could refer to the heavenly host. Heavenly bodies, the stars, or also to the angels, and then all of creation everywhere in verse 22, just in case you left anything out. Notice in verses 20 to 22 that there's also an emphasis. On the fact that all of the heavenly hosts and all of creation do the Lord's pleasure and they obey him. The strong implication is: if they do it, so should we. If they obey, Obey the Lord, so should we, and if they honor him, so should we. Well, having commanded the whole creation to give honor to the Lord, I love this last part and the last line. Because David returns once again to his own personal mandate. Give honor to the Lord, O my soul. You know, it's it's so often when we uh talk about the world today. We can talk about how the world is just doing terrible things and uh, you know, from uh who knows uh what example we're gonna give, but we can be very uh uh upset about what's happening with what? Them. But what can we control? Us. I can control me. Uh and uh that is uh all. Yes, the uh the whole universe should give honor to the Lord. That's absolutely true. But rather than simply focusing on the whole universe, on the world way out there, or maybe even the church, uh David refers uh back to that one person whose behavior He can control, and that is himself. And I believe that's exactly what you and I need to do as well. Well, I want us to look for just a moment more at the personal application. Compassion and his steadfast love and all of the rest. But I think there's another very important lesson that we can learn from this psalm. We have seen the character of God, his compassion. passion, his forgiveness, his patience, his steadfast love. But what about our characters? Do our relationships with others uh uh uh uh are they similar to God's character? Do they reflect the character of God? If God is amazingly compassionate with us, shouldn't we be compassionate with those around us? If God is patient with us, Shouldn't I be patient with others? If God is steadfast in his love, shouldn't we show that same kind of love to our friends or our spouse, whether they deserve it or not? And that's the key, isn't it? If God has forgiven our sins as far as the East is from the West, shouldn't we uh do the same? Should we hold grudges against the Others, shouldn't we forgive them totally and completely? Uh instead of what having them right uh nearby so that we can bring them out again? Uh that's not what God does with us. Remember in Matthew eighteen, twenty-one, Peter asked Jesus, I love Peter. He's trying to get it straight. And he asked the questions what? Nobody else wanted to ask. And so he says, Lord, how often? I love this. How often, if I can just get a number, uh shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? He's got the right idea, but he knew Jesus told him to do that, and he goes up to seven times. You know, seven, the number of completeness. That's a awful lot, seven times. And Jesus says, Oh no, not seven, but seventy times seven. And I don't think Jesus is saying count up to four hundred and ninety either, by the way. He's saying you just keep. Keep doing it. And then he told them this story. The kingdom is heaven like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. And one was brought who owed him ten thousand talents. He wasn't able to pay. The master commanded that he be sold. with his wife and children, and the payment be made. The servant then fell down and said, Master, have patience with me, and I will pay with you all. Then the master of that servant was, it says, moved with compassion. released him, and forgave the debt. But then that servant, the same servant, went out and found one of his fellow servants, who owed owed him a hundred denarii, and he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me what you owe. To his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay you all. And he would not, but when him threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what uh he had done, Uh they were very grieved. They came and told their master what had been done, and his master said, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you begged me. Should you not also have had compassion on your fellow servant just as I I had pity on you. And his master was angry, and delivered him to the torturers until he should pay all that was due him, so Jesus uh concludes, My heavenly Father also will do to you, it's each of you from his heart does not forgive his brothers his trespasses. Just to give you an idea of the amount of money we're talking about, one a talent is six thousand denarii. Uh and so Uh one denarius would be a day's wages. Let's say you don't make too much. Um maybe a day's wage just for the sake of my calculations. I made it a hundred dollars for a day's wages. And some of you are saying, Oh, I make that in a couple hours. Well Good for you. Happy for you. You can double whatever I say or triple it. But a day's wage is about $100. So a hundred denarii is around ten thousand dollars. While ten thousand talents is around six. billion dollars. Ten thousand, I think all of us could eventually repay. How about six billion dollars? That was the difference in what the two servants owed. So my question is, are you like the Lord in your forgiveness and compassion and patience and love? Are you like this ungrateful servant? How much you and I have to be thankful for? Maybe sometimes we underestimate that. But let's give honor and praise to the Lord and thanks to the Lord for all of the wonderful blessings. But let's be sure as well to show his compassion. And his forgiveness, patience, and steadfast love to those who are around us. As 1 John 4, verse 11 says, Beloved, if God so loved us, we are. Also to love one another. Let's pray.