Well, good morning, Faith Bible Church. It's always a privilege for me to be able to visit with other fellowships of believers. I often think about what Paul said in the beginning of his letter to the Romans, a body of believers. whom he had never met before. He said he desired to see them, he longed to see them, so that he might impart some spiritual gift among them, and so that they might share their mutual faith together. So he looked forward to that. Um I really I I love that thought, just that we all have the same faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and as we gather together, no matter where we're from No matter what church we attend regularly, we get to share that common faith with one another. Amen. I do bring you greetings from Hope Bible Church. Um it's a pleasure to be here this morning. Uh as uh brother Steve mentioned, I am here with part of my family. Um I have uh my two daughters, Hannah and Rebecca, the oldest and the third. Um My other two daughters, uh Nariah and Rebecca. No, Rebecca's sitting right here. Susanna. Susannah is new. She's uh a couple weeks old. She's home with mom and uh mom actually had a pretty bad migraine this morning. So she couldn't be here, even though she really wanted to. So we all bring you greetings as well. Going to be praying for your pastor as he's away. Missions is something that's close, dear to my heart. as I'm sure it is with you all as well. I wanted to talk this morning about how you can pray for the church. As I'm thinking about the way things are going in this world, and we'll talk about this just a little more in just a few minutes, prayer is one of those things that I think is absolutely necessary. for the church these days. I like this quote from a writer on the Desiring God blog. He says, prayer is at the very heart of the Christian life. Not only is it obedience to God's command, but it is a vital means of our receiving His ongoing grace for our spiritual survival and thriving. And the joy of prayer, he says, communing with God is essential to what it means to be a Christian. Without prayer, there is no true relationship with Him and no deep delight in who he is, but only glimpses from afar Prayer is that that vital union, it's that connection, it's that communication. We talk with one another in our families, right? You don't sit in the house with your family in silence. At least you shouldn't, right? When you when when that's happening, there's usually something wrong, right? Usually you talk and you communicate with one another You talk freely, you talk openly, you talk about how the day is going, you talk about how the week has been. We have a vital relationship with God through the Lord Jesus Christ. Prayer is that same communication. It's that same expression of fellowship with Him. Why don't we pray to begin our service? To begin the preaching. Our Father and our God, we do thank you so much for this privilege of prayer. We pray that as we look into your word today, that you would be with us. That you would be near to us, that you would open up your word to us, open up our ears, open up our hearts, help us to receive what you would have for us to understand today. Pray that you'd bless and strengthen our hearts with it. Encourage us together as we look at your word today. Help us, Father, to leave out differently than we came in this morning, to leave out equipped, encouraged, and ready to continue on in your your grace. We thank you so much for the privilege of prayer and that your son Jesus Christ is the one who gives us access to you. Prayer. Let the words of my mouth as I speak this morning in the meditation of our hearts collectively be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, our rock and our redeemer. Amen. We know that we ought to pray for the church, right? We know that we ought to pray. We're commanded multiple times to pray. Paul says, pray without ceasing. He says, be devoted to prayer in Romans chapter 12. We know that we ought to pray for the church. I believe you all are going through Ephesians chapter 6, talking about the whole armor of God, at least you were recently. In Ephesians chapter six, Paul says, with all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. There are a lot of alls in that passage, right? Prayer is to be made completely and fully at all times in the Spirit for all the saints. Our church, we have a quarterly prayer meeting. Every Sunday morning we get together and pray. We have a designated prayer corner on our online tool that we have internally for the church. You all spent a number of uh a number of moments just this morning as you're going through the worship service in prayer. And churches have different um uh similar habits uh of prayer so we know that we ought to pray but how can you pray for the church? What are some things that you can be praying for The church on a regular basis. That's what I want to address. If you haven't, go ahead and turn to Colossians chapter 1. We're going to focus particularly on verses 9 through 14. I'm going to read through verse 20, just so that we can get a greater sense of the passage. But I want to focus in on verses nine through fourteen. Really, this whole first section is about prayer. It's Paul's prayer for the Church of Klasse, another church that he had never personally met. But uh per church that he's connected with nonetheless. Starting in verse 1, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Timetheus our brother. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colossae. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have to all the saints. For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, wherever you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which has come to you, as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth in you also, since the day you heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth. As you also learned it from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ, who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit. For this cause we also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all might according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering, with joyfulness giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and light. Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. And I'm going to read verses 15 through 20. It's going to be in a slightly different version, so please bear with me. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. Him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. He is also the head of the body, the church, and he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself will come to have first place in everything. For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him, and through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, through him I say, whether things on earth or things in heaven. Now let me give a little bit of background to the book of Colossians. By way of summary, this was a prison letter that Paul wrote to the Colossian Church in response to a report that Epaphras brought to him, Epaphras who had founded the church. Paul wrote this and a number of other letters from prison. This letter was in response to a heresy that was beginning to influence a church that Epaphrus knew was weighty enough to require Paul's input. The Gnostics had begun to creep into the church, essentially with the message that Christ was not enough for them to have a full knowledge of God. Jesus is not enough. You need something more. In order to experience the fullness of spirituality, in order for them to be made complete or whole, they need something other than Christ. That's the message of the Gnostics. Gnostics essentially believed that all matter was evil. Thus the true God could not come in contact with matter. Thus he was Christ was not fully God, or he was not fully man, and therefore not fully sufficient to complete them. They also believe that the true God was not the immediate creator of all things, but rather through a series of spiritual emanations from Himself with each emanation um bearing the next one in succession, finally creation occurred through this latter, lesser angelic being, which is Jesus Christ. So the Gnostics believed. One author comments this. He says, so the Gnostics built a system by which one could begin with the work of Christ and work one's way up through a series of emanations to God. In Colossae, this system consisted of ascetic disciplines, many of which were borrowed from Jewish legalism. Consisted of secret passwords borrowed from Eastern mysticism, the esoterica of astrology and elements of Christianity It was all very complex and proudly intellectual. The Gnostics, those in the know, looked down upon the simple Colossian believers, browbeat them, and led some astray. This is the alarming message which Epaphras brought Paul as he waited in prison. Paul's brilliant response was a letter to the Colossians, which presented Christ as the creator and all-sufficient redeemer in the sublimest forms. of words ever found anywhere in Scripture. And he's referring to verses 15 through 20 of chapter 1. Oh, and his quote there. To his point, we live in a similar sort of climate today. There are numerous philosophies of our day, many people claiming that they have a new or more virtuous knowledge, better than what we have in the pages of Scripture. And those philosophies are seeking to influence even the church to draw it away from the truth, to draw it away from its head, away from Christ. I read an article some time ago written by a believer in response to the issue of Bruce Jenner and transgenderism. The article sought to encourage believers against responding with disgust, which is a commendable thing, and instead to realize that, as Jenner apparently reported, that he and others like him are simply wanting to be free. And to not feel as though they need to cover up their true identity. That is, in fact, part of the tagline of the day, that those who come out are really revealing their true selves. That's part of the new knowledge. In fact, those who come out as gay or transgender, much like Bruce Jenner, are labeled as heroes, as courageous. And anyone who disagrees or challenges that view is labeled as archaic, old-fashioned, bigoted. Even evil. Clearly, this part of this new knowledge is that while science, aka what is observable, matters when it comes to believing in God, They scoff at us because we believe in God when there's there's in their view no observable evidence for it. While it matters when it comes to believing in God, we can't observe Him, therefore they won't believe. It apparently doesn't matter when it comes to determining the differences between men and women, which are observable differences, right? According to this same new knowledge, choice rules, desire rules. Whatever satisfies my senses and my appetites. Rules. It is as Paul says in Ephesians chapter 2 that they are fulfilling, or in another translation, indulging in the desires of the flesh and of the mind. Let me quote to you from an article by Jesse Johnson, a pastor of a Bible church in Virginia. He spoke on the same issue. This is a rather long quote, but I think it'll be helpful, so listen up. He says, Gnostics are still around today. Only the best place to find them is inside the transgender movement. The modern transgender movement seeks to differentiate between one's biological sex and the concept of gender. Your sex is what you are born with, while gender is a social construct foisted upon you at birth by a society that wrongly assumes that your sex is related to gender. This is what they teach. This movement, Johnson says, has as its goal to obliterate that connection. He says, in claiming that sex and gender are not connected, they also claim that some people can be born with the wrong sex, hence the need for a sex change operation. For example, they purport that a person can be biologically male but has an internal gender of female and hence have the wrong body. Johnson then goes on to point out a couple of obvious flaws in their logic. He says, if gender is not connected with sex in the first place, then in what sense could someone have the wrong body? Right? If gender is all about social constructs, why change a person's body to match one's internal gender? Doesn't make any logical sense. Additionally, he says, here's how to tell the difference between sex and gender. People, individuals, have a sex assigned to them. It's something that they're born with. Nouns have gender. Right? A taco is masculine and a tostada is feminine, but these have nothing to do with their biological parts, right? This is admittedly an abstract concept in English, since ours tends to be a gender-neutral language, he says. But if you remember high school French or Spanish or Latin, you likely remember that gender is a concept that is grammatical, not biological. Unlike gender, sex is biological. There are chromosomes involved and physical parts that correspond With apologies, Johnson says, to the transgender Gnostics of our day, sex is not a social construct, but a physical reality. And he goes on goes on from there. I'll end a quote there. When it all boils down to it, the root issue in this whole discussion is not a desire to want to be free. It is not a desire to express a true identity. Or their true gender, which again is grammatical and not biological. The real issue, the root issue in this whole thing is their desire to rule their own life. It's a desire for autonomy. They want to be free to decide to do whatever they want without respect to God, particularly without respect to the God of the Bible, the God and Father of Jesus Christ. Christ and Christianity are a particular issue for those who desire autonomy. And it doesn't matter if this autonomy is expressed in transgenderism, homosexuality, the right to murder an unborn child, or any of the other issues that have fueled the moral shift in our society today. Christ is an issue because he must be dealt with. He is Lord. He claims to be Lord. The word ascribes Lordship to Him. His people proclaim him as Lord. That is an issue that must be dealt with for everyone. And they don't like that. They would rather claim, as the Gnostics of old, that there is fullness, there is freedom in doing whatever you want, whatever your mind and body desires apart from Christ. And that anyone who says otherwise is, again, hateful, bigoted, and should not be tolerated in society. Now again. We pray for many things as individuals, and perhaps we pray for many things as the church, better programs, physical needs. Additional staff needs, particular trials that we endure, but in light of all that is going on in the world around us, what is one of the most relevant and important things that we could be praying for as a child? church and praying for our church. As we read the beginning chapter of Paul's letter to the Colossians, the most relevant, the most important, the primary root of his prayer for this church. who had never personally seen his face, who was in danger of being drawn away at every point by these worldly philosophies, the most important prayer that Paul offered up for them was for their spiritual growth. That spiritual growth, Paul is going to say, is maintained by a steadfast conviction of our allegiance to Jesus Christ to do what pleases him above all, and it bears itself out in our daily walk. That's what we'll see in the next few verses here. In the section, we'll cover verses 9 through 14. We'll see Paul's prayer for their spiritual growth in general. declaring their allegiance to do what is pleasing to Christ alone. That's in verse 9 through the first part of verse 10. We'll spend quite a bit of time developing this. And then we'll see his prayer for their spiritual growth in particular borne out in their daily walk in the second part of verse 10 through verse 14. That kind of ties in with verses 15 through 20. We'll talk about that more next week. In that latter section, we'll see that spiritual growth is exhibited in four areas. Spiritual fruit, spiritual depth, spiritual strength, and spiritual Well, let's look at that first part, Paul's general prayer for their spiritual growth and allegiance to Christ. Looking in at verses 9 and the first part of 10. Paul says again, For this cause we also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. And before we get into the content of the prayer, I want to make a few questions observations about prayer in general as Paul prays. This is a good opportunity for us to think about what prayer is and how we should pray. Again, Paul says For this cause also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you and desire. These five verses, beginning in verse 9, are a continuation of his prayer. Of Thanksgiving began which began in verse 3. There he begins, We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and your love for all the saints. Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. This was not, again, a church that Paul founded. It was founded by Epaphras. But to Paul that didn't matter. He spent time in prayer, thanking God for their faith and praying on their behalf. Because of your faith, I give thanks to God. It doesn't matter that I've never seen your face. It doesn't matter that your love has never had a direct impact on my life. What is most important to me, what has moved me to offer a prayer on your behalf and thanksgiving on your behalf is that God has saved you by his grace. This is probably one of the most obvious and convicting aspects of Paul's example here. It didn't matter that he personally knew them. He still prayed for them. Let me ask you this: is that in your hearts when you pray? When you have your prayer time, when you sit down to pray, do you consider others whom you've never personally seen, never personally met? Do you pray as fervently for them? as you do for yourself. I like this quote from D. A. Carson on prayer. He says, we must ask ourselves how extensive our own praying is Do all our petitions revolve around our own families and churches, our own cherished but rather small circle of friends? Of course we are primarily responsible for praying for our own circle. If we do not pray for our own circle, who will? But if that is the farthest reach of our prayers, we become parochial introverted. Our prayers, he says, may be an index of how small and self-centered our world really is. What do your prayers say about you? What do your prayers say about how small and self-centered your world is? Paul prayed for people whom he had never personally met. He prayed fervently for them. Every church that he went to, every church he visited, every church he heard about, individuals he prayed for. How does your prayer in life measure up? Notice also that this was his regular habit of prayer and not a one-time event. He says again, for this reason also, since the day we heard of it. We have not ceased to pray for you. We are commanded to pray, and we have a heavenly Father who is the giver of every good and perfect gift. Thus, it is in our best interest to pray. We often have no problem regularly praying for our own needs. Thus, we shouldn't have any issue regularly praying for the needs of others. If we are inclined to have regular prayer for our own needs, we ought to have that same desire for others. Again, Jesus says, ask. And this is this passage in Colossians where Paul is praying, it's one of the passages that he comments on. He says, prayer is God's appointed means for appropriating the blessings that are ours in Christ Jesus. He says, many of the best blessings we need again and again, and so we must continually ask. And I say again, if that is true for us, that God has so Whom you fellowship in the area, Other places in Maryland, other places in our nation where you know there's a genuine faith in the Lord Jesus, a genuine witness present. We must pray for those as well. For those of you who are too busy, again, Paul prayed for this church whom he had never met without ceasing. He made prayer for them a regular habit. It's not like he was lacking things to do, right? This is the Apostle Paul. I mean he was sitting in prison, but he had I'm sure he had a lot of stuff to do. I'm sure he had a lot of churches that he wanted to correspond with, which we know he did. A lot of other churches and individuals, he talked about his daily concern for the churches and in the book of Corinthians, this daily burden or concern that he had for those people with whom he had fellowship before. And yet here is this other church that he'd never personally seen their face, and he has that same burden and concern for us. Same burden and concern for them rather. Back again to our text. What does Paul pray for? We see that he commits to praying for this church whom we had never met. We see that he does this as a regular habit, but what does he pray for them? Again, verse 9. For this reason also, since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray and desire. Paul uses two different terms to express his prayer here. The point is that Paul prays for them in general, and he also makes particular requests for them. He's not content with simply naming them in the course of his prayers, but rather is concerned particularly for them. He has a particular desire for them. And that desire is, as he goes on, that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. Again, we begin praying for you all because of your faith. We also continue without ceasing to pray for you all for your faith. We are thankful to God for the grace that has saved you. We continue to pray to God for the grace that will sanctify us. You. There's a lot packed in these verses. Let's uh focus in here. Again, he prays that they might be filled. They need to be filled because spiritual growth doesn't happen on the strength of men alone, right? And as much as we have the responsibility to pursue spiritual growth as born-again regenerate men, 1 Peter 2 2 says, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye might grow thereby. We are still desperately in need of God to work in our lives. In that same chapter, Peter says, you also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. A holy priesthood to offer of spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. We are built up as we come to Him, as we look to the Lord Jesus Christ. We are being built up by Him. A couple of other passages. Philippians Philippians chapter 2 captures this uh this tension between our work and God's work beautifully. He says, Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. That's our responsibility. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. That's God's sovereign work in our salvation. Also, Philippians chapter 1, Paul says, Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. God is going to do the work. He's gonna complete the work. We need for God to work in us in order to bring us to completion, to bring us to maturity. Paul prays that God would fill them with what? He With the knowledge of his will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding. Well, what is the knowledge of his will? It means knowing what God wants, right? It means knowing the will of God. If we are part of the church which exists for the glory of God, then it stands a reason that we must know what the will of God is. If we do not know what the will of God is, then we cannot possibly obey the will of God, thus we cannot possibly glorify Him. We may glorify ourselves as we pursue our own will, we may glorify one another as we try to do what's best for one another. But we can never glorify God if we don't know what He has spoken, what He has said, what He desires in the world today. My kids have heard this Already, but I talk to them all the time about being good listeners. Because there are times when I give instruction, you guys have been there. My mom could attest that I've been there. At times when I give instruction, go upstairs, clean your room, brush your teeth, I don't know, whatever it might be, right? You come back, half of it's done, or a third of it's done. And sometimes you know you get the oh I forgot or Or I didn't hear, or I didn't understand. And as a parent, you know you try to give very specific instructions, you try to speak clearly to the kids so that they know and understand. But somehow they always miss something, right? And we're kind of like that too, right? We can't put it all on the kids. We adults are kind of like that too. Sometimes we forget. Sometimes we hear only what we want to hear. We have that selective hearing disease that goes around from time to time, right? But we can't possibly be responsible to obey all that God has spoken if we don't know what He said. That's the point. Well again, what is the will of God? Often when we talk about the will of God, we're very specific. We talk about the will of God in the context of our own individual lives and the plan that God has for each of us. Certainly we may understand the will of God in this way, in a sense Yet we must also understand that for God to reveal his particular will for an individual's life to that individual is an exception, not the rule. We see such exceptions in the life of the call of Abraham and the call of Moses. We see God calling them very particularly, very clearly. We also see that in the life of the Apostle Paul. Christ showed up in Paul's life, knocked him on his bottom in the roads of Damascus. We see that kind of call in the life of Jesus Christ Himself. He says, A body you have prepared for me in the book of Hebrews. Peter says that Christ was our sacrifice foreknown before the foundations of the world. God shows up specifically, deliberately, even verbally at times, and he appears in the lives of some of his people. in order to give them a very particular message about their involvement and his greater plan of salvation. That's often what happens. But we have to understand that those are the exception and not the rule. Furthermore, when we look for specific teaching on the will of God for individuals, we don't find it. There's no chapter and verse that we may point to in order to ascertain God's specific will for our future. God is not a soothsayer to whom we may go to make requests about information about the exact nature of our individual lives. That's often what we mean when we talk about finding out the will of God for our lives. In essence, we want for God to show us the intimate details of our future. This can be dangerous in a number of ways. I'm going to quote D. A. Carson again because he has a lot of A lot of good stuff to say about prayer. He says we must think through what Paul means by the knowledge of his will with which he wants believers to be filled. Very frequently, Carson says, we are inclined to use the expression the will of God to refer to God's will for my vocation or for some aspect of my future that is determined by an appending choice. We seek the Lord's will over whom we may we might we should marry, over major purchases, over what church to attend when we move to a new city. He says, none of this is intrinsically bad. There are many ways in which the Lord does lead us, and we should not despise them. Nevertheless, this focus is often quite misleading, perhaps even dangerous. For it encourages me to think of the Lord's will primarily in terms of my own future, my vocation, my needs, and that is often another form of self-centeredness, no matter how piously put. Worse, it expunges from my conscience the dominant ways in which the Bible speaks about the will of the Lord. That self-centered view on life, Carson says, on seeking the will of God is often found in our prayers. Our prayers become so much about me and what and how the world affects me that I pray for nothing else. And more often than not, we tend to be driven more by our desires than anything else in discerning his will for our lives. Often our lives are often left floating adrift in a sea of circumstantial evidence, emotion, gut feeling, even prophetic utterances from friends. Rather than anything concrete or based in Scripture. As opposed to God revealing His particular will to each individual believer, what we do say in Script C in Scripture is that there are many things that God has revealed to us. As his will for the church in general, and thus his will for each of us individually in the church, right? 1 Thessalonians 4:3. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. That's pretty clear, right? God wants for us to be sanctified in every way. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. In everything, give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. That's pretty clear, right? God wants you to be a thankful people. First Peter 215, and this is the whole book of First Peter is all about this. Such is the will of God that by doing right you might f silence the ignorance of foolish men. Our our obedience, our God-honoring, holy living, in the light of those who are mocking us for our faith, silences their ignorance. It silences their foolishness. That's the will of God. There are many other things that we could look at as well. But from these and other doctrines, even advice and counsel from our brothers and sisters, we may easily devise the wisdom that we need to make decisions for our lives, whether or not God has audibly declared what we are to do. The main question is: when it comes to the will of God, are you doing what He's already commanded you to do? Those scriptures that are clear about His will, are you following and obeying those already? You can't expect to have wisdom to know how to make decisions to get where he wants you to be if you're not doing what he's already commanded you to do. Right? Again, Carson says it is folly to pretend to seek God's will for your life in terms of marriage partner or some form of Christian vocation when there is no deep desire to pursue God's will as He has already kindly revealed it. I'll give one more note on knowing the will of God, the specific will of God for your life. If God revealed what was going to happen in your life specifically and directly to you, you probably wouldn't be able to handle it. I get this quote from John Macduff. He says, There is no more gracious provision for our happiness than what is contained in the brief saying in Scripture. You do not know what will happen tomorrow. That's James 4:14. He says, if we knew in full in this grief-stricken world all that would befall us in the future, how sad would existence be? It would leave even prosperity without a note of gladness, for the certainty of losing our blessing would rob us of all their enjoyment while we retain them. And thus moments of unbounded pleasure would be clouded with the dark characters of anticipated sorrow. But thank God that the future is veiled. The storm and coming wreck are concealed, in order that the calm of the present, waveless sea may be enjoyed. Yes, we say again, Thank God for hiding the future, and allowing us to be only conversant with the joys and sorrows. of today. I don't know about you guys, but I would personally love to know what's gonna happen to me in the next five years, but I certainly wouldn't want to know all the bad, rotten, wicked things that are gonna happen, right? I'm thankful that the Lord knows those things, that he hides those things from me, that he conceals those things. Because he knows what to do with them. I don't. Right? Ultimately, the big picture of the will of God, which He has freely disclosed to us in Christ, is of greater importance than where any of us will be in the next five years. In Ephesians chapter one verse nine, Paul says, He made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his kind intention which he purposed in him, with a view to an administration suitable to the fullness of times, that is his summing up. Of all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things on the earth. God has already shown us what his will is. He's told us, he's made it clear and explicit. His will is that Jesus Christ be preeminent over all things. That's it. It's really simple. There's nothing more involved or complex than that. That Jesus Christ be seen and known as supreme, as sovereign, as fully sufficient, whether in heaven or on earth. That's it. That's why when we get to verses 15 through 20 of chapter 1, Paul takes time and he talks about the preeminence of Christ. Because that's the big idea about life. That's the big idea about the world. That Christ be known as supreme and sovereign, that he be known as Lord. As we just sang a few moments ago, right? The will of God is that Christ have first place in everything. That is what it path for struggles in prayer for the Colossians to know, Colossians 4:12. That they would be fully assured of the will of God. Do you believe that? Do you believe that Christ is the absolute sovereign over all the earth? Do you believe that this Sovereign Lord, that his will is that which should be done on earth as it is in heaven. Do you believe that it ought to be done in your life? as it says in Scripture, as much as it is in the church. Are you fully assured of that? Do you pray? That no matter the pressure, no matter the pain, no matter the trouble, that we would, the church, at all times in every way glorify our head, the Lord Jesus Christ, as fully sufficient and sovereign, as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, as the only way to know the true and living God. Do you pray that we would cast aside our desires for comfort and pleasure, forsaking all others, save that which honors and glorifies the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you pray that for the church? You pray that for yourself. Again, what is the will of God? That Jesus Christ be glorified, be magnified in you, in his church. I want to take that a step further, though. Paul says in Colossians chapter 2, verses 8 through 10, see to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy or empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form, and in him you have been made full, you have been made complete. Christ is supreme, he is the sovereign over all, he is Lord, thus all others and all else. Ought to be subject to as, well, we know in the future that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess, whether they want to or not, that Jesus Christ is Lord. That will happen. He is supreme. He is sovereign. But it's more than that for us. We are concerned with magnifying him as our head Not just because he is Lord, but because as it says in the passage in Colossians 2, 8 through 10, it is only in Christ that we are made complete. It's only in Christ that we are made full. It's only in Christ that we experience the fullness of God. Again, do you believe that? Are you convinced of that for yourself? If you're not convinced of that, you're not going to be able to talk to anybody else about that Turn to 1 Peter 2. I've kind of quoted from this passage already. I just want to look at it again. This is one of my favorite passages when it talks about who Christ is to us. 1 Peter chapter 2. And the big idea of First Peter, as you start to read it and as you go through the rest of it, is um The believers in Peter's day were being persecuted for their faith, severely persecuted for their faith, being rejected from society, being kicked out of their homes. I mean, they they had everything taken away from them. And so Peter's writing to encourage them in the midst of all of this to continue to stand firm in the faith. And part of the way that he encourages them in the midst of this to stand firm in the faith is by reminding them that God has chosen you. The election of God, the choice of God for you to be saved is the big idea, is the root exhortation that Peter gives in this letter. And that choice of God leads to us coming to faith in him, the new birth. So he talks about God's election. Then he talks about the fact that in him we have been given this new birth into a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ from the dead. And then from there, he says, because you have been chosen by God, you have obtained the new birth. Because you have obtained the new birth, you have new life, your life ought to be different. It ought to reflect the newness. Of life that Christ has given to you. Everything else in the rest of 1 Peter is about us reflecting the newness of life in Christ. It's about us living as children of God in Christ. It's about us imitating the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God, us walking in his steps in the midst of all the persecution and foolishness and craziness that we have. is going on around them. So 1 Peter chapter 2 is really starting to get into some more of that He says, Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings, as newborn babes, again, the new birth, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. To whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ Wherefore also it is contained in Scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, elect precious, and he that believeth on him will not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient. Whereunto also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people. That ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Peter says, Those who have tasted that the Lord is gracious, those who come to him as living stone, a stone that is alive, a stone that gives life, much like in the wilderness the people were made to drink from the rock. As you come to him who is precious in the sight of God, you come to him, because to you, on account of his graciousness, on account of the mercy that you have received, to you he is precious. You who had not received mercy, you who now have received mercy, to you he is precious. Yes, he is Lord. Yes, he is the King of Kings. Yes, Scripture says we are to honor and obey him, but it's more than that, beloved. We give honor and praise to the Lord Jesus Christ because to us he is pride. Because he has given his mercy and grace and compassion to us. Do you believe that? Is that in your hearts? He's not precious to those who disbelieve. They don't have any motivation to obey him. But if he's precious to you, then in your heart, with every breath, your desire and pursuit should be to do his will and not your own. And when they malign you for believing in an old archaic book written by some random men thousands of years ago, or so they said This book, which points to the Lord Jesus Christ, as the supreme sovereign, the King whom God has installed over the nations, according to Psalm 2. When you are maligned for your allegiance to him, counted as hateful, bigoted, ignorant of the new knowledge of tolerance, the truth. Will you hold fast to him who alone completes you? Him who alone makes you full Will you tell them boldly that He is precious to you? Pray that we would all be so convinced in the sovereignty and sufficiency of Jesus Christ alone that we would declare, as Peter said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, you alone. For we have come to believe and assure that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Back again to our text, Paul says that he prays that they would be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. We must be filled. We must be filled with the knowledge of his will to know what his will is, and we are to be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. In other words, the knowledge of God's will, ultimately, the knowledge of Christ as sovereign and all sufficient will be accompanied with spiritual wisdom and spiritual understanding. The word for spiritual there is actually linked grammatically to both the words of wisdom and understanding in the text. I'll put it another way. The way to have spiritual wisdom and spiritual understanding, unlike the view of the Gnostic teachers, the way to have spiritual wisdom and spiritual understanding is by way of God's filling us with the knowledge of His will. Which is the sovereignty and sufficiency of Christ in all things. It will not come in any other way. Paul calls this spiritual wisdom and understanding. Wisdom and understanding always go together. Understanding is apprehending truth. Wisdom is implementing truth in one's life effectively. From the perspective of the Gnostics, this could be found apart from Christ. From Paul's perspective, again, there is nowhere else that we could find such wisdom and understanding. But in Christ Jesus alone. And coming to know Christ by means of the Spirit, we are regenerated and washed, according to Titus chapter 3. three. And coming to know Christ by means of the Spirit, we're made to understand and appraise all spiritual things, according to 1 Corinthians 2. And coming to know Christ by means of the Spirit, we're given wisdom from above by which to live our lives, according to James Chapter 3. Again, Ephesians 6, in the context of spiritual warfare, we're told to take up the sword of the Spirit, which is what? The Word of God, right? We're told to take up the sword of the Spirit. As the Spirit works within us, he works by wielding the weapon of the Word in our lives. The Word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit of both joint and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the hearts. He says, There's no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are open and laid bare before the eyes of him with whom we have to do. David said, Blessed is the man whose delight is the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. The ground, the guide and guardian of our faith, the means by which our faith is further sanctified, is the Word of God. It is the word of God we read of Christ. This is why Paul will spend again so much time in the next section of this chapter magnifying the person of Christ, so that as they read the letter, their hearts would be filled with With the knowledge of who Christ is, the knowledge of Christ is supreme and sovereign and sufficient, that the thoughts of Christ will be exalted over all other thoughts. And this is the knowledge that the Spirit uses to grant us wisdom and understanding that we need. And we'll see this as Paul continues further. Again, he prays that they would be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding to what end? That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. Another translation says so that you will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord to please him in all respects. And again, this is where the anti-God philosophers of our day part ways with us in a pursuit of fullness or freedom. As I mentioned, that those Who are outside of Christ are seeking autonomy. They seek the freedom to rule their own lives without respect to anyone else, especially without respect to God, the true and living God, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. They seek that fullness and freedom by striving to please themselves, to satisfy the desires of their flesh and of the mind, or as Paul says in Philippians chapter 3, to satisfy the God who is their appetites. They have no faith in God, thus they see no merit and striving to do what he says. Hebrews 6 says that that is the essence of faith. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. God, for he that comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. To us there will be no greater joy than to hear our Lord say, Well done, good and faithful servant. And as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. 9, we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to the Lord. Our joy is to do what is pleasing to him, to do what is pleasing to Christ. In fact, there's a sense in which our capacity for joy in the future will be increased by our pursuit of him today. As we pursue his will today, even through pain, our capacity Capacity for joy in the future kingdom will be increased. I want to unpack that a little bit more next week, so you have to come back if you want to hear a little bit more about that. We see that as we look again through 1 Peter, he talks about addressing him as Father and living a holy life, conducting ourselves with fear, because we know the one who impartially judges. We ought to simply long to do what is pleasing to him. To us he is precious. To us, he is highly esteemed. To us, he is of infinite value. We ought to love to do what pleases him, to do what makes him happy, to do what glorifies and honors him If Christ is supreme, if he is preeminent, then he will be supreme over all of our decisions, over all our choices, over all our desires, pursuits, and practices, no matter what the world does or says. You cannot talk about being a Christian, about knowing Christ, if you do not obey what he says, if you have no desire to obey and to do what he says. Again, Paul's prayer for this dear church with whom he had never come in contact face to face, knowing that they were true believers in the Lord Jesus, knowing that they were False teachers seeking to draw their attention away from Christ, wanting for them to consider that there is some way to find fullness and freedom apart from him. Knowing of this great threat, Paul's prayer was that God would fill them. With the knowledge of his will, that Christ is supreme and sovereign, and that by this knowledge they would grow in wisdom and understanding, so that they could walk in a way that pleases him. That's what it means to walk in a way that pleases him. To walk worthily of the Lord is to walk consistent with the Lord. It's to have Christ as our guide and example. It's to imitate him in obedience to his words and conformity to his works. John says it this way in 1 John 2. 6: the one who says he abides in him ought himself to walk in the same manner as he walked. A healthy plant grows and bears fruit, right? I've got these little uh potted plants on my um my uh my deck at home and uh some of them are bearing fruit and some of them are not. The ones that are bearing bearing fruit uh we gladly uh make use of the fruit. The ones that are not bearing fruit we have to discard. Right? You know what kind of plant a plant is by the fruit that it bears. You know that if a plant you know if a plant is healthy by whether or not it bears fruit, right? If we bear fruit. Then we're healthy, then we're living healthy lives, and that fruit ought to be doing the will of God, doing the will of Christ. That's again our prayers, brothers and sisters. Our prayers for all the saints, our prayers consistently for all the saints ought to be that God would fill us with thoughts of the supremacy of Christ. That from this we would grow spiritual wisdom and understanding so that we might walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Prayer itself is submission to the will of God. Do you know that? It's allegiance to Christ. It's giving allegiance to Christ. It's submission of oneself to the desires of God. It's a glad submission. The glad admission that he is sovereign and that we are in desperate need of him to bless us. The Westminster Shorter Catechism defines prayer in this way. It says that it is an offering up of our desires unto God for things agreeable to his will in the name of Christ, with confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. If you have not believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, if you're not walking as he walked, if you're not walking in obedience to his command, then there is no possible way for you to be pleasing to the Lord. And you are still, as it says in Ephesians chapter two, children of disobedience. Children of wrath, and in no way children of God. His children aim to do what is pleasing to him Flee to Christ today. Flee the wrath that is to come upon those who disobey the Lord Jesus. There's no way for you to come to the point of pleasing the Lord in your life apart from knowing Christ. There's no spiritual maturity, there's no completeness, no sense of identity, no sense of satisfaction, no sense of fulfillment apart from being In Christ, believing in the Lord Jesus Christ. Start with a prayer. Pray with humble submission to the will of God, by faith in Jesus Christ, who is the way of God, that he would bring your sin-filled desires into subjection to his will. We love to quote John 3. 16, but don't often read John 3. 36. He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not on the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. We'll get into the next section next week.