Oh, sometimes you can teach an old dog new tricks. I never even really saw that one with the um with the uh uh ramp and everything uh until last week when I had a little trouble getting down there. Um in terms of prayer requests, I would also ask if you folks would uh pray for uh a missionary in russia, uh Olga Zaytseva. Um she uh is a CBS graduate. Um uh MA in Old Testament, so very dear to my heart, of course, because it's Old Testament. But anyway, in 2003, she's been uh serving with uh uh BCM And with in-step with the master teacher children's curriculum, doing a fantastic job. She's now the director of that program. And she has COVID and her mom has COVID. And uh uh you know I can take this off, can't I? Ah sorry. Well then the glasses don't get fogged up and everything else, but uh at any rate, um please pray for her. She's had it over a month and uh Um, you know, you you you may think uh medicine in the United States is bad. Well, not compared to other countries and in Russia Uh they can't go to any hospitals um because there's no room for them and so they have to get somebody to come out to them to administer IVs and other things like that. And that's what she's uh had had to arrange and uh just stuff that's really uh quite difficult for us to imagine. So do uh appreciate your prayers for uh Olga uh Zeit just a tremendous uh um servant of the Lord in Russia. Well the Amazing Grace song reminds me, brings me back years ago when I used to put my children to bed. Now they're putting their children to bed. Uh but uh I would always sing uh something, we would read something, and then uh I would we would uh pray and sing and uh many times it was amazing grace and we would always have to do that last verse when we've been there ten thousand years. So in a way that's a very uh special uh A special um uh song to me for many reasons. Well, um I I entitled this message, Predictions You Can Bet Your Life On We're only a little uh over two weeks from election day. I probably take uh too much delight in doing this, but it's always interesting to to me to see the pundits' predictions of what's going to happen versus what actually happens. And sometimes the pundits are absolutely right and sometimes They're totally wrong. I think that was pretty much true in the last presidential election. And in my lifetime and yours, I'm sure it's happened fairly frequently. And by the way, that's true in other fields as well, as people have predictions about the stock market. uh that seem to change on an almost daily basis and predictions about uh sports teams. Well just to start you off on a prediction that almost certainly won't be predic uh correct, I predict. that the Baltimore Orioles will win the World Series in two thousand and twenty-one. That's assuming we have a baseball season in two thousand twenty-one. And I know that's a pretty unlikely uh uh prediction, but stranger things have happened. I urge you to look up the nineteen sixty-nine New York Mets uh just for an example. I mean uh it's possible Now, of course, some predictions are more probable than others, and I'm not saying that we should totally ignore human predictions. But I sure wouldn't pin my hopes or my money on one particular stock or one particular sports team winning the big game. If you want predictions that you can count on, you need to stop watching the TV or media pundits or surfing the web and pick up your Bible Because the Lord, who is always accurate in what he states, has lots of things to say about what will happen in the future. The Lord tells us exactly what will happen at the end. For some it will be a time of eternal blessing, but for others, it will be a time of eternal judgment. And that's the message of all the prophets, and especially the book of Isaiah, where it's a constant theme from chapter 1 right to the end, chapter 66. If someone tries to say, and you may have heard me say this before, as some people do, that Isaiah 1-39 speaks primarily about God's judgment on sin and his holiness and wrath. But in 40 to 66 we have only God's redemption and his love, then they really haven't paid much attention to the book. Four from chapter one all the way through chapters sixty-five and sixty-six, which we're going to look at this morning There's been a constant interweaving of God's judgment on those who rebel against him, but his blessing and redemption for those who trust him. Remember that last week we saw in chapter 55 that the Lord's gracious invitation to salvation, which was absolutely free, was extended to all, Jew and Gentile alike. In chapters 56 and 57, the theme is comfort for those who are contrite, but no peace for the wicked. In fact, chapter 57, verses 19 to 21 end with these words. I create the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace to him who is far off and to him who is near, says the Lord. And I will heal him But the wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked This dual emphasis of judgment and redemption continues in the last nine chapters of the book as well. There's a vivid description of sin in chapter 59 that actually is quoted in Romans by the Apostle Paul, but also the redemption provided by the Lord's servant in chapter 61. In the end of chapter 63 and in chapter 64, there's an extended plea by the prophet Isaiah on behalf of the nation for the Lord's mercy upon them, even though they don't deserve it. And then finally, in chapters 55 and 56, we have the Lord's response. And guess what? Just as in the previous chapters, his response involves both judgment and blessing and redemption. And that's what we want to look at this morning. My focus is primarily on chapter 65, but the last point will be from chapter 66. Here are four predictions for the future that you and I can count on and will surely have a major impact on our lives. My first point from chapter 65, verses 1 to 5, is that the Lord continually reaches out to people who reject him. The Lord continually reaches out to people who reject him. The Lord explains that he reached out time and time again to his people, but they did not respond. In fact, in fact, in fact, I've been uh grading papers on Jonah for my uh Liberty Online course, and my goodness, uh He reaches out to Jonah, and uh Jonah, of course, ignores the Lord's uh wish. He goes his own way. He's swallowed by a great fish, has quite an experience and uh and still doesn't have a great attitude even by the end of the book. He just reaches out uh to people again and again and they don't always respond. In fact, I would venture to say that this has been Israel's history from the time of Moses to the time of the captivity. They continually rejected the Lord's entreaties and the words of the prophets. And uh Jeremiah, of course, was even imprisoned by Judah's king because he didn't like what Jeremiah was saying. Brief advertisement. If you want to join us on Tuesday mornings at ten o'clock, ten to eleven, the Miles Bible class, you can uh talk to uh uh Steve or Chuck or uh Pastor Sung or me and uh and And get hooked up to that as we go through rather slowly the book of Jeremiah on Tuesday mornings from 10 to 11. Well, it's a continued theme that they reject what the prophets say. Now, verse 1 of Isaiah 65 contains the irony of the situation. The Lord says that he reached out to a nation that was not called by his name, that is the Gentiles. We see that this happened in Jesus' ministry and in the early church. as Jesus and the apostles reached out to the Jews, but the Jewish leaders rejected him by and large, and later the apostles So the gospel went primarily to the Gentiles. In Romans 10, verses 20 and 21, Paul actually quotes this very verse in Isaiah. Even today, there are a few Jews who have responded to the gospel, but most reject it. Amazing, sad, but true. Why didn't the Jews respond? Well, Isaiah 65, 2 gives us the answer. I have stretched out my hands all day long to a rebellious people who walk in a way that's not good. according to their own thoughts. They rebelled against the Lord and verses 3 to 5 explained that they sacrificed the and burned incense to false gods. They pr pr uh practiced the necromancy, consulting the dead, and flagrantly violated the dietary laws that were meant for a holy separated people. Incredibly, they tell God in verse 5, and I want you to listen to this. They tell God, keep to yourself, don't come near me, for I am holier than you. Wow. They not only don't want to have anything to do with the God who created them and who chose them and who cared for them. No, it's not enough that they don't want him around. They actually somehow think in their deluded minds that they are holier than the Holy One of Israel. They have flagrantly violated all of God's standards, and yet somehow they proclaim themselves holy and take the moral high ground. Now, I want us to see two things as we apply the scripture to our own day. First, the Lord continually seeks people to follow him He doesn't give up on them. He gives them one opportunity after another. That's what he did with Israel. And that's what he does with us. So maybe you have gone away from the Lord or shut him out of your life. Well, he yearns for you to come back to him and trust him and the salvation provided by the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, his patience with our rebellion doesn't last forever, but we are to seek the Lord while he may be found, as we looked at last week in Isaiah 55 and verse 6. And that's exactly what he wants us to do. If he can save Paul, a persecutor of Christians, then he can save you too. But second, I see exactly the same kind of attitude that the Israelites adopted here in our own day Doing all kinds of things against the Lord's will, and then instead of being ashamed of those things, proclaiming that they are holier than God How many people today, sadly even clergymen, who have proclaimed that abortion or homosexual marriages are fine in the sight of God? And then they even take the moral high ground in declaring that those who don't agree with them are homophobic or intolerant. Do you realize that less than 25 years ago, 1996 to be exact, uh around 75% or three-quarters of the people polled by Gallup believed that homosexual marriages were wrong. Three out of four. But now, today, as of June uh 2020 67% of Americans, two-thirds, think that they are fine. You can look that up because it's in the uh just a recent uh Gallup assert. uh survey. Uh uh to me that turnaround is incredible. And there are people today as well who want to define whether they're a man or a woman or who knows what. uh rejecting God's standards that were set at creation in Genesis 1 and 2. Somehow they think that they know more than God and that they are holier than God, or that God's standards, which are clearly set forth in His Word in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, don't apply to them And so we need to recognize that this is the society in which we live. Yes, it is just as messed up, I would submit, as the nation of Israel was before the Lord had to judge them. And if you were higher thinking about these things, um I tend to think there's one way or the other that this could go. There can be either a revival, which we certainly we would pray for, a spiritual revival Forget the election. I mean don't forget the election, but what we need is a spiritual revival first, and then the others things will happen. Or perhaps the Lord is going to be leading this nation into a time of judgment. Who knows? The Lord knows. We don't. Well, my second point from verses 6 to 16 is that the Lord will bless those who serve him, but he will judge those who forsake him. The Lord will bless those who serve him, but he will judge those who forsake him. Throughout this section, Two different groups are contrasted, those who follow and serve the Lord and those who rebel against him. And in verses 6 to 16, we go back and forth between the two. First, verses six and seven conclude the previous section by a dramatic statement from the Lord. He says, I will not keep silence, but will repay the sins and blasphemies of these people. Is there no judgment for blatant rebellion against the Lord? Well, it may be delayed, but it will surely come. The Lord states that in unequivocal terms But then in verses 8 to 10 we have the Lord's reassurance that he won't destroy all of his people, just as there may be one good great cluster among a bunch of wild grapes, so the Lord would bring forth a remnant from both the northern and southern kingdoms to inhabit the land again. That would be true, the Lord says at the end of verse 10, for my people who have sought me. Once again, verses eleven and twelve point out that those who forsook the Lord would be punished. Interestingly, verse 11 says that these people prepared a table for Gad, the god of fortune. And they furnished a drink offering to many, the God of destiny, or the God of numbers. It's interesting today how many people also are bowing down to the gods of fortune and destiny, whether playing the lottery in hope that that will solve all their problems. gambling on sporting events, which has become big business. Amazing to me how quickly that has sprung up. Or in a more sophisticated version, doing all kinds of things to make more money. Money has become their God. Remember in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says, no one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other. Or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon or money. Well, these folks had no use for God, but plenty of use for the false gods of fortune and destiny Notice the plaintive refrain in verse 12 that brings us back to the first two verses of the chapter. Because when I called, God said You did not answer. When I spoke, you did not hear, but did evil before my eyes and chose those things in which I do not delight. The contrast between the fate of God's servants and the fate of those wicked Israelites is presented starkly in verses 13 to 16. The term servants, which was also used in verse 9 and is used five more times in verses 13 to 15, reminds us of the nation Israel who was to be God's servant. But instead failed miserably. But it also reminds us of God's true servant, the Messiah, described in the four servant passages in chapters 42, 49, 50, and 53, who accomplished everything that the Lord desired, following his will all the way to the cross. So these servants here, like the servant Messiah, are true followers of the Lord. For them there would be great reward Listen to the contrast in verses 13 and 14. Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry. Behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty. Behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be ashamed. Behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but you shall cry for sorrow of heart, and wail for grief of spirit. And in verse 16, the Lord promises that for his servants, all their former troubles would be forgotten by him. Now let me ask you this question. Don't you want to live a life filled with abundance and joy? You know that joy is one of my favorite words. That's why Philippians is. My favorite book of all time. And uh I spoke on Isaiah 55 uh last week. Guess what that ends with? With joy. I want that joy, and uh I hope you do too. Well these verses make it clear. You need to follow the Lord and put him first now. And are you and I instead pursuing a few momentary pleasures or other things that may bring temporary joy and forsaking the lasting joy which the Lord has in store for his servants? If so, that's a very short-sighted way to live. I think that's the way most people tend to live. Now we get to one of my, and I know you've heard me say this before, uh, but to one of my favorite passages in the entire Bible and certainly in the book of Isaiah. And that joy that was mentioned in verses 12 to 16 is exquisitely amplified in verses 17 to 25. So my third point is that the Lord's amazing new creation will be shared joyfully. There's that word again. will be shared joyfully by his people. The Lord's amazing new creation will be shared joyfully by his people The extent to which the former troubles would be forgotten by the Lord is given in verses 17-25, where there's a beautiful description of the millennial kingdom. And I'm going to get technical for just a second so you can fall asleep for maybe a minute and then come back if you're bored. Alright? But a few people may be interested in that. By the way, some people think that verse 17, the new heavens and the new earth, must refer to the eternal state, since the book of Revelation, Revelation 21, speaks of it. But in verses 18 to 25, Isaiah then goes back to describe the millennium. But the most natural reading of verses 17 through 25 is that they all talk about one period, which clearly to me seems to be the millennium Since there is sin and death mentioned in verse 20, and there won't be sin or death in the eternal state. And verse 25 is virtually identical to Isaiah 60, I'm sorry, Isaiah 11, 6 to 9, which refers to the millennium as well. Now, I think in Revelation, John is using the phrase the new heavens and new earth to refer to a slightly different time period than the one described here in Isaiah. just as in chapter twenty of the Book of Revelation, he uses Gog and Magog to refer to a slightly different time period than that one that is described in Ezekiel 38 and 39. In one sense, I see the millennium, the 1,000-year reign of Christ, as the first stage of the eternal state. But they aren't identical as Revelation 20 and 21 make clear. And by the way, in light of the devastating On the earth during the seven-year period of tribulation that's described in the book of Revelation, it's no wonder that we'll need a new heavens and a new earth. Things will be in quite a mess after all the conflict and turmoil of that period. Okay, those who are just falling asleep there can come back right now. I hope. The Lord says in verse 17 that he will be creating this new heavens and new earth, using the same word bara, create, that is used in Genesis 1. for the Lord creating the first heavens and earth. The focus in verse 18 narrows to the Lord creating Jerusalem as a rejoicing. Jerusalem, the site of so many tragedies for the people of Israel, and the place where our Lord, the servant, and our Savior was crucified would once again be a place of rejoicing created afresh. Isaiah chapter 2, verses 1 to 4 speaks of the prominence of Jerusalem in the millennium as well. Now I see seven characteristics of the new heavens and the new earth that are spelled out in verses 18 to 25. Guess what the first one is? First, there will be joy. You're noticing a theme. You see, I'm not going to talk about the coronavirus and the pandemic and the fact that everybody is As worried about this, that and the other thing. Yes, those things are all there. Yes, they're important. I want to focus on joy. And the Lord's joy is incredible. You can't really miss this because there are two different words for joy used here. One often translated rejoice or rejoicing, and one translated be glad or gladness. And these words are used three times each. for a total of six times in verses eighteen and nineteen. Now sometimes you and I r rejoice over rather trivial things. I might rejoice if the Orioles won the World Series in twenty twenty one. or maybe even if they just had a winning record. But that is a rather trivial thing. On a more important level, surely we would rejoice if there's a vaccine for the coronavirus in the near future. But this rejoicing is far greater than even that. This rejoicing is over a complete change in the world, a world ruled over by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. Now that is a real reason to rejoice. Second, verse 19 tells us that there will be no more weeping. No more weeping or crying because of the effects of unrighteous people or unrighteous governments or anything else. Revelation 21, 4 says, there will be no more sorrow or crying for the former things have passed away. Third, according to verse 20, there will be a longer lifespan. The child and sinner will drop die early at a hundred years old. We just lost a a wonderful man who o often came to my Sunday school class back at Forcy. uh and visited his son. He was 97 years old and he died just a few days ago actually uh uh uh of uh covet eventually And uh very sad in one sense, but 97 is is a good lifespan. Well, not in the millennium, it's not It's saying, huh, well, so short. Uh most people would live far longer than that, just as they did in pre-flood days. And uh look also at verse uh 22b, which says, as the days of a tree, and we think here of the sequoias, uh some of whom live, uh some of which uh live over a thousand years. Fourth, verses 21 and 22 says that there will be permanent shelter and fruitful vineyards that will be enjoyed by themselves, not planted for the benefit of their captors. Fifth, verse 23 says that there will be productive labor for the man and for the woman, the man's labor in the vineyard and the woman's labor in bringing forth children. In other words, the curses of Genesis chapter 3, verses 16 to 19, would be reversed. There would be no more pain. 6. Verse 24 says, there will be instant communication with the Lord. You know, they didn't have an internet back there, but they sure had the concept exactly right, didn't they? instant communication with the Lord, so that even before they call, the Lord will answer. And finally, verse 25 depicts peaceful harmony in the animal kingdom. And verse 25 is actually a condensation of Isaiah 11, verses 6 to 9. depicting the peaceful results of Messiah's reign in the millennium, just as here. The phrase, Dust shall be the serpent's food, Reminds us again of the overthrow of Satan, the tempter in Genesis 3. All of these details beautifully depict the tranquil peace and security of the millennial kingdom, where, as verse 25 concludes, no one will hurt and destroy in all my holy mountain. These aren't just nice words. They are words of promise and certainly for the believer. I like what Ray Ortland has to say about this passage in his book Isaiah, God Saves Sinners. He says, how big is your hope? Is the wingspan of your hope big enough to get you soaring? Is your hope big enough, imaginative enough, human enough to include whole nations and the entire created order? with wolves and lambs and lions thrown in for good measure. Hope on this grand scale, this is the gospel. It's big. It offers the prospect of personal intimacy with God forever. and a renewed world of peace and righteousness. It isn't just one or the other. God has a plan for you and for this whole world. The Lord Jesus Christ died for this and he will not be denied. Your enjoyment of God can begin now. It must begin now. Enter into Christ with nothing but need. He will recreate you. The gospel says. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If anyone's in Christ, he's a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. If you're in Christ, God has not just patched up your old you. He has made you new. And you will enjoy God forever in endless newness Every day you and I are tempted to throw this hope away. But what for? That broken down fifth-rate world? It isn't worth it What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him 1 Corinthians 2, 9. That's what we're living for, not the weekend, he says, but the end. Wow. What you and I as believers have to look forward to. Now I would love to conclude this message. Right at this point, the glorious promise of the new heavens and the new earth, and joy and peace that endure. But there's a final point And it's the point on which this incredible book of Isaiah concludes. Indeed, the Lord's amazing new creation will be shared joyfully by his people But my fourth point is that eternal judgment awaits those who reject him. Chapter 66, verses 12 to 17, and then verses 22 to 24. Eternal judgment. awaits those who reject him. This is the message that can be seen throughout the whole book of Isaiah, and it's emphasized in chapter 66 Yes, 66, 12-14A speak of the Lord's extending peace to Jerusalem like a river, comforting her as a mother comforts her child But verse 14 says that while the hand of the Lord will be known to his servants, the Lord's indignation would be known to his enemies. And verses 15 to 17 explain How the Lord will come with fire against those who reject the Lord and worship idols. The final verses of the book, verses twenty-two to twenty-four, once again depict Two tails and two fates. For those who love the Lord, they will worship the Lord in the new heavens and the new earth But verse 24 says that they will look upon those who are now dead, but while alive rebelled against the Lord. For them, their punishment is eternal judgment. Verse 24 ends, for their worm does not die, and their fire is not quenched. They shall be an abhorrence to all flesh. Now, you know, if I were writing the book of Isaiah, that's not how I'm going to end the book. But if you look at the book of Revelation, it ends in just about the same way. So I think there's a mo a warning here. There are a lot of people out there Even some evangelical Christians that somehow believe that since God is love, those who have rejected him will either somehow still be with him in the end, or else they will be annihilated. Now that's maybe a nice thought, but it goes against what Scripture says, and ultimately it makes a mockery of the death and resurrection of Christ. Why did God have to send his son to die in our place if he could just wink at our rebellion and let it slide at the end? No, God is loving, God is merciful, God is patient, but God is also holy and just Our Lord Jesus Christ Himself quotes from this passage three different times in Mark 9, 44, 46, and 48. To show that hell is real and judgment is eternal for those who reject the Savior. If you deny this doctrine, then you're denying the words of Christ Himself. I began this message talking about the foolishness of human predictions. Some will come true, others won't. But here in Isaiah 65 and 66, which depict the events of the end times, we don't really have any uncertainty at all. The Lord is very clear and straightforward as to what he's going to do. And what he predicts will come to pass. He has always reached out to his people, even though they have rejected him. And the supreme example of this is by sending his only son. to die on the cross in our place so that we might have eternal life and forgiveness of sins if we trust in him and become his servants And there's so many wonderful things which are in store for those who trust him. That redemption, continually promised in the book of Isaiah and in all of Scripture, will be ours personally. But the scripture is equally clear that those who forsake the Lord and go their own way will be judged eternally. So, no, there isn't any doubt in terms of what God is going to do in the end. But the question is, on which side will you find yourself? I remind myself, and I remind you, of the words with which Jesus began to conclude the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 7 and verses 21 to 23. He says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, haven't we prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Now, to me, those are sobering words. On the one hand, I am not trying to scare those who are truly believers, who have put their trust in Christ, for all of us sin and fall short of God's glory. But I am trying to encourage you to examine afresh your life and your thoughts and not simply assume that you're a servant of Christ. simply based on some external works or going to church every Sunday. The scriptural warnings are so clear and we dare not ignore them If we're believers, our lives should manifest that very clearly. And they should manifest the fruit of a believer. The good news of Isaiah and the good news of the Bible as a whole is that though we're sinners and deserve God's judgment The Lord Himself has entered into our judgment and taken that judgment on Himself, so that nothing can keep us from the glorious future that He has in store for us. Nothing. Accept our own stubborn choice to persist in rebelling against him. I beg you, I urge you to trust in him fully with all of your heart. Let's join in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you, Lord, for the wonderful promises that are described, especially in these chapters that we've just looked at in the whole book of Isaiah. We thank you, Father, for these promises of eternal life and forgiveness of sins, Lord, for those who have trusted in Christ as their Savior. And all of the joy that awaits us. Lord, we realize there is so much injustice today in the world. Lord, there may even be injustice uh to us personally in some way or other. But Lord, you tell us to look beyond that and not simply to right our own wrongs, but to cast our cares upon you. and to rest in you because we know that maybe not on this earth in this life but ultimately there is going to be justice and true justice Lord and there is going to be a wonderful Salvation because that's exactly what you promise. We look at these promises of a new heavens and a new earth, and some people simply take this as symbolic I would see them as literal and true, but regardless, Father, we know that when we're with you, that is just a wonderful and joyous time and place to be. But Father, I do pray that we would examine ourselves and make sure that we've truly trusted in you as our Savior. That we're not just plain church, that we're not just mouthing words. But we've truly trusted in Christ. We've recognized the depth of our own sin and depravity. And we've come to you. Because all of our righteousness, as the scripture says, is simply as filthy rags. Thank you, Lord, for Christ's life, death, and resurrection on our behalf for our sins. Help us, Lord, to continue to appropriate that in our own lives, Lord, and then reflect that genuine joy that you give us in salvation, Lord. Even this day, this week, this month, this year, Lord, even as we go through various things that we may not uh that are not particularly pleasant. But Lord, we have The knowledge of the future because you have given it to us. Help us, Lord, to rejoice in that and to count on that because we know it is certain. Thank you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.