Okay, it's great to be with you. And yes, I'm getting a little older and uh I was telling uh uh Steve that he looked you know younger and then he told me that I was pretty much lying, which is true, and then I I I figured I'd ask him how many grandchildren he has. He's got twelve grandchildren. I've only got seven, so there, I'm I'm way younger than you. That must mean somehow. No, it doesn't Okay, well I want to look this morning at Daniel uh chapter four. Uh it's uh certainly one of those chapters that many of us are familiar with. And though it deals with an ancient pagan king, Nebuchadnezzar, I think it has a great deal to say for you and for me, almost 2,600 years later. Like the first three chapters of Daniel, chapter four also features Nebuchadnezzar and his interaction with Daniel and his friends. But this is actually the final chapter in dan in uh the book of Daniel, in which Nebuchadnezzar is on the scene. He's mentioned in chapter 5, but at that point uh he is dead. Uh and in your uh uh outline sheet I presented a possible literary structure of Daniel 2. through seven that was uh uh noticed by Paul Tanner. And I have to tell you that I don't usually pay much attention to these alleged literary structures that scholars uh seem to find everywhere, and I don't usually find them. But this one seemed to make a good deal of sense. And all I really want you to see on that is that chapters four and five are both parallel in that they feature a prideful king. who is humbled. Here in chapter 4, it's Nebuchadnezzar, and in chapter 5, it's Belshazzar But as we shall see, there's quite a bit of difference in the outcomes of these two chapters. Amazingly, here in chapter 4, Nebuchadnezzar seems to have learned his lesson and praises the Lord. And uh so that's a wonderful thing, but in chapter 5, Belshazzar's pride leads to his downfall and death. Both chapters deal with very prideful kings. And don't worry, I'm only going to talk about chapter four. uh this morning. Maybe sometime if I come back in a year or so and you won't remember anything I said this morning, we can talk about chapter five. Well, before we delve into the text, I want to say a word about the historicity of this chapter. This chapter has been attacked relentlessly by critical scholars for its historicity. Not only because of uh Nebuchadnezzar's animal-like behavior, but especially because scholars can't account for a seven-year uh interruption in his reign as verses twenty-three and thirty-two seem to state. But the Aramaic word that's used in both verses simply means times, not years. It could refer to seven years or possibly seven seasons. uh as uh Linda Loring uh discussed in her MA uh thesis written under my direction, I hate to say the time, because then it might seem that I'm a little Older than I just said, written in 1986. If it means seven seasons, that would be a period of less than two years for uh an interruption in his reign. And uh it uh uh if such a uh period of uh madness did happen, which I certainly believe that it did, it would be highly unusual for such a period of history to be chronicled by uh uh n uh uh any of Nebuchadnezzar's successors. Such a humiliating experience certainly would have been omitted from official accounts. Um I'm thinking r right now of certain regimes. Let's just say, and we sometimes think uh we don't have a lot of freedom of press here. Oh yes we do. Just compare what's happening, say, in Russia. where there's only one version of the truth, and it's uh Vladimir Putin's. And uh if you have a different view ver version of the uh the truth, well I hope you've uh you know got your affairs in order, shall we say. because you might not be here on earth all that long. My point is that if uh if the state controls the press Things like this event I don't wouldn't expect would be in the official annals of uh Babylonian history. Uh so A corroboration of it, as one scholar said, corroboration of it can hardly ever be expected from archaeology, for royal families do not leave memorials of such frailties. So I think that's absolutely the case. Uh so uh uh as far as I'm concerned, uh this is absolutely uh historical And sometimes we we talk about the stories of, for example, uh uh Daniel in the lion's den, right? Or uh the uh the the three men in the fiery furnace And uh uh this one here. Uh but uh I wouldn't call them, I mean they are stories, but they are what? True events and accounts. So I prefer to use the word accounts. And what I intend to do in this message is to go through each of the six sections of this 37 verse chapter. So I'm not necessarily going to go verse by verse. The New Testament is different. I always go verse by verse, but Well, I don't know if I did in 1 Corinthians 15, so I better I better amend that. But 37 verses is a lot, so I'm gonna go through the contents fairly rapidly in the six uh different sections and then provide uh four applications at the end So, first of all, in verses 1 to 3, Nebuchadnezzar's introduction of the events, we see from the first three verses of this chapter how unusual it is. Because in fact, this is Nebuchadnezzar's own personal account of what happened with portions in the first person. Uh Gleason Archer says that it's the only chapter in the Bible written by a uh pagan. And uh I think he's right. I couldn't think of any other chapter, though I'm quite sure that Daniel supplied the narrative portion of the chapter. But it begins and it ends in the first person. And it also begins and ends with praise to the Lord. Well, it begins then in verses 1 to 3. with Nebuchadnezzar making a declaration to the whole earth, that is his entire kingdom. And he greets them with peace, and then in verse 2 he declares the signs And wonders that the Most High God has worked for me. So what he is recounting here is what he views as a miracle from God In verse 3, Nebuchadnezzar elaborates by saying that God's signs and wonders are great and mighty, and they demonstrate that God's kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. These words are nearly identical to David's in Psalm 145-13 Uh what I usually do in fact in my uh in my notes is uh if I have a reference, since my hands don't work uh well, since I have partial paralysis of my uh hands and arms, I usually write them in the in the notes. But then as I was doing that last night, I said, no, they're pretty much identical. I don't need to write anything because that's exactly what Psalm 14513 says. So um Daniel may well have declared this uh to uh Nebuchadnezzar Now let me say at the outset that Nebuchadnezzar's testimony isn't simply based on the events of chapter 4. And I guess This really struck me this week as I was studying this chapter is that God has been working on Nebuchadnezzar Ever since chapter one. Now why wouldn't I have figured that out, you know, earlier? I don't know, because sometimes, I don't know about you, but every time I go through a passage, even a familiar passage I I learned something new. Somebody said to me, I teach in Miles Bible class, or a few of you actually that attend on Zoom on Tuesday. mornings and uh she came up to me afterwards and she's known me me for many years and she said, you know, one of the things I appreciate is you You don't just sort of go through the motions, you're continuing to study every week. I thought, well, yeah, of course, because there's new stuff. That I have first of all I don't remember all the old stuff, but secondly, there's new stuff every time, and I hope that that's the case. uh with you. But this time it just struck me. God's been working on Nebuchadnezzar since chapter 1. This isn't just by itself, chapter 4. He's been uh working on Nebuchadnezzar. Uh there in chapter one, Nebuchadnezzar was first exposed to God's greatness through his servant. Daniel, whom Nebuchadnezzar found ten times better than all the other magicians and astrologers in the realm. In chapter 2, Daniel gave all the glory to God in heaven who reveals secrets, as Daniel says in Daniel 2. And when Daniel revealed the king's dream and its interpretation, Nebuchadnezzar promoted Daniel, gave him many gifts. And he exclaimed that your God is the God of gods, the Lord of kings. Daniel 2, 47. The magicians and the astrologers couldn't reveal the king's dream, but Daniel and his God could. And then Daniel explained in chapter 2, verse 44, that God's kingdom would stand forever. paving the way for Nebuchadnezzar's exclamation here in chapter 4 and verse 3, that God's kingdom is everlasting. And chapter 3, Nebuchadnezzar made this 90-foot, a huge, 90-foot statue of gold, and he required everyone to bow down. And by the way, of course, uh next week uh Pastor Sung will be back and he'll be talking about uh uh food offered uh to uh uh idols. Well, uh that's not exactly the same kind of thing that we got uh uh in chapter three, but it's pretty close. Nebuchadnezzar makes this huge stature and orders everyone to bow down. But when Daniel's friends refuse, and were thrown into the extra hot, super hot, fiery furnace, then Nebuchadnezzar witnesses another sign from God as the men were miraculously completely unscathed and there was a fourth being walking around as well. I don't think it necessarily had to be the the Lord Jesus. I think it will could be an angel regardless. Nebuchadnezzar blesses the God. of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego makes a decree that no one could speak against their God, because, chapter 3, verse 29, there is no other God who can deliver like this. So Nebuchadnezzar's praise of the Most High God has been building since chapter 1. Perhaps this is also a good reminder for us to keep on being a witness to our unsaved friends. Who knows how the Lord may work over time if we are a faithful witness to God's grace, just as Daniel and his friends were Yes, sometimes people accept the Lord when they're first introduced to him, but more often it's a gradual process. Well, the second portion in verses 4 to 9, Nebuchadnezzar relates that he had a troubling dream. So he summoned the wise men to interpret it. We aren't sure of the precise date of these events, but most scholars think that it's near the end of Nebuchadnezzar's 43-year reign. He died in 562 B. C. , and that makes sense, perhaps around 570. And verse 4 seems to support that idea since Nebuchadnezzar says he was at rest and he was flourishing in his palace. As Paul Tanner observes, this is probably at a point in his career when he had succeeded in military conquest. His kingdom had become stable, material riches were flowing into his treasury, and he was enjoying the fruits of his many building projects for which he would become famous. I've always found it interesting that some people can't wait to retire, you know, because then after all they can just sit sit back and relax. Well, I have not officially retired. I don't know that I'm ever going to officially retire because I don't really actually like the idea of just sitting uh well I don't mind sitting down and relaxing occasionally. But I don't like the idea of sitting down and relaxing and just enjoying me, myself, and I, all of us together. That sounds rather lonely actually to me. And also it doesn't sound like what the Lord wants me to do with the rest of my life. Seems like if I'm alive, he wants me to serve him. I don't know. Maybe I'm completely off, but that's what I think. Anyway, I don't think Nebuchadnezzar's attitude is too good, and I think we can back that up with scripture. So things were going well, or so he thought. But all of that changed in verse 5. Things can change on a dime, can't they? When he had a dream that caused him to be afraid and deeply troubled, Tanner says here, just when he seemed to have all that his heart longed for, God sent him a dream that would lead to a shaking up of his little world. Now in verses 6 to 9, we have basically a repeat of chapter 2. Nebuchadnezzar, I don't know why he bothers to do this. Did he forget about Daniel? He summons all the soothsayers of Babylon. but none could help. Well, go back to chapter two. Same thing happened there. Finally in verse eight, Daniel comes and Nebuchadnezzar tells him the dream. Now maybe Daniel had been detained with other business, or perhaps Daniel chose himself to come last after the inadequate help that was offered by the others. We simply don't know. But in verses 8 and 9, Nebuchadnezzar acknowledges that in Daniel is, as he says, the Spirit of the Holy God. So, in verses 10 to 18, Nebuchadnezzar then recounts the dream to Daniel. By the way, I use the New King James Version, which I generally like a lot. But this one I don't like. New King James translates God in verse 8, and it's almost certainly incorrect. It's got a capital G Other versions have gods, lowercase g, and that translation is supported by the plural adjective holy that is an agreement. with the noun. And uh so at any rate, I think it's uh it's uh uh God's holy gods, not God Anyway, just a minor thing, but it really bugged me because I usually like the New King James and it it failed me here. So there is no perfect translation. I don't care what translation you have. Last week our church is using the NIV, which is not my favorite translation and it completely butchers Psalm 8, What is Man that you are mindful of him. And wow, it takes the whole messianic aspect away. because it's trying to use inclusive language for mankind. Sorry. Anyway, I'm just saying there are no so if you have an NIV, that's fine. It's just that I'm not going to agree with you in certain places. But even in my Beloved New King James, I'm not gonna agree with it either. I'm rather ornery, I don't agree with anybody or any no, I'm kidding. Nebuchadnezzar, the third point, Nebuchadnezzar recounts the dream to Daniel in verses 10 to 18. Now the dream has two parts. There is a good uh the good part, a nice part, and then a very scary part. The nice part in verses 10 to 12 is a description of a huge, bountiful tree. There's a similar description in Ezekiel chapter thirty thirty-one, verses three to nine of the nation of Syria, described by the Lord as a great cedar in Lebanon that would eventually fall. The one here in Daniel 4, verse 10, is located in the midst of the earth, no doubt, because of Babylon's Greatness as an empire. Its growth and influence is seen in verse eleven, able to be seen everywhere. And verse 12 indicates that its fruit was abundant. So all those around were profiting from its prosperity. But the picture changes dramatically in verses 13 to 17, as Nebuchadnezzar describes a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven. Though now found elsewhere in the Old Testament, the term watcher refers elsewhere in intertestamental literature to an angel. It occurs in the Qumran writings of 1 First Enoch and Judith, the Jubilees, the Genesis Apocryphon, and the Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs As one commentator points out, he says, holy watchers is a good description of God's angels, for they both watch over the activities of human beings, and they are holy. Nebuchadnezzar's life had been observed by heaven. By the way, what about our lives? Same thing. Uh there are watchers watching us, the angels, and it did not measure up to the standard of holiness set by the holy God. Therefore the messenger had been sent with a word of warning to the king. The message of judgment begins in verse 14, where the angel commands that the tree be cut down, its leaves stripped off, and its fruit scattered. No longer would the beasts of the field or the birds be able to rely on it for protection. But in verse 15, we learn that the tree is not to be utterly protected destroyed. The angel commands that the stump and the root be left, and as uh which is certainly suggests the possibility that the tree may grow again. The stump is to be bound with iron and bronze, meaning that a strong bond or fence was to be placed around it in order to protect it from destruction. Now notice that in the middle of verse 15, the subject changes from a tree to a person. This man was to be exposed to the elements. To be wet with the dew of heaven and uh gr and to graze with the beast. Even worse, in verse 16, it says that his heart is to be changed from a man to a beast until seven times pass over him. The purpose for this unusual decree is given in verse 17 In order that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, gives it to whomever he wills, and sets over it the lowest of men. Nebuchadnezzar needed first to recognize God's sovereign control over all things. And second, he needed to humble himself since God values humility. not pride. As Isaiah 57, 15 says, thus says the high and lofty one who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy, I dwell in the high and holy place. with him who has a contrite and a humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite one. Some think that the last verse uh in the the last phrase in verse 7 and sets over it the lowest of men is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. But I take it as a general principle. Which indeed was exemplified sublimely in the incarnation of our Lord. After Nebuchadnezzar then recounts the dream, In verse 18, he asked Daniel to interpret it, since even though all the wise men uh couldn't do it, he was confident that Daniel could, since he says, the spirit of the holy gods is in you. Well, that leads us then to the next section of the chapter in verses 19-27, Daniel's interpretation of the dream. No, I just love. You know, would you like to do you ever imagine that you're the person in the in the account, etc. ? And so uh uh y you know, I'm Nebuchadnezzar and uh Steve already, you know picked on him enough. But uh Steve is Daniel and would you please tell me the dream? And he's shaking and quaking and thinking, I don't want to tell him the dream. I mean, you know, it's the end of me if I tell him the dream. Uh so I can hardly blame Daniel in his reluctance to interpret the dream dream because he knew it was bad news For Nebuchadnezzar. But the king actually encourages Daniel to speak. So Daniel starts off by wishing that the dream concerned the king's enemies rather than the king himself. You know, have you ever been attempt you know, have you ever attempted to sort of shade the truth from powerful people? Right? Maybe your boss or something like that. I don't know. Uh you know y you really I I I mean I wouldn't well I I wouldn't really blame him if he sorta tried to sugarcoat it a little bit. And I think that's a great lesson for us, right? We shouldn't sugarcoat things. We should uh state the truth. Daniel's integrity shines through once again. Daniel explains in verses 20 to 22. that this bountiful tree with all its leaves and and fruit represented the king himself, who had grown strong, whose greatness was unparalleled, whose dominion extends to the ends of the earth And so far so good. But then in verses twenty-three to twenty-six, Daniel explains the second part of the dream. He says in verse twenty-five that Nebuchadnezzar would be driven away uh from men. He would live. with the beasts of the field, and he would indeed eat grass like an ox. Seven times, as I said, maybe seven years, but possibly seven seasons. would pass over him until Nebuchadnezzar recognized that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever he chooses. But then there's some good news, as Daniel relates in verse 26, since the stump and the roots were to remain, this means that Nebuchadnezzar would still possess his kingdom. once he recognized that heaven rules. By the way, as far as I know, this is the only time in the Old Testament where heaven is used as a substitute for God. Interesting side side note. But though Daniel is finished interpreting the dream, in verse 27, he then gives Nebuchadnezzar some advice. It reminds me actually of Joseph. You remember before uh uh the uh uh Pharaoh in Genesis 41 verses 33 to 36, he not only interprets Pharaoh's dream but he also gives wise advice as to what Pharaoh should do next. Rare and highly valued is the person who can not only identify the problem, in this case, interpret the dream, but also offers a wise solution. That's what Joseph did, and that's exactly what Daniel does uh here. I remember um uh uh a number of times when I was uh I've been an elder for uh quite a few years uh at my uh church and I had one dear person which come to me, it seemed like week after week, and tell me what was wrong, you know, with the church. Not me individually, but the church, and then I should fix it. So finally, after hearing this for a few weeks, I mean I know none of you are like this in your church, because your church is far godlier than my church. But You know, uh I I asked him and his name was was Ralph. He's with the Lord now, so he he knows what's what. Uh anyway, I said, Ralph, what would you have me to do? Well he didn't have a solution. And after that, he didn't ask me those questions anymore. It just took one question What do you want me to do? In other words, if there's nothing you actually want me to do and you just want to complain about it, uh I I like the person like Joseph. And like Daniel here, they can what? Also suggest a solution. So hopefully when you talk to your pastor and your elders, you're not just complaining. All the time, right? You're just maybe suggesting some solutions kindly and graciously, possibly. Just a thought. Okay. You're saying, come on, look at that clock. You've got to get going because you're starting to meddle. I got it. All right. Well notice, by the way, that Daniel doesn't pretend to know exactly what God would do. But he recommends that Nebuchadnezzar break off his sins by pursuing righteousness and showing mercy to the poor. That would indicate a repentant heart. So perhaps Daniel says Nebuchadnezzar's prosperity might be lengthened. Yes, God gave Daniel the ability to interpret dreams, which is something that you and I can't duplicate today, but notice that Daniel's concern for the king and his wise advice, something that all of us are able to do. Well then part 5, the fulfillment of the dream, Nebuchadnezzar's Madness, verses 28 to 33. Of course, what Nebuchadnezzar needed to do was to heed Daniel's advice, and it seems as if he did for a while. That seems to be the um the in implication at the beginning of our next section. Basically, in verse 29 it says, at the end of twelve months. And Nebuchadnezzar acted arrogantly. That would imply that Nebuchadnezzar listened to Daniel's advice for a while. But then gradually, when nothing had happened to him that was bad, he returned to his old ways and his old pride. And you know, we often uh are like that. If we get a medical scare and the doctor uh tells us to do some things, we what? We listen for a while. But sometimes then we revert back to our old ways. Unfortunately, uh that was the case with my uh good friend Mark Hazlet, former uh student and ca uh of mine at Capitol and a graduate after his graduation. For seven years he was a missionary and uh with the Pioneers. Well, in uh November twenty twenty Oh no, in in uh twenty twelve Mark actually had a heart attack and he had a quadruple bypass surgery that saved his life. The doctor told him he needed to lose some weight. Uh and he did. For a while. But gradually over the next ten years he put that weight uh back on a pound at a time until he was heavier than other than ever. And I and some others uh strongly encouraged him to get more. exercise and be wiser about what he ate. Now this is a very godly man. He loved the Lord, serving the Lord with all of his heart But sadly, a year and a half ago, on November 3rd, 2022, Mark suffered a massive stroke. He wasn't found for 15 hours, and it r rendered his entire left side. Paralyzed, unable to get out of bed. And we're still praying for him daily. Your pastor Sung and I have visited him together a number of times A times for myself I've and visited him uh fifty or sixty times, something like that. Uh his mind still works well. But other days he has paranoid delusions that are really uh strong, uh making him uh almost a different person. uh very very sad to see and barring a miracle he's not going to recover. Now why do I say these things? Because uh you know Mark who has so many wonderful qualities, devotion to the work of the Lord, his kindness and generosity to others, putting other people first, so on and so forth, uh that w uh all of us would do well to emulate. But Uh I bring this example up because we also need to learn some more of the negative things. And there may be somebody in this congregation that needs a wake-up call about their health, maybe paying more attention to it, uh to you know, whatever the case may be. I don't know the situation, but sometimes a friend or relative uh or your doctor may give you advice and you need to make sure that you're not putting it off as my dear friend uh Mark uh I'd say he's one of my closest friends But he didn't listen to me. I was very happy to find out that actually two other close friends had given him the exactly the same advice, and he didn't listen to them either, because I felt guilty. As soon as uh that stroke happened, I felt guilty. I should have what? Been a worse nag than I already was. I already felt like I was a pretty big nag, and some of you probably have the idea that I could be that And you would be correct. I'd do it in a nice way, but I'd still be a nag. Um well uh at any rate, we need to see I I've seen too many people, and I'm gonna point out one group, especially men. who are stubbornly set in their ways and not willing to listen to advice that is designed to help them. A word to the wise is sufficient. Okay, back to Nebuchadnezzar up, stopping meddling, you're saying you're not really looking at the clock and you're Mostly right. Okay. He seemed to do fine for a while. Nebuchadnezzar did, but eventually that fearsome dream and Daniel's advice drifted further away from his thoughts and his actions. Just like dear Mark. And by the way, that can be true of us spiritually as well, if we're not renewing ourselves daily by studying God's Word and applying it to our lives. Can't be a once-a-week deal. Maybe once a day is it really? You know, often enough. Well Nebuchadnezzar's fall is interesting, is described, I mean this is a long chapter. The fall is actually described in only. Two verses, really only one, because verse 29 explains the circumstances. He's walking around the royal palace in Babylon. But in verse 30, oh, this is a classic don't do this verse, Nebuchadnezzar praises himself profusely, without a single mention of the Most High God. He says, isn't this great Babylon that I have built for a royal dwelling by my mighty power and for the honor of my majesty? I, my, my, not exactly the words of humility. Sometimes we can learn a great deal about a person simply by listening to them talk. Do they continually boast of their accomplishments or do they boast about others, most especially the Lord Jesus Christ? Remember what John the Baptist said in John chapter three and verse thirty, and uh something I I try to take uh to heart continually. He that is Christ must increase, but I must. decrease. Now let me hasten to add that Babylon was indeed a great city. I've got all kinds of notes. I've got a full paragraph about how great Babylon was. But since I've already gone a few aside, I'm not going to tell you how great Babylon was. You can look it up in a Wikipedia or whatever other sources uh you have. It's just an incredible, incredible uh city. So it was indeed a great city. And again, you don't need to take my word for it. You can do that stuff. You can check in an encyclopedia and they're not going to mess it up as they might. uh let's say the interpretation of Daniel 4. But Nebuchadnezzar probably didn't build a bit of it himself. He used slaves and foreign captives to build it. And to think that the city was built for the honor of my majesty, as he puts it, was not only an insult to Nebuchadnezzar's Babylonian patron deity, Marduk. But more importantly, it was an insult to the God of heaven to whom Daniel and his friends had borne eloquent witness. In his pride, Nebuchadnezzar forgot all about that, and he lifted up only himself. The punishment in verses 31 to 33 comes immediately. Verse 31 says, While the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice fell from heaven. The kingdom has departed from you. And the same punishment that Daniel outlined in verse 25 is now repeated almost verbatim in verse 32. Then in verse 33, without further ado, it says, that very hour the word was fulfilled concerning Nebuchadnezzar. Two more details are given here. Not only did he eat grass like an ox, but his hair had grown like uh eagle's feathers and his nails like bird claws. Uh bird claws. You know, claws. Boy, why can't I say claws? That's a weird word. Anyway, uh this behavior is called uh boanthropy, sort of. Because Nebuchadnezzar acts like an axe. But it's not exactly that either, because he's got hair like an eagle's feathers, right? And he's got nails like birds' claws. said it better that time. So it's a pretty frightful sight uh when we put it all together. And by the way, an Old Testament scholar R. K. Harrison actually observed someone a number of years ago, he says, in a British mental institution with very similar symptoms. Eating grass like a cow with long hair and coarse long fingernails. Anyway, but this I'm sure is something pretty unique. Thankfully, we've got one more section of Scripture to look at, the final four verses of the chapter. which describes once again in the first person Nebuchadnezzar's full restoration and his praise toward God. Verse 34 simply says, at the end of the time, Whether that was seven years or seasons or whatever time, once it had finished, Nebuchadnezzar lifted up his eyes to heaven. his understanding returned to him and immediately verse 34 continues he blessed the most high and praised and honored him who lives forever for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. Nebuchadnezzar didn't simply thank God, he blessed, praised, and honored him. So pretty uh pretty significant, uh I think. And he understood one of the main messages of the chapter. It's God's kingdom. That is everlasting, not man's. Nebuchadnezzar elaborates on this in verse 35. All the inhabitants of the earth are regarded as nothing. reminds me of what the wonderful prophet Isaiah. I know you're shocked that I would bring up Isaiah. Isaiah says in Isaiah 40 and verse 17, and if You go back, I don't know how many years I had a uh a message on Isaiah forty, all nations before him are as nothing, and they are counted by him, less than nothing, and worthless. Nebuchadnezzar continues by saying that God does whatever he wants, with no one on earth being able to restrain or question him. Or question God, and that sure sounds as if uh Nebuchadnezzar is meditating on Isaiah forty, verses twelve to seventeen. Of course I can't prove that, but Daniel probably told him all about Isaiah forty. Well, in verse 36, Nebuchadnezzar emphasizes that his reason returned to him and the glory of his former kingdom. He says, I was restored to my kingdom. That's all it says. But that's not the last word. In verse 37, Nebuchadnezzar again praises, extols, and honors And I quote, the King of Heaven, all of whose works are truth and his ways justice. And note the last words of Nebuchadnezzar, which is what I would call the main theological message of this chapter. Those who walk in pride, he's able to put down. After writing the whole chapter, Nebuchadnezzar didn't need to add And I am living proof of that truth. Boy was he ever. Now many godly biblical scholars, including John Calvin. Don't think that Nebuchadnezzar truly became a child of God. And as as you know, I I love a lot of these folks, these dear biblical scholars of all But it doesn't mean I always agree with them, and I don't agree with Calvin here. Calvin said that Nebuchadnezzar did not embrace the grace of God. Well, we'll never know for sure this side of heaven, but I believe that all the evidence points to his conversion. The Lord was working on him in all four chapters. Of Daniel, not just in this one. And unlike Belshazzar in chapter 5, the Lord gave Nebuchadnezzar opportunity to repent. Nebuchadnezzar goes to great lengths to praise God, and he states the two main truths, God's sovereignty in the world and the folly of man's pride. And finally, and to me the finishing touch is actually in the next chapter, in Daniel chapter 5. verses 18 to 21, Daniel recounts this entire incident to Belshazzar and said that Nebuchadnezzar humbled himself as a result, something which Belshazzar hadn't done. Although he knew all about what Nebuchadnezzar had done. So personally, I expect to see Nebuchadnezzar in heaven one day. Uh again, maybe Calvin's right, maybe I'm wrong, but boy, four chapters God's been working on him. Well, now that we've gone through the whole chapter, I see four main applications for us today, with the first two being the clearest. First and foremost, uh God hates pride, which is always followed by a foe God hates pride, which is always followed by a fall. That's what I think is the main point of the chapter. And it's absolutely essential for each one of us to understand. And uh I think that we need to work on this area of our lives. Pride is always followed by a fall, though sometimes that fall isn't evident until af the afterlife But it usually happens in this life. The opposite of pride is humility, putting others before ourselves in everything. The primary example of humility, as Paul says in Philippians chapter 2 and verses 1 to 11, is Christ Himself. What an incredible passage that is. Anytime I want to feel prideful, right, I read Philippians 2, 1-11 to recognize the importance of humility. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who humbled himself. Nebuchadnezzar needed to learn the danger of pride, and we need to learn and relearn these dangers as well. I could easily give a whole message on pride, but we're not going to do that here. But certainly that's the, I think, the foremost message of this chapter. Second, and certainly again one of the main points of this chapter is that God alone is the sovereign, everlasting ruler. Man's rule is delegated by God and is temporary. God alone is the sovereign, everlasting ruler Man's rule is delegated by God and is temporary. I believe that that's the actually the number one theme of the entire book the absolute absolute sovereignty of God over the affairs of men, though man may seem to be in control, time and again this book shows that God is ultimately the one in control. This point is stressed three times in Daniel chapter 4, always near the end of a section, in verses 17, verse 25, and verse 32. As Dale Ralph Davis says, such repetition is this writer's way of using bold print. I like that. You know, the bold print. That is the big point of the chapter. Now I want you to notice something about this point. It's not simply that God will ultimately rule in the end time when Christ returns and establishes his millennial reign on earth. The point in this chapter, as verse seventeen says, is in order that the living may know. That's you and me today, in order that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, gives it to whomever he will, and sets it over the lowest of men. Folks, God rules now. Now I don't pretend to understand how all of this works, but what this means is we don't need to be afraid of any human a ruler, whether Hitler in years past, or the leaders of Hamas or Al-Qaeda, or Putin, or Xi Jinping. And we should never be overimpressed with human governments and human rulers or worship uh any of them, as even some Christians do seem to be uh quite ready to do today. Now, and I'm gonna start to meddle just a second here, but then I'll be done, so my meddling is a short um half-life or something We have primaries coming up in nine days. We have an election in November. As citizens, of course, we need to be informed. We need to take part in them. But let's be careful not to deify human leaders, whoever they are. And frankly, on the presidential level, and this is my um opinion part which you can get mad at me later for. Don't email me. My mind is made up. But on the presidential level, I have serious issues with the leading candidates of both parties In fact, it's the worst choice I've ever seen since I began voting over 50 years ago. And some of you have been voting longer than that. It's the absolute worst choice. So don't blame somebody if they're not supporting your I they're both terrible. Okay. That's my opinion. Don't try to explain why your candidate is great. As uh Davis uh puts it, human governments are interim or arrangements that God appoints to fill space until the power and glory of Jesus' kingdom. Human rulers, tyrannical or democratic, are God's lackeys who have tenure only at his pleasure. Okay, third application, and I think it might be easy to miss this point, is that God's grace extends to the most prideful of men. God's grace extends to the most prideful of men. We see this in God sending Daniel time after time to interact with Nebuchadnezzar. And it's seen most clearly in this chapter. Nebuchadnezzar had this frightening dream, but God is gracious. Again, Davis puts it this way. Here is God's gift to the pagan king, the conduit of light in the midst of his darkness and fears. Daniel is the kindness of God to Nebuchadnezzar in giving him truth and clarity in his dilemma. Daniel has compassion on this pagan king, and he takes no pleasure at delivering a very stark message of God's disapproval. But God also sent Daniel not only to speak the truth, but to advise Nebuchadnezzar on the best course of action to get himself right with the Lord. And isn't that what true friends ought to do? I think it is. God is gracious to the prideful king in sending a humble servant to try to help direct this king's path. And second, we see God's grace in giving Nebuchadnezzar a second chance, maybe a third or a fourth or a fifth chance, really. He has been working on Nebuchadnezzar for quite some time. But he sovereignly chooses to restore Nebuchadnezzar following what I believe is Nebuchadnezzar's heartfelt repentance. And he doesn't simply do that for Nebuchadnezzar. He does this for you, and he does this for me. There is no sin that is too horrible that can separate us from the love of God. Isn't that incredible? Paul reminds us this In Romans 5, verse 8. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Thanks be to God, who is the God of second and third and fourth chances And a final application which actually goes back to our point about pride is that like Daniel, you and I should be focusing on the needs of others rather than seeking glory for ourselves. Like Daniel, you and I should be focusing on the needs of others rather than seeking glory for ourselves I didn't see that point at first because the big issue in this chapter is certainly the dangers of pride, as exemplified by Nebuchadnezzar. But I want you to remember that Daniel's been around. Right? Daniel has been helping Nebuchadnezzar in one form or another since chapter 1. And he was promoted at least twice. first at at the end of chapter one and then at the end of chapter two. Daniel is set over the whole province of Babylon. In fact, Daniel himself may have been the one to administer the affairs of the kingdom during Nebuchadnezzar's Period of madness. We don't know that, of course, for sure. But Daniel is never prideful, and he never seeks the glory for himself. He always points Nebuchadnezzar to his amazing God. And in chapter 4, he tries to point Nebuchadnezzar back to the right path. And eventually that's exactly what happens. Daniel is not interested in gaining glory for himself. He is solely focused on what Nebuchadnezzar needs, whether Nebuchadnezzar likes it or not. It's the antithesis of pride and a wonderful example of Philippians 2 in action. Well, as we close then May you and I beware of pride. And a wonderful example of the absence of pride is Daniel. So let's Take our cue from him. Beware of pride. May we acknowledge and welcome God's sovereign rule, even when we don't always understand it. Do you understand it today? I don't understand it, and I don't think you do either. May we recognize and rejoice. In God's amazing grace, which is extended to all people, regardless of their position. And finally, may we focus on serving others rather than seeking glory for ourselves. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, the truth of your word, the depth of your word. I thank you, Lord, for the examples that you give us in Scripture. Both positive, such as Daniel, and negative, such as Nebuchadnezzar. But I thank you, Lord, that you never give up on us. I thank you, Father, that you, in the Old Testament, throughout the Old Testament, you pursue Israel. Israel certainly doesn't spend a lot of time pursuing you. So I pray, Father, that there's if there's anyone this morning that's never trusted in Christ as their Savior, that they would do so today, they would recognize their own sin and need for the Savior. the Lord Jesus Christ, who died on the cross and rose again, that they might have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. Lord, I pray That that person would do so today. And I pray, Father, uh, for those of us who may have sort of been a little prideful about this or that or the other thing Help us, Father, to heed the advice of friends, Lord, around us if they're trying to help us in certain areas. Help us not to pridefully turn them away. but humbly to receive that, Lord, and especially, Lord, to read your word, uh daily, if not more than daily, that we might again see your vantage point on all the circumstances. we're going through. Thank you, Lord, for each one. Thank you, Lord, for their faithfulness in serving you. We do pray also for Pastor Sung and his family, and just pray, Father, that you would uh uh given them a time of refreshment and I pray Father uh that they would uh be uh greatly refreshed as they return. Thank you, Lord, for all that you've done for us. In Christ's name we pray with thanksgiving. Amen