So let's read the Word of God together. Him we preach, mourning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working, which he works in me mightily. For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you and those in Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the Of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Now this I say, lest any one should deceive you with persuasive words, but though I am absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in the spirit. Rejoicingly see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. Let's go ahead and take a minute and go Go to the to the Lord in prayer. And dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for who you are. We thank you for how you have presented yourself in Scripture. How you have revealed yourself as the awesome God of heaven and of earth, the Creator, who also who has all authority and all power and yet has Deep compassion and deep mercy. The judge who brings justice, and yet the Savior who brings salvation. We thank you so much, Christ, for this work that you do in us And for us. And we thank you for the Holy Spirit coming and and making that work of Christ, working that in us to produce fruit for your Honor and your glory. We pray that you will help us see Christ today in these verses in Colossians. Strengthen us, I pray, to proclaim you. In all different places in life that we find ourselves. I pray you'd be with my mouth as I speak, that your words would come out, that you would keep me from saying anything astray, that I may speak. what you intended here in this passage. In your holy and precious name we pray. Amen. could go ahead and play a clip and I want you to just listen to this clip that they're going to play and I'll make some comments on it in a minute. And I was jobless, a lone parent, and as poor as it is possible to be in modern Britain without being homeless. The fears that my parents had had for me and that I had had for myself had both come to pass. And by every usual standard, I was the biggest failure I knew So why do I talk about the benefits of failure? Simply because failure meant a stripping away of the inessential. I stopped pretending to myself that I was anything other than what I was, and began to direct all my energy into finishing the only work that mattered to me. Had I really succeeded at anything else, I might never have found the determination to succeed in the one arena where I believed I truly belonged, and so rock bottom became the solid foundation on which I rebuilt my life. You might never fail on the scale I did, but some failure in life is inevitable. It is impossible to live without failing at something Unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all, in which case you fail by default You will never truly know yourself or the strength of your relationships until both have been tested by adversity. Such knowledge is a true gift. For all that it is painfully won, and it has been worth more than any qualification I ever earned. We do not need magic to transform our world. We carry all the power we need inside ourselves already. We have the power to imagine better. So that clip is from J. K. Raw Rowling. She's the one that wrote the Harry Potter series. And she's describing her life and part of that work she's talking about that was that she redirected her life. life to really focus on the Harry Potter series, which obviously has become quite quite the thing for her particularly. But as you listen to that that clip, It sounds really good at first. If you don't think about what it what she's saying exactly, it sounds good. You get the music in the background, this kind of building up. You have a success story, someone who experienced great failure in life and everything was going wrong and somehow she managed to just figure it all out, find that one passion in her life, and pursue that passion through sheer determination. determination and wisdom and she arrives at this grand success and we all look at that and go, yes it's a success story. And we want to just like jump up and and we just want to It is sounds so rejuvenating and it rings so so true in some sense to how we feel in life. The problem with all that is when you get down to what she's actually saying, it's actually not a message of hope at all. Specifically when she says this, we do not need magic to transform our world. We carry all the power we need inside ourselves already. We have the power to imagine better. You see, what this lady has done is she has looked inside of herself and she has come to the conclusion that the power for success, the power for meaning, for transformation of this world. Is something that she apparently possesses inside of her own being. She's come to the mistaken conclusion that hope is found within the human Constitution. This is the message of the world that we have the power in and ourselves to transform this world, to transform ourselves. Yet the message of Paul radically diverges from this human philosophy. According to Paul, transformation is not a human power, but divine Inner transformation finds its source in the cross and its energy through the Spirit. And so what Paul is going to direct us to is that in order to stand firm in the faith, we must proclaim Christ Jesus. This is Paul's grand point in this section, is the proclamation of Jesus Christ. Because therein we have the true answer to failure. Therein we have the true hope. For success in the way that it matters, and that is in a life with Christ, the defeat of death and the arrival of the kingdom. We see this right away in verse 28, where Paul begins with, Him we preach. Previously, last week, we talked about the mystery of Christ. We talked about how the Old Testament is building up to Christ. We went from the seed that is promised in Genesis 3:15 that would defeat death. And we traced that through the promise to Abraham that in him all the families of the earth would be blessed. And we saw how the prophets in Israel they pointed to the seed that would come, Isaiah 53, focusing on the cross. We see that the Old Testament is pointing us and driving us toward this mystery, and that is Christ is the seed. Jesus is the Messiah promised in the Old Testament. And the mysterious part for a lot of the Jews in that time, that wasn't so clear in the Old Testament, is that the Gentiles, who were considered to be outsiders, who were considered to be, Totally not part of what God was doing. They were brought in to God's plan of salvation. In a way that the Jews of that day did not consider possible. I was reading through John and my personal devotions, and I find it interesting the reaction of the people of Jesus' day to the things that Jesus was saying and doing. It was remarkable. I remember in in in I can't remember the exact passage in John. because I didn't plan to say this, but it was in John, somewhere in John 1 to 10. They're having this discussion that Jesus is, and he's telling them that where he goes, you can you cannot come. And the disciples are trying to to figure this out. What are you talking about when you go I can't come? And he says this to the crowd as well, and the crowd can't figure out. Nobody can figure out what Jesus is talking about. How can it be, Jesus, that you're going somewhere we can't go? You're right here, you're human. And what are you gonna do? And and at one point as they're trying to reach for conclusions, they reach out and think, well, is he going to the Greeks? Because apparently that's equivalent to going somewhere where nobody else can go. That's like the end of the world in their viewpoints. They thought going to the Gentiles was this radical concept that you almost were dying to them to go to go to the Greeks. And what Jesus what Paul is trying to tell the Jewish people that day is that, no, actually, Jesus' salvation plan included the Gentiles all along. Yes. Jesus was going to go to the Greeks. Again, this comes up in John 11, where there's this whole discussion among the disciples. And what was the discussion about? Well, some Greek people want to go to Greeks See Jesus. You and I think, well, what's the problem? This is, of course. But to the disciples, during that time, this was a really perplexing issue to them. They discussed it among themselves, two or three they couldn't figure out, so finally they go to Jesus with this perplexing problem, and that is, can the Greeks come see you, Jesus? And then Jesus goes off on a little bit of a discourse and doesn't seem to be answering the question. But then at the end of his his talk, which he focuses on a seed dying and it has to die before it can bear fruit. He goes now to talk about the death of Christ and he says that when he is lifted up he will draw all people To myself. And again you're thinking, well what does that mean? Well what Jesus is telling them is yes, all people, not just Jews, the cross is going to be effective for all people. So the Greeks, yes, they can come to Jesus, is Jesus' answer, because I'm going to die for them like I'm going to die for you. So this mystery of salvation being spread to all the world through Christ is what Paul was talked about yesterday. And so Paul continues this theme, saying in verse twenty eight, and verse we'll start with twenty seven. To them God will to make known what are the riches of a glory of this mystery among the Gentiles Which is Christ in you, the hope of glory, Him we preach. Again, Paul is focusing on the center of the gospel, and that is Christ. Christ is who we preach. Proclaim. Well, why do we proclaim Christ? Well, thankfully, Paul gives us some hints on on the importance of this. First, we must proclaim Christ to propel each other to spiritual maturity. This is in the first part, in verse 28, even. And him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Jesus. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily. So we see here the purpose in twenty-eight is that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. We proclaim Christ, and our proclamation of Christ is not merely an evangelistic message to those who have not heard, but the proclamation of The proclamation of Christ is also a message for those who have embraced Christ through faith, it's a message for us all. Because the gospel not only converts to salvation. But the gospel and the message of Christ also strengthens and matures the believer. Spiritual maturity here requires instruction. We know this from 2 Timothy. Instruction is key to the process of maturation. Instruction requires rebuke. And in many cases, like of course, instruction, teaching is necessary, and we understand that. But there are aspects of teaching that are that are difficult. One of them is Rebuke, knowing when to accept or when to dismiss correction. Not every correction is necessarily a good correction. You can receive bad advice and following there's no virtue to following bad advice. Neither is there virtue in not accepting good advice. In Proverbs 12:1, whoever loves instruction loves knowledge, but he who hates correction is stupid. Says it quite plainly there that to dismiss instruction or correction with little thought just because you don't want to listen to it is a Fool's errand. That the wise person, while he may not accept the entirety of the rebuke, will at least accept a part of it. He will see something in there that is useful for him That's an accepting instruction. What about giving instruction or correction? There's an art to that as well. In 2 Timothy 2, 24 to 23. Paul says, and a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach, patient, in humility, correcting those who are in opposite. proposition, if God perhaps will grant them repentance, so that they may know the truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to do his will. When Paul talks about correction, correction is not supposed to be our opportunity to beat people other beat people up with the baseball bat. Verbally. That's not something that is gonna help in our correction. Uh berating people, constant nagging, these are not type not uh practice When Paul describes correction, he describes it in a way of in humility correcting those who are in opposition. He talks about being gentle. Because correction is a difficult thing to hear, it must be imparted wisely. Sometimes it's easy to give correction. It's very easy to give correction. It's very easy for someone for us to to give our viewpoint on whatever it is, or because we all think we have a good way of doing lots of different things. As a manager at Chick-fil-A, my job involves a lot of correction. And I've done it well and I've done it poorly. Both. I've been a re I've been a recipient of good and bad correction as well. The one thing I've learned from giving correction at Chick-fil-A is That when you are gentle and you explain yourself and you have humility in your correction, that rarely do people actually get upset at you. But if you are short with them. It can be a very quick road to an argument. How you deliver correction is almost more important than what you actually say. A lot of times we know this, but it's really hard in the moment when we see something wrong, our first instinct is to just say whatever it is that we see needs correction. Part of the spiritual m maturity process is knowing when to not say something and knowing when to change what we're going to say that it would actually benefit the person we're talking to as opposed to making us feel better because we gave important wisdom or insight. Again, I'm not talking because I do this well, but because the passage talks about it. So then And I personally have a lot of improvement in this area, I know this, but I think that all of us when we look at scripture know that this is a a complex giving instruction, receiving instruction is a lifelong process of learning how to do do that effectively. In fact, a lot of what I'm talking about today is things I'm working on personally. So I hope that we all Can have that same experience together. So, first, spiritual maturity requires instruction. And spiritual maturity also requires discipline. This is also another area that requires. A lot of energy to perform. What do I mean by discipline? Well, in Deuteronomy 6. 5, we're told this. It's a very tall order when you think about it. It's the great commandment, as is said in Scripture. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your strength. I don't the writer of Deuteronomy, Moses, he doesn't miss much in his all-encompassing statement. And in order for us to actually take that to heart and to actually work that out, it's going to require Discipline. You don't just wake up one morning and automatically love the Lord God with all your heart and love him with all your soul and love him with all your strength. It requires discipline. Paul kind of sees this in 1 Corinthians 9, 24 to 27. Paul gives an illustration for us. He says, Do you not know that those who run in a race all run? But one receives the price. Prize. Run in such a way that you may obtain it, and everyone who competes for the prize is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a perishable crown, but we for an imperishable crown. Therefore I run thus, not with uncertainty. Thus I fight, not as one who beats the air, but I discipline my body and bring it into subjection, lest when I have preached to others I myself should become disqualified. Paul understands the necessity of discipline. He uses that example of a runner or an athlete. Someone train probably he has in view someone training for the Olympic Games during his time. The training would be intense. The training would would be would require lots of energy, lots of focus, lots of training. And what Paul is communicating is that living the spiritual life that we're supposed to live and living in Christ, it's not a spectator sport. The great thing about spectator sports is you put little in and you get little out. It's great. You can I can just sit there in front of my TV and watch the Orioles, and I am in no way influencing anything that's happening on that basis. field. Though I wish I could. I wish I somehow could change that score, boost the run total up. But it just doesn't happen. And again, do I really care? Not really that much. Because I didn't put much into it. I don't care. If they lose, okay, I might be sad for a couple minutes. I'll quickly get over it, move on to the next game where I have the same experience. And sad again and on we go. And eventually they might win a game, they get happy, but it these things last for minutes of a time. They don't overcome my day or anything because I haven't put much energy into it. for any kind of baseball career, and nor do I intend to in the future. So it matters little. But in in this area that God has called us to care about, it matters. We've been called to love the Lord our God with all our heart, our soul, and our strength. And we're invested in this arena because we have tasted in this salvation that has been given to us. By Christ. We have been grafted into that tree, as it says in Romans 11, and we are feeding on the root. So we're investing in, we're part of something. Thus it actually matters. Whether we succeed or fail, if we grow or wilt. It requires discipline. So how do we do this? What is this what are some ways that we can discipline our bodies or so souls, our minds, to grow in Christ. But we discipline our minds by studying the truth of Scripture. Basic to our to the discipline of our mind is the Word of God. Second Timothy two fifteen. Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Be diligent to present yourself can also be translated. Study to show yourself approved. That's how How the King James does it. There's two different ways of translating that. But whether you're diligent or studying, it all comes out to pretty much the same idea. What's essential here is understanding the Word of God, which takes studying. which takes diligence in order to present yourself approved to God. Again, that's like a staple verse for Iwana. The driving charge of why we do awana is the necessity of knowing and understanding Scripture. So how do we do that? Well, at the very least, the very basic would be a thoughtful reading of Scripture. In order you study something, you at least have to understand what you're Reading, whether it be if you go to an article and you try to understand an article in a newspaper or a newsfeed on the internet, you need to have at least read thoughtfully whatever portion in its correct context. Anytime you read, pulling things out of context, is probably not going to help you understand what you're reading. So it's helpful to to, when you're reading scripture, to understand where you are in scripture. So if you're in the New Testament, you're thinking about Okay, we're in the new covenant and understanding that if you're in the Old Testament and you're under the Old Covenant, you're going to read it with the understanding that you're in the Old Covenant, you're not in the New Covenant, because there are going to be differences in interpretation. So as you're reading through scripture, you look where you are, and you thoughtfully read, understanding what section you are in Scripture. And you begin to concentrate on the specific section that you're in. Then you analyze Scripture by comparing Scripture with Scripture. 1 Corinthians 2. Paul talks about this. He says, Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God, that we may know the things that have been freely given to us by God. These things we also speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches. But which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Who is known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. So again, we have the mind of Christ, and part of understanding Scripture is comparing Scripture with Scripture so that we know what's actually being said. So one of the practices that I do is as I'm reading through, I think as I'm reading a passage, I'll something will Will um spark me to another passage. So maybe it's the same wording that I remember in another place of scripture. Maybe it's the same a similar concept, a similar idea. It's learning to be able to connect different scriptures. with different scriptures. So for instance, if you're reading in John and you and you and you see the the part about the Greeks, but John doesn't mention the Greeks that often in the book of John. But it's mentioned in that one part I talked about where they were wondering, are you going to go to the Greeks? And then it's mentioned again in John 12, where Jesus talks that will the Greeks come to one and So you see these two portions, these two passages are linked together by this idea of is salvation Jewish only or is it include Jewish the Greeks and we're getting to see the connections between passages to help us understand the bigger idea presented in Scripture. We've read it thoughtfully, we've seen, we've analyzed scripture, we've compared it, analyzed it by comparing scripture to scripture, and then begins a process of meditation. So the more we understand and we studied and we've uh looked into it, we begin to meditate on it. This is important, as said in Psalm 145. 5. I will meditate on the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wondrous works. The psalmist throughout psalms, meditation is a big part of it. Because it's not just about knowing truth, being able to analyze. Anybody can Not anybody, but most people can pick apart a passage, understand a passage, compare it passage with another passage. Even an unbeliever can come to scripture and can come to true and accurate conclusions based on a linguistic study or just a a good study of a particular passage. What unbelievers probably not going to do that we have an advantage of is they're unlikely to meditate on the truth of that, to apply it to their life. But that is something that's very helpful to us spiritually. Just to know lots of facts. As Paul says later, knowledge puffs up. So if our seeking of knowledge in Scriptures merely to gain knowledge, that will result in a high opinion of ourselves. And we all have run into people and it m even in our own lives have maybe come across found in ourselves, there's times where we have just stated knowledge for the sake of imparting knowledge. 'Cause we ac we we think w and it it's not like we go out and try to do it. Many times I'll say something and I'm like, Yes, I just let them know I knew something, but would that help anybody? Or would it just make me feel better about myself Usually it's probably just making me feel better about myself. Is that helpful knowledge? Not really. That knowledge has just been used to puff myself up. It has not been used to help anybody. But a right use of knowledge is to use knowledge to meditate on God, to reflect on who God is and reflect on what God has done And this meditation will naturally lead to memorization. In fact, you might memorize things you never intended to memorize, which is great. Because if you've thoughtfully understood it in its context, you've analyzed it. See, you've compared scripture to scripture, you understand the material, you've meditate on it, the exact wording of how this displays who Christ is or how it displays the Holy Spirit. is or whatever point of doctrine is reflecting on, and then you go to memorize it, it'll come all very naturally. very smoothly because it's become part of you as opposed to drilling in your mind, drilling in your mind, which is good. And oftentimes we do. That's a process that I will try to go through, and it's helped me. That's one way we can discipline ourselves to know. and understand truth in an edifying way. We also discipline our souls by obeying Christ. So first our mind And now our soul through obeying Christ. In James 1. 22, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. Then we take the knowledge that we've met that we have understood and meditated on and has become part of us, and then we follow through that in obedience. We discipline ourselves to actually obey what we have been putting in in our study. This is essential because without obedience, again, knowledge will mostly perform the function of puffing up. But knowledge into action becomes knowledge that is edifying and useful to both ourselves and those around us And then we discipline our body by taking care of our body. So you and I'm following loosely this idea of you love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. That's the basic outline. I've been going through you discipline your mind by studying the truth of Scripture, your souls by obeying Christ, and it was part of us as we obey and do Do what God has said, and we discipline our body, or in here is it's titled with all your strength, by taking care of what God has given us. In First Corinthians six, nineteen to twenty. This is stated. Oh, do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? For you are bought at a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. So again, as we discipline ourselves, a part of who we are as as created in the image of God is we are both spiritual and we are physical. And while the spiritual is the prominent place where we focus our energies and disciplining ourselves, we can't neglect to discipline the physical part of us as well. There is a distinct relationship between our physical body and our mental health. If we do not take care of our body at all, then we would there will be effects in our minds as well. And again, I think part of the application we can derive from here, from the concept of our body being a temple, is that it matters how we use what God has given us And again, I'm not saying we need to all go run marathons tomorrow. There's a way to be very excessive about this, where you missed the point. There's a way to make exercise a god, and we see that with the Olympics. where and in sports where people who have you know these great physical attributes they bec they become godlike in their minds. It's not what I'm talking about. But simply taking care of what God has given. is what I'm referring to. And this can be difficult. It can be easy to get into patterns and where we neglect our body and we neglect the discipline That is there. In 1 Timothy 4 8, Paul says, For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having the promise of a life that now is, and of that which is to come. So here again, Paul is addressing both aspects. He's addressing taking care of our physical body, but also taking care of our spiritual body Again, the emphasis is on godliness and taking and disciplining ourselves spiritually, but we don't want to do that and neglect entirely something that also profits Taking care of what God has given us in our body. So they're both there. As we seek spiritual maturity, we need to be disciplined in all aspects of who we are. But let's say we've done that. Let's say that we are spiritually mature in giving and receiving instruction. Let's say we're spiritual mature in discipline. We've disciplined our minds and we've disciplined our our souls and and we disciplined our bodies and we that sounds like a lot. Sounds like a lot to me. I was looking at this going, wow, I'm not sure this is humanly possible to do all of these things. It's humanly possible to get maybe maybe one of them almost right. So you have the Pharisees who were trying to get the spiritual part as good as they possibly could, and they failed in their human attempts. And we can sometimes get so caught up in trying to be perfect that we focus on just trying. We know we need to do certain things. We know we need to live up to a certain standard. We know we need to be holy and obey Christ. And these things can become uh very oppressive if not done in the correct way. manner. What I mean by that is if we take the route of J. K. Rowley and we begin to look in ourselves for the power in order to do all this these things. in order to discipline our mind and our soul and our body, then we're going to come up with a very frustrating existence. We very easily become angry and irritated. Because we'll have not met this the standard that God has given us and we will feel like failures and we will feel like we can't do it and we can come very easily discouraged and oppressed and just give up the whole project and say, well, disappointment is just simply too difficult. I'm just gonna do whatever it is that will make me be able to cope with life. And some people and a lot of people I think will have that happen in their lives at some point. I know At some point I feel like that. I just feel like I can't do this. This spiritual maturity thing is just a little too much for my abilities. And it and The answer is yes, it is. It's always too much for all of our abilities, no matter how much you've attained in your knowledge, no matter how much you've disciplined your souls, no matter how much you've obeyed a standard or No matter how much you've worked you've spent in the discipline process. Because the reality is spiritual maturity requires spiritual power. And the basis, the foundation is Christ. The energy is from the Holy Spirit. You see this In this exact text here, where Paul makes this point, in 28 he says, Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Again, his goal is very lofty, to present them perfect. Meaning that they will perfectly love God with all the heart, soul, and strength. Perfectly mature people. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily. Notice Paul comes to the same conclusion that I did. This is simply impossible humanly. I can't do this. I can't become this spiritually mature person. And Paul says, yes, you are. correct Peter, you can't. Because your striving must be according to his working, not my working. We must be trained by the grace of God. In Titus two, eleven to fourteen, Paul makes this specific point. He says, For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we shall live soberly, righteously, and godly. in this present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify by him for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. In verse 12, he specifically says teaching us. Well that word teaching is a little soft. It means a little more than teaching. The Greek behind that is the word that means training. It's a very specific word that refers to when you would instruct a child. In that day it would be like tutoring. But in in that day, in great tutoring was an intense process. And sometimes I think of a tutoring today like you go to your two-hour tutoring class. You know. It's not really that intense. I've never had intense tutoring personally, so maybe other people have had tutoring experiences that are more intense. But generally when I hear people saying, yes, I I tutor, you know, a day a week, maybe two hours. That's not what this is talking about. about. By tutoring, by instructing, this is often in in wealthy Greek houses they would have a slave who was very educated, a very a very educated slave. And he would be in sh his job would be to teach the child in all matters of education. All matters of education. And he would be a private tutor that covered large areas. Be all day. Lots of lots of lots of teaching and instruction and training and teaching and instruction and training. that would occur over several years as the child develops mentally and physically. That's what Paul is trying to communicate by this teaching. us, this training us, tutoring us. And that is the grace of God is what is doing, the tutoring, what is doing the training is the grace of God. And what Paul says is this grace of God that trains us is energized by the Spirit of God. Here in Colossians, he says it's according to his working. This is the same, similar idea in Philippians 2, 12-13. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Well that sounds a lot like we're doing the work, doesn't it? If you stop right there, then J. K. Rowling might just have a point. But scripture goes on. And says, For it is God who works in you, both to will and to do, for his good pleasure. Yes, we work, yes we strive, says in Colossians We don't strive according to the power that we have. We don't work out our salvation with some kind of power that is innate within us. We work, we strive with the power that's been given to us by Christ because of his life, death, and resurrection. The gospel provides the power, and the Holy Spirit, which is given to us by Christ, is the energy that propels us and moves us and works in us, that we might work out. this spiritual maturity process. So that we can strive and we can work, and at the same time we can know it's not us. It's not our power. It's not our wisdom. It's not our greatness. It's the greatness of God. It's the wisdom of God. It's the Spirit of God. Working in us, energizing us, that we might become what we're supposed to be, spiritually mature believers. So my question is for this first point, and the second point is much shorter in case you were. Getting a little worried. Is how well do you give and take correction? Again, I'm very much speaking to myself at this point. And what patterns have you built into your life to pursue? the kingdom of God? What ways have you pursued this spiritual mature process of spiritual maturation? What habits of discipline? Have you incorporated or what or what ways in which you know it and you've known this for a while, because there are many ways in my life where I'm thinking I need to do a better job. My hope is that as you've been thinking about disciplining your heart and your soul and your mind and your body as Stated. Now there's some ideas have cropped up. Some ways you thought, well, okay, I can spend more time reading my word. I can I can be more careful in my reading of Scripture. Or maybe you think, well, maybe I could work on obedience, taking what I know and and actually working that out in my life and making intentional um applications from Scripture. And la and the most important part from this first point is whose strength are you relying on? Because we can do a lot of things in our own strength. And it will amount to a hill of beans in the end. If we put in all our effort to discipline ourselves and all we've done is make ourselves feel better about ourselves, then we have haven't accomplished much. But if in our discipline and in our effort, in our striving, we we we rely on the Holy Spirit and we give thanks and we give credit to the Holy Spirit who works in us, who who worked all these These things that we can't do in and of ourselves, then we will have work for something that lasts into eternity. Knowledge built for self lasts as long as we live. It dies with us. It dies with our body. It doesn't last beyond the grave. But knowledge that is energized by the Holy Spirit, that is used for the edification Of the saints and obedience to God. That's true knowledge. And that knowledge will exist beyond the grave and be rewarded in heaven. But a lot depends on why we're doing it and whose strength we're doing it in. So first Paul tells us that we must proc proclaim Christ To propel each other to spiritual maturity. Second and last, we must proclaim Christ to propel unity in the church. And this is in verse 2, 1 to 5, Paul, in chapter 2, 1 to 5, Paul. Focuses on this. For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you, and those in layer to see, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love. and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom. Knowledge. Paul focuses on the fact that our hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love. Spiritual unity fosters encouragement. The more that we are unified, The more that we are, the more we will be encouraged. Later on, he's going to speak about this, and he speaks about this a lot in the end of Ephesians. The necessity of being one in mind, heart. He talks about there being one God and one spirit and one baptism and one baptism in a feeling Ephesians 4. And the reason for this is because unity does not come naturally in the church. It never has. For example, if you go to Philippians 4, 2, I implore you, Odia, and I implore Santicki to be of the same mind in the Lord. Well, it's very clear those two women were not unified. They were in disagreement. You read throughout Timothy, you see a lot of disagreement. Yeah. Hymeneus and the other guy who camped around Satan. where they are causing divisions. They are ta saying that uh Christ had not risen from the dead. And there were a lot of points at which there was not a lot of unity. Within the first church. So if you're discouraged by your church not being unified, don't be too hard on yourselves. It's been happening ever since the very, very beginning of the church. Not a new thing, but something that there are answers to. There are ways to fix disunity. And I think sometimes we overlook is that heresy is not merely a doctrinal deviance, it's also a A deviance of unity, a lack of unity. We often we use the word heresy, we almost always use it in terms of doctrinally someone said something heretical. or they have some kind of position that doesn't line up with our doctrinal position. But we don't often think of heresy as two believers not agreeing Two believers in conflict with each other. And to the Apostle Paul, it was equally, equally disturbing that two people couldn't get along as one person saying that Christ had Risen from the dead. A rift in the body of Christ was a big deal. It's throughout the epistles where this encouragement is to be one, to be unified. Jesus and Jesus John 17 as a whole prayer. And Laura's prayer is based on believers being unified in Christ. So it's an important matter. In Luke 9, 49 to 50, Jesus again highlights this He says this. Now John answered and said, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow us. But Jesus said to him, Do not forbid him. For he who is not against us is on our side. And a point I want to draw from that is, just because someone doesn't look like you, say things like you doesn't mean He's an enemy. But sometimes we can very much give off that idea. I like people who think like me. That's very natural. You like people that think like you. And that's a very natural thing. But we also need to be able to love other Christians who don't necessarily think the same way that we do on every specific issue. That is much more difficult. That creates a difference of mind, as Paul put it in Philippians 4 2. But as Christians, as part of the body of Christ, spiritual unity, the ability to understand and love other people who may think differently on non-gospel issues. Obviously, we're talking about the the gospel of Christ, then there's going to be a necessary division because there's a a deep disagreement. But on secondary issues that don't that aren't that aren't related to uh directly related to who we are in Christ as being saved by his blood, there needs to be an acceptance, uh, a unity there as well. Spiritual unity builds assurance of our faith in Christ. And it's interesting how Paul develops this. He says In verse 2, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God. There's this full assurance of understanding. A lot of times we think of the word assurance. We think of personal, you know, our personal salvation. Are we assured of our salvation? It becomes very individualistic, a very search that we search for this. There's some people that are very caught up in this. They cannot make up in their mind whether they're saved or not. And they have a big conflict in their soul on whether or not they're actually saved. I think that's a a particularly American struggle. Because we like to make everything very individual. We like to make it centered around our feelings and who we think we are. But scru when Paul talks about assurance, he's thinking of assurance with an the body of Christ. A unity will foster our assurance. Our unity as the body of Christ will naturally build our assurance of Salvation. And the more we are distant from the body of Christ, the less assurance we will feel about our personal salvation. Why? Well this I think you think of a in a family context. If I never spent time in the family at all and and just kinda drift and do my own thing I'm not gonna have a great connection to them. I'm gonna do my own thing and I may I may wonder, well, I mean, I don't do much to my family I mean I I But if I'm with my family all the time and I'm and I'm experiencing life with my family, I'm very much assured of my staff I'm not wondering, well are they gonna want me to come over since I haven't talked to them in you know, a year? It might be awkward at a family reunions if I'm never there and just show up one day. I won't have a lot of assurance in my family situation. But if I have been there regularly, then I feel very assured in my status with my family. the same way operates within Christianity. If we're with the body of Christ and we're connected with the body of Christ, we feel naturally assured in our connection to Christ because these are the people that we're with. We're with Christian the body. We're with our family. But if I am not with my family, then I am not regularly attending church, and I'm not with them in the good times and the bad times I just kind of go off, well I may begin to lose that that connection that I have, that feeling I should say, because that's feeling of assurance. Am I really part of that group or not? A lot of these issues of personal assurance of salvation can eat easily be solved by a spiritual unity within the body of Christ. We are a community people. We are not meant to be individual. Brought into the body of Christ. We are one with Christ and one with each other. And this not only builds assurance of our personal salvation. Not only does it encourage us as we live in this world through the struggles and the pains, but it also advances our gospel witness. In John 13, 35, by this all will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. And again, that is often Paul's driving point, is that who we are becomes that witness to the Those around us. Spiritual unity is a natural witness to the world of the difference Christ makes in our lives. So, how do we do? How do we do in encouraging others in the church? How do we do in making sure that we stay connected to the church? Making sure that we're we're here. Obviously, coming Sunday night shows that you have a desire to be connected to the body of Christ. And that is good and to be commended. Do you allow doctrinal differences on secondary issues to create unnecessary strife in your relationship with others in the church? This can easily happen. You know all the famous thing about Just disagreeing and church splits over the color of carpets for instance. We can become very focused on aspects of our lives of the church, whether it be doctrinal or aesthetic even. And we can lose the main point. So, how are we doing? Are we focusing on the gospel, where Christ is not in us, who we are as a body, or are we focusing on our differences and allowing that to take us away? From the importance of who we are in Christ and our mission to show others by our unity and our love for each other that we've been bought the The price and believing in Christ makes a difference and is a positive change. That the power of Christ, not the power of our own ability, is what propels us to change. And Paul says all of this in verse 4. He says, this is why we need spiritual maturity. This is why we need spiritual unity. In verse 4 he says, Now this I say, lest anyone should deceive you with persuasive words. For though I'm absent in the flesh, yet I'm with you in the spirit. Rejoicing to see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ Jesus. He said this because a spiritually mature church, a unified church, is a church that will not be deceived with persuasive. Of words. It's a church that will stand firm in the faith. So personally, if you are growing and becoming more and more spiritually mature through disability, And your soul, your body, and strength, and your mind, to the energy of the Holy Spirit working in you, you will stand firm. If you do that in the context of a local church being unified together as As fellow believers in Christ, you will be grounded. You will not be deceived with persuasive words. You will have good order, and you will be steadfast. Fast in your faith, because Christ will be your foundation, and the power will be the Holy Spirit working in you both to will and to do. Of his good pleasure. In order to stand firm in the faith, we must proclaim Christ Jesus. This runs counter to the preaching of this world to believe in yourself. Transformation occurs through the proclamation of Christ First, we proclaim Christ to propel each other to spiritual maturity through instruction, discipline, and spiritual power. Second, we proclaim Christ to propel unity in the church through encouragement, assurance of our faith in Christ. And our gospel witness. The gospel of Christ function as the foundation of our inner transformation, which is energized by the working of the Holy Spirit within us, to remake us into the image of Him. So our prayer this week is that we go forth and that we work on disciplining our minds, our body, and our souls. That we do this in the context of each other. Sharing with each other weaknesses, areas which we need prayer, areas which we need help, aid. Because we all have different strengths, we all have different weaknesses. But as the body of Christ, we can encourage each other, we can build each other. Let's do this this week. Let's pray. Dear Holy Father, I thank you so much for who you are. We thank you for your sending of the Spirit. We thank you for the power that He works in us. The resurrected Christ. Works in us the same power that in which Christ rose from the dead is at work within us. An unimaginable power, an unfathomable resource. Pray that the Holy Spirit would work that power in us, would energize us, that we may be disciplined, that we may love you with all our heart, soul, strength, and mind. That we may be unified as one body. That we may go out and be your witnesses that you are God And you are the power that produces change and transformation, not in ourselves, but in you. We praise you and thank you in your holy and precious name. Amen.