Why are you here? I'm talking about here at this local church at this address, Faith Bible Church, 5810 Timberview Drive, Elkbridge, Maryland, 21075. What if I asked you why you attend church and then ask for a verse or a few to hang your hand on? I sound like Phil when he said when I say that hang your hand on on but a key one Hebrews ten twenty-three to twenty-five, let's hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is faithful, and let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, as is the manner of some But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Lots going on here, but here's the answer to why we're here. We consider others. stirring up love and good works by means of assembling and mutual encouragement. But also notice how even long back then some were habitual non-attenders. They lost the plot. They lost the urgency of Sundays. They lost the sight of the final day. These verses in Hebrews are a combination of a lengthy argument, and I'm not about to retrace that argument today. That's for another time. Besides, we're working through another book, 1 Corinthians. But the concerns of both letters there are similar. Again, why are we here? And what should we do now, now that we're here? What does it mean to consider? Stir up and exhort? Today we're moving into 1 Corinthians 14. Allow me to begin from a bird's eye view and sort of work my way down to the ground level. We're at a large section of the letter dealing with the topic of spiritual gifts, goes from chapters 12 to 14. We just got past the middle of this section as we looked at chapter 13 last time, the famous love chapter. Now the structure of this section, 12 to 14, reminds us of a bit of what we saw back in chapters 8 through 10. Recall that there Paul wrote concerning the eating of food sacrificed to idols, and that topic of idolatry, like this topic of spiritual gifts, took up the length of three chapters. A key parallel is that in the middle chapter of both sections, Paul inserts a key underlying general principle that governs specific behavior. So as he discusses food sacrifice to idols in chapters 8 to 10, in chapter 9, Paul explains how we should forsake our rights. Become all things to all people for the gospel's sake. This general principle of self-sacrifice in chapter 9 guides us in specific situations regarding food sacrifice to idols. Something similar is happening in chapters 12 to 14. In these chapters, Paul's writing concerning spiritual gifts. Again. And this topic also takes up the length of three chapters. Again, in the middle chapter, Paul inserts a key underlying general principle and explains it. So as he discusses spiritual gifts from chapters 12 to 14, in chapter 13, Paul explains why love is foundational and how it's better than any gift and all gifts. The general principle of love in chapter 13 guides us in specific matter of spiritual gifts. So we begin chapter 14, verse 1 is pivotal. I'm going to read it in in a minute, but if you want to look at it, it links us back to the two previous chapters with the mention of love and spiritual gifts. It also previews what Paul is about to say next. Also, if you juxtapose chapter 14, verse 1, with the last words of chapter in verses 39 to 40, we have a fairly good overview of all that's in between. In some of the apostles basically saying that love gives us the law and order we need to govern our use of spiritual gifts. It's perfectly fine to be excited about spiritual gifts. Notice the repeated command, desire. But such desires must have constraints and controls. It's like how fire must be contained in a fireplace with all its parts the hurt and the door. After all, we don't want our zeal to burn us or to burn the house down Similarly, we ignite our passion for spiritual gifts, but within biblical bounds. So again, love gives us the law and order we need to govern our use of spiritual gifts. Today I'm not covering the entirety of 1 Corinthians. fourteen but just the first twelve verses. That choice is somewhat ar arbitrary. I don't want to cover the entire sir uh chapter in one sermon. But I also think verse 12 is a good stopping point, and I'll explain why after reading the passage. So let's read now 1 Corinthians 14, 1 to 12. Pursue love and desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God, for no one understands him. However, in the spirit he speaks mysteries. But he who prophesies speaks edification and exhortation and comfort to men He who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church. I wish you all spoke with tongues, but even more that you prophesy For he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks with tongues, unless indeed he interprets that the church may receive edification. But now, brethren, if I come to you Speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you unless I speak to you either by revelation, by knowledge, by prophesying, or by teaching? Even things without life, whether Flute or harp. When they make a sound, unless they make a distinction in the the sounds, how will it be known what is piped or played? Or if the trumpet makes a uncertain sound, who will prepare for battle? So likewise you unless You utter by the tongue words easy to understand. How will it be known what is spoken? For you will be speaking into thin air into the air. There are in may be so many kinds of languages in the world, and none of them is without significance. Therefore, if I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be a foreigner to him who speaks, and he who speaks will be a foreigner to me. Even so you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, let it be for the edification of the church that you seek. To excel. Verses 1 and 12 frame our discussion for today: zeal for spiritual gifts The words desire and zealous are from the same word root in the original. But that zeal for spiritual gifts must be kept in check. Men and women of zeal can lose their way in life. We might become fanatics. A philosopher once said a fanatic is someone who redoubles their efforts when they have forgotten their goal. It's like someone who's not only lost on the road, but steps on the accelerator and goes hundred miles per hour The Bible also reminds us that zeal alone is dangerous. Paul says in Romans 10:2 that his fellow Israelites were zealous for God, but not according to knowledge. Now obviously the Corinthian saints know better. God gave them grace by Christ Jesus so that they're enriched in everything by Him, in all utterance and all knowledge. They have the mind of Christ through the Holy Spirit. Spirit. But even so, as great as it is, knowledge has its limits. The Corinthians always know in part, not in full Knowledge by itself pups up while love edifies. Without love, even a person who understands all mysteries and all knowledge would be nothing. That's why Paul says what he says in chapter 14, verse 1. It might help to picture three concentric circles there. Everyone, no matter his or her gift, must pursue love. That's the outermost circle. And once we learn to seek love above all things, we continue into the middle circle, desire spiritual gifts. But if love's the ultimate goal for our gifts, then we seek the gifts that edify all. That's why Paul says, desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. Prophecy, as you recall in chapter 12, 27 to 31, is the number two of the top three best gifts. It's God's revelation of the future. It's inspired. It's inerrant. Only apostleship is better than prophecy. Now if you heard me speak on this topic before, I told you that I'm what's called a cessationist, right? I believe inspired prophetic activity paused when the apostolic church era ended and the Lord gave us the closed canon of scriptures. Of course I don't think prophecy is done for good since there will be prophets again During the seven-year tribulation. But for now, where we are today, prophets are behind us or beneath us. That is, we stand upon prophets, like the way we stand on the foundation of this building. They're unseen, as we see, like in Ephesians 2. 20. We're not directly in contact with them, but we still benefit from their teaching. Now I don't want to get too much into this debate between cessationists and continualists during a sermon The message here is not focused on how long prophecy lasts. It's more about its lasting value. Even if we agree to disagree on prophecy, we'd agree that there's still other gifts that edify, such as the ones listed in Verse 6 of chapter 14, there, such as teaching, as we'll see later there. So all that to say, chapter 14, verse 1, gives us Paul's plan for the church. It's similar to what he says elsewhere in Ephesians 4. 16. As each part of the church does its share, exercise spiritual gifts, they cause growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. Love and edification through spiritual gifts. That's the main point here as well in today's passage. Now as we go through 1 Corinthians 14, 1-12, there's some rationale for treating the passage in two parts. At verse 6, Paul seems to be taking his breath. rhetorically speaking by saying now my brethren that in itself adjustified division into two parts verses one to five and verses six to twelve But there's more to it than that. The subject of verses 1 to 5 is the comparison of two gifts, tongues and prophecy. There's another comparison in verses 6 to 12, but now it's between tongues and multiple gifts. Besides prophesying, there's others listed in verse 6: Revelation, knowledge, and teaching. Besides this slight difference in topic, I say Paul stresses edification in verses 1 to 5 and specification in verses 6 to 12. It's easy to see the emphasis on edification in the first part. The noun edification occurs in two verses, three and five, twice total. The verb edify occurs twice within one verse, verse four. In verses 6 to 12, there's still talk of edification, but as you see in verse 12, but now we're getting into the science behind edification. Specification. We'll talk about dictions and dictionaries, definition of words spoken, language as the means to convey meaning. Specification deals with distinctions and indistinctions like the tom timbre of the flute, the harp, and the tramp trumpet. So with this structural outline noted, we have two regulatory principles for regular church talk. I think I have it on a slide here. So two regulatory principles for regular church talk. One, speak in love to build up others. That's verses one to five. Two, speak for understanding to profit all. Verses six to twelve. So first speak in love to build up others. Chapter 14, verse 1 sums up the preceding two chapters and moves us forward. Love was the subject of chapter 13, and spiritual gifts in general in chapter 12. Among those gifts, prophesying the best for the Corinthians. And the value of prophecies repeatedly stressed in relation to tongues. We talked about tongues earlier in the sermon series. God gave the early church the supernatural ability to speak the living languages of its day. The first instance was on the day of Pentecost in Acts 2. Jesus resurrected and ascended, sent the fledgling church, the promised Holy Spirit. The Spirit arrived, gave them utterance, and they spoke in tongues. As many Jews from all around the world were gathered in Jerusalem that day, everyone heard these saints speak in his own language. Luke even lists where they're from in verses 9 to 11. All the commotion grabbed everyone's attention before Peter preached his sermon. That was then, but now in 1 Corinthians 14, 2, we have an entirely different setting for the use of tongues. Unlike Pentecost, the Sunday gathering typically do not consist of mostly unsafe people visiting temporarily from various parts of the world, speaking different languages. Like most other Gentile churches, the Corinthians communicated mostly in one language. It was Greek, with a course A few loan words from Hebrew and Aramaic like hallelujah, Amen, Abba, Maranata. So if a Corinthian Christian wanted to show off his ability to speak Chinese or Sanskrit, none would understand and benefit. A His spiritual singing and prayer remain mysteries only between him and God. So the gift of tongues typically benefit too, the speaker and God, while prophecy Because prophecy is God's word, it not only predicts the future, it has relevance in the present. Look at verse three. He who prophesies speaks edification and exhortation and comfort to men. Charles Ellicott summarized three results as building up, stirring up, and cheering up. So first, edification is building up. Even if you're not a prophet, right? Edification should be the goal of your speech at church. Why? Because by speaking The truth and love to one another. We as parts of Christ's body grow up in all things into Him who is the head, Christ. But imagine the opposite: speaking to break down others. We do that sometimes, right? Remember that time Job got sick of his friends talking? And that was in chapter 19, verse 2 of Job. How long will you torment my soul and break me in pieces with words? The tongue can really be destructive, as we see in James 3. So speak to build-up, not breakdown. Secondly, exhortation is stirring up. When we're certain of the future, we should be motivated in the present. I hope the next time you study or sit down to study biblical prophecies, you get up afterwards and And you move to action. Consider how the book of Revelation begins. Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of his prophecy. And keep those things which are written in it, for the time is near. Or later in First Corinthians 15, how after proclaiming victory over death and Hades through Jesus, Paul concludes, Therefore, my beloved brethren, Be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Thirdly, comfort is cheering up. This word in the original is not as common as edification and exhortation. When we look at his verbal forms, we find them in the following context: friends caring for Martha and Mary when Lazarus died, fathers embracing his children, fellow Christians lifting up the faint-hearted. In prophecy is combined warmth and gentleness of comfort and the infectious energy of exhortation In prophecy, we get the counselor's hand on the shoulder. As much as we get a drill sergeant shouting in our faces, I think we need both, right? This talk of edification, exhortation, and comfort really liberates me as a pastor, right? I don't have to entertain I don't have to be funny. My goal is that you be built up, that you be stirred up to action, and you are cheered up through God's word. If edification, exhortation, and comfort are benefits of prophecy, clearly it's better than tongues because it helps many, not just one. The idea here. So the idea of audience of one may sound good and all when when it comes to charity maybe or sports or music performance. But it simply does not work for the gift of tongues. Can you imagine me getting up here and saying, I have an audience of one? Just sit here and listen to this. Nagatan Jain Sadi Sinju, unen no lawa, Iroton sen yung chatako kan yung odan ne. That's the first verse of amazing grace in Korean. And you should say to me, Pastor, just speak in English. And I'm like, no, I have an audience of one. Just sit there and listen to me. This is silly. All I've done with my Korean speaking was have a one-on-one with God. Well, I guess my wife understands you didn't give me a microphone for that I didn't help others or as it says in First Corinthians 14 4 he who speaks in a tongue edifies himself But he who prophesies edifies the church. Now, in all this effort to exalt prophecy, Paul's not trying to denigrate tongues. He's not forbidding it, as he says clearly later in Verse thirty nine. Here in verse five, he's actually wishing all would have this gift, but even so prophesying is better. Prophesying is useful by itself while tongues require another complimentary gift. Interpretation. The church cannot receive edification unless foreign languages are translated. More on this later. But now keep in mind the big picture, the first regulatory principle for regular church talk. Speak in love to build up others. Now if it's not obvious already, understanding what spoken is indispensable for edification That's why we invest in a good sound system. Microphones, speakers, and we have a voluntary rotation of the sound team, right? That's why we've shrunk our meeting space so that we can hear each other better. Okay. That's why we've improved our lighting and print large print worship bulletins for legibility's sake so that when you sing we can sing clearly Those are modern applications backed by an old general principle. Paul anticipated how important it is to speak for understanding to profit all. And thus the second regulatory principle. for regular church talk. Now we're in the second half of today's passage. As you see in verse 6 prophesying It's just one of four gifts that edify those who are here. We've got revelation, knowledge, and teaching alongside prophecy. A. T. Robertson commentator thinks that the revelation there corresponds with Prophesying and knowledge cor I'm sorry, knowledge corresponds with teaching. It's not a bad guess. God did and discovered His will through the prophets in both Old and New Testaments and give the teachers like Paul contributes to our knowledge of God. But whatever is the relationship between them, the main point here is that any of these four gifts are better than tongues because they can be understood readily at a church gathering. Now to illustrate this principle, Paul takes us to two locations outside of church. First in verse 7, we're at something like a banquet. But say that the instruments played cannot be distinguished. The flute does not sound like a piped note. The harp does not sound like a pluck note. Why even have different instruments then? We have at home in a kid-friendly version recording of Prokofiv's work, Peter and the Wolf. It's a music composition. With different instruments representing different characters. I admit I often confuse the two of them, the duck and the cat. That's because they're represented by the oboe and the clarinet respectively. And they're both reed woodwind instruments. But as bad as my ears are, I don't normally confuse Peter and the bird. That's because they're represented by the strings and the flute, respectively But imagine if somehow the violin sounds like the flute and the flute sounds like the violin, then I have no hope. None of us do, right? It's no longer fun to listen to music. What's the joy of music without such distinctions? Next in verse 8, Paul takes us elsewhere, ups the ante, raises the stakes. Moving from the banquet hall to the war zone. Now it's not about a night of bad entertainment, but a day of utter defeat. Without the watchman trumpeting distinct audible notes The soldiers would not gird themselves against the advancing enemies if overnight the army might wake to their deaths as they're ambushed by the enemies. Now we're back to the church for the rest of the passage. When one speaks in tongues without interpretation, there's mere meaningless noise, no better than muffled voices, blower creaks, or crickets chirfing. When one speaks in tongues, no one is stirred to action and equipped for ministry. Paul asks in verse 9, unless you utter by the tongue, words easy to understand. How will it be known what is spoken? Without understanding, words land nowhere. You speak into the thin air. As Paul says in verse 10, there are myriads of languages out there, and they always signify something. But they must be studied and learned. Paul draws to a close with therefore in verse eleven. Say he meets a stranger unless he learns his language, at the very least, some vocabulary. There's no meaningful exchange, no meeting of the minds, no deep bond formed. The two say strange things. They remain strangers to each other. They utter nothing. They're utterly lost without translation. Finally in verse 12, we wrap up this paragraph. It didn't take much for the Corinthians to get excited about spiritual gifts, but So as Paul is really preaching to the choir, but they must excel in the more excellent way. Pursuing edifying love means pursuing edifying gifts. So speak for understanding to profit all. As we close, I want to speak to those who claim to be Christians but do not pursue love. Recall from last week we cited 1 John 3. 16. By this we know love because he laid down his life for us. But if you know your Bible, you know I did not finish reading that verse. There's more. I'll read it in full. 1 John 3:16. By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. How are you doing with that? Does 1 John 3 16 accurately describe your level of love for the local church for a group of believers. What makes us think we can relate to each other without any commitment? You know, can we love our wives and our husbands without commitment? Can we love our children without commitment commitment? Can we love our country without commitment? Laying down our lives for each other in love may start on Sunday mornings, but it's gotta be more than that. Most churches like ours have baptisms, membership classes, and a set of expectations. But belonging to a local church is more than such formalities, a lot more than that. It's not just attending and saying hi and bye. Again, it's pursuing love and exercising your gifts to build up others. And even even if you don't know at this point what your particular spiritual gift or gifts might be, it's fine. It's more imperative and urgent that you start with love, right? Pursuing love, a committed relationship with the local congregation. Consider how God will be glorified by your commitment. By pursuing love, we in small measure reflect God who Is love. By building up the church, we show up the Lord who builds the house. If we commit ourselves to our local congregation and promote it with our love and spiritual gifts, We might resemble an expert agent who gives a tour of a beautiful home. You believe in the product, you have no doubts about its value, especially its firm foundation. You maintain it, you decorate it, you fix it when it's necessary, right? And you become passionate about it But if you don't feel like you're there yet, know this. Maybe act in faith. We love the church and we build up the church because Jesus loves the church He loved her so much that he gave himself for her. He bought her at a price, purchased her with his own blood. But that cost was high, not because we're so great, far from it. We're sinners as evidence in our fallen speech. Ours is a tongue that flatters, perverts, and pours out foolishness. Our tongue is an arrow shot out, it speaks deceit. A world of iniquity. It is fire and set on fire by hell, an unruly evil full of deadly poison. But our speech problem is symptomatic of a deeper problem. We have a heart problem. Jesus confronted the most religious experts of his day. How can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. At the heart of our speech is the problem of the heart. That's why we deserve to be punished by awesome holy God. We've taken this gift of speech and used it for destruction. Beyond that, inwardly and outwardly, our soul, spirit, body, our talk and walk all point to a guilty sentence. It is only right that our party is in hell, and the lake which burns with fire and brimstone. But here's the good news. God who knows all and even our evil heart of unbelief. God who is just holds accountable every idle word we speak. This God is also merciful and compassionate. And he speaks for our good. He regenerates his children speaking. In us, his implanted word, which lives and abides forever. He who commanded light to shine out of darkness has shown in our hearts. To give the light of knowledge of his glory in the face of Jesus Christ. For that purpose of saving us, the Word of God became flesh and spoke to us the words of life. God sent his son, Jesus, God and man in one person, lived a perfect life, committed no sin, nor was to see found in his mouth. But this one who spoke no evil was reviled. He was rejected by his own and abandoned by his followers. But this was all according to God's sovereign plan. The sign on the cross, written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, communicated a crucial truth. This is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. But even beyond that. He is the king of all nations. See, while his enemies meant to publicly shame him upon the cross, he was lifted up from the earth to draw all people to himself. Slain as the Lamb, he has redeemed us by God to God by his blood, out of every tribe and tongue, and people and nation. He bought us as his bride, his people, his church, paying in full the penalty of our sin. With his own life, he became our substitute. But on the third day he rose again, and after proving his resurrection for many days, he ascended to heaven. So now the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. The reason we stand as a church today and talk about building up the church is this: we stand on Jesus, his life, death, and resurrection, ascension, and all of his promises. Because Jesus is the chief cornerstone, we have the foundation of apostles and prophets. Because Jesus is the chief cornerstone, we living stones are built are being built up, a spiritual house, being fitted together. Growing into a holy temple in the Lord, being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. Because Jesus is the chief cornerstone, the gates of Hades will not prevail against his church. So what is our response to this grand church project of the Lord? I can tell you that the greatest cathedrals in the world pale in comparison to what God is building in Christ's church. But to belong to this church, you must first belong to Christ. Begin a true relationship with him by repenting, turning from sin, and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus, only trust in him for eternal life. Find your place in heaven by placing your hope of heaven in Jesus. You cannot earn eternal life or deserve it. It is a gift. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So now as we close, I pray that our last song is your confession. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that we are stabilized. We are secure. Nothing can shake us because we stand on the promises declared in your word. We stand on Jesus. For those who may not have made that decision, I pray that you would convict and move their hearts to not lean on their understanding. not to lean on their efforts or good works to get into heaven. But first of all, give their lives to you. Entrust their lives to you. To be hidden in Christ. Lord, for those of us who made that decision, Lord, give us wisdom. May we consider how we may build up the church. He did not call us to be just isolated Christians, but to be part of a local church as we're already part of a universal church, but to fulfill all the one another's, especially to speak. Speaking the truth to one another, as we think about edification, how we may exhort one another, how we may comfort one another. Lord help us to think carefully how we might do that, what church we might attend and join eventually, how what ministries we might take on and participate. We thank you that we do look forward to a glorious kingdom where we'll be with all kinds of people from all different ages. But we're all united through salvation through your Son Jesus Christ. And we thank you for that, and that's where we're headed. A fellowship without end. Lord, a fellowship that is not tainted by sin. But until then, may we build up each other, may we speak in love, may we pursue love. And we thank you that when we forget that mission, that you We're thankful that we see true demonstration of love through your son. We thank you for Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.