While preparing for this sermon, I listened to another sermon on the same passage by a pastor named Richard Phillips. In it, he references a Chinese Christian evangelist named Leland Wang. Two things about him interesting. First, Wang had a life model that I find practical. You might want to adopt it for yourself. It's no Bible, no breakfast. No Bible, no breakfast. A friend of our church, Richard Harrison, Rich Harrison quotes and lives by this model. Maybe we should too. Secondly, Wang expressed his faith by placing three verses on the letter head of his stationary. The first verse was Joshua 10 13. The sun stood still. The second was 2 Kings 6:6. The iron did swim. The third verse was Psalm forty-eight, verse 14. This God is Iron. Leelin Wang cited these verses to remind his correspondence to be a Christian is to believe in the God of the impossible. We need the same reminders. Are we feeding ourselves with spiritual nutrition each morning before we face the world? Do we believe that God created the universe and performs miracles and that this God is our God? Scriptures are full of reminders. God asks Jeremiah, but he might as well ask us. Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? Or say you're sometimes discouraged in evangelism, like me, frustrated, there's little response from our hearers You might think there's no way this or that person will ever turn to Christ. But recall what Jesus told his disciples. With men, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. Today we ponder anew what the Almighty can do. We continue our coverage of Genesis 17. We're taking two weeks to go over this chapter. Went over the first half a couple weeks ago after I mean there are twenty-seven verses to read and study here God has a lot to say to Abraham. And that's because he and Sarai are on the verge of life-changing events. And it's not hard to figure out what the Lord wants to say in Genesis 17. Just locate and count the word that occurs 13 times between verses 2 and 21. The Lord Himself, and you uses the word It's covenant. Scene-wise, covenant's the main idea here. Covenant with all its implications ties all the parts of Genesis 17 together. That's clear enough. Not only that, Genesis 17 is easy to outline. There are some obvious transition markers in the narrative. We can begin with verse 1 and verse 22. Marking a unit. The Lord appears to Abraham in verse 1. The Lord leaves him in 22. Then in verses 23 to 27, Abraham does all that God demands. We can further divide verses 1 to 22 into three parts. To do that, those are two times defined the phrase God said to Abraham. One's in verse 9, the others in verse. In verse fifteen. So with these structural markers in place, we have Genesis seventeen and bite-sized pieces. We have four major parts. Verses 1 to 8 form one part, 9 to 14 is another, 15 to 22 form a third part. Lastly we wrap up the chapter with 23 to 27. We'll cover sections three and four of today's sermon text. Let's read Genesis 17, 15 to 27. And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be And I will bless her and also give you a son by her. Then I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations. Kings of peoples shall be a mother be from her. Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born to a man who is one hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. And God said, No, Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son. You shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his descendants after him. And as for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He shall beget twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation. But my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you. at this time set time next year. Then he finished talking with him and God went up from Abraham. So Abraham took Ishmael his son, all who were born in this house and all who were bought with his money. Every male among the men of Abraham's house and circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very same day, as God had said to him. Abraham was ninety nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of their foreskins. of his foreskin, and Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he circumcised in the flesh in the f uh his foreskin. That very same day Abraham was circumcised circumcised and his son Ishmael, and all the men of his house, born in the house or bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him. You have noticed that today's passage is symmetrical with the previous one. For example, in the first major portion of Genesis 17 Verses 1 to 8, the Lord changed Abram's name to Abraham. Now in the third major portion in verses 15 to 22, the Lord changes Sarai's name to Sarah. Here's another parallel. We saw in the second major portion of the chapter, verses 9-14, the command for circumcision, the sign of the covenant. Now we see in the fourth major portion, verses 9-14. twenty three to twenty-seven, Abraham's obedient, he administers the right of circumcision. Because of all these parallels and the overall covenantal theme, I'll continue with the same idea from last time at Sermon Point That is, I will discuss what God accomplishes through his everlasting covenant. First, in verses 15 to 22, we learn that the Lord blesses us through our family relationships. Secondly, in verses twenty-three to twenty-seven, we see how he uses us through our swift and full obedience. First of two accomplishments through God's everlasting covenant in today's text is He blesses us through our family relationships. So we begin with verse 15. So follow along in your Bibles. As was the case earlier in verse 9, hear the phrase, and God said to Abraham, creates another natural break in the chapter. And just as Abraham was renamed Abraham earlier Sarai is renamed Sarah now. Something that there's uh change in meaning from the possessive To the definite, that is Sarai, whose name means my princess, is now Sarai, the princess. Another interpretation is that Sarai is a non-Semitic name of a deity. While Sarah is a Semitic name of royalty. In either case, Abram's wife is appropriately called by a royal name. She will have a son with Abraham, according to verse 16. And from that one son there will be kings, nations, and peoples. It's at this point in verse 17 that Abraham once again falls on his face. Recall how he did that back in verse 3. This time we read that he laughed. He laughed at the thought of two non-genarians, right? Announcing a pregnancy, people in their 90s. Next chapter we'll see that Sarah too would laugh at this notion. But why is it that Abraham's not rebuked for his laughter while Sarah is? I agree with John Kelvin. Whatever was behind Abraham's laughter, it was an unbelief or scorn. Quote Kelvin. The novelty of the thing so strikes him, Abraham, that for a short time he is confounded, yet he humbles himself before God. Confused mind, prostrating himself on the earth, he by faith adores the power of God. That this was not the language of one who doubts, Paul in his epistle to the Romans. Is a witness. We read that portion in Romans earlier. In other words, Paul takes us into the heart of Abraham. Abraham is real with himself, his wife, his circumstances. Yet at the same time, he was not weak in faith. He did not waver in unbelief. He believed God would deliver on his promise. I also think that Abraham had good motives as he petitioned for Ishmael in verse 18. I don't doubt that Abraham loved him. Ishmael's already here, and he's a sure thing when it comes to next in line. Meanwhile, at this point, the child of promise is just a gleam in the eyes of his father and mother. But the Lord says, no, Ishmael is not the one. That's because Abraham's rightful heir will come out of Sarah's womb, not Hagar's womb. And the child's name will be Isaac. Isaac in verse 19 is Yitzcock. It's exactly the same as the verb for laughed in verse 17. It's a perfect name for the son of Abraham and Sarah. Some notes here. There are at least three kinds of laughs that he'll bring. There's Abraham's laughter full of wonder here. There's going to be Sarah's laughter of unbelief. In chapter 18, verse 12. See that next time. But through Isaac, God makes Sarah and those close to her laugh with joy in chapter 21, verse 6. Then back to 1719. Isaac will be the chosen seed of Abraham. God uses this language of covenant we read earlier. You'll see all the overlap between verse 7 and 19. Recall what God told Abraham in verse 7: I will establish my covenant between me and your me and you and your descendants after you in their generations. For an everlasting covenant. Here in verse 19, the Lord guarantees essentially the same concerning Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant. And with his descendants after him. Before finishing his thoughts on Isaac, God does address Abraham's concern for Ishmael in verse twenty. Again, this is why I think Abraham meant well as he petitioned earlier. He's heard by God. And uh Ishrael didn't do anything wrong. Even if his father, surrogate mother, and adopted mother were wrong. The Lord hears Abraham's prayers for Ishmael, he's assured that Ishmael will be blessed. It'll be fruitful and multiply. Now consider what privilege this is. I looked up the four times, four other times we see that Trio of verbs together in Genesis. Bless be fruitful and multiply. Sort of scattered throughout Genesis. In them, there's a mixture of imperatives and wishes. Hopeful prayers for God's blessing. God commands us to be fruitful and multiply. But here, with regards to Ishmael, God Himself will guarantee the blessing, the fruitfulness, and the multiplication. That's a quite a relief for Abraham. Honestly, what would make parents like me and Era happier than knowing God guarantees our children's blessings, fruitfulness, and multiplication? Imagine hearing that from God. It's gotta be great news. So Ishmael will have twelve sons to form a nation. Fast forward if you want to Genesis 25, 12-18. For more details. Twelve sons become princes over towns and settlements. Their father lives a long, fruitful life as promised. Nevertheless, the true seed of Abraham will continue with Isaac, not Ishmael. That's what the Lord says in verse 21. He'll establish his covenant with Isaac, who will be born in about a year. And that's how God finishes this conversation with Abraham in verse 22. So to review verses 15 to 22 form the third major section of Genesis 17. Here's another one of God's accomplishments through His everlasting covenant. He blesses us through our family relationships. In other words, God is the most pro-family being in the universe. He wants Abraham to unite with Sarah and seek a godly offspring. Yet he also reserves a blessing for Ishmael. Even if he is the result of an ill-conceived plan, Ishmael himself is not ill-conceived. Ishmael is fearfully and wonderfully made, an image-bearer, just like Isaac. But we observe here that while Abraham's at the center of the Abrahamic covenant, rightly so, his family members are important too. Now, of course, in trying to apply this passage to our lives, there are some caveats. God does not guarantee or promise that we'll necessarily have children, or the ones we do have will be saved. But one thing is constant and relevant for us today. We should never think that our spouses or children are obstacles getting in the way of our life goals. If you do think that way, change your life goals. For most of us, the path to becoming a godly man or a godly woman is to be a family man or family woman. Dan Peters, who mentors me often, reminds me regularly that a good pastor is a good husband and a good father. It's not just me or you know other church leaders. I can tell a lot about your spiritual life by looking at your family life. So if it applies to you, be grateful for your Christian spouse. Husbands, honor your wife since you two are heirs together of the grace of life, as 1 Peter 3 says, Wives, submit to your husbands as they submit to Jesus. Going to Ephesians. If you have children, bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord As you do, remember that God wants to bless us through our family relationships. Now at this point, God has said all he wanted to say about Abraham, Sarah, Ishmael, and Isaac. It's time for Abraham to respond in faith. That's what we see in the rest of Genesis 17. Here is the other accomplishment through God's everlasting covenant. God uses us through our swift and full obedience. Much of verses 23 to 27 seem packed with mundane details, repetitions. We could just sum it up by saying Abraham did as he was told, but I think there's some great insights for living. First, I want you to notice a phrase in verse 23, repeated in 26, it's that very same day. Abraham didn't hesitate. When the Lord is clear on what you should do, there's no need to wait. The child's coming within a year, so get the painful stuff out of the way, Asa. Don't get caught in analysis-paralysis. Get busy obeying. I like the commentary of Matthew Henry. While the command is yet sounding in our ears and the sense of duty is fresh, it is good to apply ourselves to it immediately, lest we deceive ourselves by putting it off to a more convenient season. I must ask you, answer this yourself. How many times have you walked away from your devotions, quiet times, or You listen to a convicting sermon and you're determined to follow through on an application or a challenge, but then how many times did you forget about it? Did you wait for months until you did what you were saying? supposed to do, if at all. Maybe you know for certain you need to pray regularly for someone, maybe even fast for that someone But you hardly pray. Perhaps you do so once in a while. Perhaps an evangelistic conversation with a non-Christian friend is long overdue Or deep in your heart, you need to, you know you need to confront a Christian friend who needs accountability. All this is gnawing at you But you lost courage while putting it off. Meanwhile, you found thousand excuses to do it later. Life got busy. I forgot. Though this God wants to use us through our swift obedience. Not only do we need to be in haste, we need to be thorough. God uses us through our swift and full obedience. Abraham's plan is a comprehensive plan. He not only gets himself and his son circumcised, he does the same with his domestic servants, born in his house, and ball with his money. You'll see the reference to them in verses twenty-three and twenty-seven, echoing the wording of verses twelve and thirteen. So now we can guess How many operations were required within this one day? Remember back in chapter 14, verse 14, when Abraham rounded up his servants, born in his house to rescue Lot That was a while ago, even decades. Back then he had 318 servants born in his house. But those were just able-bodied young men If we account for boys and elderly men, we're probably talking over 500 males. Yet in the very same day, Abraham went through all of his tents He displayed both swift and full obedience to the Lord. He did this knowing the immediate pain and risk. The pain, well, it's obvious. The risk now comes from the increased vulnerability to enemy attacks later in chapter 34 when all the males of a certain city Called Shechem were circumcised, they fell to just two men, two of Jacob's sons. Sort of a blot in Jacob's history there, but Had the word got out of the camp. At least for a few days, Abraham's people could have been easy targets for the enemy Well, God protected them. Abraham had confidence in the Lord. Even at his old age, at age 99, there's energy and speed in his obedience While waiting for the fulfillment of the promises, he didn't grow bitter. He grew better over time. Definitely something I want to be, right? As you get older. Not bitter, but better. As for Ishmael, I know he's been a passive character, but I believe his age of thirteen is important. I'm not saying Ishmael was preparing for a bar mitzvah, but he is reaching that age where he's taking on more responsibility. He's transitioning to adulthood. So it's key that Isaac is born soon and comes into the picture. Makes sense. It must be made clear that Isaac's the heir of promise, not Ishmael. For all these reasons, Abraham demonstrates swift and full obedience to prepare for Isaac's birth. So we finish our coverage of Genesis seventeen. We've seen it's all about the covenant. Here's a quick Review of the four parts of the chapter in verses one to eight. We learn how God powerfully changes our identity and destiny. In 9 to 14, he markedly sets us off from the world. With the covenant sign. In 15 to 22, he blesses us through our family relationships. In 23 to 27, he uses us through our swift and full obedience. My final thought for today is based on Abraham's obedience and the gospel call. And connecting it to a key phrase in Romans is called obedience of faith. Now I need to be clear that obedience of faith is not a works that merits salvation. Obedience of faith has to do with saving faith. Is a response to God's gracious, effectual call. Obedience of faith is expressed by genuine repentance and faith. Such repentance and faith Enabled by the Holy Spirit, who liberates sinners from the bondage of their will. Now the Spirit operates in our hearts mysteriously beyond human understanding. But the external call of the gospel is very clear. You know, it's easy enough for my children to grasp. That's what we tell our kids about it over and over again. And I hope you do that with your children and grandchildren The good news of Jesus has to do with God who created us, mankind who rebel rebelled, Christ who saves us, and our response, again, the obedience. I pray that the very same day you hear the command to believe in the gospel. You repent and believe. But first, know that God created all things. By His will they exist and were created. He created male and female and brought them together in marriage. He gives to all life, breath, and all things. He made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth. But we humans have a problem. We're rebels who break the Lord's holy laws. We blaspheme his name, we lust, we covet, we lie, we steal. All have sinned and fall short of God's glory. Our iniquities have separated us from him. So now there's a day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. All sinners will face eternity apart from God. But our Father in heaven did not leave us like this. He sent his son, God and man, united in one person. He's the promised seed of Abraham, the one through whom the remnant of Israel and all nations will be blessed. He was born of a virgin. That's even more amazing than being born of a 90-year-old. The name of God's Son is Jesus, and that name means that he saves his people from their sins. He was circumcised on the eighth day, he was born under the law to redeem those under the law. He would be a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles. He lived a perfect life, never sinning, not once in thought, word, or deed. And when it was time, he went to Jerusalem. Jesus didn't hesitate to obey. He steadfastly set his face to go to that city. He was betrayed by his own and arrested. But not once did he lose control. He said it himself in John 8 10 18. No one took his life from him, he laid it down of himself. He had the power to lay it down, and he has the power to take it again. This command he received from his father. Father. So Jesus humbled himself to obey swiftly and fully. He was obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. There he paid completely the penalty of sin we should pay. He satisfied the wrath of God that burns against us. He declared his work finished. He breathed his last. And he was buried. But on the third day, Jesus rose from the dead. Death could no longer hold him. He conquered the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection to many witnesses. And after forty days he ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now, once again, we get to the response. The command to repent and believe in the gospel is clear. If you haven't already, will you do so today? Will you obey By faith. Turn from sin and self-righteousness, that's what repentance is. Turn to Jesus But believing is trust in him only for salvation. You cannot earn a place in heaven through legalism. You can't be good enough through works of righteousness. God saves us by grace alone, faith alone in Christ alone. So I pray you think through this carefully, but do act urgently if you haven't already. already given your life to Jesus. Obey the gospel call by trusting in Jesus. Don't put it off until you're older. It's foolish to think I'll get right with God later in my life. Nothing's guaranteed, not the next day, not your next step, not your next breath. Who knows whether you'll even make it back home today Also, people assume that they will be more desperate for God later in life. But it's also possible that later in life you'll be even more hardened, calloused, resistant to following Jesus. That's horrifying if you ask me. So today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts Behold, now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Pray that the lyrics of this final song will ring in your ears. Let not conscience make you linger, nor of fitness fondly dream. All the fitness he required is to feel your need of him. Come ye weary, heavy laden, lost and ruined by the fall. If you tarry till you're better, you will never come at all. Let's pray and sing these truths together. Lord, we just thank you for your word that is clear to us and you speak to us For our spirit, you Lord, help us realize our need, our weakness, our strength Sinfulness. And all that's part of your loving kindness. Make us realize how much we're in need, how much we're in trouble apart from you. How much we need you each and every day. And Lord, may we in a sense be comfortable with the fact that we are human, we are weak. And we need to trust in you. May our obedience be swift and full. Lord, as we have your word ring in our ears and our hearts. Pray that we would be determined to follow through. And Lord, that our faith would express itself through work. Driven out of gratitude because we are thankful for the finished work of your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.