In the past few months I've been mentoring or and sort of keeping accountability with uh a UMBC student. His name is John and he's a campus ministry worship leader. And we met every other week at or near campus for discussion, prayer, and encouragement. I'm about twice his age and in a completely different stage of life. life. I guess technically I'm old enough to be his dad. But to close this gap, to connect with John, I decided to play video games. Minecraft and Fortnite. Just kidding. Um We're reading a book together. Now what book? Since John's a praise leader, I picked the book on worship. So it's entitled Worship Matters, Leading Others to Encounter the Greatness of God is by Bob Coughlin, a pastor, musician, and the director of Sovereign Grace Ministries. I've um enjoyed his music for a long time. One of my favorites from him is that adaptation of a Puritan prayer from the Valley of Vision. Oh great God. We'll actually sing that later. Now I don't agree with some of his ideas, like his views on spiritual gifts, but I agree with much of what he says Anyway, so John and I go through a few chapters of worship matters each time we meet, and in one chapter, Coughlin talks of the vertical and horizontal aspects of worship. Besides another author who says, edification and worship are different sides of the same coin. He explains that when we gather, we not only look up and worship God, that's the vertical aspect. But then there's also the horizontal aspect of worship. We not only look to God, we not only look at the screens or at least print bulletins, but we should look at each other while worshiping. See we not only sing for God, but we sing for each other. In our praises, we not only build up God's throne, we build up each other in the faith. That has basis from Colossians 3:16. Horizontally, we teach and admonish one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Vertically, we sing with grace in our hearts to the Lord. Again, edification and worship are different sides of the same coin. We find seeds of this truth not only in the New Testament, but even from the beginning. As we continue in Genesis, we not only learn about the creation and the fall, we not only get hints of redemption. And glimpses of the gospel. You also get some foundational ideas about worship. Even this concept of how worship has both a vertical element and a horizontal element. Has its roots in the earliest chapters. So that's where we turn now. Let's begin our study of Genesis 4 with the first eight verses. It's Genesis 4, 1 to 8. Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain Cain was a tiller of the ground. And his offering, and Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. So the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not Be accepted. And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door and its desires for you, but you should rule over it. Now Cain talked with Abel, his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field That Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him. Return to a new chapter. And there's a world of difference. The ground is now cursed, bearing thorns. horns and thistles, entire creation subjected to futility in the bondage of corruption. It all stems from the fall of mankind. As a consequence, we switch locations. Adam and Eve are now expelled out of Eden. No longer can they commune with God. Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. No longer can they reach and touch the garden's lush trees, pleasant to the sight and good for food. Now they're somewhere east My guess is that they didn't wander far. Adam may have settled close to the garden. Perhaps his sons Cain and Abel brought their offering as as close as they can get. Perhaps they stood near the cherubim, right where they stood, and the where the flaming sword turned, guarding the way to the tree of life. Perhaps, but one thing we do know for certain is that there's some kind of worship war going on. Now when I say worship war, I'm not referring to the debates over style, traditional versus contemporary. I'm not here to fight over principles of worship, regulative versus normative. I'm talking about how fallen men struggled to please God. Please God with worship, please God with their sacrifices, please God with their lives. Whatever opinion you hold about worship styles and principles, the Bible's clear that what's going on inside of you is that as important as what's going on outside of you. How you honor your God has much to do with how you honor your brother and sister in Christ. Cain is a prime example of that. He was warring within himself, and the sin besetting him. He gave into wickedness. So Cain, the false worshipper, killed Abel, the true worshipper. It's not a story just about murder. Is um is a story of how both vertically and horizontally man got worshipped wrong. How we fail in the love of God and the love of man In today's passage, I say there are three worship matters for warning and guidance. First, worship is a matter of approaching God with genuine faith that results in good works. That's verses one to five. Much of today's passage is about that. Secondly, worship is a matter of denying self by repenting of sin and overcoming it. That's verses six to five. to seven. Thirdly, worship is a matter of loving your brethren as proof of life. Verse 8. Obviously Cain not being an example of that So let's look at these one by one. First, worship is a matter of approaching God with genuine faith that results in good works. I'll spend the most time on this point. Let me reread the verses starting with verse one. Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Recall from earlier how Adam and his wife set the pattern for all future marriages. Through their example, we see sexual Intimacies reserved for one man and one woman in matrimony. That's how the husband truly knows his wife. Not between a man with any woman or a man with many women. Adam and Eve also demonstrate that through childbearing they would fulfill the creation mandates set back in chapter 1: be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. But adding to that command is the promise. In chapter 3, that one of woman's seed will bruise the serpent's head. Many fathers hope that their sons will be sports, be well educated, earn lots of money. Adam and his father likely hoped that Cain would avenge their loss to Satan, take them back to Even. Such expectation must have been there, even as Eve was expecting. Sometimes wonder what that experience was like. You know, like all mothers, she would have seen her womb grow over months, the unborn child kicking at her, right, from the inside. Like how strange and wonderful was all that this. This is like the first time ever right in history. There are no prenatal classes, right? No ultrasounds, no gender reveal parties. And during labor, there are no midwives and nurses, okay? There's no fetal monitor or epidurals. Happy Mother's Day. But at the end of it all, many of us can relate firsthand that there's this Beautiful child. Okay, that's why we say happy Mother's Day. So and the first mother of mankind, the mother of all living, was not only happy Eve recognized that the Lord helped her. I have acquired a man from the Lord, she says. No matter what we think of him now, Cain's name was a beautiful reminder of Eve's success. Experience. Cain is related, the name is related to the verb acquired. Truly it was a gift acquired from God. It was the Lord who formed the voice inward parts and covered him. In his mother's womb. It was the Lord who fearfully and wonderfully made him. It was the Lord who deserves worship and praise for this. And more kiss were on the way. Go on. The first sentence of verse 2 goes, Then she bore again, this time his brother Abel. There's no explanation of this name. Most things able comes from the word for breath, vape. Aper or vanity, that doesn't sound very flattering as a name, but we're not sure why he's named that way. We what we do know is Abel's future occupation. It says in the second half of verse 2. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. The sons of Adam take on two different careers. You can't really say one was better than the other. It's my guess that Adam learned both kinds of skills. Simply passed them along to his sons. One majored in gardening, the other in shepherding. I pause here for a moment. What's remarkable to me is how much Moses doesn't tell us here. We're not told much about the dawn of Human civilization. He's not interested as we are about the rise of science and technology. There's no mention of when man invented the wheel or the earliest medicine. It'd be fun to speculate. For example, I'm guessing that from the tunics of skin God provided, Adam and Eve got the basics of the textile industry. And they didn't have to discover fire, right? As they've seen the plane. Sword. But again, none of these developments concern the narrator. The Bible is most concerned about man as worshiper. And it makes good sense that in worship they give to God some percentage of their prophets. Verse 3 and the first part of verse 4 show us just that. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground to the Lord. Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat Imagine that two brothers arrived near the cherubim, east of Eden. Cain went first. Picture him piling up sheaves of wheat before God. Davy, he Expected to hear some audible voice or fire from heaven to consume it, but nothing happened. Abel steps up next. I often see visual artists depicting the brothers in the same scene. seen even offering the gifts at the same altar. But unlike Cain's offering, Abel's sacrifice of sheep is Accepted. Maybe a confirmation came in an audible voice or again fire from heaven. I don't know. Whatever and however it took place, the contrast is clear. The second half of verse 4 and the first half of verse 5 says And the Lord respected Abel and his offering, but he did not respect Cain and his offering. Now, what made Abel and his gift respectable, but Cain and his gift unacceptable? As subpoints, let me suggest A few options. There's something wrong with the kind of Cain's offering. No, there's something wrong with the quality of Cain's offering. No, there's something wrong with the A character of Cain, all or some of the above. Look at option A. Some suggest that because Cain offered a bloodless sacrifice, God rejected it No, they say he should have known better. Surely he knew how life is in the blood, and blood is what makes atonement for the soul. His parents must have told about how an animal was killed, you know, for those tunics to cover their shame. How didn't you figure that out? Problem with this option is that much of it's speculative. You have no clear indication that the brothers were offering a sin offering, like the ones prescribed under the law. And even in the law God did accept great offerings. I don't think that there's an issue with the kind of offering Cain gives here Not as if God's like I'm a meat lover, didn't you know that? Okay then if it's not that God prefers meat over wheat Maybe it's just a problem of poor quality. We saw in verse 4 that Abel brought the firstborn of his flock and their fat. Maybe Cain should have done something similar. Bring the first fruits of his flock. crop. What's worse? Maybe they were blighted, diseased, or half eaten by locusts. I don't know. We're not sure. Now I do think this quality argument i is better than the previous one, but Even this one, I have to admit, is speculative. So that leaves me with one remaining option, is that there's something wrong with the character of Cain. Cain didn't grasp the following. Worship is a matter of approaching God with genuine faith. When you lack genuine faith, your words cannot be good before God. That I believe is the basic problem here with Cain. Two New Testament passages uh c you know, sort of confirm this Baptist claim. I've got it listed up Hebrews eleven four By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it he being dead. Still speaks. And a few verses later, we're told that without faith, it's impossible to please God. Genuine faith is what's found in Abel but missing in Cain. And elsewhere we find genuine faith results in good works. We learned that from Apostle John. Stephen read for us the relevant passage from John's first letter. Portion of it, John uh first John three, ten to twelve goes, In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is he who does not love his brother. Where this is the message that You have heard from the beginning that we shall love one another, not as Cain who was of the wicked one and murdered his brother. Why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his Again, we don't have all the details of Cain's sinful life. Maybe as the second half of verse five suggests, he had an ongoing temper problem. Maybe working through thorns and thistles gave him a prickly personality. The certain explains his reaction to the rejection, and Cain was angry, and his countenance Fell. Or maybe he had harbored hatred for his brother for a while. Maybe his premeditated murder came from his meditated malice. Whatever the specifics, we can assume Cain failed to grasp the following. Worship is a matter of approaching God. Genuine faith that results in good works. So but it's not too late for Cain, just as God sought out the sinful Adam in the garden, he seeks out the son of Adam, East of Eden We know that the Lord is richly good, forbearing, long suffering with us, and He is the same way with Cain is the goodness. God's goodness of God, uh goodness of God that leads us to repentance. So we learn in the verses 6 to 7 the following. Worship is a matter of denying self by repenting of sin and overcoming it. The Lord is kind and gentle to seek out the wayward man. It's what a good shepherd does for a lost sheep, or a good father for a troubled son. God asks questions in verses 6 to 7, not so that he might learn something, but so that man might learn something. God already knows the answers to these questions. I guess the sense that God addressed the entirety of Cain's being. That is, he started most inwardly with his angry heart. The next outer layer was his crestfallen face. Finally, there's the matter what he must do with his hands and his feet. Evidently, Cain knew what he had to do. He had to deny himself and repent of sin, but say he doesn't want to do that. The Lord issues a warning in the rest of verse 7. And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door, and his desire is for you, but you should you should rule over it. You may remember that this verse, Genesis 4. 7, was a helpful cross-reference to Genesis 3. The second half of that verse which describes to Eve her punishment for sin says, Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. The two main parents Parallels there is the one is the noun desire, the other with the verb rule. The point here in Genesis 4:7 is that sins at the door, eager to break in and take you hostage. Sin is not like my dog. My Labrador Retriever mix. Molly, some of you guys met her. It doesn't roll over and show its belly. So you can rub it and say, good sin. That's a good sin. No, it's like a lion growling or a tiger bearing his teeth. Sin is ready to pounce and rip out your throat. If you let in, if you let sin in, let me tell you. I don't know what people are talking about, but it's like a silver back gorilla and I guarantee hundred men won't be able to subdue sin. But seriously. Ask yourself as application. What's sin is scratching and clawing at your door, begging to get in? How will you put to death the deeds of your body and your members which are on the Maybe you already gave in to sin many times. What specifically have you led into your life? What monstrosity have you brought with you to this worship service? Perhaps you've lost your cool with your spouse and children this morning. Maybe you've stored up bitterness toward your boss or your teacher this week. But it's not too late. If you do will, will you not be accepted? Worship is a matter of denying self by repenting of sin and overcoming it. Well sadly we know what happens with Cain. Of course God was faithful to make an escape for his temptation. Is that he unlocked and unlashed the door, the door to his heart, and he only not only he not only cracked open the door, he flung it wide open Then possesses Cain who gives into desire. Abel becomes the first martyr. His is the first of all the righteous blood shed on the earth. What Cain Let me reread the final verse for today, verse 8. Now Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. We're not told in detail how this homicide took place. We don't know what weapon or tool was used. No gory details are provided. We can imagine that Cain wanted Abel away from other sight, isolate him. Maybe it was something like, Hey little brother, I got something heavy I need to carry into home. Can you give me an Hand. Once they were far away enough, Cain did what he did. He failed both the vertical horizontal aspects. He did not listen to God or worship him properly. Instead of building up his brother, he struck him down. The passage indicates that this is a betrayal of the worst kind. Notice the repetitions and emphasis on their family relationship. Moses first introduced a Abel as Cain's brother in verse 2. It's the same thing twice in verse 8. Cain talked with Abel, his brother. Cain rose up against Abel, his brother. We'll see next week that Lord himself speaks of Abel as Cain's brother. Obviously any news of murder should shock us, but at the root of murder is hatred. That's where we fall into many times. And hatred can cause plenty of damage too. I hope the sin never tears apart your family as it did the first family. I pray that hatred will never plague our church family. Guard ourselves against such sin. We go back to passages like first John three. We saw earlier in 10 through 12, Cain and Abel are prototypes of children of God and the children of the devil, respectively. I'm sorry, children of God is um Abel, right? And then children of the devil. The devil is Cain. So you go on and see two implications. First, there's the hate the saints face from the world. So he He writes in um so I got the passages right there. First John 3 13. He writes in verses 13. Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. That's the first implication that we as Christians will be hated by the world. But then see the second implication. Because sinful hate might be hiding and lurking near our church doors. Near our hearts. So you go on to verses fourteen to fifteen. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. Whoever hates his brother is a mercy. Murder and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Again, much to unpack here. I do like to use this verse when sharing the gospel using the Ten Commandments, right? That you do break the commands of God when you choose to hate Keep the principle in mind: worship is a matter of loving your brethren as proof of life. You might think that you have eternal life, but without love, you're abiding in death. You might think lacking love is not really hate, is it? But John does not allow a middle ground. You might not be a murderer in deed, but you can certainly be a murderer in thought And also words too. John didn't come up with this kind of idea on his own. Jesus himself said the following in Matthew 5:21-24 You have heard it heard that it said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger. Of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. Whoever says to his brother Raka, which means empty-headed, Shall be in danger of the council, but whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if you bring your gifts, gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you. against you. Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother and then come and offer your gift. Your brethren as proof of life. So now let's revisit all the points. Are we worshippers who display genuine faith that results in the way? Good works. What about denying self by repenting of sin and overcoming it? And then, as we just discussed, are we loving others, loving our brethren as means of loving God? If we're honest with ourselves, and if you're like me, you failed at some point in all these areas There were times when I left sin in my life, my home, my work. At times I blessed God after cursing men. If you were to dissect my heart, you find hate and murder in there. Many times the sun has gone down while I'm still furious, fuming, full of wrath. For all these reasons and more, you and I deserve condemnation. We deserve to be separated from God in hell. But the Lord in his kindness did not leave us as we are. God sent, God the Father sent His Son, Jesus, God and man in one person. He came to us and he was not ashamed to call us brethren. In fact, in all things, Christ had to be made like his brethren. Means he had to face temptation and suffer, and like Abel, he experienced the deepest hurt from those closest to him. His brothers did not believe him for a while. Wow, his b disciples betrayed him or abandoned him. But in all this, Jesus never once retaliated in wrath or Sin. He lived a perfect life and gave himself as a perfect sacrifice. By our sins, we know what hate is, but by this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. At the cross, Jesus suffered and died. The firstborn over all creation was like the firstborn among the lambs. As a substitute, he paid the penalty of sins. We should pay. He covered it all, right? Our murders and hatred, sinful wrath and false worship. And having paid for it in full, he declared his work finished. But that was not the end of the story. He rose from the grave on the third day. Death could no longer hold him. He gave many proofs of his resurrection for forty days. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. The good news of Jesus calls for a response. If you do will, will you not be accepted? What we must do to be accepted is to repent and believe. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and only trust in him. For eternal life. You cannot earn a place in heaven. It's a gift undeserved and unmerited. God saves you by grace alone. Through faith alone, through Christ alone. So I hope all that all who hear this now or later will be saved But think carefully, but don't think too long. Now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. And if God truly saves you, you're not only going to worship in heaven. Later, you know, after you die, we're safe for worship here and now. This is the hour when true worshipers worship the Father in spirit. and truth. The Father is seeking such to worship him. As we offer ourselves to him in praise and gratitude, no, we're still going to face struggles and temptations. To sin. When you bring yourself to the altar of God, there will still be sin crouching at the door of your life. would we do? Let's make our last song not only a praise of hallelujah, but a prayer for help Own it all and reign supreme. Conquer every rebel power. Let no vice or sin remain that resists your holy. Lord. You are worthy to be praised with my every thought and deed. O great God of highest heaven, glorify your name through me. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for this privilege of worship to stand before the God of the universe, the creator of all things. What a privilege we have before to worship you and serve you, give our whole lives to you. But Lord, on this side of eternity, where we are still struggling with sin. flesh uh i is imperils us, the world tempts us, Lord, and Lord, this is the the struggle that we have, we even lay those Before you. We ask that we will be like Abel and not like Cain. Help us to honor you with all that we do, with what's going on inside of us and how we worship you outwardly, all those things. Belong to you, Lord. So we pray that you see, as you see all these things that are going on in our lives, pray that we will repent. And if we haven't come to you through Jesus Christ, your son. Pray that you work in the hearts of those who are sitting here and hearing. We pray that all of our lives will be a life of worship. We thank you that it is through the sympathetic high priest your son Jesus Christ that we can come to you. It's in his name we pray. Amen. It is