Let's pray. Father, we thank you for being God. We pray, Father, that you encourage us. We pray the Holy Spirit of God will speak to us, Lord. Continue your great work, Lord, as we seek to raise your children for your glory. We thank you so much. so much for how you work in our lives, even today. And all God's people said, Amen. All right. So my name is Steve Fleck. I've married uh About almost twenty-two years now. We have four children. We have a twenty year old named Jordan, our boy, and Eden is soon to be nineteen. Those two are in college down in South Carolina. There are gonna be two working in summer camps. in uh North Carolina. Number three is Corbin. He's about to turn seventeen in July. Or last but not least is Shiloh. She's fifteen years old, and without her we would have fewer meals in her house. And so that's a true statement. Okay. We actually Carrie and I have really enjoyed the stages of parenting, but it's not finished yet because parenting is really never finished. It's always influencing your children. But as parents, we kind of move. Think about parenting. We move from different stages, or we can really say kind of relationships. In the beginning stage, it's more disciplinarian. You're teaching your children thou shout and thou shout what? Not do this. Sometimes it depends on your emotion at the state, you know, what's going on and the craziness of the little children uh raising little children. Children can uh you need a lot of energy. That's why it was a miracle for Abraham and Sarah to have children. But then as children become tweens or teens, we have many conversations, discussions with them you gotta talk with them a lot of why we do this and why we don't do that and really what we're doing as parents is we're kind of helping them with the process of everything that's coming on them. I mean just think Think about it. We're helping inform what's real and what they hear and see and watch. I mean, how many of our kids really believe that people who are rich never have any problems? Just ask them. You'll be shocked what they'll tell you. And those are things we got to discuss with them and talk with them and just really find out what's in their soul. And so questions is a really big thing in our parenting. And so we've got to confront the lies that really is in their hearts. Because they're always going to be continually pushed away from God. And this is why as children of God we can praise and thank him that he's sovereign. He hasn't left us on our own. And so if you have that sheet there, you'll see the word imperfect. parents. And this is the the the key is, I mean the beginning, not the key, but the beginning is just understand all of us are imperfect. Shane said it very well. there. And so I'll just go over a couple of them. We all remember he mentioned a couple Eli, the first judge. Well not the first judge, excuse me. Eli and first Samuel. And when I was studying Samuel's life, I do believe he loved the Lord. And then let me just read, it says, there was a problem. On that day, in 1 Samuel 3. 12, I will fill against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house. From beginning to end, and I will declare to him that I'm about to punish his house forever for the iniquity that he knew, because his sons were blaspheming God, and he did not restrain. them. Why was God going to judge them? Because he his sons were blaspheming God. And what didn't he do? He didn't restrain them. These weren't little children. These were adult children. And who does God blame for the actions of Eli's adult sons? He blames Name's Eli. Judgment falls on both, and we know that in the passage. But all I wanted to point there is this. Eli loved God, but he didn't Restrain his children. And God gave this message of condemnation to a teenager named Samuel. What a powerful lesson to Samuel. This up-and-coming prophet who loved God, right? No one. But then a few chapters later, when Samuel became old, he made his sons judges over Israel. But yet his sons did not walk in his ways, but literally are doing it for money. So all the people of Israel, the elders of Israel, gather and said, Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Samuel was older. And so he makes sure Israel is going to be taken care of. So he places his boys as spiritual judges. But does this mean Samuel didn't love the Lord? No, Samuel loved the Lord. So let's quickly move to a stronger figure in the Bible: man's man. He's not afraid to stand up against his children, right? I mean he faced a giant and lived to talk about it. What is his name? Ah. I mean God spoke of King David saying, The Lord have sought him a man after his own heart. And God has greatly used David's life and his songs to bless all of us that are here today. Will you still read them? We know David loved the Lord. He messed up like all sinners do, but he loved God. And yet David had a son named Absalom. And this son planned to kill his father. Many events played out to come up to that point. But the reality is, have any of our children tried to kill us lately? No. No. Okay? We couldn't even imagine it. Yet David loved the Lord. Yet what sorrow, pain he went through. In the Old Testament, I greatly appreciate David. And like many of us, we desire to have a heart like him after God. And so when I look at the scripture, I believe the best illustration of a parent is found in Abraham. And you had that passage there. Look at your sheet there. The Lord's speaking about about Sodom and Gomorrah, and he says, Shall I hide that thing from Abraham, which I do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him? For I know that he will what? Say it with me. So you got the sheet of paper, just read it with me. Command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord. To do justice and judgment. Read that again. For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord. to do justice and judgment. Now in those verses, we see what God will do. Literally it says he's going to make a great nation of Abraham, which has blessed all of us. We're all blessed today because of that, what God said. But we also see what Abraham did here. God knew Abraham would teach and point his children toward serving God. So in the passage that you have in front of you, We see how God is moving upon a family, and we see how the parent is the move upon the children in the right direction. There's a work of God in that passage, and there's a work of man. We see God working and man working. God is sovereign, but it doesn't mean we all go on vacation when we parent our children. Doesn't mean that at all. So may be God be able to say if every one of us, and since you're still here at this time period, um he probably can say that. This I know him and I know her, that they will command their children after me, their households. Sorry, they shall keep the way of the Lord's Do justice and judgment. A lot of people bankle on the proverb. Train up a child in the way he should go in. But that's a proverb, not a promise. Okay? Not a promise. It's a promise. Proverb So we just saw some fathers in the Bible who love the Lord, but it didn't guarantee their children would live for Him. Live for God That's imperfect parenting. So I believe the best verse on parenting is Deuteronomy 6. If you have your Bible, you can turn there. And this is the key passage, really the perfect command. Deuteronomy 6 verse 4. Deuteronomy, because of time I'll just begin to read, but just look at it because I want you to see it, please. I encourage you to look at it. At it. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall beware. Where are these words going to be? In your hearts. So as individuals, we are to love God above everything and everyone else. That's our aim. As individual people here. It's never perfection because we're all sinners, but it's the right direction of our hearts. Not perfection, but direction here. So while we're loving God above everything else, and everyone else, and that's that has a lot of application right there. And when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, when thou risest up. Thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand, and they shall be as frontless as between thine eyes and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy door and on thy gates. Now question here it is help me out. I need you to help me here. Help me out here. You're a different church now, okay? You're in my church. Who is seeing, hearing, living among us as we're loving God In your house, who is seeing here and living among us as we're loving our God in that passage? Our children. Our children. Now we know it's important, but we also must realize that do this, we all do this differently. You are not to come to my house and see how I do it, and then you mimic me. In that sense. Shane is totally different than I am. He is artsy, man. He's got the hat to prove it. He's got that little beard thing. You know, I'm not that way. I'd rather get my hands dirty. I'm mechanical. I like that. I enjoy that. And so we're all different in how we do it. And so we need to realize we love God differently and we show that love to our children. But here's the key. Here's the key thing. Do our kids understand we love God? Do our kids understand we love God? Do they see and know that we love God? Do they see that? Or, or, because of the crowd here, probably not on this. Do they think we have a God who we meet in a church building on a Sunday? And this God is only part of our family when we're struggling with life. I see this a lot in church people. So in reality, our God from church becomes this kind of more of this genie in a bottle who we go to when we're in need of things or when life is, well, I'm not as happy as I want to be. Please God change my situation so I can be happy again. Do you y'all understand what I'm talking about? There How we display our love for our God. How we display that. Love for our God often drives our children's understanding of who God is. You say, really? Yeah, look at verse 5. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy might. Verse 7. And then all of a sudden, what are you doing in verse 7? What are you teaching them? Um two plus two equals four? Uh what are you talking about? What is it? It's about what? It's about God It's about your love for God. That's more than informational, isn't it? That's relational. And that's what's spewing out. And that's what God's plan for raising children is simple, but it's deep and wide because it affects how we live, what we say, how we say it, and since it is loving God above everything and everyone. And yet we often fail. We all fail in doing this. So we repent, we get back on the right path, and we can actually admit it to our kids when we've gone astray. Just like Shane said. We are sinners just like our children are. And they must see how sinners repent. That is presenting the gospel to them. If you're the perfect parent, um then I don't want to give you my children to you because they're going to see that you're not perfect. Our kids see flaws in us all the time. And that's the beauty of, my topic is raising older kids. That's the beauty of older kids, because we all get to talk about as family discussion. About my sin and that sin, I'll say, okay, now it's time to pick on this kid. You know what I mean? Now it's time to pick on daddy. And and we have those discussions. And because of those discussions, the walls come down and we can have 'em. They're great. Discussions. It's wonderful. I'm enjoying it, let me say that. I believe the best model, though, to actually hold out to you in raising children, raising teens, let me say it this way: teens is the church. Because God has given us many commands. And you're seeing in your sheet there, there's many commands. Now the key command of the one another passages is really from Jesus. That's the key. And you have in your passage there, uh your sheet there. Please read it with me out loud. A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. Now, most of the one of the commands in the New Testament were literally displayed by Jesus to the apostles. And so here we hear this, a new commandment. We know we're supposed to love one another, but then he says, the stress is, as I have loved you. Now what just happened? Well, Jesus just washed their stinking feet. He bowed before them in doing that act. He was the one who designed their feet, gave them their feet. And he's washing their feet. And though being Lord of all, he bowed before them, washing their feet. Then Jesus says By this shall all men know that you're my disciples, because you love one another. And so we think of more of that passage, and it's applied correctly, of course, to the one another in church life. And yet, we can express the same thing to who? Our own children. Because how many of us have washed our kids' feet? Every parent has. Right? We all have done this. So loving one another like Jesus loved us comes from the greatest commandment, which is loving our God. So the result is we seek to practice with one another commands toward our children. Now look at the one other commands. Because I'm gonna read them quickly and then I'm gonna give you a situation. You're gonna tell me which one of those commands applies to the situation. You got it? This is kind of like I thought we were doing more application here. That's what I I was given. I didn't choose this topic. They told me I was doing it. Okay, all the preachers voted on it. Accept one another. Admonish one another. Be at peace with one another. Be devoted to and honor one another. Think about your children, how this applies. Be kind and compassionate to one another Adult children, teenagers, carrying burdens for one another, confess sins and pray for one another, encourage one another Forbear one another, forgive one another, greet one another, serve one another, stir up one another to love and good works. Stop passing judgment on one another, submit to one another, wash one another's feet. I'm gonna ask you some questions. It happens in your family like mine. Ready? Can you tell me which one and other command applies? With wisdom, as Shane said. Have we ever emotionally pushed our kids away from us? The answer is absolutely yes. So which one another command applies? Have we emotionally pushed our kids away from us? Which one applies? And maybe yeah. A lot of these will apply. I think of accept one another. You're pushing away, what do you need to do? Bring them back in. Do our children ever need some wisdom from us? Yes, that's the, but what's one and other commands applies? Courage Monish, next. Are there any arguments in our homes? Absolutely yes. So which one another command applies? Confess, it's a good one, right? Be at peace. Praying for one another. Do our kids have some quirks about them that are not sins? Anybody have one of those kids? Don't laugh as your kids are with you. That they just kind of get on your nerves in certain areas. They're not sinning. They just get on your nerves. And if you haven't experienced that and you got little kids, don't worry, you will You will. You will. I had one kid. Oh, terrible. Right? Which one other command applied to me, and I had to learn it Forbear, yeah. They weren't sitting. So I had to go, hoo, or shut your mouth, C fleck. Okay? For bear, forbear, forbear, okay? Right? Have her s have her teens ever sinned and ask forgiveness. Which one applies? Yeah, forgive them. Do our our children have self-centered lives? Which one applies? Is very important in our self-centered world, America. It's really bad about this. Which one? Toward the end. Yes, stir up. Stir up. One another to love and good work. Get them involved in ministry with you. Get them to do something. Start serving others. Seeing other people instead of having a self-centered world. Oh, it's horrible. It's horrible for Now I'm sure as parents we have never falsely accused our kids. Ever done that, have we? Which one applies? Stop passing judgment on them. Stop it. See, as parents, we have served and washed our kids' feet In many ways. And yet may we do so with the love of our God upon our hearts that they may see Christ. So literally we're displaying, literally showing off who God is to our children and how we live before them. That's the key. That's what what we're talking about. This loving God, so we're loving them properly and applying these things. So as we love our God, we display him as more important than ourselves. Because we're end up submitting and and humbling ourselves and confessing our sins, realizing God's preeminent. I mean what for younger children, we disciplined our children, we did spank our children We would tell them, you did not dis yes, you disobeyed me, but you also disobeyed God. So I was blame shifting, you know, I threw it on God while they're getting a stuff. Okay. But they were getting that. Now when they were younger, it was very difficult for them, especially one of our children, he was actually bitter for a while while even other of our I got four kids. The other ones would get spankings. He would, you know, didn't want to hear it. Because of screaming. I mean they would scream before I ever touched them, because they knew what was coming. Okay? But then when they got older, and now they're able to process more, and we had a lot of discussions about it. Now they know, just like we, when God spanks us, we didn't like it at the time, but we know what. We needed it. It was good. Because God's good and God requires this. And direct disobedience we're dealing with. Okay? And so as a result, those discussions had to be made and discussed and talked about. And as a result, those walls that were up, even for our one son for a time for years, came down as he got older and mature, and especially when he works with us in the city and city kids, he sees them and those kids just run ragged and have no discipline in their lives. He goes, Yeah, the Bible makes a lot of sense. You get it? The Bible becomes very applicable when you watch children just You know, with no restraint whatsoever. And you see that because we we held our kids before we spanked them, we told them we loved them. And we weren't doing it in anger and all that. And so that process there. was going on then discussions had to be later all these things and how he raised because hey I get spanked and God says I need to spank you. As a child and as older, we don't we barely spanked our kids probably after six Seven, I mean it just it it it was a lot of discussion after that. A lot of discussion, you know, and loving her kids. So raising our kids, we should have in mind, I said this before with next generation thoughts. Next generation thoughts. And I'll tell my children that. I say, look, I'm telling I'm trying to persuade you over here because you're going to raise my grandchildren. And the only reason of that is because I've been around a lot of people that are older and raising their grandchildren, and they've come to me. I'm talking about from different states even. And they said, I wish my grandchildren were raised differently. And they're just like pulling their hair out. And so I've learned from so many other people. Uh everything I'm telling you is not from me, nothing. It's from so many other people and I realize that and I'm like, hey, I'm telling my children, wait a minute, you're gonna raise my grandchildren one day. And and these are important things. And loving God is so good. key and displaying God. So we're not going to get it all right. And that is why we confess our sins to one another. Look at the one another passage when I say this. This is why we need to encourage one another, because we mess up and we need one another. But as we do sin and as we do confess and as we do forgive, and as we do forbear, and as we wash one another's feet, we're We are drawing closer together as a family the purpose of loving our God as one body in Christ. I mean just think of how life would have maybe been different if Eli, Samuel, David would have confronted the sins of their children. Early on. It's so important. Shane talked about that. They started discussing, they discussed that. We've discussed that. We've, when our children were little, discussed what are the sin tendencies toward our children in their hearts. And they identified that. And so when when our children do did sin in the past, and we would talk about, you know, the type of rebel they are. Uh they would immediately get it and they would see it. And I just we just use a little phrase in it, yeah you're right, yeah you got you got me on that, you know. And they know it, you know. And this isn't something we're taking a baseball bat over their head with. It's This is discussion as they gotten older, and it's a lot better. It's a lot better. So God has written these commands down for us to learn and study, and may we seek to practice what He told us in loving Him. And may we love our children the way God wants us to love them and the one another commands. Now all that have basically have said, I've tried to hold forth the word of life, cling to that, and now I thought I were supposed to get more of a practical end of it, so this is my practical end. The rest of it is practical. Okay? You ready mine that? It's in your notes there. I call it the weights and sins, the dark side of parenting. I you we this has kind of been our theme verse is a as Carrie and I the flex Family. Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witness, let us lay aside what Yes, so we can run with patience the race that set before. So Karen and I have sought to minimize weights in our children's lives. We sought to do that. In other words, we evaluate and discuss, Karen I discuss, and even with our children now that they're older, what we add to their schedule, movies, video games, TV, cell phones, sports, the list goes on and on and on. Now, a weight to one child may not be a weight to what? Another child, okay? So I'm not giving specific examples because the weights in our family might be totally different than your family. It says, Shane says, with wisdom, I define a weight as things that pull us down, weigh us down from drawing closer to God. Weights hinder us or distract us from knowing God. So they kind of pull us down or distract us. So, what are things that we might add or allow into our teens' lives that hinder or distracts them from knowing God? Just pause there. Maybe working on Sundays, sports, friends, video games. There are just some suggestions. But it may become a weight to them. And that we as parents can add or allow weights. We can actually allow ways but actually run them away from God. I've seen this in a lot of parents. I'm talking about Christian parents who I do believe love God, but they've added things to their children's lives that kind of distract them. From God. Remember, a weight is pulling us down, weighing us down from drawing closer to God. It's hindering us and distracting us. So those are weights So you have to evaluate in your own family what they are. The next is sin. We say lay aside every weight and the sin. The Bible's clear we're all tempted by the pulling of our hearts to certain sinful tendencies in James. one four. But as parents, we look out for those tendencies. And so when our you just think about this, the Bible says even a child is known by his way. And so I I kind of just mentioned that already. And just real quick, do you know the sinful tendencies of your children? And Shane talked about that. One kid is like this, the other kid is sheepish and goes away, but it's still a rebel. And so we point that out and talk to them about that. Number two in practical advice is time and opportunities. And I call this the sunny side of parenting. The FLEC parenting method is really to spend as much time with your kids as possible. And time in serving God. We all have 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Just think if you were a fly in a medical doctor's office, you would hear people talk about how much they wish they spent more time with mom and dad. You hear that a lot, don't you? When you talk to people. And they really struggle. Even movies are talked about this. And And uh so the for the flex time with our children equals influence. Who do I want influencing my children more than anybody? You know And that's who are they going to be with? I've said this to my children when I've seen them kind of starting to sway. I'm like, look, we are the flex. You're going to be in the flex family how long? The rest of your life. And so when I'm some of them had an attitude, I said, wait a minute, you gotta live with me until I die and not live with me, but you're gonna be You know what I mean? Holidays are coming up. So that attitude you got now, that ain't gonna work for 30, 50 years. You know what I mean? It doesn't make sense. So we need to just break this wall down now. It's important because it we're still around, you know? And so the this this thing of how we convey it to them We got to make time with our kids. And I I've said this before, I'll say it again. We got about seventeen years with them, and then we reap it for the next thirty to fifty years. And so that means I'm going to neglect the church a little bit. And I've told my church this and they know it. I'll neglect the church a little bit for the sake of my children. And I had an older gentleman in my church say to me, This is years ago I had to do this because some people were trying to put all this stuff on me and make me do all this stuff and said my children were my idols And all that, okay? And they left the church and their families are all destroyed. So I don't want to do it their way, right? And this older gentleman in our church said, it was actually Brother Ross, you know. him he's never been married never had any kids and he said it makes sense you know you only get a little bit of time with your children that's all you got So make sure you spend a lot of time with them. Time with them is important. I'm going to quote something just because it's so powerful I'll just say this though before I quote that. If you wait till you're seventeen years old to spend a lot of time with them, it's too late. You can't recoup. You can't recoup Coop it. You really can't. My child arrived just the other day. He came to the world in the usual way. There were planes to catch and bills to pay. He learned to walk while I was away. And he was talking before I knew it. And as he grew, he said, I'm gonna be like you, Dad. You know? I'm gonna be like you. My son my son turned ten just the other day. He said, Thanks for the ball. Dad, come on, let's play. Can you teach me to throw? I said, Not today. I got a lot to do. He said, Well, that's okay. And he walked away, but his smile never dimmed. And he said, I'm going to be like him. Yeah, you know I'm going to be like him Well, he came home from college just the other day. So much like a man, I just had to say, son, I'm proud of you. Can you sit for a while? He shook his head and said with a smile What I real like dad is to borrow the car keys. See you later. Can I have them please? I've long since retired. My son's moved away. I caught him up just the other day. I said I'd like to see you if you don't mind. He said I love to dad. If I can find the time. See my new job's a hassle and the kids had the flu. Sure nice talking to you, Dad. It's been sure nice Talking to you. And as I hung up the phone, it occurred to me, he'd grown up just like me. My boy was just like me. Generations. Think about generations when we're training our children. Because while they see in me, they're gonna mimic. And that's what we talk. We just we discuss that as a family. My schedule, our wife's schedule, we discuss that. When my kids want to add something, we discuss that as a family. We actually do. We have those family discussions. And we say, well, this is really good. Is it going to take away? Is it short-term? Whatever. And we really kind of manage the family. And in doing that, it's teaching them how to manage their family. And that is so important. Carrie and I are not just raising four kids. We're training our kids how to raise our grandchildren. My parents raised me more as a practical evolutionist. What do I mean? Well the only question they had was why I was home and not playing outside. In other words, getting out of their hair. That's how my parents raised me. My parents didn't seek to train me, but just let me live however I wanted. And so I started smoking pot when I was 10 years old. That was my childhood. And it's only because of God's grace that I'm not dead like a lot of friends of mine are today. But time, time, time with our children is the way we the key. But when we're around them and loving our God and just focused on Him, it's amazing what that does to our children. When they see God, and we're literally we're displaying the love of God to them. Nobody no dying person on their deathbed says, I wish I could have worked a few more hours before I had the chance to die. They don't say Say that, do they? No one says that. Take time with them because it goes quickly. And lastly, is opportunities. Opportunities. We have sought to look for opportunities on mission trips. We have taken three mission trips. Um I have taken three miss trips with my family, two of them with my kids, uh three times to Haiti. We've gone to conferences, and answers in Genesis. has a great family conference. Encourage to do that. I got this uh Ocean City Bible Conference. We went to that. It's a great time. You're hearing the word of God, but you're also um having fun with the kids. It's allowing other people to influence your children. We've we've we've we spent a lot of money doing these things. I mean going I'm I'm kind of a poor guy, but going to uh Haiti kind of breaks my bank. But I want my kids to see others. I want them to to see a bigger picture and not just about us And so I I I we we decide as a family, I'm not saying you to do this, okay? We decide as a family, I can save money and do all this saving and money, and we do barely little with our children. Or I I tell my kids, look, you are my inheritance. Uh uh if you go to my church, they heard this. I said, You are my inherents, okay? Because I'm investing everything, every dime, and for you to live spiritually for God and to see a bigger picture and perhaps be missionaries or whatever, I'm getting a bigger picture here. Because I'm investing everything into you to serve God. Okay? And they've seen that with our money. Our money and how we spent it on them. And taking mission trips. And which makes us broke, literally. But seek ye first the kingdom of God in what? And I think as American Christians, we kind of miss that. And let me tell you, it's scary for me. Because when I you know I'm the father, I gotta pay the bills. But the bottom line is my kids see that. And so I start even now, I have an adult son, he's talking to me about trusting God. and working in a camp. And he's like, man, Dad, I'm losing a lot of money doing this. I said, I know, son, but it's good. Do it. Do it. Trust God. You get it? It's these these steps of faith. So raising older kids is is wonderful, but it's easy it's doing all these things and it's as one person said, don't think you're the only person raising your children. You I'm not saying it takes a village, but you need other godly people, okay? Talking to them sorry I didn't mean to put the book up. But talking to them, encouraging them. And it's so important. Let me close with um just a few words and I'm done. There's a friend of mine that uh came to our church He became a friend, helped us out, and we started the church. He had six children. They're all adults. They all love the Lord. I asked him years ago to write some things for me. Uh it was in 2008 he wrote this, 2008, and uh I'm just gonna give you a few of those things. Some uh this is the guy's a mechanical guy. When you shake his hand, they're all dirty, and that's how he is, but all his children love God. And I was just so impressed about it. I said, please teach me something. Get me something. And so he wrote me some things. And he says, a few things I'll read. Limit TV and video, read biographies, missionary stories, at the table while others eat. We just finished. God called, and a family answered. Remember, all young people are different. Each will have their own needs. Time, time, time. Listen, listen, listen. Stay involved and engaged. Remember who are the parents. Have some awareness. Don't assume the best. Don't assume the worst. Keep the antennas up. To encourage kids, give them a good name to live up to. Have kids get involved in hobbies or sports where they can excel. Make life fun. Life is tough for everyone. Make it enjoyable to be around the parents. This guy is a trip to be around when you're around him. He's just hilarious. Not every issue is worth the battle. Realize teens will have a few bumps. Don't overreact. Your experience as a team may be different than your child's experience as a teen. Remember, if you had a choice, you probably would not want to Relive the teen years. Parents need to be unified and not get overly stressed out. Try to explain the whys. And I'll just give a couple of That's true. That's true. Don't expect church, youth groups, school to raise your children properly. It probably hinders more than it helps. Parents are elected to do the job, rise to the occasion, be quick to praise if deserved, and slow to condemn, and pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. So let us pray. Father, we thank you for your grace. We pray that you would truly encourage us. Lord, thank you for each one that are here. We pray that you would help our kids. Lord, we want our kids to love you. And Lord, we don't do it properly. None of us do. But we thank you, oh God, that your spirit can correct those things. And work in our hearts, Lord, as parents, as kids, as teens, for your glory and honor, that may we all serve you. We thank you for your grace. Thank you, Jesus, for the cross. And all God's people said, Amen.