I want to begin our time by telling you a brief story. About four weeks ago, I was praying with my son James, and uh I was praying that he would grow up and be a godly man. Man and be a good daddy. And then I prayed that God would make me into a good daddy. And James stopped me after we got done praying, and he said, Daddy, why did you pray that you would become a good daddy? And I said, Well, and I uh I need to become a better daddy. He says, Daddy, you don't need to pray that. You are a good daddy. So I want you to know that on my son's authority, you're all in safe hands. And now I'd like to tell you some other things about me. Uh when my daughter Hannah was born thirteen years ago, we were about a thousand miles from her parents. Uh we were living outside of Washington, D. C. Uh the doctor handed the baby to me, Hannah, about 15 minutes after she had been born. I was standing And holding her. And when a baby is born, their skulls are flexible and it bends to go through the birth canal. And Hannah's head popped. And I almost dropped her. So I almost failed as a parent in the first 15 minutes of of being a parent. With my son James, we were in seminary. Kimberly had not left the house for two years while I was in seminary. It was a difficult time for us just in trying to get it all done. And I convinced Kimberly to to leave the house and to go to a Pilates class. While Kimberly was gone for the first time in two years, my son tipped over a can of gasoline. And attempted to drink it. And so I again almost failed in the basic task of being a parent. Now, I tell you these things so that I can come to you as an authority in child rearing. And I'll also tell you that we parent by God's grace alone. And so let's bow our heads and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, oh God, you are such a good Father. And we pray to you that as we come to you this afternoon, Lord, that those of us who are future parents would begin to prepare ourselves to be godly parents. Those of us who are parents now, Lord, might learn something and and be sustained and perhaps even, Lord, be able to Correct something, or God, we might even be able to praise you that we have followed your word closely. God, we also pray for the parents and the aunts and the uncles. And the friends. Lord, we need each other. So we pray that you would be with us. Help us to understand your word and to love it. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. About four or five years ago, a young man in my congregation came to me and he asked me what parenting books that he ought to read. And I said, I don't know. So I went and got a whole bunch of books and I read all of them. And this is the the fruit of of that Most of the modern parenting books that I have come across have a tone of anxiety, if not hysteria. Many of the Christian parents that I've met are angry. And I have to admit that I'm actually pretty ancient anxious in my own worst moments. And the general consensus of modern writers is that things are getting worse in the church. and in the wider culture and we are all very frightened and we are all very, very anxious. Now the fear and trembling has some legitimate Legitimacy, a bunch of historical events, including technology and secularism and capitalism, means that godly folk wisdom and culturally beneficial structure have faded away. If you had told my grandfather when he got married in nineteen forty-five that we would be discussing gay marriage before the Supreme Court right now, I I think He would have probably punched you for saying homosexual in front of his wife. I mean, it just a completely different culture. All of these things have changed. Now, at the same time that we have all of these cultural changes going, and we have an undermining of the common grace tradition that had been a part of Western culture. For uh so long, we are because of the technology that we have access to exposed to possible wisdoms beyond anyone's imagination. So instead of just trying to correct the mistakes, that our parents made and and our parents in uh and then attempt to be follow them in being godly we we must now try to analyze and respond to all sorts of things to Rousseau and Dr. Spock and Oprah Winfrey and Gothard and Ted Tripp and John MacArthur and Ploughman and John Piper and Mark Dever and now you've you know heard from us and so you've got to try to figure out Whether or not we are wise as well. We can go beyond this. Modernity has has dislocated us. Kimberly and I had our first child more than a thousand miles away. from uh our family. Capitalism has created this juggernaut of child rearing books and and videos and we're now suddenly having serious conversations about mechanical sleep aids and nipple Confusion and emotional privation among infants, and we are facing the possibility that spanking will be illegal, as it is in some places, and it's all scary and it all seems unimaginable. Imaginable and weird. The second ground for our fear is that we are responsible to teach our children the gospel And we are responsible to make sure that they survive childhood, and we are responsible to make sure that they become productive citizens, and it is a big and scary job. And it's hard. And this brings us to the sin issue. Part of our fear and trembling, part of our anxiety and our anxiousness as parents is that we don't trust God and we are not listening to Him. So God says in his word in Ecclesiastes 7:10, say not, why were the former days better than these? For it is not from wisdom that you ask this. Now I saw a lot of people nod their heads that in 1945 that maybe we get a sense that the world was better, but that's not actually what the Bible says. What it says in Ecclesiastes is say not where were the former why were the former days better than these, for it is not from wisdom that you ask this. And what this means then is that modern life has its problems. But fundamentally, it's no worse and no better than the past. And there are advantages and disadvantages to both yesterday and today, and there will be advantages and disadvantages. Manages to tomorrow. And so I want you to know that while there are reasons to be anxious, that we are not in a historically unprecedented time. Now, because human nature does not change, the Bible has anticipated all of the problems that we are facing. Some kids in the Bible were homeschooled. Other kids, like Moses, were forced by particular circumstances to adjust And so we read in Acts seven twenty-two, Moses was instructed in all of the wisdom of the Egyptians. We can add, by the way, those who attended public schools, pagan public schools, Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebez. Little Samuel was sent away to what we would call a really bad Christian boarding school at age three. By his dad, Elknah and Hannah. Two of his instructors were known philanderers. They were stealing sacrifices 1 Samuel 212 tells us that they did not know the Lord. There's a good chance that the head of his school, who is a man by the name of Eli, had grown fat. Most likely by eating stolen meat from the sacrifices of God. Unus, Timothy's mother, married a non-believer But she repented, and she and her mother Lois were able to raise him in a generally godly home, even though her husband was unsaved. Now I want you to think about this for a moment. I I have picked up books that say, you know, that you have to send your children to a private Christian school, that God's word commands this. I've also read the same God commands that you send your children to to bring your children home to be homeschooled, which is really lovely, except for if you live in Vietnam. China, Germany, all kinds of places. At which time your children will be immediately taken away from you and then you'll have no access to them. And you will have no influence over them. And I want you to know that the Bible anticipates these things. And that we don't have to be afraid. And the reason that we don't have to be afraid is because God gave us his book. And these things have been anticipated in God's word. Now, most of the Jewish boys that we read about in the New Testament would have been educated by their mothers until the local rabbis took over to teach them how to read Hebrew. The Apostle Paul's training was both rabbinic, he was sent to rabbinical school, but it also included exposure to pagan poets. And philosophers. He quotes the philosophers in Acts chapter 17 and in other places of the New Testament. So, what happens when we turn to the Bible is that we discover that there is not a monolithic method of raising our children, but what there are is a group of saved sinners in a variety of circumcisions. Circumstances, raising their children to the best of their ability. And it is here, by the way, that we come to the three things that we need to do to raise our children. And the first is that we really need to know our Bibles. And I mean by that, not a half-hearted familiarity Or having to merely memorize it, but a a believing and understanding of God's word. To understand and know God's word so well That if someone comes to you and tells you that it's a sin to send your children to a private school, that you can immediately say, now wait a second, Hannah. sent her child away from the home to kind of a Jewish school run by two guys who didn't know God and a sinful high priest. You see, we need to be thinking in those categories because that's what understanding and meditating on God's word does for us. Now, I want you to hear the Apostle Paul speaking to his friend Timothy, and I want you to remember that Eunus had sinned by marrying a non-believing This is a young man who grew up in the home of a woman who blew it. She married an unbeliever. And I want you to hear what Paul says. 2 Timothy 1:5. I remind you of your sincere faith, the faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois, and then your mother Eunus, and now I am sure dwells in in you as well. You see, your children are not saved by your perfections, they are saved by the perfections of Christ. And part of the way that we can rest in Christ is by recognizing that God is going to have to overcome our sin in the rearing of Our children. But one of the things that Unus did right is in 2 Timothy 3:14 through 15. But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it and how. From childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings which are to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. Timothy's mom blew it. Timothy's mom came to faith. Timothy's mom made sure that her boy knew God's I had an enormously troubling childhood, and a difficult childhood In many ways. And at one point, my family, because the cops had gotten involved and all kinds of stuff had happened, my my twin sister and I got pulled in front of the school counselors. And they asked us if we had continued in our faith, seeing that our faith had been invalidated by the sin of my father. And what my twin sister and I told her is that while our dad had fallen into sin, our dad God had also told us that he was a sinner saved by grace, and that we should trust God's word, and that we did not reject God's word, even though our father had failed In obeying God's word. And so know God's word. Now, all sin is a failure to believe Belief is not mere academic assent, but it is believing and understanding God's Word. Please, you know that Satan knows the Bible better than your pastor does. Right? He knows Aramaic better than all of your pastors, I can promise you. And I know that he knows Greek better than me. You might have to have a discussion with your other pastors about the Greek. Satan knows the Bible. He has an academic understanding of the Bible. But Bible trivial knowledge of God's Word without faith and understanding. Is worthless for salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. And that's the wisdom that we're supposed to be aiming for. So what this means is that studying your Bible, part of the purpose that you do that is so that you can Can be a good mom and dad. The Bible is an enormously practical book, and one of the most challenging things that you are ever going to do is raise Children, and you need the wisdom that you will only find in Scripture. And the beginning of wisdom is to fear God, but wisdom must persist. Progress beyond and to include both faith and understanding. Now I know that I have been blowing through passages of scripture, but I want you all to open your Bibles now to Proverbs chapter 20. 26 verses 4 and 5. Because the next thing that we need beyond an understanding of the scriptures to raise our children is wisdom. This is Proverbs twenty-six, verses four to five. Proverbs twenty-six verses four to five. Proverbs twenty six, four to five. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself, and answer a fool according to his folly, lest ye be wise in his own Eyes. I want to read that again. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest you be wise in his own eyes. So we have two clear commands. Does anybody notice what the problem is with those two commands? Yeah, they're self-contradictory. Now it's not possible to answer and not answer at the same time in the same way. And we know that the two commands cannot be self-contradictory if God's word is inspired, and from this we learn what wisdom is. Wisdom is knowing how to apply Scripture to the right situation. Wisdom tells you that there are times to answer a fool And times not to answer a fool. And what wisdom is, is to know which time you obey which command. Wisdom is to know that if you're David, your job is to reject Saul's Jewish armor. You remember that story? The king, he comes to this young lad and he offers him his armor. It's Jewish armor, right? It's the good stuff. David tests it and rejects it. 35 minutes later, whose sword does he pick up? Goliath. Whose sword does he then carry for almost the rest of his life? Golias. You see, wisdom is knowing how it is that you discern when you reject the believers offered thing and when you accept the pagan's thing. And the answer to that is you only take the sword after you kill them. That's another story. Now, and I mentioned this before. Wisdom is to know that Titus must not be circumcised. Galatians 2:3. The Apostle Paul refuses to circumcise Titus, but Timothy must be Acts 16:3 Wisdom is to make the right decision for the right reason for the purpose of gaining the right outcome. And the difficulty is that some Sometimes it looks very different. Now wisdom is huge because without wisdom the word of God becomes like a thorn that goes up into the hand of a Drunkard. So King Riobones failed not because he didn't have wise counsel, but because he lacked the wisdom to recognize it Wisdom means that we need to be the people who know how to raise our children. And that's for some of that, that means that we're going to homeschool, some of us may have to public school, some of us may send them to private school, and on and on it goes. That's wisdom. But wisdom is also recognizing that we are going to make mistakes. Proverbs 9, verses 10. 8 to 9. Do not reprove a scoffer or you he will hate you. Reprove a wise man and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man and He will still be wiser, teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning. By definition, wise men are people who are willing to recognize their mistakes. And their sins. The wise person is not the person who has all the answers. The wise person is the person who knows how to make the right decision, but also knows when he needs to gain more knowledge. So my girls and I yesterday were driving down to their school and And we had read uh a portion of the Song of Solomon. My daughters asked me what it meant, and would you like to know what I told him? I don't know. Well, Daddy, how long have you not known? About 32 years. No. I'm still working on it. Wisdom is a willingness to be corrected. Wisdom is a recognition that you do not have All of the answers. Wisdom is to search for counsel. Wisdom is to recognize your own sin. Friends, be quick to repent of your sin to your children when you sin against them. When you pray with your children, repent Of your sins. Your children need to know that you are a sinner saved by grace. If you want to convince your children that they need a savior, first convince them that you need a savior. Now it's true that your children may attempt to use your confessing sin to undermine your authority. And obviously there are some sins you You don't want to confess to your ch children. You do, however, want to tell them you sinned if you yelled at them or whatever the case may be. But I want you to understand that not Nothing will undermine your authority more than your children recognizing your sin without you confessing it. Because if you sin in front of your children and do not confess it, it gives power to their flesh to deny. What you're saying to them. Because you are disproving the gospel by refusing to seek reconciliation with your children. Now you also need wisdom to decide if what I'm saying, or what your parents are saying, or what the blog is saying, or what the news is spouting, is true about child rearing. There are days when I wish I could ban members of my congregation from Google. Not all advice on the internet is good. Wisdom is figuring out who has the right advice. And I want to exhibit this for you and then show you why someone's advice is wrong. And because the guys Work is mostly good, uh in fact better than mine in general. I'm not gonna tell you who it is, but I want to read something from a childbearing book. They place their misbehaving daughter in a chair alone in the middle of the living room for specific Period of time. As long as the child is being punished in the chair, no one in the family may speak to her or have any contact with her. She is isolated from the family. This approach is not only cruel, but ineffective in addressing the heart biblically. This young girl is not learning to understand her behavior biblically. What she's learning is to avoid the emotional private Of being in the chair. Her heart is being trained, but not to know and love God. She is being trained to respond to the crippling fear of emotional privation. Man, that sounds bad, doesn't it? Now it's clear that emotional privation is cruel, ineffective, and unbiblical, and does not teach children to know and love God. It's awful. Who wants to be cruel, ineffective, and unbiblical, and detrimental to the knowing and loving of God? Now, does the Bible say anything about emotional privation? And I'm divining o emotional privation as isolation and the temporary withdrawal of communication, fellowship, and comfort by an authority figure, and so repentance occurs. So emotional privation is commanded by God to be used by the church in Matthew 18, 17 and 1 Corinthians Jonah's example of emotional privation was a bit extreme, but his timeout was for three days. David mentions it as a discipline of God in Psalm 51: Restore to me the joy of my salvation. So taking away someone's source of joy is by definition emotional privation. We find that this discipline is mentioned throughout the Psalm, Psalm 13, 11, how long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me from me. Psalm 88, you have caused my companions to shun me. That's verse eight. And then in verse fourteen, why do you hide your face from me? We can add then to this God's threat and execution of the exile, whereby God tells his children that if they do not obey him, they will lose certain blessings, that they will not have access to the sacrifices, that God will not answer their prayers. And what it becomes very clear is that emotional privation is a consistent strategy of God in disciplining his children, and that God uses it throughout the Old and New Testament. Apparently, God thinks emotional privation is an acceptable strategy for discipline. God Himself uses this method. And commands it for the church. I feel a little bit alike. One parenting book that I read that told us that you were not allowed to have your children use mechanical sleep aids. Sounds terrible. Except for the mechanical sleep aids that I use. It's called a mattress, a pillow Pillow, blinds, lights, an alarm clock. I try to read really boring theology just before going to bed. It makes me feel self-righteous and it puts me to sleep. Um that's what sleep aids are. Okay Now, the the book that I just read, I mean he's talking about emotional privation. It sounds terrible. He's created this context, but if we know our Bibles really well, if we're thinking Really careful about what emotional privation is and what timeouts are and what mechanical sleep aids actually are, we begin to recognize that there's a problem with a lot of the advice that we're Now perhaps the author would respond that God's relationship to his people was so dissimilar to a relationship of apparent or child that that we can't actually use God as our model for parenting. And you've already known because I I was asked, you know, what what do you want people to take away with? I want you to try to parent like God the Father. And I want you to know that if you do it like God the Father, you'll be doing better than you're doing now. But let's say that this Christian author that I'm using, he says, no, no, no. We can't parent like God the Father. This is rejected by Christ. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give good things to those who are in the house. Ask him. Further, God's discipline and godly parenting methods of discipline are explicitly linked in Deuteronomy 8:5. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines him. You. If you discipline your children correctly, you will be doing it in the same manner that God disciplines his children. So it's clear then that God uses emotional privation as a strategy for disciplining his children, and that parents can use a similar strategy for their children But how in the world is a newbie Christian or a young parent isolated from their more experienced family supposed to figure this out after having read that terrible quote that I read to you? Wisdom, prayer, godly counsel, and lots of it. And this This brings us to the third point. The best parent in the whole world goes by the name of God. God is such a good parent that the Holy Spirit refers to him as having the character Characteristics of both a mother and a father. Now allow me to quote from the witten literal American Standard Version. Notice, by the way, this is not the New American Standard Version, this is the American Standard Version. I believe of 1901. Of the rock that begot thee, thou art unmindful. The begotting is something that a father does, and has forgotten the God that gave you birth. or gave thee birth. Now, I don't at all want there to be any gender confusion about the Trinity in the congregation. Don't go there. He's God the Father, God the Son, God the Father. But what I want you to understand is that our God is so perfect that He has the characteristics of both a perfect mother and And a perfect father. Jesus says this in Luke 13, 34. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stone those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not? Jesus Christ, in his divinity, his divine power Wants to gather the nation of Israel to him like a mother hen gathers her chicks. So if you are looking for a model of Parenting. Do not look at my sin. Don't drop your child 15 minutes after she's born. Don't give your son access to A gasoline can? Don't do it. Instead, the model needs to be God Now the second best model is not some parenting book, but rather a godly person following God in a Similar circumstance to you, or as Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 11:1, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. So, when should you imitate my parenting skills? When I'm imitating Christ. Jesus would not have almost dropped Hannah 15 minutes after she was born. Jesus would not have been talking to his neighbor when his son was crawling towards a gasoline can. Imitate Christ. The third model is the advice of godly counsel of someone who knows your situation. Well, the fourth best model is general advice given in a sermon. or in a book, but in all cases you need to use wisdom. I have um A close acquaintance, they have a wayward child. She was overheard saying, How could this have happened? We followed everything, and then she named a popular Christian. Book. How could this happen? We followed John MacArthur. How could this happen? We followed Mark Dever. How could you see the problem? It's about Christ. God's word and wisdom. Now having said that, wisdom should tell you that while we can imitate God in some ways, we we can't One of the most horrifying pieces of parental advice I have ever heard is that you should break your child's will by spanking. And let me tell you why I think That's a bad piece of advice. Because the only power in the universe great enough to break a human will is the Spirit of God in regeneration. Now you can make your child cringe. You can, as a couple did four or five years ago, beat an infant to death. Did you know that when you spank a small child it causes bruising, that those bruising contains chemicals in it that are a poison? And that if you strike an infant enough times, it's Attempting to break their will, even though you're doing no real damage to the body, that the toxins and the bruises will kill the child. And that the parents' Defense in Court was a Christian child rearing book. And God's word, and they shamed the cause of Christ Because God's word also says the only thing that can break a human will is the Holy Spirit. Now, Paul, in his imitation of Christ, never attempted to walk on water. He never attempted to serve as the atonement for anyone's sin, but he did attempt to attempt um to imitate God and his holiness and his grace, but he never claim to be all-knowing or all-wise. Now the keynote of God's parenting is kindness and grace. And grace is the unmerited kindness God's grace means that God does not always punish us for each and every individual sin that He observes us. God is the observer of everything. Can you imagine if God zapped you every time you sinned? So I'm preaching the sermon. I just messed up a word, despair. I'm now proud of myself for a clever turn of the phrase. I'm walking through you see what I'm saying? And again, I've read parenting books where they're talking about punishing your child for every time they sin against you. Are you willa? God does not punish us for every sin. Praise God for that. In other words, what God calling us to do is that God is calling us to discipline our children. According to their frame and with wisdom. The human frame can't stand up to such a thing as being punished for every sin, and we lack the power to do so. Instead, what God has called on you to do is discipline. your children in such a way as to keep them alive and to assist them to become a good citizen and provide them opportunities to hear the gospel. Please, that's what you're trying to do. Fathers, your first responsibility as a parent is to keep the kid alive. Share the gospel with them. Now I want to tell you something else about what God does. God delights in us. He delights in us I want you to hear some of the most amazing words in the Bible. You might want to write this down. Zephaniah 3:17. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice in He will voice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exalt over you with loud singing. Now, fathers, I don't have a command in Scripture, but I think every one of you needs to sing over your child. Tell them that you love them. The Lord is in the midst of the people. He rejoices over them with gladness. He comforts them and he quiets them with his love. He exalts over them with loud singing. Now, most of the parenting books that I've read begin with a delightful description of a child's sin nature and the potential of them becoming an axe murderer. Now, in a sense, that's very helpful. John MacArthur, in the in the book, by the way, I recommended, so I'm not criticizing everything in all of the books. John MacArthur knew of a family where the mom was bouncing the little baby on her knee and said, He's a good baby, and the parents said, Don't you lie to my child. He's not good. He's a sinner. Theologically correct, but not helpful. Okay? Delight over your child I've never bumped into a parenting book that says, get right in the middle of your kids and delight over them and and play with them and touch them and and hold them and and sing over them and and Exalt over them. God has a holy but boisterous love for his people, and you are supposed to have a holy but exuberant love. For your children. God gave to man the duckbill platypus. This will make sense in a moment. God gave man the duckbill platypus. It has a beak. It has an electromagnetic sensor in its beak. has poisoned spurs in its back legs. It lays eggs and it's hairy. You know why God gave us this? So that we would know that He has an incredible sand Of humor. And this means that you need to give duckbill platypuses to your children. You need to give them something that makes absolutely no sense, and all that it says is, I love you, and this is fun. That's what a giraffe is, right? Do you guys really think that God wasn't laughing when he made the giraffe? How about this elephant with the 10,000 muscles in its trunk? Don't you think God gave us that so that we could laugh at it in the zoo? Come on, of course he did. Part of your exaltation in exalting over your children is to give them elephants and duck-billed platypuses. In the sense of giving them things that are just an evidence and sign of your love for them. Sometimes what this means is put your arm around your daughters. Fathers, listen to me. All daughters are now getting nervous. Put your arm around your daughter in church. Tell her she's a princess. Because she is. Tell her she's pretty because she's is. Tell her that you love her. Tell her that you tell your boys that you love them. Because this is what God does for us. Further, God loves all of his children by discipline. Hebrews 12, 7 through 8. It is for discipline that you have have in to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then your ill illegitimate children And not sons. Parents, if you refuse to discipline your children, you do not love them. This is what the Bible says. Now, discipline, in the sense Of punishment is unpleasant for both the child and the parent, but it needs to be done. Now, the way that God managed this was by having ten rules or two. The ten commandments are the two great commandments. Both of the Ten Commandments, uh, the both the Ten Commandments and the two great commandments teach the same thing. Love God with all of your being and love your neighbor as yourself. But God's rules are general and they are consistent. Now, each of God's rules are consistent, but God crafts his discipline for each one of his children in different ways. God disciplines for Paul was being knocked down and blinded on the road to Damascus after seeing the Lord. Peter's discipline for his vain glorious pride was to deny Christ three times and then to have Christ glance at him. And it broke his heart. But God works with each one differently. The Apostle James died a few years after Christ rose from the grave. His brother John died an old man. But this is all God's discipline, and it's different with each child, though there is a consistency, there is this foundation of consistent law. Now, the word discipline in the Bible is not merely punishment. but it is also the educational process by which we teach our children. We must recognize from the Bible that there are these general rules that are established by nature and by the Bible, but the application Of discipline must be crafted to each child. I have one child who does rebellion like this. And I have another child who does rebellion like this. Right? It's still sin. But you see, it's easier for me to see the sin like that. But the discipline of those two children has to be crafted in a different way in response to the child the the different children. Now I'm amazed at the number of means by which God uses to discipline his children. Moses spent 40 years as a prince in Egypt, 40 years following sheep in the wilderness, and 40 years leading the nation. of Israel. At age forty, he lost his temper and killed an Egyptian. When he was nearly a hundred, he lost his temper and struck the rock rather than speaking to it, and he was forced to leave Egypt because of his temper, and he was not allowed into the promised land because Of his temper. This is a consistent thing that God has been working with Moses on his entire life. Now, when we are our children, uh when we see our children consciously and with animus, we have to be able to do that. Said. I do want to add a nuance to it. We can do this because we see God getting angry at the children of Israel. Sometimes he literally zaps them, sometimes he yells at them, sometimes he patiently but angrily argues with them. With them and within our powers and considering the frame of our children, we do need to be angry with them, but we never ever attempt to harm them. And that's the anger that George is talking about. The anger that George is talking about was the anger where it is an attempt to damage or to harm. My guess is that since Moses murdered the Egyptian, he wasn't supposed to yell at his kids because he, unlike God, could not control his temper. And if you struggle with a real temper, learn to control it or don't allow yourself To get angry. Now, one of the scariest moments of my childhood, and I want you to know that I was not a good child, I had been so naughty that my mother had told me that I had to wait until my dad got home to be paddled because she was frightened that if she started spanking me, that she was going to be paddling. To harm me. Now, in defense of my mother, I had left school at 3 o'clock in the afternoon and I went sledding until 7:30, and my mom found me after the police dropped Her off watching Hogan's heroes in the house, wondering where she was. I then told her I had been kidnapped by third graders who made me go sledding with them. It was a long wait for dad to get home. Now, there is a second warning in scripture about anger. And this is Ephesians 4. 26. Be angry, but do not sin. And do not let the sun go down on your anger. The purpose of anger as a Christian is never to harm While it is appropriate to be angry at your children, we cannot allow that anger to harm our children or to create a root of bitterness. You may find that one of your Your children has a personality that is more compatible than another child, and you must be desperately careful to not assume that because one child strokes your ego the right way and another child runs against your grain That one is less and the other more sinful. And while I have created a very small room for righteous anger, you cannot allow your righteousness or your anger anger to become a root of bitterness towards your cross-grained child. You have to be extremely careful with this. Now God gives us children, do you know why? Because he loves us. God knows our frames and he remembers that we are dust. And the thing that God wants us to do is to raise up our children in the fear and admonition of the Lord and to enjoy it. Really, I'm not I'm not kidding. It's supposed to be fun to have kids. Not hilarious all the time, but it's supposed to be a godly dem delight. So much so that when God talks about prosperity, he writes this, and the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets. In God's eyes, there's something delightful and wholesome and good about streets filled with plain children. Now, as I mentioned before, every good parenting book I have ever read begins by soberly telling us that. That our children are all potential act murderers and totally depraved, and that they must be converted. And great, God agrees, and so do I. But the whole council of God includes street fulls of boys and girls. Girls plain. And things like, Truly I say to you, unless you churn and become like children, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. God God delights in children, so much so that God gives children as a good gift to sinners and believers. They are something to rejoice in VMOD or or whatever. Now we cannot cure our anxiety and our fear and trembling over modernity or the responsibility of parents by re Reading the right books. All that we can do is trust in God's grace and trust in God's word. You don't want to purposely sin, but you don't want to be And I want you to know that you will sin, but that Christ fixed this on the cross. Jesus Christ died on the cross not only so that you could be saved. But he also died so that we can rejoice over our children and honor God and glorify him in our children. Jesus died because you couldn't be Perfect for your children, and so Jesus was perfect for both your children and you. Your children's salvation is not dependent on you being perfect. By the way, this is part of the point of Romans 9. Esau and Jacob were twins. One was saved. And one was not. They both were under both the godly and ungodly aspects of the parenting of their parents. Christ is perfect for us and we all sin. Now allow me to summarize all that I've been saying. Buy your children a duckbill platypus. And what I mean by that is love your kids. Pray with them. Play with them. Each one of them is a gift from God, but each child is different. Be consistent with the rules. Read your Bible and pray. Don't have favorites. Don't do the opposite of having a favorite, which is recognizing that you have a favorite but actually treating them worse. Be equal and careful. You know, one of my one of my children came up as a baptismal candidate, and I I did not was not a part of it. Of the interview of that. And the reason is that I was tempted both to be too negative and to be too positive. And so I let the other pastors at the church make that decision. Strive to be wise according to the dictates of Proverbs 26, 4 through 5. Discipline their children when you need it. Rejoice over them. I don't have a command in scripture, but consider making up a song about your kid and how much you love them. My kids hate their song when there's any friends around them. But sometimes they want to hear it when there are no friends there. Could sin, but so that you could rest in him and recognize that you will not perfectly raise your children. And I want to add one more word: don't be afraid Afraid. He's a good God. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. Let's bow our heads and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, teach us to parent as you have parented us. Teach us to have your patience, kindness. Your love, teach us to have your joy and your sense of humor, teach us to have your grace and have your mercy. Teach us to have a godly anger. Oh God. God, help us not to have favorites. Help us, Lord, not to excuse a bad temper. Help us not to seek vengeance. But, oh God, help us Help us to trust in your son. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hel