Good morning, everyone. It's good to be back. You realize the last time I was here was more than two months ago. It was Mother's Day. I don't know that much has happened since then. Um Spent four happy days in the hospital I'm kidding, they were unhappy. Until they discovered that I had a dose of Lyme's disease. And now I find out that coming to Elkridge, Maryland, I've come to the Lyme capital of the world, so that's encouraging. So I've told everyone I'm back up to 75%. Standing up three times to sing has worn me out. I'm kidding. It's good to have this here, what that I can hang on to. We uh Seem to have been driving a lot recently. We were talking coming over here this morning. How many times have we been to this area just in the last week? Last Saturday a week ago we drove to PWI to drop off our daughter and her children. They were with us for several weeks and pick up my brother at the airport. Last Sunday we were over here because my sister had her 50th wedding anniversary in Catonsville. Thursday we were here dropping my brother back off at the uh airport Friday night we went to Pennsylvania to pick up our grandkids who are with us. And here today we're again driving down Interstate 70. So We don't need the GPS anymore. We've got it figured out. And it's good to be back. We're in James chapter 1, as you notice, James chapter 4, verse 1. And I think it's good to review since some of you perhaps may have Forgotten a Chad or two. We've had seven main sections in James. I've got them listed there. Trials, the friends we Deplore. Deplore, right, is the word. Temptations the terrorist we adore. God's word, the elephant in the room we ignore. Religion, the tasks we minimize. Remember the tasks. Guard your tongue, visit widows and orphans in their distress Keep oneself unspotted from the world. Number five, racism, the millionaires we insult, those who are rich in faith. Number six, faith. The response we overlook that faith is obedience. And then two months ago, speech, the instrument so difficult to play, chapter three. So today we're talking about desires. Rattlesnakes in the family room. Family room I'm thinking of in terms of Family life in church, family life at home, family life anywhere And the way desires, when they dominate, change family life Now we need to read chapter 4 in light of chapter 3. Chapter 3 has been talking about speech that lights fires. And speech that has bitter jealousy and self-centeredness connected with it. So chapter four is just sort of the continuation of that discussion. But chapter three also introduces us to the ideal, the wisdom that comes from above. So I'm reading the first three verses of chapter 4, beginning in chapter 3, verse 17. 317 But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy. Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? You lust. And do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight and war, yet you do not have, because You do not ask. You ask and do not receive, because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your pleasures. So James contrasts the way it should be in verses 17 and 18 with the way it often is. In family life and church life, quarrels, fights, murder, coveting, coveting. And says, where do these come from? Back in chapter 3, verse 14. 3. 14 says, But if you have bitter envy and self-seeking in your hearts, do not boast and lie against the truth. Here's what that kind of tongue produces. This is what 311 talks about when it talks about the bitter stream that comes out that's abnormal. Bitter stream. 311 says, Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? Answer: No. And what we often see is a bitter stream of talk connected with envy and self-seeking, with results that make a mess out of community life So, chapter three introduces us to the wisdom from above that is pure, that begins with purity. Chapter 4 introduces us with a different kind of wisdom. This section introduces us to wisdom that thinks the answer to life's problems and needs is to drink from the fountains that the world offers. By world, I'm thinking of that system, that system of talk, that system of living. That you see on TV and movies, you find in popular sites on the internet. You hear from the standard unbeliever around you You read in magazines and newspapers, it's the common pop philosophy, sold by Satan and bought by almost everyone. So let's talk about this wisdom from below. James wants to show us its results, what it does to us, and then introduce us to the opposite. What we've been singing about today. God's grace. I've got four statements to make. Number one: the source of our conflicts is our desires. The source of our conflicts is our desires. You've got two words here in verses 1 and 3. Verse 1, desires for pleasure. Verse 3, pleasures. They both come from the same Greek word, which is the word Hedona, Hedona, from which we get the word hedonism. Hedonism. The word describes the source of the problems in the church. The origin of the campaigns that were splitting the readers was a desire, a passion for pleasure that was that got out of control. Hedona is a different kind of wisdom. The word means a minty smell. Something that smells pleasant. And thus something that delights. Hedonism is chasing whatever is delightful. Hedonism is the pursuit of pleasure in life. It's the conclusion that pleasure, however you understand it, is the greatest thing in life. And it's the only thing worth living for. It expresses itself in this passage by people fighting to fulfill their pleasures. Determined to get their way. James is writing about people who have swallowed the world's view. They're out to get what the world has to offer. They are into, or they would like to be into, you know, the party scene. Perhaps alcohol, drugs, sex, money, cars, things, extreme experiences, for the highs that they all bring. They watch Entertainment Tonight, they read People magazine, they dream about the people featured on these shows because they have it all They have the glitter. They have the glamour. They're always smiling. After all, as the beer commercial once said, it doesn't get any better than this. Remember that one? People believe that statement and chase what the world has to offer. As another commercial said years ago, I think that was also a beer commercial that said you only go around once in life. Had you got a grab for all the gusto you can get? We're told that this philosophy began and was popularized by the ancient Greek philosopher whose name was Epicurus, E. P. I. C-U-R-U-S. Epicurus. He started a school in 307 BC and he taught that life's goal should be to minimize pain and maximize pleasure. So hedonism is any theory that gives pleasure the central role in life. The simplest form of hedonism says, whatever brings pleasure is right. Whatever brings pleasure is right Think about why this philosophy is ridiculous to start with. To start with. Think of why it can never work. For example, brings pleasure to who? What if what brings pleasure to me hurts you? Well, maybe we should say what brings pleasure to the entire group. Well, who decides? Who decides what brings pleasure? And who knows what brings pleasure? You know? Does smoking bring pleasure when you realize that you've got 20 or 30 years before you sign up for lung cancer? Is that pleasure? What is pleasure? So, what happens is that this philosophy can never be a general philosophy. It doesn't work, it's ridiculous But it remains a private philosophy. I live for pleasure And that's what James is describing here. People who, because they have pleasure as their philosophy of life. Are into fighting and wars and murder and lusting Several years, several months ago, not years, several months ago, I gave you my history, how that I have practiced this form of life As a Christian, I wanted to serve God. I was going to go and study his word, learn how to minister to others. At the same time, I was determined to live for pleasure. I couldn't serve God without an airplane, without a boat, without a car. And so down inside was this passion, this pride, this lust, this ego, this impatience. These desires that were ruling my life, even as outwardly I was a nice Christian boy. There was this army inside trying to take me over and convert me to total hedonism. Trying to get me to give up on the serving God thing. Just let it all go and live for pleasure. At the same time, there was the call of God that said, all that stuff that promises so much is just emptiness and depression. Follow me and find life. And that was just what James describes here in chapter 4, verse 8. Double-minded. Double-minded. I wanted both. I wanted God, I wanted the world, I was a fence rider. As a result, I lived this roller coaster life where at times I was under the control of my desires. I had to have what I had to have, and no one was going to get in my way. At other times my desires were quieter, and I could with some calmness and logic think about what God wanted. Ever been there? Three of you have. You know? It's that conclusion inside that says, I am going to find my life as the world presents it. Living for pleasure. That's hedonism. That's hedo wisdom. The wisdom promised by pleasure The wisdom promised by fulfilling my desires. Contrast this with chapter 3, verse 17. The wisdom from above is first pure. Here, this wisdom is first pleasure pure So, number one, the first statement I have to make is the source of our conflicts is our desires. Number two, living for pleasures changes us. Living for pleasure changes us. The first thing it does is it makes desire our God. It makes desire our God This is verse 2. You lust and do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight and war. Yet you do not have because you do not ask. The word lust is the word desire It's the same word that we had that we started with back in chapter 1, verses 14 and 15. Chapter 1, verse 14 says, temptation, each one of us is tempted when we are drawn away by his own lust. That's the word desire. Actually, old King James lost, New King James desire. And enticed. And verse 15 says, Then when desire has conceived, When I say yes, let's do it. It gives birth to sin, and sin when it's full-grown brings forth death So there are two words in this passage that describe the source of the problem. You've got the word pleasure and you've got the word desire. When these two words become God in our lives, they totally change us. Even to the place where we murder and covet and fight and war. These words describe a focus on things. You've got the word obtained. You've got the word have. I've got to have something. I've got to get it. It's a desire that has to have, that has to possess, another car, another house, another money market fund, another wife, another husband. To get these desires, we step on other people. The words fight and war show that this is not a passive desire. You're not just quietly sitting there having this desire. You're gonna go get it. The word war suggests a campaign. With all the strategy and equipment to accomplish victory, everything is aimed for battle and conquering. Personal power becomes more important because one must fight and brawl one's way to accomplish one's will. The competition may be nothing more than position in the choir, or position on the elder board, or another Sunday school pin. You know? But there's a battle. Secondly, it changes the values in our lives When I have to get something that changes all the other values, it's like all the price tags in the store are changed. If pleasure is number one, then serving God becomes two, three, four, or twenty-seven. It's like an ext an Excel spreadsheet, you know. You change the number in the upper left-hand corner, and automatically all the other numbers change. Once pleasure takes over, all the other values change. Number three, it changes our relationships with people. Other people become less valuable. People become tools to manipulate to get what I want to get. Even if it means fighting or quarreling or Murder. Would Christians actually get to murder? Does James mean murder literally? Did you ever hear what the man after God's own heart did when hedonism took over in his heart? I'm thinking of David and Bathsheba. I don't personally think that James uses the word murder here literally. But I think he's using the word murder in the sense that Jesus uses it back in Matthew 5. 22, where he talks about you hate your brother. And hate is what causes murder, and you've committed murder. I think he's talking about the attitudes that we develop toward one another because we are going to get what we want to get. So all of a sudden, my relationship with somebody else changes because of my desire. My commitment to pleasure makes them less valuable Have you seen that at all in your life? Where people's importance changes depending on what you have to get? Where your motives and desires cause you to evaluate somebody in terms of what they can give you. Not who they are in God's sight. That's hedonism, that's hedo wisdom. And then fourthly, it encourages us to manipulate God in prayer. Here's a very sad effect. It makes prayer a tool that you use to pry something out of God. This is verses 2 and 3. The end of verse 2 says, yet you do not have because you do not ask. Verse 3, you ask and do not receive because you ask amiss. That you may spend it on your pleasures. The person so wants to get that he will try to force it out of God He will bow and quietly request something from God when his real desire is to spend it on his pleasure. There are two words here that emphasize the horror of this kind of prayer. The first word is the word amiss. The word amiss is the word sick. You ask amiss. Your asking is sick Your requests are sick. Why? Because you're thinking, how can I pray? What special words can I use to get God to respond? To get him to give me what I want. There are books that are written to help you with this motive. Sometimes they recommend special catch words. Or praying louder, or praying with more zeal, or praying with authority, or praying as if these things belong to you already because you're the son or daughter of the king. Sometimes it's the quantity of prayer that's emphasized, you know. Pray through until God obeys you. You familiar with those? The simple fact is that prayer is God's means of fellowship. It's the way we develop a relationship. It's not the way we get something out of him It's the way we spend time with him. It's the way we get to know him. It's the way we get to become like him. How do you like people whose sole purpose in having fellowship with you is to get something out of you? The only time they talk to you, the only time they come to you, the only time you have any kind of fellowship is when they want something It may be a friend, it may be a relative, it may be a child, you know? No communication until there's a need. Sick. Sick is the word. The other word is the word spend. You ask and do not receive because you ask amiss that you may spend it on your pleasures. I just thought this was an interesting word because it's the same word used. With the prodigal son. He got his half of his dad's inheritance and he spent it. The word spend is squander. It's the word splurge. It's the word waste. You want something from God so you can blow it on your pleasures. That's what's happening here. So we have sinners here who have made thousands of mistakes, who've repeated their bad choices time and time again. They go to God who has never made a mistake, not one, never had a bad choice, and they say to him, I have a better idea on this one. And I want you to change. I want you to do my plan. You ever done that? You ever told God how to answer your prayer? You ever told God you have a better idea? I'm sure to God that probably is like A five-year-old coming to his father and telling his father what to do. You know? God probably laughs the same way that a father would to his five-year-old But for some reason, we are quite confident that we know what is needed. As a result, we often don't come to pray and fellowship We come to try to take over. Our prayers become nothing more than an attempt to impose our will on God. to make God our servant. You see why James uses the word sick It's a complete reversal of the situation. The correct attitude in prayer needs to be: our Father Who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven. That kind of prayer is the prayer that realizes the huge gulf between myself and God. Our father says, I'm the child. You're the father. I'm the five-year-old coming to you. It's your interests that are needed here. It's your will that is needed here. And what are God's interests What should we be praying for? 1 Timothy 2 says we should be praying for every leader. And kings for the salvation of people around the world because God wants all to come to know Jesus Christ. We should pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Because God wants the city and the nation to experience His peace. We should pray for our own growth in Christ, because Jesus Christ has predestined us to become like himself. We should pray that our church experiences revival and the filling of the presence of God. Ephesians 3, God wants to fill his temple. Our requests need to be Thy will, Thy Kingdom, Thy Name. The truth is that God knows what is best. His will is good. His will is acceptable. His will is perfect. David Jeremiah says it well. He says, if we really believe that the will of God is perfect, Then why would we want him to change it? Such a good statement. If we really believe that the will of God is perfect, why pray for him to change it? To think that I could improve on God's will is sheer idiotic pride. Why would I ever go to God and present an alternate plan to what is perfect? It's my sin that causes me to question whether God's will is that. And do you see where this spirit comes from? It comes from my desire. It comes from my pleasure. It comes from wanting my will. So the source of our conflicts is our desires, and living for pleasure changes us. Number three, living for pleasure drains life from our lives. Living for pleasure drains life From our lives. I'm reading four to six. Adulterers and adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the scripture says in vain, the Spirit who dwells in us yearns jealously? But he gives more grace. Therefore, he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. You'll notice in verse 4 that living for pleasure breaks our marriage relationship with God. It breaks our marriage relationship. Why does James call them adulterers and adulteresses? Because their relationship with God has changed. What happens when a husband, let's say, becomes an adulterer? He may be living with his wife, but he becomes an adulterer. What changes? He may work in the same place, he may live in the same place, he may act the same, but one thing has changed. His relationship with his wife He's out. He's disconnected. Something has broken the relationship. The same awful thing happens with our relationship with God. We come to the incredibly wrong conclusion that God is insufficient and I need to go to the world for help. And where have we gone? We become friends with the enemy. We're sleeping with the enemy because we conclude that it has more to offer than God does. We become adulterers, adulteresses. Perhaps some of you have John MacArthur's study Bible. Anybody have John MacArthur's study Bible? I see three hands. Let me caution you that he'll mislead you on this section of James. I don't know whether intentionally or not, but he'll mislead you. What he does in this section is he emphasizes the phrase: the friendship of the world. He defines it as an emotional attachment or an affection for the world, which is correct. But then he goes further and says that this is an intimate relationship with the world and therefore it cannot reach. Refer to a Christian or a believer. It has to refer to an unbeliever. So he concludes that this section, James chapter 4, verses 1 to 10, has to refer to To unbelievers. So that means that the wars and the fightings in verse 1 come from unbelievers in the church, not believers. That must also mean that those who are praying and don't get answers or praying amiss are unbelievers. What his conclusion does is change the point of the passage. So it's not aimed at believer problems, but at the unbelievers. What this means when you read it through is that verses 7 through 10 Are directions to this unbeliever concerning how to come to Christ? Meaning the plan of salvation I find it very difficult to see that. We'll talk about it next time when I come. That the Ten Commands in these four verses, verses seven to ten. Commands like submit to God, resist the devil, draw near to God, cleanse your hands. MacArthur says this about verses 7 to 10. I quote. James, in the middle of this epistle, marshals ten straight commands, which really draw our attention, I believe, to the focal point of the whole epistle. This, in my judgment, is the heart of everything. It is one of the great and one of the clear and one of the precise invitations to salvation in all of Scripture. I think that's a misleading statement. It's not an invitation to salvation. It's an invitation to Christianity. Christians to repent. It describes how to repent. The truth is, the great command in all of Scripture is for an unbeliever to believe. To believe in the sense of coming to Christ to receive forgiveness and new life. That's not what verses 7 to 10 are talking about. So I say all this just to point out that MacArthur builds his conclusion on this concept, friend of the world. Friend of the world. And views James describing this set of people as friends of the world What he misses and seems to totally ignore is the word wants. Wants to be a friend. Therefore, whoever wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Think about the word wants. Can an unbeliever want to be a friend of the world? Seems to me he is. He's already a slave of the world and the flesh and the devil. Wants to be a friend of the world. Seems to picture a believer who's looking over the fence, lusting after what seems to be over there. And James says, just the desire is wrong. The person who wants to be a friend of the world has already. Become an adulterer. Adulteress. Has already sinned. The desire is sin. Doesn't matter how much he's gone into, the desire. The husband interrupts his relationship with his wife because he wants the other woman. So then, secondly, secondly, it breaks the heart of God. This is verse five. Verse 4 breaks our marriage relationship with God. Verse 5, it breaks the heart of God. I think verse 5 is describing the response of the Holy Spirit. Who is living in us? The Holy Spirit who wants to direct, who wants to guide, who wants to strengthen us. And here's the person who's checked out and said, no, I don't want any of that. This verse 5 is hard to translate because you can't identify the subject and the verb. Okay, and so when you read different translations, they come up with sometimes strange things. For example, here's the new American Standard. It says, he jealously desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us. What? He jealously desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us. What does that mean I don't think that's a very satisfactory translation. I think the New King James did a better, much better job with the spirit who dwells in us yearns jealously. Or even the new international version, the spirit he caused to live in us envies intensely It's describing what happens to the Holy Spirit when people he is indwelling turn to the world. He stirred to the point of jealousy. Think of how painful that it is for the Holy Spirit to be indwelling us. And to be subject to all of this garbage that we want to get into because of our desires. One of the greatest psychological and emotional pains in the world is to be double-crossed by someone you truly love and have committed yourself to. That's why divorce is such an awful thing. Can you imagine what it's like to give your son to die for someone else? And then give that person millions of dollars worth of blessings. Bring that person into your own home and family and have that person say, after a while, no thanks. Let me go back. I think God looks at his children that turn to hedonism and weeps. What a total tragedy. What an awful turn. What a tremendous waste. All the blessings that God showers, all the miraculous things He does, and the child just turns. Then C. And what does all this do? It supplies and It supplies emptiness. I'm reading verse two and three again. You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain. So you fight in war. You do not have because you do not have Ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions Do you see what's hap what happens in this kind of life? It's a life of frustration. Because you have these strong desires, these plans, these goals, these ambitions, and they never get fulfilled. Never. You always come up empty. You run and work and fight and chase and collapse in a heap, tired out, with nothing. It's a giant Ponzi scheme. You familiar with Bernard Mattoff? Ponzi. Arrested in two thousand eight. Figure he is the greatest swindler of our century. Perhaps as much as sixty-five billion dollars people invested because the returns were so great. And he was basically paying people off with new people that were coming in until the new people quit coming in and the thing collapsed. I don't know whether it collapsed. Or he was arrested first. But it's a giant Ponzi scheme. That's what Satan's into. A giant Ponzi scheme. All of these promises Emptiness. My wife had an uncle, George, who was always wrapped up in his money He was a Christian, but his entire life was wrapped around his money, collecting, guarding, saving. He and his wife decided to build their dream house. She died within six months. After they moved in and he died within a year. What did they accomplish as Christians? Well, they raised two daughters who had the same spirit, chased the cash. Both married rich men who weren't that interested in the things of the Lord. The daughters now don't even talk to each other. They don't get a law. In hedonism, what you aim for and seem to be getting disappears just as you think you have it in your hand. How tragic. To invest the time and energy and wisdom God gives us for nothing. So I ask, are you living for pleasure as the ultimate goal in your life? When are you going to stop? Now is the time to break the chain, to interrupt the pattern. My guess is that if you don't do it this morning, this afternoon, You may not ever do it. Now's the time to say, I do not want to live in that world. I want to serve you with all of my heart So statement number four is God wants to give us what pleasure only promises. God wants to give us what pleasure only promises. If you paid attention to what you were singing this morning, you will notice how many of the songs we sang focused on that great song. And that's verse six A under here says, Hedona-type wisdom cannot supply what it promises. The world says we have life. Christ says, I'm the bread of life. The world says, we know how to live and what to do. Christ says, He who follows me shall not walk in darkness. Verse 6 contains the amazing promise: He gives more grace. Therefore, he says, God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. God gives grace. What kind of grace? The kind you've been looking for out in the world. Only a better kind. This is the kind you were praying for, but didn't know what to pray for. So you prayed sick prayers, trying to manipulate God for things you would squander on your pleasures. The simple truth is that God has everything you need for a completely happy life. And He wants to give it to you There's a false doctrine that rises out of this amazing truth that God wants to give us what we need. It's the doctrine that says if you ask and know how to ask, God will give you your desires. God will give you the pleasures you desire. After all, Psalm 37, 4 says, Delight yourself also in the Lord, and he shall give you the desires of your heart. In other words, if you know how to ask and you know how to pursue God for these things, he will give you the new Corvette. That beautiful or handsome new mate, that huge home, and the boat. What's wrong with this theology? Isn't this what the text says? Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. No, it's not what the text says. In fact, James 4. 4 specifically says they ask and don't receive because they ask wrongly. That's James 4. In other words, they want the Corvette and the boat, and they're humbly asking God for it, and He doesn't supply it. Why? Because God knows that won't make you happy. Why doesn't God give me the Corvette? The answer is very simple. God understands that true happiness can never be connected to things. True happiness is always connected with a person. God can give me the happiness and the joy and the thrill without the things. In fact, the amazing testimony of Christians who know is that God can give me the happiness with nothing else except. The presence of God. Here's the psalmist who says: In your presence is fullness of joy. And at your right hand are pleasures forevermore in your presence. Think of that. Fullness of joy. Just being in His presence will so fill your happiness tank. That you will look at all the treasures the world has to offer as junk jewelry, cracker jacks, plastic rings Then it says, pleasures forevermore, eternal pleasures, non-ending delights, repeated excitement and thrills at his right hand. Have you ever experienced the absolute thrill of being in God's presence? If you've never experienced that, it will be hard for you to stay away from the hidona type wisdom. The world's offerings look pretty good to those who know nothing of God's presence But God's gifts come in response to fellowship. This is B on your list there. God's gifts come in response to fellowship. Verse 2, yet you do not have because you do not ask. It's saying that we're unempty because we do not ask. We do not have. The emptiness is unfulfilled. Even with all the things that we Americans pile up. We go through life unempty. Why? Because we do not spend time with God, the giver of every good and perfect gift. As James described it. did in chapter 1 verse 17. We don't ask. And we don't ask because we don't trust God. We want him to do it our way. And so we go searching for what we think we need out in the pleasure field world and come home empty. My daughter met a man on the streets of Calcutta, India. She was over there on a short-term missions trip, and she met a man, a beggar, named Stephen. He had one leg missing and thus he had been fired from his job and could not get a job, so he had no income. He was living with a wife and four children in a cardboard box. What was so striking to my daughter was how completely happy he was in Jesus Christ. He was totally thrilled with Jesus Christ. He was excited about what God had done for him. One day she brought him A hamburger that she had purchased. She wanted him to enjoy a meal. He ate a little bit and then he refused to eat the rest. Because he wanted to take it home to his cardboard box and share it with his family. He thought it was so good He was starving, and yet he was so happy to share his food with his family. It struck me that if beggars on the streets of Calcutta can find the joy of the Lord, why can't American Christians who have a thousand times as much stuff as Stephen? Find the joy of the Lord. Verse two says, You do not ask. It's based on in your presence at your right hand God's wisdom begins with purity. Chapter 3, verse 17. It's connected with contentment. First Timothy six, six, rather than desires and pleasures Are you content? Are you pure? Or are you still chasing after your pleasure pangs