So when we hear of disgraced ministers, I kind of mentioned during the prayer, as I have last few years, I suggest we read of many good faithful ones who serve the Lord and finished the race well. It's good to do that. And in two thousand eight then sixty year old pastor now with the Lord Harry Reeder was asked to impart some words of wisdom to young believers. So here's a guy who finished the race well. And talking to younger believers, he wants to say, no doubt he wants to speak on living the gospel-driven life. His thesis was this: the gospel of saving grace in Jesus is the foundation, the formation, and the primary motivation for the Christian life. I think that's a great summary of what we find in Paul's letters and in the rest of the New Testament. To illustrate how important it is that gospel drives us to live for God's glory, he gave this illustration from his own personal life. But when I was 16, my father bought me a car at an auction for $75. It was a pink 57 Ford, which dad insisted was coral. I couldn't drive a pink car to school. I then heard words that in a not too distant future my children would hear, son A poor ride is better than a proud walk. Then my dad opened the hood, and to my surprise, underneath was a 390 engine with two four-barrel carburetors. The car had been a South Carolina state interceptor, a highway patrol car. Nothing had more power under the hood. Space and conviction prevent me from detailing the surprises that Corbettes and roasters would get after they looked laughingly at my Pink 57 Ford while sitting side by side at stoplights. It didn't look like much, but there was power under the hood. Okay, I don't know much about cars, but I get the main point here. Reader concludes with this explanation. Called Young Christian. The world despises the gospel in its simplicity and disdains the vessels entrusted to carry and proclaim it, but there is power under the hood. Live the gospel, believe and preach the whole gospel, the gospel blessings that declare who you are in Christ, the gospel imperatives that call you to your new life for Christ. This gospel transforms the hearts, minds, and wills of sinners. Thankfully, it continues to transform mine. Preach it to yourself, to each other, and to the lost, and know the joys of the gospel-driven life. That's the kind of saintly sage advice we need. Yes, our outward appearance may be shabby, unimpressive. But underneath it all is the gospel, the power to salvation for everyone who believes. We have this treasure in earth and vessels that the excellence of the power may be of God and not of us. We'll see in today's passage that at times we must open up the hood and see for ourselves that there's power in it. See what enables us and fuels us to run the race. See how gospel indicatives motivate gospel imperatives. Let's turn to Titus three one to seven. Titus three one to seven. Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak Speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. But we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. That having been justified by His grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. As far as outline goes, notice that there are three sentences within seven verses. Verses one and two add up to one sentence. Verse three is another. Four to seven is a long sentence. That's easy enough to see But what's the main idea here? Which of the three sentences matters the most? Well, as I said in an earlier sermon on chapter 1, verse 10 to 7. 16, it's usually a good idea to locate the grammatical imperative. Here the command at the top of the chapter is remind them. So main Paul's main point in this paragraph is in verses one to two. Titus must remind the creden believers to live civil lives under rulers and humble lives before others. But what if we lack the motivation? I don't often feel like being peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men It won't take too long before we encounter some rude patrons, annoying relatives. Maybe you have some over this past week. Maybe you're the annoying relative. Maybe some terrible driver cuts you off. That's when we need to rewind and remember: such were some of you. I'm the cheap of sinners. That's what Paul suggests in verse 3. But then our message is never we got ourselves out of our hot mess or we found some inner resolve to overcome our struggles, improve ourselves. That's not our message. Our testimony is all about our triune God. And what he does, it begins with the love of God the Father, is we've been transformed by God the Spirit to God the Son So to continue the car illustration from the beginning, I suggest we all get a multi-point self-inspection for the gospel-driven life. I'm sorry if this figures of speech is not working. I'm doing my best here. Um, first check. Remind ourselves of our duty. That's verses one to two. Second check, recall our former depravity. That's first three. Third check, reinforce our new identity. That's four to seven. First check, remind ourselves of our duty. Again, the main idea of today's passage is the imperative of verse 1: reminder. So much of the pastor's job is restoring memory, taking what's at the back of our minds. Bringing up the front. That's why Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? That's 2 Thessalonians 2. 5. Peter wrote to stir up the pure minds of believers by way of reminder, 2 Peter 3. 1. Reminding is so important that it's even the ministry of the Holy Spirit. He was sent to bring to remembrance all that Jesus said to his disciples. So following the example of the Spirit and the Apostles, Titus must remind his people. But what exactly is it? That Titus must remind them. Look at verse 1. Believers are to be subject to rulers and authorities. They are to obey. They are to be ready for every good work. In other words, while our citizenships in heaven were to be model citizens on earth. As Peter says, submit to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the king as supreme or to governors, first Peter 2, 13 to 15 fourteen. There's no if or buts about it. Our president, our senators, our representatives may not share your political affiliation, but still we must obey them, as long as they're not compelling us to disobey God. And our obedience should not be passive or done begrudgingly, reluctantly, resentfully. Christians should be active, ready for every good work. Now if we compare Titus 3. 1 to what we saw in chapter 1, we see how those driven by the gospel counter those opposed to the gospel. Remember, they're insubordinate while we're subject to rulers and authorities. They're disobedient while we are obedient. They're disqualified for every good work. We're ready for every good work. Go on to verse two, and there's also our duty to guard our speech. When Paul says Titus must remind Christians to speak evil of no one, he uses the word blaspheme. Blaspheme means to defame or slander. Okay. You blaspheme by stating something untrue about someone and thereby ruining his or her reputation. It turns out that fact checking is very important, especially when those facts have to do with people. Closely related to speak evil no one is to be peaceable. This is the quality required of elders according to 1 Timothy 3. Peaceable is better translated as not choralsome. So not only do Christians avoid making false statements, they wisely avoid diving into every controversy or hot take. Discern what conversations cause disputes rather than godly edification, which is in faith. We need that kind of discernment. We'll talk about this next time, but quickly, if we skip down to Titus 3. 9, there Paul warns, avoid foolish disputes, genealogies, contentions, and strivings about the law, for they are unprofitable and useless. On top of avoiding quarrels, followers of Christ must be gentle is another quality required of elders. According to James 3:17, gentleness is granted to all who possess wisdom from above. It comes from above, but it's evident to everyone here below. Paul says in Philippians 4 5, this gentleness must be known to all men. Similarly, believers must show humility to all men. There's some semantic overlap with between gentleness and humbleness. You'll find some passages translate this word for humility as gentleness. Other places have the word as meekness. What I find more interesting here is Paul's emphasis on complete or all humility. It must be true humility, not false humility. It must be both internal and external, private and public. Show all humility to all men. Now, as I said earlier, this is not easy at all. Being peaceable and gentle is not easy. It's hard to keep my mouth shut when people get on my nerves. I'm often not ready for every good work. I don't always feel like obeying my superiors. So where am I going to find the motivation? To return to the opening illustration, look under the hood, right? Look at the powerful engine of the gospel, revving, roaring, roaring, ready to move us to action. It's a good reminder of how the good news of Jesus not only got us going at first, it'll get us home at last. Without the gospel, we'd be stranded, lost, wandering, hopelessly distant from God. If I may take some creative liberty with this car imagery, I'll say that apart from the grace of God, I'll be able to say that. We only amount to a junk mobile. We're a useless repossessed vehicle nobody wants. We're at best a heap of metal. There's nothing functional inside. We were, as they say, a piece of work. But then God made us his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. As we continue with this multi-point self-inspection for the gospel-driven life, there's a second check. Recall our former depravity. It's key that we link verse 3 to 2. When we don't feel like being peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men because they're frankly just really annoying. Tell yourself, I was like that once. Ah, the battle days. When you meet a stubborn and difficult unregenerate person, remember that that was you, however many years ago. You were insufferable. You were cringeworthy. Honestly, even after I was saved, there were parts of my youth I rather forget. That's part of our testimony. We were once foolish While foolish can mean uneducated in some contexts, here we're talking about lacking knowledge in spiritual matters. Foolishness leads to willful disobedience of God. And not only are we foolish and disobedient, we're deceived. Deceived here has the sense of wandering aimlessly. And certainly the devil has a huge part in that. But ultimately, as James 1:14 tells us, sinners are drawn away by our own desires and enticed. Our own desires lead us astray. As masters of our own lives, we're really slaves to ourselves as we serve various lusts and pleasures. The word pleasure is memorable as there's heedone in Greek. That's where we get the word hedonism. Well, you don't have to be an obnoxious, lustful hedonist to displease God. I don't have to lift the finger to live in malice and envy. I can be malicious anywhere, anytime. Bear ill will towards anyone. I can be envious while on social media just by being discontent with myself, just by resenting others' success. I can even be hateful and hating others in the privacy of my home. In all our being and doing, in our thought, word, and deed. We're sinners, separated from God, destined for hell. Paul says elsewhere in Colossians 1:21 that we were once alienated and enemies in our mind by wicked works. So this is the second check of our self-inspection. We must recall our former depravity. But of course, we must not just dwell on our wickedness. Here's a quick application before we move on. Some of us might over-emphasize our identity before being saved. In a sense, we spend too much time on verse 3 if you get what I'm saying. That is, some testimonies sound as if our past is greater than Christ. To avoid that mistake, let's go on to the rest of today's passage. Here's a third check of our self-inspection for the gospel-driven life. Reinforce our new identity. I'm not sure if you notice, but I don't even need to look for a place to share the gospel in today's sermon. It's Paul does it for me here. Verse three flows right into four to uh seven as we go from bad news to good news. And see how the gospel is never about us earning our way into heaven or becoming better people over time. Just as we saw last time in chapter 2, verse 11, there had to be divine initiative. God must take the first step in epiphany, appearing to us. The grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men is the same idea as the kindness and the love of God are saved toward man appear. And this is an amazing truth. After verse 3, we'd expect 100% to read something like: the righteousness and the wrath of God are judged where man appeared. The holy and perfect creator of the universe had every right to condemn us. He owes us nothing, not even a penny's worth of his goodness. We deserve nothing good from God as there's none who does good, no, not one. At the precise moment we sin, he should strike us dead. Yet instead of killing us in his just wrath, he rather shows us kindness. He offers us the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering to lead us to repentance. And not only is the Lord kind, he's loving. In the original language of verse 4, love toward man is one compound word, is worth reading it in Greek. Philanthropia. God is the greatest philanthropist in history. It's not Bill Gates, Warren Buppett, George Soros, or Andrew Carnegie. Is not the Indian industrial uh industrialist Jamshetsi Tata, who currently holds the record in charity of over a hundred billion dollars God has given us the most because he has given us himself. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. It's God's great philanthropy we acknowledge at this time of the year. Unlike us misanthropes, hateful, hating one another, we have God who loves mankind. That's why the Son of God became Son of Man in Jesus. With the tender mercy of our God, Jesus came as the day spring from on high. He's like the bright shining dawn after a cold, bitter night. He visited us to give light to those who sit in the darkness and the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. God the Father has to send his son because we never reach heaven on our own. As verse five says, Salvation is not by works of righteousness, which we have done, salvations according to God's mercy. We need mercy because we deserve nothing from God except justice, condemnation, and punishment in hell. The Lord in his loving kindness did not give us those terrible things we deserve. Mercy is the only way God could save us. And only Jesus, God with us and man without sin, can give us a new identity. Unlike us, he's perfect. Unlike us, he needed no reminders to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. Unlike us, he was never foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating others. And amazingly, Jesus, with no hint of depravity in him, gave himself to save us. He became our substitute. He took on himself the penalty of sin in our place, satisfying the wrath of God against us. Because our righteous works are like filthy racks, Jesus had to step up at the cross. God the Father made Christ who knew no sin to the He declared but declared his work finished, he breeded his last, he was buried. But on the third day he rose again from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection before ascending to heaven. Being exalted to the right hand of God, having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured out the Spirit on his people. More on that in a moment. But first, I urge everyone listening here or online to repent and believe in Jesus. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Someday your time on earth will end up. Are you ready? Tomorrow's not guaranteed. The rest of today is not guaranteed. It's appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment. Since you don't have to be good enough to enter heaven, since you don't have to bring works of righteousness before God, since we're saved according to mercy, come to Christ as you are. Forsake your evil works and good works, leave them behind, turn to Jesus, only rely on him to enter heaven. Heaven is a gift. Undeserved, unmerited. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Reviewing this good news and reading passages like today's reinforce our new identity in Jesus. Living the gospel-driven life requires us to look under the hood. Then we're reminded there's power in the gospel. Let me finish up now by pointing to two key components of this engine. As we finish up Titus 3. 5 and go on to 6 and 7, we focus on two major human problems God solves for us. Problem one, we have a filth problem, that is we're morally impure. Problem two, we have a guilt problem, that is we're justly condemned. First there's our field problem. How does God solve it? Well, what do you do when your kid decides to touch everything in sight in a public place? What do you do when he or she rolls around on the floor? What do you do when your dog decides to jump into a rain puddle, wallow in the mud like pigs? These may or may not be true stories in the Trill family, um, with our human babies and our fur baby. Well the solution. Turn on the faucet, get the soap out, it's time for a wash. Far greater is our need for the washing of the Holy Spirit. As John the Baptist said about Christ: I indeed baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. It's not H2O that purifies us. It's not a sacrament or ordinance that cleanses us of our sin. Look at the last part of verse 5 and all of 6. Cleansing comes through the washing of the regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. The spirit washes our filth in two ways. This washing Brings new life. That's called regeneration. In Matthew 1928, Jesus used this word to describe the supernatural transformation. of the world. It'll happen when Jesus returns to establish his kingdom. At the individual level, Jesus taught in John 3 that everyone must be born again to see that kingdom. That's why every living Christian today has two birthdays. First, the day he or she is born of the flesh to enter the world. Second, the day he or she is born of the spirit and passes from death into life. The Spirit's washing also brings renewal. This word in Romans, uh this word is in Romans 12. 2, and it describes the renewing of our minds and the progressive sanctification as we grow more and more like Jesus. Here in Titus 3. 5, Paul's describing positional sanctification. The one-time thing. This renewal occurs the moment we're saved. This is a renewal of the heart and spirit at the time of our conversion. We read a passage about it from Ezekiel earlier. This is the only spirit baptism we'll ever need. So I have to disagree with my Pentecostal friends who say we need another spirit baptism after conversion to live a victorious life. But all evangelical Protestants would agree that according to Titus 3:6 God the Father poured out God the Spirit to God the Son, Jesus Christ our Savior. And it was done so abundantly. We're not talking about a drop here or there, sprinkles or light rain. We're talking about a torrential downpour. This happened after Christ's ascension at the day of Pentecost in Acts 2, when believers of both genders, all ages, and backgrounds received spirit baptism and spiritual gifts. It's evident that it was Also given to Gentiles later, right? So that's the washing of the Spirit. Finally, we get to verse 7 to learn that God not only cleanses our filth, He pardons our guilt. To give us our new identity, regeneration addresses our filth while justification addresses our guilt. But how? Because I said earlier, we deserve nothing from God except justice, condemnation, and punishment in hell. Lord, in his loving kindness, did not give us those terrible things we deserve. That's mercy. Grace is similar to mercy in that both point to our unworthiness. Mercy is not getting what we deserve, God's wrath. Grace is us getting what we don't deserve, God's gift. So mercy, not getting what we deserve, God's wrath. Grace is getting what we don't deserve, God's gift. We don't deserve God's grace, but we sure need it. Again, we have a guilt problem. It doesn't matter if you're a repeat offender or goody tissues. We're all guilty, but thankfully God offers grace to all. As Paul wrote in Romans 3, 22 to 26, Great passage to meditate on, for there is no difference. Actually, yeah, so verse twenty-two. For there is no difference, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood, through faith to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in his forbearance God had passed over the sins that were previously committed to demonstrate at the present time his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. There's a lot going on here, but just know that God demonstrated both justice and grace through Jesus. When God's Son suffered and bled at the cross, he was set forth as a propitiation, which means satisfaction of God's holy wrath. Now we can be justified without God compromising his justice. God's grace does not contradict his righteousness. As one of my favorite songs goes, For God the just was satisfied to look upon him and pardon me, Him being Jesus. So now God looks at his saints with fatherly love. Now our filth is cleansed, our guilt pardoned. We become sons of God by adoption. We become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. That's better than being a beneficiary of a billionaire's will Ours is the promise of an eternal inheritance of the saints in the light. Ours is an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for us. Ours is the guarantee of our inheritance, the Holy Spirit, until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of God's glory. So these are the multi-point self-inspection for the gospel-driven life. We reinforce our new identity as It contrasts with our former depravity that'll motivate us as we remind each other of our duty here on earth. We may be blind and unimpressive outwardly as gospel people. But remember what gets us going in our journey. There's power under the hood. The power of Jesus and his message. Jesus is our powerful Savior, yet He is kind, loving, and gracious. We can be assured the Lord is good and faithful. He will keep us safe and night. We can always run to Jesus. Jesus, strong and kind. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your loving kindness. We thank you that you did not give us what we deserve. Which is your wrath. And you gave us your just uh your grace, your son. We think about these truths of justification and regeneration and Lord, the incarnation of your son at this time of the year. Lord, we pray that these doctrinal truths will not just be head knowledge, but it will drive us to serve you. Lord, that we would be thankful Thankful first of all. And not only thankful, but be prepared for be ready for good works. Not not not because we're saved by good works Be again, but because we are thankful, because we want to see others hear the gospel. Because we're not better than them, just on our own. But we were once full. We were ones depraved. So we just thank you for this gospel truth. Help us to study your word each and every day and remind each other. Lord, not just our immediate family members, but this church family. And Lord, help us to carry the gospel to wherever we go. We just thank you. Thank you for your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.