Every day a newsfeed. And on that newsfeed they collect articles from the web that are pertinent to Christians, what we believe what we are under attack for all over the world. Sometimes they're political. They're not very encouraging. When you look at their feed, almost every one of them is of a discouraging nature. But they are realistic. Here's a couple from this past the past two weeks. Quote: Iran, we have divine permission to destroy Israel Here's another one. Al Shabaab warns of more attacks on Kenya's Christian schools How about this one? Seattle journalism student uncovered as prominent female ISIS recruiter. How about this one? Christian schools will have no choice about gay marriage Or this one, prison next step for American Christians? Question mark You and I probably have, I have noticed, and perhaps you have as well, the multiplicity of these kinds of headlines. I certainly hope that you are completely aware as a Christian American that the Supreme Court has been deliberating on a case of epic proportions which will affect. Nonprofit Christian organizations in this country. We just don't know how much though. Will the Supreme Court vote to say that Same-gender marriage is a civil right for all Americans? And if so, how will that affect nonprofit organizations who endeavor to say that that is wrong? and not something that they can use in the mechanism of their hiring process. What will happen? How should we as Christians respond? I mean, seriously, we're not used to this in America, are we? We're a little spoiled in America. The going joke is you want to split a church, try to change the color of the carpet. Where do you go to church? Right across the street from where I used to go to church. That's the going joke. We all know that. Some people can't agree on the color of the grass. But really. What should we do? This morning I want to look at only one thing. We'll only have the time this morning to define persecution. Tonight, we will look at what motivates persecution. Wednesday, we'll look at the Christian response. How should we as Christians respond? Let me be blunt. People are getting their heads cut off. And the only reason that's happening is because they're identifying with the cross. Someone says, well, are they true evangelical Christians? I don't know, but they're willing to die for their identification with that cross. So maybe, maybe not, we're not sure. But even if they're not Christians, they're willing to die for a tradition. Are we willing to live for the truth? So the question this morning is: I really want to encourage you, please come back tonight, hear the testimony of our brother about life in Egypt. Come back on Wednesday for a special time of prayer as we think these things through. But this morning, if you'll get out your handout, we're going to look at what Jesus said about persecution. what it is and how it worked itself out in his life I don't know if this is going to be easy to follow or not. Sometimes it's difficult to know where to take people when it comes to slides. That's why I put this down here so I can literally just point. Here's where we are. Here's where we're going. That's where we are. I've divided today's sermon into three, essentially three kinds of sections. First, we're going to look at what Jesus said persecution is. Then we're going to look at how persecution worked itself out in Jesus' life. Then we're going to be looking at some of these contemporary examples of persecution. But we'll probably follow this way. First, we'll talk about this, then move to that, that, and then we'll come this way and go down. You may want to try to squeeze some notes in on your paper or turn it over. But by the end of today's sermon, you should, sermon slash teaching time, you should have a pretty good idea on a definition of what persecution is. And as we look at these scripture passages, you'll also see hinted at the motivations behind it, which I'll explain further tonight. We know that Jesus came to his own. Open your Bibles now to John chapter 1. John chapter one, verse eleven, speaking of Jesus. Jesus, that's the he, came unto his own, and his own received him not. It's hard to understand how the Jewish Messiah, the Messiah of the Jews, could come, perform so many miracles, and yet be rejected by his own people. But that is the point of this verse. He came to his own things, his own people, his own nation. And it was, in fact, his own nation that rejected him They did persecute him, if you will. And Jesus predicted this, and he divided it into, essentially, we see it in four different ways, working its way out in the life of Jesus. First, let me get you to turn to Matthew 5, and we'll start right up here with what persecution is. It involves insults and threats. Turn back in your Bibles to Matthew 5. On the Sermon on the Mount, which we know that's what this is, that's the context here, Jesus is sitting down with his people and explaining to them what life in the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven is like. He begins not with heaven, but with the characteristics of the people who are in the kingdom on this earth. When you and I are born again, we do not get whisked away in a fiery chariot to live in the perfect bliss of heaven. Instead, we're left here. And so there are certain things that we still do because we're living in a world of sin and sorrow. What are those things? Well, if you look at Matthew 5, verse 3, there is this poverty of spirit to us who live here in this earth right now. Verse 4, we sometimes mourn. But we will receive comfort. We endeavor to be gentle. We have verse 6: an inward hunger and thirst for righteousness. And finally, when he gets to the end of this list of what you know as the Beatitudes, there is this striking and startling speak or talk of persecution. Look at verse 10. He says here, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Verse 11, the word persecute you, that is probably the reference to physical violence. But you'll notice in verse 11 that there is sort of something mentioned twice at the beginning and right after the physical violence, and that is: look at your Bible at verse 11. In the King James it says, Revile you. And at the end of the verse, it says, Say all manner of evil against you falsely. In this passage, Jesus pronounces a blessing on people who are insulted. And threatened. These kinds of things happen and they are falsely said. And you'll notice in verse 11 again that is all manner of evil. It's a term there that speaks of all different kinds of speech that is intended for evil, and it is falsely said in an effort to stir up trouble. In this brief verse, one verse, verse 11, we see threats and insults. Turn to Luke now, quickly. Luke six, twenty-two. Jesus repeats this in the Gospels, and you can look at the parallel passages and see a slightly different Take on it. But here we have the word reproach This is Luke 6 22. Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you and cast out your name as evil. For the Son of Man's sake. There's the same thing said in a slightly different way. Throwing your name out, the idea is of getting it out in front of everyone else Like a ball. You just kind of toss it out and everyone's looking at that ball, wondering what's going to happen. And here's your name and it's being tossed out, and here are all these people looking at it, and they're you're being accused and insulted and threatened. By this kind of thing. This happens. And you know from Matthew 5 that Jesus compares this to the Old Testament and to the prophets of the Old Testament who had this very thing happen to them. You know that Isaiah in the book of Isaiah We often quote the line upon line, precept upon precept, as sort of an axiom of biblical interpretation and biblical study. But did you know that was what the enemies of Isaiah were actually saying to mock him? Line upon line, precept upon precept. In the life of Jeremiah, are you aware that he was constantly being threatened I mean, you had his servant take the role of a message to the king, and the king takes it and says, I'm not going to listen to this, and takes it and throws it in the fire. Jeremiah, of course, we're not at physical violence yet, but he was thrown into a well What about the time when the prophet of God was just smacked before the king because he dared to prophesy against the false prophets? Jesus is teaching us in Matthew 5 that when we are insulted and threatened as they were, we're blessed because we're in the same line. We're in the same the same occupation. I mean, here's one way of thinking about it. There's Jeremiah and Isaiah and Ezekiel. And then there's you. And because of the nature of what they say about you, you are peers with those great prophets. It's hard to understand, but it has more to do with respect. I'd love to eat dinner with Jeremiah. I'd love to call him my friend and my peer. Well, he is, because at those times when we are persecuted. This happened in the life of Jesus. Do you recall the different things people said about him? Look at Mark 3. Mark chapter 3, 20 to 21. There really is no way around just looking, turning a lot in our Bibles this morning. So fasten your seatbelts and we'll just go Go as quickly as we can. Mark 3, 20 to 21. With friends like these who need enemies. And the multitude cometh together again so that they could not so much as eat bread. And when his friends heard of it, his friends heard of his popularity. It was crazy popular. Jesus was really popular. His friends hear about it and they laid hold on him, for they said he is beside himself. Don't listen to him. He's crazy. That's an insult. Turn a few more pages to chapter 15. Thirty to thirty two. This is on the cross Have you ever been kicked when you were down? Have you ever been suffering and had someone come along and give you an extra kick in the ribs? Here's Jesus. He's on the cross. Look at verse 29. This is Mark 15. We'll read it a little earlier at verse 29. And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads and saying, Ah, thou that destroyeth the temple, and buildest it in three days, save yourself and come down from the cross. Can you imagine that tone? Have you ever read that and thought of that tone? Save yourself and come down. And back to Matthew 12, quickly turn back there. Matthew twelve twenty-four to thirty On the cross, they mocked and insulted him. His friends said he was crazy. He was rejected by friends and family. What did the Pharisees say? Well, many things, but here's one. When the Pharisees heard it, this is Matthew 12, 24, they said, This fellow does not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of the devils. So, here's what they said about him. In this passage, his friend says nuts In this passage, his enemies look at him and say he's powerless. And in this passage, the Pharisees look at him and say he's satanic. Insults. They may be not quite threats, but close. Now, the example, the contemporary example I have up there is of ISIS. In fundamental Islam, those who now I want to be careful how I say this. Look, let's be honest. Are there moderate Muslims out there who do not kill people? Yes, they are out there. Okay? They exist. Now that is what I'm saying is based upon Empiricism, not biblicism. I can't take you to a verse, but they do exist However, there are many who, unfortunately, the news media calls what kind of Muslims? Radical, that's one word. I was thinking of one that starts with an F. Fundamental Muslims. Those fundamentalist Muslims. Where have you heard that term before? Those fundamentalist Christians, those conservative wacko Christians. So they so ISIS would definitely be among the fundamentalist Muslims. And if you remember on that video So what were the three options they were given? Convert, pay, or die. Folks, I don't think we can get our brain around this, but if what Brother Andrew says on his website is correct, a hundred thousand Christians, Christians, now are they truly born again? So We don't know, but they identify themselves as Christians. It's for the sake of the cross that they are expelled from Iraq. And they are given that option. Die. I would call that a threat. Pay, convert, or die. The insulting and the mocking that probably goes on in those situations. And I have read, it's hard to read, but it is awful, isn't it? And that is what's happening. Have you ever been mocked for your faith? Have you ever had someone tell you, you're crazy? Like they told the Apostle Paul, much learning has made you. Mad. I mean, have you ever had someone say that? You say, well, this is America. Well, it's true. It's America. I mean, maybe we don't get that much, but well, let me ask this. Does anyone know you're a Christian? Does anyone know you're a Christian, besides the people in this room? And if they do Maybe that's when the persecution starts. I don't know. I'm not trying to be an alarmist this morning. I'm simply trying to define this morning what Christians, what persecution is. Now, I don't want to be a fear-monger. I'm not saying ISIS is under every bush. But this is happening. What is persecution? Persecution is someone who says, I will insult you I will threaten you. You are powerless. You are mad. You are satanic. I want nothing to do with you. That's persecution. What else is persecution? Well, now we're coming down to this physical violence. If you remember back in Matthew 5, verse 11. There's verbal persecution, and then the word persecution there, which is separate from the verbal, which indicates it's probably talking about a physical kind of persecution. Look at Mark chapter 13. And see what Jesus said about this. Jesus predicted the insults and the threats, and Jesus also predicted the physical violence. Mark 13, verse 9. Now, often in these persecution passages, there's a lot of stuff listed out. We're just pulling out the one thing and putting in a category to look at it by itself. Mark thirteen nine Take heed to yourselves, for they shall deliver you up to counsels And in the synagogues ye shall be beaten, and ye shall be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them. And the gospel must first be published among all nations. You'll notice, in the synagogues ye shall be beaten. Turn to John chapter 16. There are other passages we could go to as well. This is not exhaustive. We don't have time to be exhaustive this morning. Here is the prediction of martyrdom. In John 16, verse 2: They shall put you out of the synagogues. Yea, the time cometh that whosoever killeth you Will think that he doeth God service. So they're going to beat you, they're going to possibly kill you. How did this happen in the life of Jesus? Matthew 27. You can imagine by where that is in the book of Matthew, what we're looking at in Matthew 27. The cross is the preeminent example of what the world does to Jesus and his followers. And when I say the world, I don't mean all the little individuals in it, but the world system that is organized against the Lord and against his Christ. Matthew 27, 29 says, and when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head. John 19, and if you you don't have to turn there to this one if you don't want to. It's just a record of what they did to him on the cross. John 19, verse 31. The Jews, therefore, because it was the preparation that the body should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day. Anyway, they besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first and of the others, which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus, they saw he was dead already. So what did they do, verse 34? They thrust a spear into his side, and blood and water came out. I have an example here. This is a woman from Nigeria. Her daughter was abducted by the Boka Haram. Her daughter was one of the schoolgirls that was abducted and carried off into the jungle. Now, recently, some of these girls were recaptured by, not recaptured, rescued by By the president and his forces, but there are still apparently a considerable number of these Schoolgirls out there. Apparently, again, this is a Muslim group, and we're not just beating on Muslims this morning, but this group is looking for what? When they kidnap schoolgirls, what are they looking for? Brides. This is what they do. They marry them off to the Muslim captors, marry them off. Even at a very, very young age. There's a lot of physical violence that goes on when this happens. Here's a mother. Recently we celebrated Mother's Day here at our church. We gave out flowers. Here is one who does not know. And this was, I'll have to look at the date on this, but this was produced on Mother's Day. Okay, this was on a blog, an open doors website. She doesn't know where her daughter is. Physical violence, kidnapping. This is people who are looking at Christians and saying, I will hurt you. The next one is a little more difficult, and probably some of us here, when I say difficult, I say difficult to understand, perhaps. Have you ever had someone tell you, I will disown you? I don't want to have anything to do with you because you are a Christian and they're a member of your family, someone close to you, a blood relative. The third thing that Jesus taught about persecution was that it would involve family division. Look at Luke 21. Luke twenty one verse sixteen And ye shall be portrayed be tri I'm sorry betrayed both by parents And brethren, and kingsfolks, and friends, and some of you shall they cause to be put to death, and you shall be hated for all men for my name's sake. And ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren and kingsfolk and friends. Mark 13, verse 12. Now the brother shall betray the brother to death. And the father, the son, and children shall rise up against their parents and shall cause them to be put to death. I wish I had a happier message for you this morning. But this is what Jesus taught He even described it this way. Don't think that the Son of Man came to bring peace. I came with a sword. Because Father will betray son, and so on. And he was the context there is talking about family. I will disown you. Did that happen in Jesus' life? Well, look at John chapter 7, verse 5. So it just says simply, I'll just read the one verse. Neither did his brethren believe in him. Not even his own brothers believed in him. Disowned by family, maybe killed. In the movie God's Not Dead, one of the stories, the vignettes they had as part of that movie Was the story of a Muslim family where the daughter became a Christian. And during the course of the movie, this convert from Islam to Christianity was cast From her home, penniless and destitute, because the father found out that the daughter had become a Christian. That is not not an exaggeration. Is this church equipped That if someone became a Christian out of a Muslim background and they became destitute, would this church even know what to do if that kind of an individual came knocking on our door? That is so outside my comfort zone as your pastor I have to really think. What would we do? In the movie God's Not Dead, that's exactly what happened. That poor woman went to a Christian church. She was a Christian. Now she had a chance to go to a Christian church And the pastor there helped her. Folks, I don't know if you've heard of in the last two years the story of one young woman in America. Who had a death sentence pronounced on her by her Muslim family because she became a Christian? This is happening in this country. What will we do about it? Jesus predicted it would happen. And for our this next point, we sort of leave the realm of Of family division, and we move into the legal accusations that are made. I was going to show you this. When it comes to physical violence, that is an actual picture of the Ethiopian Christians being led away by ISIS. And they were killed after this picture was taken, all of those. The poor folks in orange. How in the world that picture was taken, I don't know. It's framed up really nice Almost like an associated press guy took that picture. Physical violence against those who name the name of Christ or associate with Christ. Legal accusations are very common. If you turn to Matthew 10, this is what Jesus was accused of. And the arguments that they made had to do with taxes. That's why I am very, very, very serious that I do not want anyone coming to me and saying, I'm arresting you because you don't pay your taxes. Because that's what they accused of Jesus of, and they accused him of being a king, insubordination, rebellion. And that kind of thing. That's why we as a church need to be do our best to pay our taxes, to be above board personally and as an institution, as a local church. Matthew 10, verses 16 to 18 It says, Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore wise as serpents and harmless as doves. As your pastor, I am trying to be wise. Wise. In the Old Testament, there were the sons of Issachar and they understood the times. That's good. But then it goes on to say they knew what to do. Folks, as Christians, we've got to raise ourselves out of my job as a Christian is to complain about government. And they'll just kind of watch this stuff and go, ooh, that's horrible. And then do nothing It's our job to understand the times and to know what to do. That's why we did that government statement. Folks, I read that statement to you twice for a reason. I led our church counsel in developing that statement for times like this. You would be surprised how much planning I actually do. I continue to work a 10-year plan for our church. This is so serious. I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore wise as serpents and harmless as doves. But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues. You shall be brought before governors and kings. For my sake. That's what I want. I do not want to be brought before governors and kings because I broke a law. I want to be brought for Christ's sake if that ever happens, and God forbid I don't want that to happen. For a testimony against them and the Gentiles. And you look a little further on, boy, I didn't write in all my text there. I just put text. Texts. Nice. You know that when Jesus was accused by the Pharisees Of they wanted to be able to accuse him for not paying taxes. And what did they do? Well, they said, you know, what do you think of Caesar? And what did Jesus get out? He got out a coin and said, Whose inscription is this? And then he made the famous statement: render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And when he was right in front of his accusers and Pilate, they accused him of sedition and rebellion against Caesar and of trying to get the people not to pay their taxes. And Pilate turns to him and says, Do you hear what your accusers are saying? And Jesus was silent because it was God's plan to send him to the cross. But that's what they accused him of. Oh, whoops, here it is right. Okay, go to um Matthew fifth Matthew 22. I have my examples on here, but they're in the next column, right here. Matthew 22, 15 to 22. Just so you can see it, so I'm not making it up. So here's the passage where the Pharisees wanted to accuse him and tangle him in his talk. And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art a teacher. Thou art true. This is Matthew 22, verse 16. Master, we know that thou art true and teachest the way of God in truth. Neither carest thou for any man, for thou regardest not the person of men. They're setting up the question to try to play on his The fact that he is not a prejudiced individual or a preferential individual. Tell us therefore, what thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar or no? So that is the that is what that what they're trying to accuse him of and then trap him by and then turn to Luke 23. Look at it with your own eyes. Luke 23, 1-7. And the whole multitude of them arose and led him unto Pilate. And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ, the King. There it is, folks. That's what they accused Christ of doing. They accused him of not paying his taxes and leading a rebellion. And if they ever accuse Faith Bible Church of that, we need to be so above board that it's ridiculous. That's what Peter writes about: that by doing good, we can put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. They make these stupid accusations, and we know in our hearts that they are not true. I have down here as an example of this the Coffee H church. That's the Coffee House Church. How many of you heard about this? church that was in a town and they were they had a coffee house and they also started meeting in that coffee house on Sunday mornings. Anybody hear of that? And the and the mayor of the town Okay, nobody's heard of this? I had a hard time finding it on the web, so I don't know what's going on there. But there was a church and they had a coffee house that they had a business license for. And everything was above board. But evidently one of the leaders of that town in government there did not like their Christian message. So he went poking around. And he said you better never have a church service in here as well. And so, okay, I'm going to give you my interpretation of the events. Dig in this, find out, make sure I'm accurate here. But my understanding is that they were not required to have a special license to meet there. They met there and the church and the city actually sent a spy into their service. To be in the church service and watch what's going on. And then this spy reported back to the city council and tried to get them in trouble. Now, look. Here's the question. Was that just diligent enforcement of rules? Or Was that a town and people trying to use the legal system against The church. I would say this, it's suspicious because the one who was fomenting and getting all upset about it happened to be a very, very outspoken No, homosexual activist who hated the message of the church. Acu legal accusations. Where else did this happen? Well When we leave the life of Jesus and go into the life of Paul in the book of Acts, it was the Jews who had Paul arrested and put before the Romans. And they wanted him dead. And Paul was able to appeal all the way through the Roman court system to Caesar He used the legal system on his behalf, but it was the legal system that was used. Do you ever think that people who hate the message of Christ use their country's legal system? To persecute Christians, whether they're in Nigeria, North Korea. China, India. Tonight if you come you'll hear Mayor talk about his dad and his life in in Egypt and how they couldn't get jobs there. And I understand in some places in India it's very difficult if you are a Christian to get a good job. And accusations can be made as well. So anyway, here's what we have. Here are the methods. Here is what is persecution. Turn your paper over. This is really simple. Here's what you can do. Here's the definition for persecution. Not the why, not the motivation. That's tonight. Here's the what. Persecution can sometimes be the result. Of family division, or I should say this: persecution divides families, can sometimes involve legal accusations, false legal accusations. It often frequently involves insults and threats and physical violence This is persecution in a nutshell. Again, not the why, not the motivation, that's tonight, and not the response, but this is what's happening. Here's what I'm doing this morning. I'm raising the red flag. I'm raising the red flag for this church. If you've ever gotten out of your comfort zone, now's the time to do it. Could it be that God is not sending that Muslim woman who became a Christian to our door because we really don't know what to do? Are we so used to having church? You know, I think it was great that the choir sang up there. That was different. But they were closer. I mean, we had that. Is that okay? Or or is it really, really important that everything we do, everything, every single Sunday, is always the same? Or is there something in us that calls to the higher priorities? People are dying. Our faith, look, I'm just being blunt. Our faith is under attack in the United States. States of America. It is. I'm coming out of the closet on this. Isn't that weird to say it that way? I'm a Christian and our faith is under attack in our own country. What will we do about it? What will you do about it? Kids, this is your America. This is what you're growing up in. Your children will have to face this in a way that my generation, even at the age of 43, does not have to face it. That leads me then to this. Jesus predicted it It's not a surprise. He told us this would happen. We don't need to panic. Come tonight, come Wednesday, find out more. Let's close in prayer.