Oh good morning. Every time this is my the third time I've gotten the opportunity to preach uh in the last year, every time I get to stand up in front of all of you, it's just another opportunity for me to me to say thank you, Faith Bible Church, for being so welcoming to me the last year. Um I've been so encouraged both by the words you've said to me and by observing your example. So it's just another opportunity. for me to say thank you. There's also a couple of you who are here who are here because I told you I was preaching and you wanted to come out either to encourage me or to heckle me. I'm not sure which, but I'm really glad you're here. I appreciate all of you. If you're visiting with us, my name is David Bush. I get to serve here as the church intern, so I'm not the usual preacher. That's Pastor Cho, but he is sick this week. Well, when Pastor asked me to preach today, he told me I could pick anything I wanted, and so I wanted to preach to you this morning from John 20 on the resurrection. In my own Christian life, understanding more how the resurrection impacts everything we do has just been something that's infused my life with joy and meaning and given my Christian experience such a bright and wonderful uh type of experience. So I would love to share that with you this morning. Before we turn to John 20 together, why don't we go to the Lord in a word of prayer? Father, We're about to consider together the resurrection of your son from the dead. This alongside his life, death, and ascension for us. Is the most important event that has ever taken place. We are coming together to consider your word, so we come to you with hearts of worship. As we seek to rejoice and consider your victory over sin, fear, death, selfishness, and hell We thank you that you did this for us because of your great love. And so as we consider your word, We give you glory. We ask that I ask Lord anything I say will be clear and will be accurate and that uh as we go home today We will be rejoicing in your resurrection, having it transform our perspective and our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I wonder what you would consider the Christian secret to overcoming fear, overcoming doubt, overcoming sorrow, and overcoming self-absorption. Well, I've already kind of left the metaphorical cat out of the metaphorical bag, but I believe the answer to that question is the resurrection of Jesus. That's the secret. So the book of John is a favorite gospel for many of you. It starts off, John 1:1, with this declaration: Jesus is the true God, through whom the world was created. And he came from heaven into the world he created to rescue and redeem his creation. The book of John is very direct in its communication. It's filled with seven famous I am statements where Jesus is declaring his identity to the world. Jesus says, I am God, I am the one you need for salvation. for satisfaction, for joy now and forever. That's what he told his followers. That's what he tells us this morning. And John 20, verse 31, gives us the purpose for why he wrote the book. John says, I wrote the book for this reason. These are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing you may have life in his name. That is the verse that comes at the end of the chapter on the resurrection, which we'll study together. So let us consider where Mary Magdalene and the rest of the disciples are at the end of chapter 19. Well, this is where they are. They've just watched the one they loved, who they hoped was the Messiah, be crucified. Meaning they watched him die in the most shameful and painful way imaginable. So they are now broken, confused, afraid, doubting, and aimless. in their lives. What are they going to do? Have they wasted the last three years of their lives? And it is to these hurting people that the events of Easter morning come. So let's begin in John 20 and verse 1 from the perspective of Mary Magdalene. On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early, while it was still dark. and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved. That's John's way of referring to himself. So Mary Magdalene seized The stone oil away, runs to Peter and John, and says to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So the other gospels clue us in that Mary Magdalene wasn't there by herself, but as it says here, we do not know where they have laid him. So upon seeing the stone rolled away, she runs, she tells Peter and John. For context, Mary Magdalene, the book of Luke records, Jesus cast seven demons out of her. So Mary Magdalene is one, her life was totally ruined until she met Jesus. Jesus had rescued her from her demons. She had found new life and joy following this man, believing his miracles. Hoping he was the Messiah who was promised. But just a few days ago, she had seen him on the cross. She had seen Roman soldiers kill the one she loved. And when she sees that the the stone is rolled away, her instant suspicion is it's just getting worse and worse. Someone now has stolen the body. I can't even honor it in the way I ought to be able to honor the body of Jesus. So into the story come Peter and John, and they go to the tomb to investigate. Verse 3. Peter therefore went out, and the other disciple, and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying there. Yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen clothes lying there, the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciple, who came to the tomb first, went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. So the question is when the disciples get there, when Peter gets there, when John gets there, will they find that someone has stolen the body of Jesus? No. Why do we know this? Why does it say that John believes simply by seeing the linen cloth lying there? Well, this verse is very clear. The cloths are lying there in an orderly fashion. My mom is here. I think this was her favorite verse in the book of John when I was a kid. Because she would always say, Look, Jesus made his bet. Well, I don't think that's quite the main point of this passage, Mom. Unfortunately, I didn't study it when I was ten years old, so I couldn't have told you that. But why would they be lying in order if someone stole the body? If someone had stolen the body, there would be two options. One, there would be no clothes there, because it would have taken the whole body and ran out. There would be nothing there. Option two would be they would have ripped the cloth off, they would have been lying all over the place in chaos. What is not an option is that they would be sitting there in an orderly fashion. With the handkerchief that was around his head folded carefully up. So after Jesus rose from the dead, he left the clues behind for his disciples to find this bit of evidence that he had Risen from the dead. That's why it says that John in verse 8, when he came to the tomb, saw and believed. John saw the evidence, and he started to realize Jesus' death wasn't pointless. The last three years weren't pointless. The evidence is true. Maybe Jesus is alive. Well, maybe you are the type of person who doesn't really need evidence. When you hear that Jesus is God, The Son of God, who died for you and rose from the dead, and if you trust him, you will be saved, you say, the Bible says it, I believe it, that settles it. And we admire people like you for your great faith. But maybe you're not quite that way. Maybe you're like me and you're more like Peter and you're more like John. And you say, how can I be sure? I want to see some evidence. Let me zoom out and give you some more evidence just beyond the testimony of John and Peter and the folded grave clothes. Initially, I was planning to Do quite a bit of presentation on apologetics to the resurrection of Christ. But given the long passage, I just do not have time to do that. So let me just focus on two elements to strengthen your faith. First of all, I'll assume this, which is assumed by virtually all historians. Jesus really died. Not only did he really die, he was really buried. Secondly, or actually firstly, Jesus made multiple appearances. to multiple people in multiple situations. Multiple people, multiple places, multiple times, had appeared had what they believed were encounters with the risen Jesus. We'll observe later that Mary even touched Jesus. Other gospels record Jesus eating food. This isn't a one-off man saying, I think I had a vision last night. Jesus is alive. I had a vision. He must still be alive. This is tons of people in tons of places saying, I saw Jesus. One or two people hallucinate. Large groups of people do not hallucinate on multiple times in multiple places. This is what the Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, starting in verse 3. I delivered to you, first of all, that which I also received. Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, that he was seen by Cephas, which is Peter, and then by the twelve. And after that, he was seen by over five hundred brethren, five hundred, at once. Of whom the greater part remain to the present, but some have fallen asleep. So Paul says five hundred people, but then he says, of whom the greater part they're still alive. Most of the five hundred are still alive when I'm writing you this. Why does Paul say that? We just switched out the back of the auditorium here. It used to have pews in it, it used to have tile. Now we have great-looking wood floor. What if I said to someone in 10 years, yeah, it used to have tile, kind of white tile like this? They might say, I don't okay, maybe I'm not sure. What if I said, actually, when that happened, we had about 50 members in the church. Most of whom are still here right now. Why would I say that? I would say it because I'm saying, don't take my word for it. Go ask them. They're still alive. You can find them. You can talk to them. Paul says, Jesus really rose from the dead, hundreds of people saw him, I'm bringing the receipts. Secondly, his followers were so confident that he had risen from the dead, they suffered for it, and many of them died for this belief. So they weren't lying. Now you know people lie. But people lie why? For personal advancement. Maybe they lie for financial gain, to save faith socially, to make themselves feel good I've never met someone who died so that they could spend their life suffering and end their life dead as a martyr. I've never met anyone who lied for that purpose. But that is what happened to many of Jesus' early followers. If you're looking for further encouragement for your faith, well let me encourage you to search on YouTube or on the internet for evidence for the resurrection of Jesus. There's much more we could go into. So this is very good news for all of us who are prone to doubt or to lose confidence because maybe I don't feel close to God today. I haven't felt the presence of the Lord in my scripture reading. I don't feel forgiven. This is really good news for you because our faith, well, it's not based on our feelings. It's based on historical events. Unfortunately, it's bad news for the people in our culture who would say something like this. Have you ever had this experience you share the gospel with someone and what you hear is not That's terrible. How dare you tell me that? What you hear is probably this. Oh, thanks for telling me. I'm so glad. I'm so glad that works for you. But me, I it does I don't need it. I found something else that works for me. You have your religion, I have mine, it doesn't matter. Well, because Christianity is based on historic events, you cannot leave it up to your subjective feelings and what works for you Jesus didn't only rise from the dead for the world of people for whom it works. He rose from the dead in the actual world for everyone. While this is very encouraging for us, let's remember: intellectual assent is not enough to save you. You must place your confidence in this Jesus. who died for you, rose from the dead, and is alive today. Merely saying, oh yeah, it probably happened is not enough. Secondly, let's move back to Mary. Not only the resurrection turns our doubt to faith as it did in the case of John and Peter. But let's consider Mary. Well, she's back. Verse 11 says, Mary stood outside the tomb weeping. As she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. So for Mary, it's just going from bad to worse to worse First Jesus is dead, then she can't find him. Now these people are asking her all these questions about it. It's just insult to injury for Mary. Verse 14. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and she did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir If you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. So now there's this guy, and maybe it's the gardener. Mary doesn't know it's Jesus. Maybe it's the gardener. She says, if you know where the body is, if you moved it, if you saw someone else steal it, can you tell me so I can go and take care of it, please? Jesus said to her, Mary. And she turned and said to him, Rabboni, or in other words, teacher. Suddenly her eyes are open and she believes. Suddenly, when Jesus says her name, she understands it's him. And she's overjoyed. In fact, she's so happy. In verse 17, Jesus has to say, let go of me. She's so happy she grabs onto him. You see, she realizes not only is the one she loves still alive, or alive from the dead, but all his promises are true. All the miracles are real. The message of hope, abundant and eternal life, it's all true. In fact, the resurrection means the death was for a reason. That means sin and death are now conquered The worst day of Mary's life has just become the best day of her life. Her eyes are open. Now she understands what reality is all about. And she's overjoyed This is an important point. Because oftentimes we think if I focus on the resurrection, it's like I close my eyes to the world around me. Because I'll just think about heaven. I won't pay much attention to earth. After all, I'm going to rise from the dead. But it's actually the opposite that happens when we believe in the resurrection. Suddenly our eyes are open to what's going on around us. We actually see the world with sin and death and decay. Not as things ought to be, but as things should not be, as they were not created to be, and as they will not always be. Jesus' resurrection means that his ways will last forever. That's why John says in another book he wrote, he who does the will of the Father abides forever. Because the real lasting reality is God's kingdom, one of joy and righteousness and peace. Sin, death, destruction, it's a blip In the grand scheme of reality, in the grand timeline. The bad part is the short part. In fact, Jesus is risen from the dead, which means for those of us who follow Christ, This new kingdom has already started because it's alive in us. And this is very good news. So this week I went out with some friends to play soccer. If you know me well, you know I really like playing soccer. And so it's a it's out near um Liberty Town, it's about an hour away. So I drive out there. It's hot, about an hour. I'm looking forward to some really good soccer. And I get there, there's like, there might have been ten of us there. Usually there's like two twenty thirty. So the quality of play was not good. We played for like forty minutes before people left. Usually we play for like an hour and a half So I look forward to this every week. So you can imagine this is a bit of a bummer, this is a bit of a disappointment. And you know what? The resurrection is great news because it means, oh, wait a second. I'll have eternity to play soccer and everyone will be there. And they'll never end early. Okay? And maybe you have something like this. You have the the grade comes in and it was a C instead of an N. The project at work did not go well when you thought you had put work into it. Or you've been passed over for a promotion. Perhaps the injury or the illness is taking longer to recover from than you thought. And for this, a quick two minutes thinking about the resurrection will probably flip your mood right around. But the issue is, some of you in this room are suffering a lot worse than that. Some of you are suffering today in a way that a quick think about the resurrection is not going to flip your mood around. See, the Bible is not scared of our deep and untidy emotions. When Jesus learned his friend Lazarus had died earlier in the book at his tomb, he cries. The book of Psalms is full of crying and pain and laments. The Bible later tells us: weep with those who weep and rejoice with those who rejoice. The unfortunate reality is that some of your experience has been Christians who rejoice with you and rejoice, and when you weep. They say, knock it off. Stop weeping. Start rejoicing. Don't you believe in God? Don't you trust God's plan? This is not The biblical way to handle sorrow, even in light of something great like the resurrection. Will you turn back with me to John chapter 16, verse 20? This is actually the passage where Jesus is predicting his ascension back to the Father. This is what Jesus says starting in verse 20. I'll read through verse 22. Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament. But the world will rejoice, and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her hour has come. But as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. Therefore, You now have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you. So when I say the resurrection means your sorrow turns into joy, I do not mean your sorrow ends today. Actually, I think being a Christian opens us up to experience more sorrow because we can look it right in the face. We can say, I know the resurrection is here and is coming. So I can deal with it. I don't have to distract myself in ways that are unhealthy. So the resurrection doesn't mean the end of your sorrow. Many of you are in a situation like Mary before she saw Jesus. Weeping, confused, heartbroken. Here's what the resurrection means for you. God is with you. God is for you. Because Jesus died for your sins, that means God has no more anger left for you. All He has for you is love. God understands. Some of your pain, you cannot say you I could not say I understand what you're going through. I couldn't say it. Maybe no one else in this room could say, I know what you're going through. But God can say, I know what you're going through. Jesus suffered as we suffer. In fact, on the cross he suffered more than any of us have ever or will ever suffer. That I promise you. So God understands and cares deeply. The promise is your sorrow will eventually turn to joy Consider back in chapter twenty. Jesus knew just the right moment to reveal himself to Mary. When Mary showed up, he didn't jump out and say, look who it is. I'm back. It's Jesus. He waited. He let her continue in her continuation. To put Mary in for her emotions to be in the right spot for him. Jesus understands. I don't know why he did it this way. I don't know why he's doing it this way in your life. But Jesus is not confused. He's waiting for his right moment to show himself. So this is the promise from John, from Jesus, to you today. You will sorrow, but if you have Christ, you will see him again Your heart will rejoice. No one will take away your joy. So when joy comes to you in the end, it will not be taken away It cannot be taken away. The resurrection promises that that reality has broken into life now. And that the final reality is a joy that no one can take away. Now Mary has been comforted and she sent back actually to tell the apostles. But the apostles aren't quite there in their faith, so let's look at our final point. The resurrection turns our fear into mission. Let's skip ahead to verse 19. In chapter 20. The same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews. Jesus came and stood in the midst of them. So the disciples are back in their room. The doors are locked. And this makes sense from a human perspective. Jesus is just being killed by the soldiers. Who's next on the hit list? Well, it could be the disciples. So the doors are locked. You would do the same thing. This makes perfect sense from a human perspective, but not from a resurrection-centered worldview. Jesus has come to give them the true nature of reality, the nature based on his resurrection. So in he comes, and this is what he has to say. End of verse 19. Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side, and then in the understatement of the year, the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them again, peace to you. So why does he why does he say peace? And why does he show his scars? Well the first reason to show the scars is obvious. He wants to show it's really me. You saw me killed. Here are my scars. It's really me back from the dead. But why can't he say peace? And why did he have the scars in the first place? The reason is that there wasn't peace. There wasn't peace between God and man. The problem wasn't with God, but humanity has rebelled and turned away from God. Humanity has gone away from God in unbelief and selfishness and sin. and evil. And this required Jesus to come down from heaven, to live perfectly on earth, and to die as a substitute for our sins. Jesus was punished, so we don't have to be. And in so doing, we have had peace made available to us with God. That's why he has scars, because that was the only way to bring us peace. But he does say peace. So to his disciples who believe in him, there is peace with God. And to you, if you will come to Jesus Christ, repent from your sins, trust that He is all you need to save you. He will rescue you from your sins. He will give you a relationship with God. And we can say to you, peace to you. Let's move on. But this is a good illustration. They locked the door because they were afraid. And we do the same thing. We're afraid, we don't understand the reality of the erection. We're afraid of other people, what they'll think of us, so we gossip. We're afraid that we won't have enough, so we're not generous with our money like we should be. We're scared to fail. We're prideful, so we don't attempt great things for God like we know we ought to. But when we realize that God loves us, that Jesus has died for us and risen from the dead, The fear is removed and we're able to live on the mission that God wants us to live. Because by his death and resurrection, the fear is taken away. The last three verses we'll look at are 21 through 23, and we'll look quickly. Jesus said to them again, Peace to you. As the Father has sent me, I also send you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained. Before we move to anything else, I want you to take note. The entire Godhead, the one God, the Holy Trinity, is invested in your salvation and your sanctification. Jesus says, the Father sent me the Son, I send you, you need the Holy Spirit. So he gives them the Holy Spirit. So the the Trinity, the Holy Trinity, is behind your Christian life. Verse 23 raises an interesting question. Many of our Catholic and Orthodox friends have taken this verse. As a backup for views of Catholic and Orthodox confession and penance. Well, we do not have time for me to go into varying interpretations of that from the text or from church history. So I just want to do something very quickly. I want to ask this question. Did the apostles interpret this verse as saying, I have the authority to say you're forgiven and you're not without the gospel? Is that what they thought? Well, I think the answer to that is obviously no. So, how did the apostles receive this authority that they can forgive and not forgive? Let's look at a few verses. Acts 13, 38, 39. Therefore, let it be known to you, brethren, that through this man, Jesus, is preached to you the forgiveness of sins. So through Jesus, the forgiveness is sins. So the apostles take it and they say take this uh This ability to forgive sins and they go out and say, believe in Jesus and be forgiven. Two more verses quickly. Acts ten forty-three. To him, Jesus, all the prophets bear witness that through his name everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins. So again, the apostles, their message is Our authority to forgive sins means if you believe, your sins will be forgiven. The message of Ephesians 1:7 is the exact same. I would have loved to have had time to go into that in more in depth. If you have Catholic or Orthodox friends, it's worth exploring this verse and its implications. But let's look at a big picture view and take these three verses as a unit as we close. Jesus makes this amazing statement: As the Father has sent me, I am sending you a sending. What does it mean that we are sent by Jesus like the Father sent Jesus? Well, let me take just a few implications. First of all, we are confident of God's protection and plan for us, just like Jesus was confident. See, Jesus did not die before the appointed time. When he died, he was resurrected. Brother or sister, you will not be hurt before the appointed time by God. And if you have Christ, you will be resurrected. God is protecting you. Secondly, we should be unsurprised by suffering. If Jesus suffered, we will not escape suffering as we live for Him. Thirdly, just as the Father sent Jesus into the world, so God has sent you into specific places in your lives. You have been sent uniquely into your family, into your friends, into your place of work. You have been sent there just as Jesus was sent into the world, to live as Jesus lived and to spread Jesus' message. To spread the gospel. Fourth, the necessity of relationship dynamics with God You see, the power to follow God and bear fruit does not happen without abiding in Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit. That's why Jesus said in verse 22, I'm sending you out, but you must have the Holy Spirit. If you try to accomplish it in your your own power, you will get nothing but frustration and self-glorification. Two more, the necessity of community. Jesus does not go to all the disciples individually and say, I send you, I send you, I send you. He says, I send y'all. So to us, Faith Bible Church, Jesus says, I send you, which means what? It means I need you, you need me, we need each other for encouragement and help as we fulfill Jesus' mission together. Lastly, on this point, this means intentional living. If you're a Christian, your life can no longer be about you and your agenda. It has to be about God and his agenda. Jesus did not come into the world thinking, how can I build my carpentry career? How can I become the best carpenter in Nazareth? And have a great uh house in Nazareth as a white picket fence. Jesus was on mission from the Father, and your life may look like a great carpentry career, and it may look like a nice house with a white picket fence. In uh Elkridge, but it must first look like doing all you do to the glory of God with the desire to declare forgiveness of sins to all who will believe in Jesus. So, friends, as we conclude, because the resurrection is true, your doubt is turned to faith, your sorrow is turned to joy, your fear is turned to the Mission of God and your future is absurdly bright. Let's wrap up four quick rapid fire concluding applications. First of all, number one, have confidence that the resurrection of Jesus is a historical fact, and therefore, as Paul says, your faith is not in vain. Because it is based on fact. Second, rejoice that because Jesus is risen from the dead, our joy can never ultimately be taken away Away for all of eternity. Your joy will not be taken away from you if you believe in Christ. Thirdly, comfort others as the risen Christ comforts us. Comfort others with care, with wisdom, with your presence, and with your Patience. And finally, live courageously, pursuing the mission that Jesus gave to his church. In just a second, Mr. Bailey will come up and lead our last song. And this is what it says on the third verse: His glories now we sing, who died and rose on high. Who died eternal life to bring and lives that death may die. Friends, Jesus is alive today. Because of that, you can be alive forever with him. Let's go to the word the Lord, worship him, and pray before our last sin. Jesus, we give you praise and glory because death has been destroyed. It's been destroyed because you defeated it. We thank you that your great love for us drove you to the cross. Your justice, Father, is satisfied. Our lives have been given new purpose and meaning. But Lord, we must follow you as you commanded. So we ask for strength from the Holy Spirit to live out the mission that you have given to your church. Give us hearts that focus on the needs of others, not the needs of ourselves, and give us great love for you and each other. Because we realize that the resurrection means eternal reality is good, good news. And we can experience that today. We love you, Jesus. We praise you for all you have done. In your name we have to be able to do that. We pray, amen.