Alright, so uh I have some questions for you to ask each other after service. Instead of asking how was your week, ask how's your weekend going? Instead of what do you do for work? Ask what do you do for rest? It's possible that our weekend and rest are more revealing than our weekdays and work. So how do you spend your free time resting? Do you work out at the gym? I mean, take a walk in the park, read a book on the couch. Do you turn on the TV, spend hours binge watching shows? Do you check social media? Way more than you like to admit, right? There's a book on my docket by Jonathan Haidt named The Anxious Generation. It's about how unchecked and unlimited access to smartphones and social media has caused a great mental health crisis among the youth in the last fifteen years or so. I believe it. You know, lives have been ruined by lack of self-control and lack of parental controls. That's no way to rest. And everyone is struggling with rest. Maybe because we got one less hour of sleep. This is a bad weekend of rest. I don't know. But we need guidance. There must be a better way. If rest is so important, surely the Bible has something to say about it, and as a matter of fact, it does. You don't have to go far to see it. Rest is God's idea. We learned that even God rested. And because he rested, we learned that life's not all about work. Okay? Let's turn now to Genesis 2, 1 to 3, and learn about that. So Genesis 2, 1-3. Shouldn't take you long to find it in your Bible Thus the heavens and the earth, and all the host of them, were finished, and on the seventh day God ended his work which he had done And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. We finally close chapter one, begin chapter two today. And before you know we go here, I want to make two preliminary remarks, both having to do with numbers. First, there's a comment on the chapter and verse markers. Day seven is the proper conclusion to the creation So if I had my way, I would have had chapter 2, 1-2-3, verses 1 to 3 as part of chapter 1. I can still pretend that the chapter division is not there and pretend verses 1 to 3. in chapter two are part of chapter one, call it thirty-two to thirty-four. It's not like these numbers are inspired and part of the original manuscripts. And Lord willing, next time I'll explain why chapter 2, verse 4 is a better place to begin a new section of Genesis. Okay, so that's a quibble, right? On to a more difficult conversation Okay. My second preliminary remark has to do with the number of hours in day seven. I mentioned earlier in the series that throughout the Old Testament, every time there's an ordinal number attached to the word day, we're speaking of literal 24 hours. So, yes, the day of the Lord, the day of God's judgment. Vengeance lasts longer than 24 hours, but when you see the modifier first, second, third, fourth, fifth, attached today, it's consistently 24 hours. So even without the reference to evening and morning, it's the same here with the seventh day. So what's the problem? Well, some believe that the seventh day should not be confined to 24 hours. And it's not just atheists and evolutionists saying that, a certain kind of creationists called progressive creationists. Say that. They're not just, so we'll talk about that in a minute, but they're not as conservative as biblical creationists like Todd Beale. They're not as liberal as theistic evolutionists. like William Lane Craig. Progressive creationists like Hugh Ross are somewhere between these two. Okay, so I mean I respect the man but I disagree with this interpretation. Uh they assert, like Hugh Ross, that Earth is billions of years old, right? But they reject the theory of macroevolution. So we agree with them that macroevolution is not right, but we disagree with progressive creationists that the earth is billions of years old I don't have time to unpack all of their beliefs, but progressive creationists depend on a particular reading of Hebrews 4, specifically verse 4 in Hebrews 4, which cites Genesis 2. 2. In context, the writer speaks of a rest for God's people, which extends beyond 24 hours. Progressive creationists would say that in parallel, the seventh day of God's rest also extends beyond 24 hours. And if the seventh day is not 24 hours, then neither are the previous six days. That's just a very quick summary of what they think. There are many reasons to push back against this. uh progressive creationism view. I'll just mention three. They're all listed there. The faulty reading of Hebrews 4 is one issue. Just because there's a parallel between the Sabbath rest and the eternal rest. Doesn't mean they need to be parallel in every detail. The overlap they share has to do with the quality of rest, not the quantity of time. More on this later. I'll get back to Hebrews 4 later. Secondly, back to the Old Testament, it's clear elsewhere, the seventh day lasts 24 hours. Already mentioned the orno numbers, but we don't have to guess what's meant here in Genesis because we can just turn to the next book of the Bible, Exodus. Let Scripture interpret Scripture. When the Lord instituted the fourth of the Ten Commandments, here's what he said. He basically recounts today's passage in Exodus. 28 to 11. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work. You nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord has Lord made the heavens and the earth The sea and all that is in them and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Now I'll talk more about this application of this command later, but for now, see How Exodus 28 to 11 presents a plain reading of Genesis 2, 1 to 3. The creation weeks, that's the pattern for the later weeks for Israel The paradigm is in place. Israel rests 24 hours because God rested 24 hours at the end of that week. Thirdly, if seventh day is still going on beyond 24 hours, then God should not be engaged in any more creative activity. Yet Psalm 102, verse 18, says, This will be written for the generation to come that a people yet to be created may praise the Lord. Yes, that word created is Barah, the word we f find in Genesis 1. Genesis 2. 3. So each time life is formed in the womb, every time an image bearer is fearfully and made, wonderfully made, the Lord is acting as creator again. God's still doing the work of creating more of us through procreation. And not only is Creator Elohim working through this natural process, he supernaturally makes those in Christ new creatures. Creation. More on this later when we talk about the gospel. So it makes sense that the seventh day of creation weeks now over, God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit Spirit would resume their creative work as new week begins. Okay, that's probably more than you'd like to know about progressive creationism, right? It goes to show that not every idea with the modifier progressive attached to it is good. In sum, day seven of Genesis 2, 1 to 3 closes the week. Day 7 is closer in relation to days 1 to 6 described in Genesis 1. Also, each day spans 24 hours. These preliminary remarks clear the ground for a closer look at today's passage. While I enjoy discussions on origins and debates between creationism and evolution, I do want our study here to be theological. That is focused on God, who He is. And what he does. And a simple way to do that is with Genesis 2, 1, 2, 3, is this. Just think grammatically. Locate God as the subject. Then locate the verbs, the actions of God. You trace the subject and the birth. And you get the following. Elohim ended his work in six days. That's the focus of verse one to the first half of two. I'll call it two A. He ceased from his work on the seventh day, that's the focus of second half of verse 2. I'll call it 2B. He blessed and sanctified the seventh day, that's the focus of verse 3. And the verbs build on each other like links of a chain. Okay? Because God finished his work in six days, he rested on the seventh day. Because God rested on the seventh day, he consecrated it as Sabbath. So with that in mind, we have three parts to the sermon and three corresponding lessons based on them. Now, what should I call these lessons? You've heard of weekend getaways. I have here weekend takeaways. Takeaways as in lessons from day seven. First, God brings all of his work to completion. That's verses 1 to 2a. Secondly, God rests from his work with satisfaction. That's 2B. Thirdly, God hallows a day of rest from work for imitation. That's verse 3. So here's the first weekend takeaway: God brings all of his work to completion. Let me reread Genesis two, one, and then verse two, first part of two. Thus the heavens and the earth, and all the host of them were finished, and on the seventh day God ended his work which he had done. Here Moses takes the same word for word finished, kalak in the passive and uses in the active In verse 2, ended. On the seventh day, God ended. God ended his work because he finished his work. Pretty simple. And as simple as that sounds, let's not take such truths for granted. Is it one of the most frustrating parts of human experience that our work has never done? In Ecclesiastes, Solomon, a man who had everything, laments that all is vanity, labor is unprofitable. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. And after all that time spent and energy expanded, he concludes, there's nothing new under the sun Evidently, a king's work is never done. Even if we're not royalty, we can still relate to this frustration A pastor's job is never done. I read this week how John Chrysostom, celebrated for his eloquence, Christophem means golden-moutted, right? Great speaker. He complained about the never-ending pastoral work. He said concerning his parish or audience, congregation, they listen, but they never apply sermon truths. Quote My work is like that of a man who is trying to clean a piece of ground into which a muddy stream is constantly flowing. I feel you, John. You know. A parent's job is never done. Some of you know that feeling of walking into a room, seeing toys everywhere. But you just cleaned it five minutes ago True story, you know. I I tell E Ray that the myth of Sityphus is actually about parenting. But we remind ourselves Kids will grow up, leave our home, and our influence over them will wane over time. These are precious times and seasons of our lives. But then again, I see many of you in later stages of life praying for your children, which is good, and helping with grandchildren. Going down to see them get sick and come back, you know. And what's crazy is that parents don't want to retire from this work, right? And my wife and I, we want to live as long as possible to help our children when they grow up and maybe they have their kids. A parent's job is never done. It's a sympathetic amen. But because God's not like us, either his job is done or will be done. We make everything imperfect or tainted by sin. He makes everything beautiful in his time We might look at something we made and see that it's very poor in quality, shoddy. We lose sleep Friday evening because of a bad work week. We wake up Saturday morning haunted by unfinished business, unable to relax. But as that first Friday came to an end, Creator Elohim was pleased. Which he had done. And we build on this truth as we move on to the second half of verse 2. We go from one link to the next in this train of thought. Because God finished his work in six days, he rested on the seventh day. Then we have the second weekend takeaway. God rests from his work with satisfaction. Yeah, uh we read Genesis two two B And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. This repeats the phrase from verse 2A, his work which he had done. What's unique in 2B is that for the first time in the Bible we see the verb Shabbat, right? From it we get the noun Sabbath. It simply means to stop, abstain, or cease from activity. We as humans obviously need rest from work due to our weakness. Our hearts and our flesh fail. We grow weary while doing good. But the Lord our God is mighty, almighty, right? He who keeps his people does not slumber or sleep. The creator of the ends of the earth neither faints nor is wary. So why did Elohim take a break? He doesn't need a nap, right? He doesn't need a recovery day. He doesn't get overwhelmed God's work of creation came to an end because he did it perfectly, right? He was satisfied with his work. That's why he rested. God rests from his work with satisfaction. Now, allow me to make two clarifications on this point. The first clarification has to do with the word work. The second clarification has to do with the word satisfaction. First to be clear, I don't mean that God's work of providence stopped on Saturday. What stopped was his unique initial work of creating new things for the first time, the work of providence did not stop. The Westminster Confession distinguishes between creation and Creation and providence. God, the great creator of all things, don't uphold, direct, dispose, and govern all creatures, actions and things from the greatest even to the least. Here's my modern analogy to explain the difference between creation and providence. And uh Lolly can correct me if I make a mistake here but it's like the work done to our vehicles okay so I have a uh besides the van I have a red Honda Civic sedan right it was manufactured in 2010. That's the initial work. But since two thousand ten, the work of maintenance has been ongoing. Those are continual works. My civic had a definite end to its creation process. But there was a need, continual work, to sustain its function So similarly, the unique work of creations done by day six, the work of providence never stops. The sun and the moon and the stars didn't fall from the sky on day seven. The Lord did not hang an out for lunch sign on his door, right, or set out set up an out-of-office automatic reply. So it's key that we understand what kind of work God ceased from doing on the seventh day. Secondly, looking closely at this word rest, there's a depth of divine satisfaction that's open to us through the gospel. I mentioned earlier Hebrews 4. That passage does not justify stretching the length of day 7 beyond 24 hours, but it does reveal that God offers rest to us. It's a rest that goes beyond one day or a nice vacation. It lasts forever. We all long for rest, don't we? There's a country song that goes, it's only half past twelve, but I don't care. It's five o'clock somewhere. You probably feel that around lunchtime when the food coma hits There's songs about the weekend. There's an hedonistic artist named the weekend with one of the E's gone. But the way we carve out our weekends so often leaves us. Unsatisfied, empty inside. That's because identifying the source of rest is most important for true satisfaction. The Bible says only God can give us eternal rest. Politicians can't give us rest, that's for sure. Kings like Solomon, military leaders like Joshua, couldn't give Israel lasting rest. Religious leaders can't give us rest. Jesus had this to say about them in his time: how scribes and Pharisees bound heavy burdens hard to bear and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves did not move them with one of their fingers. But it's not just leaders. The problem's with us as individuals. We don't rest properly because we don't recognize who gives us true rest. We lack faith. Again, the writer of Hebrews says in chapter four verse nine, there remains a rest for the people of God. We can enter into that rest through faith in God's promise. The way to get there is through a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God It's amazing how Jesus is not only God, the second person of the Trinity, far, far above us, also He, as man, was down here with us. He was in all points tempted as we are. Yet without sin. He knows the hard manual labor of a carpenter. He endured the spiritual labor of full-time ministry. He felt the aches in his legs and feet from long commutes. He was dehydrated as the sun beat down on him. He understood the value of rest, how much we need it too. He understood it better than the religious leaders. As perfect man, he perceived the true intent of the law, that the Sabbath was made for man and not man for Sabbath. How it's lawful on the Sabbath to do good and not evil, to save life, not to kill it. And he as the Lord of Sabbath offers us true rest today. As he said in Matthew eleven, come to me all who all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lonely in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. But just like the wilderness generation, many hear about this offer of rest, but fail to obtain it. The problem is the sin of unbelief. It's hardened hearts, it's a rebellion, it's going astray and not knowing God's ways. Not looking to Christ, many fill off weekends with lusts of their flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of their minds. Apart from mercy, were by nature children of wrath, just as the others, what God said back then applies to us. I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. We deserve to be expelled, right? Denied entrance into heaven. But to save us, Jesus took our place. To bring us satisfaction, he satisfied the wrath of God. As substitute, he went to the cross to pay the penalty of sin. We should pay the pains of hell. What we can never accomplish, Jesus did, saying, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. He died and he was buried. But that's not all. He rose the third day. He presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible proofs. He was seen by many during 40 days. He ascended to heaven and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. If you want to be ready for that judgment, if you want to sleep in peace and rest in peace, you have to get right with God. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Do not rest in your own works. It can never be good enough. If we try to be good enough through the law, there's bad news. It's a never ending pursuit. Paul says in Galatians three ten, Curses everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. You'll never get to heaven by your own effort. Instead, trust only in the finished work of Jesus. He offers the bliss of heaven as a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Once we accept this truth, our hearts can rest in God's promises. We rejoice because we're free from the burden of sin. We sing sometimes here, O Christ, what burdens bow thy head. Our load was laid on thee. Thou stoodest in the sinner's stead. Disbear all ill for me. A victim led, thy blood was shed. Now there's no load for me. Or we sang earlier today how I love the voice of Jesus on the cross of Calvary. He declares his work is finished. He has spoken this hope to me. I hope that these gospel truths convict and comfort your heart. Once you found rest with God, you can live to please Him in gratitude. To glorify him. Now, as you do that, right, as faithful Christian who rests in Christ, you might wonder Should I still be observing the Sabbath day? That's probably a relevant question. Okay. Maybe you were waiting for this. That's a good question as we take a look at the last verse of today's passage, Genesis 2. 3. That gets us to the third weekend takeaway. God hallows a day of rest from work for imitation. So I'm going to try to expand on that word imitation. But we continue with the third link of the chain now. Because God finished his work in six days, he rested on the seventh day. Because God rested on the seventh day, he consecrated it as Sabbath. Let me reread Genesis 2 3. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. Now we saw the word blessed multiple times already in fact. In Genesis 1, we see sanctify for the first time here. So, what's the reason for blessing and sanctifying day seven? Well, the next time you see those verbs together, bless and sanctify, is in Exodus 20 verse 11. We read Exodus 20 earlier. It's the fourth of the Ten Commandments. The command begins in verse 8 with Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. It ends in verse 11, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth and all that is in them and rested the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. That word hallowed it is saying as uh just uh sanctified it here. So the reason Israel kept the seventh day holy is because God did. The Sabbath day was a day of solemn rest. It wasn't for personal pleasures. It was time for a holy convocation. Teachers read and preached the law of Moses. The priests were on duty for sacrifices. Other kinds of work were forbidden. Farmers could not thresh or trade wheat. The poor cannot glean up they could, uh the poor could glean from the fields because of their desperate situation, but other work uh w prohibited were treading of wine, um just bringing in of sheaves, loading up the beasts of burden. So that required careful planning so that there's enough food stored on the day of rest. Okay, so we got how Israelites did and should have obeyed the fourth commandment. The key application question is whether Gentiles like you and me should obey it. I tend to say no. It's clear Sabbath was a sign between God and his chosen nation gathered in one place at one time. We see that in Exodus thirty-one, thirteen. Ezekiel 20, 12 and 20. The sign of the Sabbath was an important calendar reminder to promote regular worship in Israel. But consider now where we stand in redemption history, where we are on the timeline. The saints of the Old Testament were looking forward to where the sign of Sabbath pointed. When they profane the Sabbath, the prophets rebuke them. We, on the other hand, have advanced beyond the sign. We know in hindsight, the sign points to Christ. Like the animal sacrifices of old, Sabbath keeping fulfilled its purpose. Jesus has a right. So when we try to keep the Sabbath under the law or force others to obey it, Apostle Paul would rebuke us. He says in Colossians 3:16 to 17, this is a key verse. Let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival or a new moon Or Sabbaths, right, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. Paul also wrote the Roman Christians about this matter. We read it earlier. I know the main point was about dietary practice. But it does mention days, right? So one person esteems one day above another, another esteems every day alike. That's in Romans. Romans 14, 5 to 6. Let each be fully convinced in his own mind. He who observes the day, observes it to the Lord, and he who does not observe the day to the Lord, he does not observe it. Verse ten, why do you judge your brother, or why do you show contempt for your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. So we read all that earlier. So it appears in this dispensation the idea of a dedicated day of rest on Saturday is a matter of conscience, not obligation. Still Christians in Western nations might call Sundays Christian Sabbath. I personally do not agree with that kind of terminology Again, the fourth command does not apply to us under grace. Rest itself is good and necessary, I'm not doubting that, but it's not prescribed on any particular day. Now to be clear, I'm not against setting apart a day of the week for spiritual renewal. Okay. It's good that we're gathered here today. on a Sunday. And Sunday is the Lord's Day, the day of Christ's resurrection, when the earliest Christians gather for worship. We're trying our best to continue that tradition. The fact that we can worship and rest on the same day is a great blessing of being in America. But that may not be possible for an evangelical in the Middle East. Bahrain or UAE. Their Friday is like our Sunday. Friday is their day of rest when they get off work. So it makes sense for them to meet Friday mornings for worship, just like we meet Sunday mornings for worship. I try to look up some you know churches in that area, but there are a lot of churches that still meet for worship on Sundays. But it looks like that would be a normal workday for most citizens of that country. There's no right or wrong answer here. I guess the church has to decide. The leaders have to decide. The congregation has to decide. What day are we gonna gather? Maybe we should have both worship Friday and like I don't know, Sunday evening or something. Whether you're in USA or UAE, you should not be keeping Sabbath according to the Old Testament. One more application, not really an application, but Maybe in your conversations you might meet seventh-day adventists, right? Uh who try to keep the Sabbath. And I'll make a quick comment on about them before I close. The fact that they rest and worship on Saturday is the least of their problems. If you look into more of the Seventh-day Adventist Philippe You're just like, wow, that's interesting. Okay. They have issues with core doctrines, right? They're all off, right? We're talking about everything from justification, humanity of Christ, atonement. assurance of salvation. They you know revere the prophecies of a woman named Ellen White. Okay? Now even if you overlook these major problems, I think they're in the wrong in the application of the Sabbath. I will not imitate their practice. If we did I think it would confuse weaker believers. By worshiping on Sundays and not calling it Sabbath, we communicate to the world that we're New Testament believers under New Covenant, and there's some level of discontinuity. Alright, so let's get back to the main point, okay, which is that we are to find rest in Jesus. Okay, so that's what we do as individuals and as a body of Christ today. So You know, we may be worn out from our battles against sin, weighed down with anxiety and fears, and we're here to help each other, but ultimately point each other to Christ who gives us true rest. We're going to do that one more time as we sing together and glorify Christ, who grants us true rest. Hope this is true of each and every one of you and us together. I came to Jesus as I was Weary and worn and sad, I found in him a resting place, and he has made me glad. Let's pray. So we thank you that we can come to you and And we don't have to feel guilty about resting, or we don't have to feel guilty about being weak or tired and worn out. Lord, you accept us as we are. You are gentle, you are full of compassion, and your son has made this invitation for just himself And Lord, we hear his voice speaking to us. We know that the voice of the world is work, work, work. Earn your way. Just work until you become something significant. Work until you are somewhere there where you arrive at some vague place of security. But we're thankful, Lord, that we don't have to strive. But it's by faith in you. It's not about becoming, but it's about what you declare us to be, justified in Christ to faith And being sanctified and just adopted as your children, generated, Lord, uh just redeemed, bought with the blood of Christ, and just Lord, you declare these truths to us. And Lord, we can find rest in your finished work, in your grace. We pray that we will do that this week, Lord, as we face whatever tasks, the the rest of today and later this week. Whether it's work, whether it's the grind, whether it's just being at home, trying to deal with family or difficulties in our personal lives, we thank you that you restore our soul and we turn to you. you we find rest in your son Jesus Christ in his name we pray amen