Ed Stetzer, a popular Christian author once wrote, People have a remarkable ability to make Jesus in their own image. Arguably, the most well-known and the most beloved painting of Jesus, Head of Christ, by Werner Salman Depicts Jesus with blue eyes and long hair, a white man, even though the Bible is clearly against such depiction. I mean the very first chapter of the New Testament is there to debunk such myths. For some, the doctrine of incarnation and messianic prophecies are not enough. Some want the Son of God to be near us in more ways than that. That's their belief. Many want him to be an American, a Republican, maybe even a Tim Teble fan. He warns, quote, this is unhealthy. We are to be conformed to his image, not conforming him to ours. We are to be conformed to his image, not conforming him to ours. How true that is. It's a lesson for us if we are to grow individually and corporately as Faith Bible Church It's a lesson we gain from our study of Revelation chapter 1. Commentator Robert Thomas notes, quote, The titles of Jesus Christ found in the introductions to six of the seven messages in chapters two and three are drawn largely from this vision of chapter 1, 12 to 20. And its descriptive phrases. Only the message to Laodicea, chapter 3, 14 to 22, is devoid of one of these. It is apparent that the appearance of Christ in this vision is designed to emphasize the aspects of his nature. That are most relevant to the needs and circumstances of the seven churches who are the primary recipients of this book. End quote. Going further, we look to Christ and we search for relevance to the needs and circumstances of our church as the secondary recipients of this book. If we are to conform to Christ, we must see Him as He presents Himself in the Word. So what does this vision of Christ teach us about himself so that we may worship him and be like him? How can we see Jesus as the Holy Spirit guides us, not according to the flesh For that endeavor, let's turn to chapter one, verse twelve to sixteen of Revelation. Revelation one, verse twelve to sixteen Then I turned to see the voice that spoke with me, and having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the midst of the seven lamb stands, one like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the feet, and girded about the chest with the golden band. His head and hair were like were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. He had in his right hand seven stars. Out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength This first century vision teaches us four lessons directly relevant to twenty-first century churches like ours. 1. Jesus cares for churches with authority. 2. Jesus has sagely wisdom and sees all. Three, Jesus exemplifies purity and speaks with power. And four, Jesus controls and judges in heavenly glory First, Jesus cares for churches with authority. John turned around to locate the source of the voice that spoke the words of verse eleven. But first, he sees the seven golden lamp stamps. Now we don't have to look far to figure out what these represent. We learn in the last verse of chapter 1, verse 20. The seven lampstands which you saw are the seven churches. Now, this imagery has its roots back in the Old Testament. Moses relayed the instructions to build a lamb stand with seven lambs, which is known as the menorah. Zachariah saw something similar in his fifth night vision But this is a single lampstand, whereas John saw seven separate lampstands. What is the significance of these lamps? In every dispensation, God's people are to shine their lights in the world. For example, the Israelites were told in Isaiah 58, verses 1-12, that their practice of praying and fasting must be accompanied by good works that promote justice and mercy. That way their light shall break forth like the morning and dawn in the darkness. Now to the New Testament. Jesus told his followers, You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. And we must always remember the true source of our light. Adam Clark writes, quote, A lamp is not light in itself, it is only the instrument of dispensing light. And it must receive both oil and fire before it can dispense any. So no church has in itself either grace or glory. It must receive all from Christ its head, else it can dispense neither light nor life. So that's why we see in verse thirteen, in the midst of the seven lamb stands, one like the Son of Man. The one like the Son of Man recalls the vision of Daniel. This being is none other than the Messiah. The one who, in the vision, was given dominion and glory and kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages shall serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away And his kingdom, the one which shall not be destroyed. That's in Daniel seven, thirteen to fourteen. Jesus, because he is the Son of God from the beginning, he is the Son of Man who will judge in the end. The second half of verse 13 describes the attire of Jesus, his robe and his girdle. His garment went down to the feet, which could refer to the garb of the high priest. The band around his waist, just below the armpits, also matches the priestly description. But such articles of clothing were also worn by dignitaries, royalty, and princes. Now, as splendid and dazzling as the high priest or an Oriental king may be, we must remind ourselves that we are dealing with authority and majesty. That surpasses even theirs. We go beyond the realms of earth to take a look at celestial beings. We find that Jesus resembles angels and even surpasses them. The connection to Daniel 10, 5 is striking. There the prophet encounters an angelic being clothed in linen whose waist was girded with the gold of Upas. We find similar clothes on Angels of Judgment in Revelation 15, 6. But even more striking and interesting is Ezekiel's vision in chapter 9. This figure in Ezekiel has an ink horn, and he is tasked to put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and cry over all the abominations in Jerusalem. Interestingly, later in the book of Revelation, God's servants will also receive a mark on their foreheads to be spared from judgment. So all these connections and cross-references point to this basic truth. Jesus has heavenly authority. So, putting together his position among the lampstands and his attire, we can say Jesus cares about us, and he does so with authority. He is like us, yet so different from us. That's what makes him perfect in caring for us. He is the head far above and above and over the universal church. Yet the Son of Man moves close to us in the midst of local churches. This Son of Man, born on earth, is rolled and girded in the dignity of heaven But it's not just about where Christ is from, it's also about how long he's been around. And that leads to the next point: Jesus has says leave wisdom and sees all. Moving up from the rope to the sash to Jesus' head, John describes the following: His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow. This description is very similar to the one in Daniel 7. 9, where God the Father is described. But as Henry Sweet observes, it is not unusual for the names of God the Father and the praises due to him to be shared with God the Son. Thus here we are reminded that Jesus, the Son of Man, always existed as the Son of God. The Nicene Creed, formulated in 325 A. D. , captures this truth that our Lord Jesus Christ is, quote, begotten from the Father before all ages. God from God, light from light, true God from true God, begotten, not made, of the same essence as the Father. Through him all things were made. Jesus, though he has a birthday and we can count his definite days on earth, he is the ancient of days. Next, John meets the penetrating gaze of Jesus with eyes like a flame of fire. Now, if angelic beings have fiery eyes, how much more Jesus? In the Gospels, Jesus' eyes were keen to detect callous hearts, true belief. Insincere faith, corruption of the temple ministry, and denials of Peter. That same gaze will be upon all mankind in the end. As the Father has committed all judgment to the Son. The fire in his eyes corresponds to the fire reserved for the day of the Lord. Jesus searches the hearts of the saved and the unsaved, those in the past, present, and future. No one can escape his notice. Are you ready to look upon those eyes? If not, we are here. To give you a message. Before you meet Jesus as your judge after death or at his return, please meet him as your savior now. It is appointed for men to die once, but after this, the judgment. There is no second chance in purgatory or reincarnation. That's why the life you live now is so precious and the choices you make so consequential You must not wait a moment longer to hear the good news and respond in repentance and faith. Here's the good news. The same Jesus, with eyes like a flame of fire, looked at the lost multitude and felt compassion for them. He looked with the same compassion at hurting individuals, those whose lives have been ravaged by death. Those eyes have shed tears for sinners in the course of his mission to rescue them from hell. To complete that mission, Jesus went to the cross. Though he has never committed a sin in thought, word, or act, he died for us who have broken his commands. He took our place on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins as substitute. On the third day he rose again from the dead, defeating death by death, and ascended to heaven. Jesus washed us from our sins in his own blood, became the firstborn from the dead, and someday as he returns to earth, every eye will see him, even they who pierced him. Now the question remains for you. Will you look at the eyes of compassion now, or look at his eyes of fiery judgment when it's too late? The time to repent and believe is now. Turn away from yourself as the source of joy and righteousness. Confess that you do not and you cannot live up to the demands of God's word in your own strength. Trust in Jesus Christ alone for eternal life and receive it as a gift. Once we make this individual decision, we join God's family corporately, but we're not teleported to heaven upon conversion We have work to do here on earth. Facing the uncertain world with certainty of salvation We will need to take off our cross and follow Christ in his teaching and example. That leads to the third lesson. Jesus exemplifies purity and speaks with power. Back in verse thirteen, we saw that Jesus was in the midst of the lampstands. Here in verse 15, we focus on his feet, which by themselves suggest movement. In this context, we are speaking of his movement among the lampstands, the seven churches of Asia. Jesus is not just standing there watching while local churches wane and their wicks fade away. He moves towards them and gives them a vision of himself. As for the feast's appearance like fine grass, as if refined in furnace, there is this idea of purity It is a type of purity unknown in this world, purity of heavenly origins. Through the process of refiners, fire, drosts, and impurities are removed, and a glowing metal results But this kind of purity is about moral character. It is the pure character of Jesus which we strive to follow. In the second half of verse 15, we return to the quality of Jesus' voice. Back in verse 10, we heard John heard what sounded like a trumpet. That same voice now resembles the sound of many waters. If the trumpet suggests authority, the sound of waves suggests immense power. The voice of Jesus by himself surpasses the force of multitudes, singing in unison. It is the same voice prophesied by Ezekiel as he saw God's glory returning to the Jerusalem temple in the end times. Taken together, the sight of Jesus' feet and the sound of his voice reinforce the idea that Jesus is teaching us by example and words what sort of church we should be. Consider the message Jesus has for the church at Diatera in chapter 2, verses 18 to 29. He is introduced again as one with fine with feet like fine brass. Jesus begins by recognizing their works, love, service, faith, and patience, but they have compromised their purity. They have tolerated sexual immorality and idolatry to the point they have spread into the congregation. Now there were those who were caught in the depths of Satan. Not only did they need to hear Jesus' voice, they needed a vision of his purity. By the way, Kerry will lead us in an in-depth study of this church and other churches later on Wednesday night. For now, let's return to chapter 1, verse 16 for our final lesson. Jesus controls and judges in heavenly glory. John sees in the right hand of Jesus seven stars. We will see this again as Jesus addresses believers in Ephesus and Sardis. His hand may communicate protection, like the good shepherd carrying his sheep, or control as the king over his regent or messengers. I think control is the better interpretive option as sovereignty and authority of Jesus are stressed throughout this book. The seven stars require more interpretive work. We begin by looking down to verse 20, and we see that the seven stars are the seven messengers. Or in NKJV, it should say seven angels. But the Greek word angelos could refer to angelic or human messengers. So we'll have to do a further study of verse 20 to better understand verse 16. And there are four interpretive options for the stars. They're one, guardian angels over the churches. 2. Personified spirits of the churches. 3. Chief Overseers of the Churches. Four representatives but not unique sole leaders of the churches. So I'll try to repeat those as I go again Henry Alford is a key proponent of the guardian angel view. His assertion is this, if people groups or neophytes can have guardian angels, why not churches? And angels are represented as stars elsewhere in the Bible. There are some problems with this view, though. If we take the channel and sequence of divine communication back in chapter 1, verse 1 to 3 seriously, here's what we would have with this view of verse 20. God the Father sent his revelation to Jesus. Jesus commissioned this heavenly angel. The angel sent the message down to John on Patmos John sent it back up to guardian angels. The guardian angels then sent it back down to Jesus' servants in the seven churches. What a circuitous route of revelation. Angel, John, Guardian Angels, Churches. Seems a bit strange. Another problem is that these messengers appear to be part of the congregation. So they too are part of the second person plural of commands to turn away from sins Now how could such rebukes apply to holy angels? The second view adhered by Isman Beckwit is that the stars are personified spirits of churches. It's a little abstract. Personified spirits of the churches. This interpretation does better to connect the representative messengers to the respective congregations. But the required abstract double symbolism here complicates matters. We should expect Jesus' explanations of symbols To lead to literal meaning, not yet another symbol. But in this case, stars represent messengers that again mean something else A star is a symbol for an angel who is a symbol for the church. As William Lee points out, then the stars are essentially identical to the lampstands. In the third view, we have messengers in flesh and blood, stars that occupy heavens, symbolize highest positions in hierarchy These starry leaders could be wise and turn many to righteousness, or corrupt and lead many astray. But this idea of a singular supreme ruler over a church or local church contradicts the biblical concept of plurality of elders. The fourth view is that the messengers serve as church representatives or delegates among multiple leaders, but they are not the only leaders in their congregations. Epaphroditus and Epaphras, leaders sent to represent the churches of Philippi and Colossae, respectively, are prime examples of such delegates. In Paul's times, there was a policy of churches selecting and sending representatives to help the apostles. We see that in 2 Corinthians 8. It appears John also benefited from such messengers. I think this view is the best, as it is the least problematic. Ultimately, these messengers would serve the Lord as his mouthpieces. The message itself would come from the Lord When Jesus opens his mouth to speak, there is certainly life and salvation. But there is also death and destruction. We see in the middle clause of verse 16, out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. This visualization of Messiah's judgment has been predicted in Isaiah, previewed here by John, and ultimately fulfilled in Jesus' return. Just as Jesus' fiery eyes penetrate through our facade, his mouth speaks the word of God, which is living and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart None will escape his judgment in the end. But there's also a present application for us. Of course, we are to be like Jesus in that, as Paul tells us, we are to yield the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, in our external spiritual warfare. But we must also look inwardly to ourselves. We must surrender ourselves to the introspective power of the word. Just as Mary suffered as the mother of Christ, we should expect God's word to cut us inwardly as followers of Christ. Here's an example for us as a local congregation. At the church in Pergamos for those who hold to false doctrines. Those who were faithful to Jesus had to practice church discipline and urge the disobedient to repent. If they don't, Jesus would come to fight against them with the sword of his mouth. Jesus has the right to judge sinners and judge churches in this manner because he is the Son of God. The third and final clause of verse 16 says, and his countenance was like the sun shining in his strength. If the righteous who love the Lord shine like the sun, and if a mighty angel, if mighty angel's face clothes like the sun, how much brighter is Jesus God's beloved Son, in whom he is well pleased. We ought to hear him, as the Father commanded. Jesus controls and judges in heavenly glory. I believe we will hear Jesus better if we can see him better. And both seeing and listening are experienced through our study and meditation of the Bible. How will seeing Jesus as he is transform you? Please listen to these words of this 19th-century hymn by Anna Bartlett Warner. We would see Jesus where the shadows lengthen across this little landscape of our life We will see Jesus, our weak faith to strengthen for the last weariness, the final strife We will see Jesus, the great rock foundation, whereon our feet were set by sovereign grace. Nor life nor death, with all their agitation, can thence remove us if we see his lace. We would see Jesus. Senses all too blinding, and heaven appears too dim, too far away. We would see thee to gain a sweet reminding that thou hast promised our great debt to pay. We would see Jesus. This is all we're needing. Strength, joy, and willingness come with the sight. We would see Jesus dying, risen, pleading, then welcome day and farewell, mortal night. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that every time we open up your word. In our personal devotions, as we listen to a sermon or a 10-day Bible study, where we come with an expectation May we come with a heart of hope that you have something for us that will transform us. That if we get a glimpse of who you are, That our lives will be changed. We can become we can grow cynical, we can feel like we will never change. Or we may even feel like there's nothing to change in us. We repent of such an attitude. Lord, may we be transformed and amazed as we stand in the presence of your Son. Though we will do this We cannot do this truly at this point until your son returns. But we pray that we would look to your word And we'll look with hope of our future glorification as we see the glorified Jesus Christ risen and ascended to heaven. And it is in his name we pray. Amen.