I once heard a definition by the preacher, Adrian Rogers, that stuck with me. He was talking about a fanatic. He said, quote, a fanatic is someone who loses direction and doubles his speed. Just to get the picture in your head, I'll repeat, quote, a fanatic is someone who loses direction and doubles his speed. When I'm driving and I get lost because my GPS acts up, I should slow down to get my bearings A fanatic, however, would say, nope, I'm going to go hundred miles per hour now. It's insanity. Now it's important to be passionate. Paul says that Christians, as God's own special people, must be zealous for good works. Titus 2. 14. We are to be fervent in our love for one another. 1 Peter 1. 22. But we are not fanatics rushing to nowhere. We have we must have a purpose. We work for something and someone We are dependent on him and his directions in his instruction manual, the Bible. As we consider all the strife and angst around us and maybe even in us, we don't want to be fanatics. We should seek a clear biblical direction and steadfastness in pursuing that path For help in that endeavor, we turn to the example of the apostles, the earliest followers of Jesus. Specifically, as we continue in the first chapter of Revelation. We turn to the example of John, the son of Zebedee. So let's go to Revelation 1, verses 9 to 11. I, John, both your brother and companion in the tribulation and kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. was on the island that is called Patmos for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And I heard behind me a loud voice, as of a trumpet, saying, I am the Alpha and the Omega. The first and the last end. What you see, right, in a book, and send it to the seven churches which are in Asia To Episus, to Smyrna, to Pergamos, to Diatera, to Sardis, to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea I believe from these three verses we have three principles to live by. One, know the purpose for which you suffer. 2. Hear the Lord who is sovereign. 3. Share the word which the saints need. You'll find those points at the back of your bulletin. Like last week, I'll spend most time on the first point. First, know the purpose for which you suffer As you read again verse 9, if you're like me, you might be fixated on the word tribulation. Poor John, you might say. He's old. He's the last remaining remaining member of the Twelve. He appears alone on an island Here's how Pat Moss is described in various sources. According to Robert Thomas, it is an island in the Icarian Sea, 40 miles west of Miletus, among a group of islands called the Dodacanis. It is shaped like a crescent with its horns facing eastward. It's a key stopping place for those sailing between Ephesus and Rome. According to BiblePlaces. com, it is about 7. 5 miles long from north to south and about 6 miles east to west. Joseph Siss describes a firsthand experience in nineteenth century, quote, Less than a year ago I passed that island. It is a mere mass of barren rocks, dark in color, and cheerless in form. It lies out in the open sea near the coast of Western Asia Minor It has neither trees, nor rivers, nor any land for cultivation, except some little nukes between the ledges of rocks There's still a dingy grotto remaining in which the eight apostle is said to have lived, and in which he is said to have had this vision. A chapel covers it, hung with lamps kept burning by the monks. Just from the looks of it, even to this day, Patmos was a fitting place for banishment. According to historians Pliny and Tacitus, the Romans often sent their prisoners to these kinds of islands. That background fits in the verse 9. John was most likely exiled to Patmos for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. This phrase and the earlier mention of tribulation lead me to believe that the apostle wasn't on the island voluntarily as if on a mission trip. Though he was forcibly banished there during the reign of Emperor Domitian. Second century tradition says that after the ruler died, John was allowed to return to Ephesus. It would be easy for anyone in John's situation to despair. But if we look at verse 9 again, we would probably agree with Joseph Sice. Quote: John was at the time in exile upon a lonely and desolate island, but neither seas, nor alps, nor ages, can sever the bonds by which Christians are united to each other or to Christ their Lord. The inseparable bonds by which Christians are united to each other are indicated by the two titles John uses to introduce himself: your brother and companion. Though John's natural parents and adopted mother undoubtedly passed away by now, though his blood brother faced martyrdom many decades prior He had a family. He was connected not only to the congregation at Ephesus, but all those who profess Christ as Lord. He's a member of the household of God. He has siblings in God's family who do the will of the Father. There's a family bond with fellow believers. If brother brings to mind a warm, intimate home, the other title, companion, brings to mind hard work as a team. The word companion comes from fellowship, which is one of those church jargons that could use some explanation. The essence of fellowship isn't having a potluff meal while bantering about local sports or politics. It's a lot more serious. At a minimum, it's a word used in contractual partnerships, such as the fishing business that John and his brother James shared with Peter. But fellowship can go way beyond business Fellowship can be about common religious commitment, such as the one shared between pagan worshippers and demons at sacrificial altars. Fellowship is the deep covenantal bond between those who share the bread and cup of the Lord, those who are together forgiven and saved by Jesus. Fellowship is an unbreakable love triangle, established as Christ loved us first, and in response we love Him and we love one another. In Christian fellowship, we share our lives with Christ and share our lives with each other. Fellowship means sharing work, sharing resources. But even as all Christians share this deep bond, they're unable to have fellowship with false teachers and unbelievers. John goes on to name three specific commonalities shared in his fellowship with the churches: tribulation, kingdom, and patience of Jesus Christ. Taken individually, they're not difficult to understand. Tribulation here is more specific than human suffering, but more general than the great end-time tribulation just prior to Jesus' return. When he returns, we can say the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. Revelation 11:15 That's the kingdom. And until that day, we must exhibit patience in our present troubles. Seems simple enough But it is the connection between the three that's interesting. Tribulation, kingdom, and patience are tied together grammatically with a single article in what is called a hendiadist. Typically in a hendiadist, two words are combined with a conjunction and This is preferred over an adjective noun construction. So back at grammar school. An example would be Shakespeare's use of sound and fury Which has a different rhetorical effect than furious sound. Now John here takes three, not two words, and binds them together He and his brothers and sisters have a tribulation-resistant, kingdom-focused, Jesus Christ-motivated patience. It's like he's trying to say, Together we have a type of patience for the sake of Jesus' name that can endure tribulation as we wait for the kingdom. See how Hendiadus can be more efficient. Tribulation, kingdom, and patience come in a package when we trust in Jesus Such perseverance until the end is required by all the saints and only possible as God empowers us. This truth is confirmed elsewhere. Paul and Barnabas told young churches, as they were strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith. We must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. Acts 14, 22 Paul told the Philippians, to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Philippians 129. Paul told Timothy, if we endure, we shall also reign with him. Second Timothy two twelve. Peter encouraged patience in view of Christ's coming glory. 1 Peter 4. 13 and 5. 1. And that future glory is absolutely worth the press suffering. If we minimize or ignore the suffering that comes to Jesus' disciples, we're not doing anyone favors. Not Christ, not the church, not the prospective Christian. We should let them know what they're signing up for, just as Jesus and his followers, like John did. Now I gave this illustration from Ray Comfort before, but I think it's worth repeating. Two men are seated in a plane. A stewardess gives the first man a parachute and instructs him to put it on as it will, quote, improve his flight. Not understanding how a parachute could possibly improve his flight, the first passenger is a little skeptical Finally, he decides to see if the claim is true. After strapping on the parachute, he notices its burdensome weight and he has difficulty sitting upright Consoling himself with the promise of a better flight, our first passenger decides to give it a little more time. Because he's the only one wearing a parachute, some of the other passengers begin smirking at him, which only adds to his humiliation. Unable to stand it any longer, our friend slumps in the seats, unstraps the parachute, and throws it to the floor. Disillusionment and bitterness fill his heart because, as far as he is concerned, he was told a lie. Another stewardess gives the second man a parachute, but listen to her instructions. She tells him to put it on because at any moment he will be making an emergency exit out of the plane at 25,000 feet. Our second passenger gratefully straps the parachute on. He doesn't notice its weight upon his shoulders or that he can't sit upright. His mind is consumed with the thought of what would happen to him if he jumped without it. When other passengers laugh at him, he thinks, you won't be laughing when you're falling to the ground. Let's now analyze the motive and the result of each passenger's experience. The first man's motive for putting on the parachute was solely to improve his flight. As a result, he was humiliated by the passengers, disillusioned by the unkept promise, and embittered against the stewardess who gave it to him. As far as he is concerned, he will never put on one of those things on his back again. The second man put on the parachute to escape the danger of the upcoming jump. Because he knew what would happen to him without it, he had deep-rooted joy and peace in his heart. Knowing he was saved from certain death gave him the ability to withstand the mockery of the other passengers. His attitude toward the stewardess who gave him the parachute was one of heartfelt gratitude. Now listen to what the contemporary gospel message, the false gospel. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ. He will only give you love, joy, peace, fulfillment right now, on demand. In other words, he will improve your flight. In an experimental fashion, the sinner puts on the savior to see if the claims are so. What does he get? Temptation, tribulation, and persecution. The other passengers mock his decision So what does he do? He takes off the Lord Jesus Christ. He is offended for the word's sake. He's disillusioned and embittered, and quite rightly so. He was only promised peace, joy, and fulfillment, and he got trials and humiliation. His bitterness is directed at those who gave him the quote good news. His latter end is worse than the first. Another inoculated, bitter backslider But if we let them know that being a Christian means enduring tribulation, as we patiently wait for the kingdom, we are giving the true biblical gospel. We can suffer together and encourage one another. But even as we comfort each other, we must have our ears open to the word. And that leads to the second point. Hear the Lord who is sovereign. We see in verse 10 that while John was on the island of Patmos, he was in the spirit. John Wolver defines the phrase in the spirit as follows: carried beyond normal sense into a state where God could reveal supernaturally the contents of this book. Benten Hort thinks it is a quote state in which the ordinary faculties of the flesh are suspended and the inward senses opened, end quote. We can't be sure exactly how it happened, but we can be sure the Holy Spirit empowered John's spirit to have this ecstatic visionary experience while still in Pat Moss. As for the timing of the experience, we are told it happened on the Lord's Day. Some commentators, like Ethelbert Bollinger, take this to mean the day of the Lord predicted by the Old Testament prophets. Another view is that it refers to the first day of the week, that is Sunday. In support of the view that John meant the prophesied end-time day of the Lord, The day of Christian worship is elsewhere called something else, first day of the week, in the Gospels, in Acts, and First Corinthians. But against this view, one, the day of the Lord is grammatically distinct from Lord's day. And two, at this point in the book, John has not, quote, entered into the virtual future. So the view that the Lord's Day refers to Sunday has slight edge over others. Possibly this was the first time Sunday was referred to as the Lord's Day, a practice followed by second century Christians nearby in Asia Minor. So exiled in Patmos in spirit-induced trance on a Sunday, John hears the voice of Jesus. He heard a great voice behind them like the way Ezekiel heard the voice of the Lord behind them in Ezekiel 3. 12 But while Ezekiel heard a sound like a great thunder or earthquake, John heard a sound resembling a trumpet. David Owen notes that throughout this book, loud sound or voice communicates importance or solemnity of the upcoming utterances. The resemblance to the trumpet also adds a note of authority. And what is spoken is this? I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. We've seen the title of the Alpha and the Omega before in verse 8, and I came to the conclusion that there it refers to the Almighty God the Father. But here it's definitely Jesus, the Son of Man, who takes the same title for himself. We can see that it's from verse 13 that this is Jesus. So while the title of the first and the last is reserved for Jesus in this book, chapter 1, 2, and 22, the title of the Alpha and the Omega is shared with the Father. As I said last week, alpha is the first letter of the Greek alphabet and omega the last letter These titles together communicate that Jesus is sovereign and in control. Jesus shares the divine essence of the Father, but is distinct in personality. He, the uncreated one, exists first, and he will outlast all. And he is on the side of John and his beleaguered companions. We may feel like an insignificant title or an iota in the annals of history. We may feel like no one cares about our church or our journey of faith. Well know that you are in the hands of Jesus, the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. He gives you eternal life. You shall never perish. Neither shall anyone snatch you out of his hand. All authority has been given to him in heaven and on earth. He is the originator and the completer of your faith What a privilege we have through our sovereign Lord. We need these reminders constantly. And that leads to the third principle: share the word. Which the saints need. John, though he was the disciple whom Jesus loved, did not only think of himself and his relationship with Jesus. His purpose as an apostle like Paul was to build up others. So here, his calling is to write down what he sees and hears, the first of twelve similar commands throughout the book. We get the impression that if he wasn't given such a command, he would have kept the contents of his vision to himself, as Paul did decades prior. In 2 Corinthians 12. The contents are written on a papyrus scroll, not in books like the ones we see or we think of today. Commentators note how the seven churches listed are located near the roughly circular route that clockwise begins at Ephesus and ends at Laodicea. But not all were equally populous or influential. And some well-known cities in the region, like Colossae or Herapolis, Troas, and Tralis, were left out. The distances between the cities range from thirty to forty miles. The messengers may have read the contents of Revelation at each stop produced a copy of the entire book, and then moved on to the next congregation. The practice of reading letters addressed to other churches was already established by Paul earlier in the century, Colossians 4. Now there is a lingering question of Y seven or Y D seven. I believe the seven churches are real historical churches in late first century. But respected names like Dwight Pentecost go beyond that And to see them also prophetically representing seven periods of church history. I find this approach to be overly subjective But I do think it is important for every church in every age to study what Jesus says to these congregations. As we already saw in Revelation 1. 3, there are blessings for all that read, understand, and keep these words. Lord willing, we'll get to chapters 2 and 3 and get to know each church better. For now, we can focus on these simple rudimentary truths. Our suffering has purpose. Our Lord is sovereign. We need his word These are truths for our well-being. But we can also share these truths to a hurting world. You don't have to look far these days to find hurting people. Just turn on the news. Open up a newspaper. Scroll through Twitter. I think about the anger felt by those discriminated, hurt, and even killed because of skin color. I think about the fear and disrespect experienced by dedicated policemen who have sworn to serve and protect. I think about the sorrow of those who lost loved ones on both sides of the struggle. As we reopen our church doors, we should invite such hurting ones to meet Jesus. For those who don't know, hear this good news. God created all of us in his image, and that's all of us, no matter what skin color we have. But we are all sinners too. Sinners in thought, word, and actions, whether it's hate, envy, greed, racism. We're all guilty of breaking God's laws, one way or another. We deserve God's wrath in hell But Jesus, the Son of God, became man like us. But he never sinned. He voluntarily laid down his life in our place. He gave his perfect life on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins as our substitute. He rose again from the dead on the third day and ascended to heaven. Before he returns, he offers you the gift of eternal life. It cannot be earned or deserved. Can only be received as a gift by grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone. Turn away from yourselves and turn to Him. We as Faith Bible Church are recipients of this grace. So now we tell those left unsatisfied by the empty promises of the world: join us. They will never find true, lasting justice out there. Movements may fail and activists might be forgotten, but the Church of Jesus will not succumb, not even to the gates of Hades. Though we love USA, we don't pretend that it's a perfect nation. But we can show those hurting a perfect kingdom. The kingdom of heaven, where citizens are redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. Even now we are elect from every nation, yet one over the earth, her charter of salvation, one Lord, one faith, one birth. Earthly rulers and authorities will disappoint and fail us, but we have a sovereign Lord in heaven, the Alpha and the Omega. The first and the last. We have visions of its glory to comfort us, even as visions of violence and routing distress us. Let's look to his word. Let's look to the Lord. Let's pray. Mid toil and tribulation and tumult of her war, she waste the consummation of peace forevermore. To with the visions of visions glorious, her longing eyes are blessed, and to the great church victorious shall be the church at rest. Lord, we come before you devoted, focused, knowing ourselves. In this grand vision, in this grand plan of your redemption history. Lord, we are your people. And we look to each other as brothers and companions in tribulation, kingdom, and patience of Jesus Christ. Lord, may our eyes be focused. May our eyes be turned to our Lord Jesus in heaven, who is in combo Lord, may we look to your word, the visions of your of the future kingdom. May those words comfort us. May we not lose direction May we not be fanatics in the wrong way. Will we seek to seek to uh honor you in our lives? Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.