In four continents and over twenty countries, there exists some version of Auguste Rodin's sculpture of the thinker. You've probably seen it in some form. In case you haven't, let me have the artist himself provide a description What makes my thinker think is that he thinks not only with his brain, with his knitted brow, his distended nostrils and compressed lips. But with every muscle of his arms, back and legs, with his clenched fist and gripping toes But someone might ask as a follow-up, what is the thinker thinking about? Is he thinking of retirement? Is he trying to remember whether he left the kitchen stove on? Is he worrying about final exams? Well the thinker statue was originally part of Rodon's monumental gates of hell. Bronze doors for a museum in Paris, inspired by Dante's Inferno. The thinker would sit at the top of the door lintel Perhaps representing Dante the poet or just anyone who's thinking Today the statue is usually isolated from this frightening original context. But perhaps we should be like that original thinker, pondering on what lies beyond death's doors. After all, it is appointed for man to die once, and after this the judgment. Maybe we should go to more funerals, to houses of mourning, for that is the end of all men, and the living will take it to heart. And as we turn to today's passage, Luke 16, 19 to 31, I hope you too think not only with your brain, knitted brow, distended nostrils, and compressed lips. But with every muscle of your arms, back and legs, with clenched fist and gripping toes. Let's read There was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and fares sumptuously every day. But there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, full of sores, who was laid at his gate, designed to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. So it was that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And being in torments in Hades, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. Then he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that in your lifetime you received your good things, and likewise Lazarus' evil things, but now he is comforted and you are tormented. And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, so that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, nor can those from there pass to us. Then he said, I beg you therefore, Father, that you would send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, that he may testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment. Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded the one rise from the dead. A question to be asked at the onset has to do with whether this passage is fictional or true. There are certainly features that suggest that this is a parable. The phrase, a certain man, is found at the heading of several parables in Luke. The parable of the shrewd manager at the beginning of chapter 16 begins exactly the same as this story. There was a certain rich man. Now, godly Christians can agree to disagree here. I lean towards non-fiction. If you take my view, don't be so quick to judge those who interpret the story as a parable. Because even if one thinks that way, there are some important truths we can all agree on. I ask that you think about three important truths from this passage. One, God's plan reverses the fortunes of man. Verses 19 to 23. 2. Our choices have eternal consequences, verses 24 to 26. And three, God's word is sufficient for salvation, verses 27 to 31. First, God's plan reverses the fortunes of man. I want to be clear from the onset that the rich man wasn't condemned because he was rich, and the poor man wasn't saved because he was poor. We're not saved by poverty just as we're not saved by riches. We're saved with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Jesus Christ of Nazareth died for our sins at the cross, rose from the dead, and ascended to heaven. We must forsake all dependence on self and the things of the world to gain Christ. Put your hope of heaven in Jesus alone. He offers you eternal life by grace and not by works, through faith in him and him alone. With that in mind, let's first look at the fortunate man with his fortunes of earth. This man trusted in uncertain riches instead of the living God. He should have heeded Proverbs eleven: four. Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death. He wore purple and fine linen outwardly, but he donned filthy rags of self-righteousness. He tasted his delicacies every day, lacking nothing. He should have listened to David, who said, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who trusts in him. Now who is like this rich man? In Jesus' time? Pharisees and other religious leaders. They were lovers of money, and woeful shepherds of Israel, who fed themselves at the expense of the sheep. Most of these corrupt leaders could insert themselves into the story. They are warned that God's plan reverses the fortunes of man. Now let's look at the second man, the unfortunate man with no fortune of earth. We're told rather surprisingly the name of the beggar, Lazarus. His name is the Latinized form of the Hebrew name Eleazar, which means God is my help. But it sure didn't seem like it during his lifetime. It looked like he was abandoned by God. His appearance full of sores reminds us of Job, who struck with painful boils from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. He was close in proximity to the rich man, but socially speaking, they couldn't be farther apart. Poor Lazarus couldn't could not even get a crumb of his bread. Even the dolls, not the not exactly the cuddly types that we own today, but more of the unclean scavenger types. They showed more compassion than the rich man. But Lazarus would not suffer forever. See how God's plan reverses the fortunes of man. The beggar died and went to rest in the arms of Abraham. C. Marvin Pate offers three possibilities for interpreting the phrase, Abraham's bosom. One, as early as Genesis, there's this idea that in death the righteous ones are gathered to the forefathers Two, there's this idea of paternal love and care, an intimate bond between father and son, which illustrates, by the way, Jesus' relationship with God the Father. 3. There's the place of honor at the table close to the host or most important person. You see that throughout John there, the Gospel of John. I say there's some combination of all three ideas here, though I like to think the place of honor at the table would be the most appropriate. Any way you look at it, God's plan reverses the fortunes of man. The one who sat at the gate now sits at the table. He who longed for crumbs is feasting with the patriarchs. The rich man in contrast begins eternity of suffering. The one who used to look down on the poor now looks up as the poor. Now death, peace on the one who fed himself in life. Here's a quick application before we move on to the next point. If God's plan reverses the fortunes of man, we must change our attitudes about the rich and the poor. When we look at people richer than us, we should not be full of envy or fear. Just as Hebrews 13, 5-6 says, Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For he himself has said, I will never leave you, nor forsake you. So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? I encourage us to take a look at Psalm 49 as well. Also, when we see those poorer than us, We should be filled with compassion. Let's not make make the mistake of favoring the rich over them. Remember James 2, 5-7. Listen, my beloved brethren. Has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He promised to those who love Him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you and drag you into the courts? Do they not blaspheme that noble name by which you are called? Do not envy the rich and do not dishonor the poor, because God's plan reverses the fortunes of man. That's God's sovereignty. It's been a theme of Luke from the beginning We read back in chapter 1, verse 51 to 53, and I'll just read it for you. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. This is dramatically played out in the destinies of the rich man and Lazarus. Now we know that even as God is sovereign, we as humans are responsible for our choices. And that leads us to the second point. Our choices have eternal consequences. Let's first talk about eternal consequences and then our choices. Where exactly is the rich man and where exactly is Lazarus? There are some confusions about terms like Hades and Hell, which tend to get mixed up Hades is a Greek word used to translate Sheol in Hebrew, and it's the general place of the dead, Hades and Sheol. I think it's best to transliterate both words consistently instead of translating them as hell or going back and forth between hell and Hades. They're not the same as hell is reserved for the condemned and more specific than Hades. Simply put, all who die go to Hades or Sheol, the place of the dead, but then there's always separation between those justified by faith and the unjust. Whether you're in the realm of the dead or resurrected from the dead, there are always two eternal destinies. There are distinctions between Abraham's bosom and torments, between paradise regained and paradise lost The sheep and the goats, between the first resurrection of life and second death, which is the resurrection of condemnation On which side will you stand? The time to cross over from eternal death to eternal life is now There's no such thing as a purgatory. Once your final breath leaves your lungs and your heart runs out of beats You'll never be able to cross that great fixed gulf. Cross it now. Heed the words of Jesus in John 5. 24. Most assuredly I say to you: he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life And shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death into life. Choose to trust and obey him now. Your choices have eternal consequences. The choices of the rich man have eternal consequences. This man trusted in riches rather than trusting in God. He's like the rich fool who said to himself, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. He never showed mercy to those below him, and now he is in need of mercy from those above him. He never permitted Lazarus a crumb from his table, and now he's denied a drop of water from his finger. He received his good things and comforts of life, but now he's tormented in death. The rich man's choices had eternal consequences. Do you know that your choices have eternal consequences? Now, I don't mean that every choice you make on earth have the same weight. The brand of toothpaste you bought at the store or the color of the outfit you picked out for today are not as significant. as decisions you make for the kingdom of God. Let me speak to the unbeliever again and then to the believer. I implore you, who do not believe, do not be like this rich man who trusted in his riches. I'm willing to bet this man grew up in a religious household and he was taught the scriptures Like kids today who go to Sunday school, he learned the ABCs of the Bible at the synagogue while growing up. But what happened? Well, he got older and faced temptations. He's like those who grew up in the church, finished high school, and went to college or Went to the work field and left the faith. What happened to the word that was taught to them? The temptations of the world choke the world like thorns. You know the parable of the soils, how Jesus says in Luke 8:14. As they go on their way, they are choked by life's worries, riches, and pleasures, and they do not mature. They either become unproductive at best, or their so-called fate is proven to be ingenuine. They become like Demos who abandoned Paul because he loved the world. Perhaps many years ago you made a decision as a child to follow Jesus. Now that you face temptations of money, will you follow Jesus as an adult? Yeah, you made a profession of your faith as an eight-year-old. What's the progression of your faith as an 18-year-old? I'm glad that this past week, with the help of Colonial Baptist Church, we invited young ones of the community to come to Christ for the first time. But I'm also happy that we've invited older ones to forsake the world and its riches and return to Christ and the faith they've learned as a child. Unbeliever do not be like the rich man. Remember, your choices have eternal consequences. And to you, fellow believers, I challenge you to go beyond just getting to heaven. I challenge you to strive for two rewards. Or two goals, treasures and souls. First, pursue treasures in heaven. Don't just settle for a ticket into heaven. Furnish your mansion there. Remember what Jesus said earlier in Luke 12, 32 to 34. Do not fear, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell what you have and give alms, provide yourselves money bags which do not grow old, a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches, nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Our choice to pursue heavenly treasures has eternal consequences. Secondly, pursue souls. Be a soul winner. Draw men to Jesus as light of the world and salt of the earth Of course, we can't force someone to go to heaven, but we can choose to live our lives in a way that attracts the lost to Christ. Your holiness can offer a sample, a foretaste of paradise. There are many like this rich man out there who need to see what Christ's likeness looks like. What godly contentment looks like. There are many like him who spend eternity apart from God. Let's pursue them and compel them to come in. Our choice to pursue souls has eternal consequences. Human choices are witness, and their decision must be now in this lifetime. The rich man realized it's too late and wanted better for his siblings. That leads to the third truth from this story: God's word is sufficient for salvation. Note carefully that the rich man absolutely did not want to be reunited with his family in his place of torment. Here's a warning. There are those who say they don't want to change their religion because they want to continue their family tradition. They'll keep the faith followed by their father, their grandparents, great-grandparents, and their ancestors so that they can join them later. But look again in verses 27 and 28. Your lost family members do not want you to join them in torment. This rich man who followed the religion of money, they don't he does not want his brothers to join him there. Now if you and your family belong to Christ, your reunion in heaven will be wonderful. But if you and your family do not have Christ, reunions will be the last thing you want in afterlife. So now the rich man is the beggar. He asks Abraham to send Lazarus back from the dead to testify to his five brothers. He knew now how deceitful are those riches, how unrighteous that mammon, how hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God To shake them out of complacency, something dramatic must happen, so he thought. But listen carefully to what Abraham says in verse 29. They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. This is a remarkable statement. Now, the phrase Moses and the prophets is one of those merisms, a rhetorical device or figure of speech in which the parts represent the whole. Moses wrote the earliest books of the Old Testament and other prophets wrote the final books of the Old Testament. Moses and the prophets represent all that is written from Genesis to Malachi. which is the revealed word at that time, which later will expand to New Testament and the Bible we have now. And so we have here an affirmation of this truth. God's word is sufficient for salvation. Abraham is essentially agreeing with Paul's words to Timothy in 2 Timothy 3:15. The holy scriptures are able to make you wise for salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Now there are many wisdoms out there in the library, bookstores, and podcasts, wisdom for productivity, wisdom for business management, wisdom for salesmen. But no textbook out there, no guide, no program can make you wise for salvation besides the Bible, right? There's only one source of heavenly wisdom. All scripture given by the inspiration of God. Only the Bible goes forth from his mouth. And it shall not return to him void, but it shall accomplish what he pleases, and it shall prosper in the thing for which he sent it. Only the Word of God, which lives and abides forever, can cause us to live and abide forever, and grant us regeneration. God's word is sufficient for salvation. That's something that the lovers of money do not understand. That's why the rich man insists that the Moses and the prophets are not sufficient to lead his brothers to repentance. But here Abraham's response in verse 31: If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rise from the dead. We must be convinced that miracles are insufficient. Let me give you two illustrations. First, here's what Paul said about the Exodus generation who left Egypt and saw all kinds of wonders of God. Brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud, all passed through the sea. All were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. All ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with most of them God was not well pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. This is 1 Corinthians 10, 1-5. What use were those miracles? It's not the miracles they needed, primarily. They lacked faith in God's Word, which is sufficient for salvation. And here's the second illustration. This idea of Lazarus returning from the dead is a foreshadowing of what Jesus would do later in the Gospel of Luke. Remember that each of the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, ends not with Jesus' death and burial, but with the empty tomb and resurrection. You might think that such a miracle is all that they needed. But in the final chapter of Luke, Luke 24 We see Jesus appearing in disguise to two disciples on their way to a city called Emmaus. Jesus cut up easily, revealed himself right away. I'm back from the dead. But what did he do? We read in verse twenty seven Beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. It was only after he opened the scriptures that their eyes were opened to behold the resurrected Jesus. And later, when he appeared to the eleven, he showed them his hands and feet and ate food in their presence. He again opened the scriptures. We read in verse 44 and 45. Then he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you which while I was still with you That all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding, that they might comprehend the scriptures. Again, Jesus opened their eyes by opening the scriptures. God's word is sufficient for salvation. You may envy those who've seen miracles, those who've seen Christ in his glory transfigured. But we have the prophetic word surer than any mountaintop experience. Peter himself said that in 2 Peter 1. 19. This is why we as a church do all that we can to read the word, to preach the word, to teach the word, sing the word, memorize the word, pray the word, apply the word. We want this not only for children, but teenagers, young adults, old adults, workers, retirees, singles, married people We want God's word communicated to the rich and the poor, the saved and the lost, because God's word is sufficient for salvation. And God's word teaches us that we should think as thinking men and thinking women of the price that Jesus paid for us on the cross As we transition to the Holy Communion, let's remember what caused our Holy Savior to suffer in our stead. O Christ, what burdens bow thy head? Our load was laid on thee. Thou stoodest in the sinner's stead, didst bear all ill for me. That's right. Lord, we open up your word. We want to be wise. We want to heed the teachings that you gave us. This teaching of Jesus. This life is not all that there is to it. There's more beyond here Your sovereign plan will be revealed, as those who trust in you will be vindicated. Lord, we want to be like Lazarus, that no matter what the cost, That we will forsake all and follow you. We want to be in that kingdom. We know that the choice that we have before us, or And for many of us, Lord, it may have been made long ago. There may be some who need to make that choice now. Pray that all of us here will trust in your Son Jesus Christ. As his or her personal savior and Lord. And Lord, we're thankful for the word. Because your word contains that plan of salvation. If we can trust in it, it's sufficient. You've given us all that we need for justification and for sanctification For our profession of faith and our progression of faith. We thank you that you have revealed yourself. And we love you and we praise you. And we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.