So for a variety of reasons I'm taking a two week break from First Corinthians and resume in April. April. Seemed like a good time to pause because one we had just covered chapter six and completed another major section of the letter. Another reason is that chapter seven deals with marriage, singlehood, divorce topics, probably more appropriate for discussion after Easter. Thirdly, speaking of which, today's poems. Sunday and next week's Easter. And four, and this is more general, to declare the whole counsel of God, I must teach from both testaments, old and new. And so today and next Sunday is back to the old, at least for a couple weeks. And I'll preach from Psalm 49 and connect it to the life, death, and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Now making such connections between testaments enriches you to be a better disciple of Christ. I hope you agree with that. that um you know putting it all together you appreciate how the entire bible anticipates and testifies of Jesus Both the law and the kingdom are valuable and precious. In knowing both, you'll be, as that parable goes, like the owner of a house who brings out of his storeroom. New treasures as well as old. What's old will appear new. What seems new has been under your nose the whole time Time. That's the beauty of being a lifelong student of the word. And I say it's fun to be on this journey of discipleship, following Jesus and Let me see if an illustration helps. You know, back in the primitive age of early 2000s, when I was your age, kids. No, um I had to memorize directions from one place to another. You know, read signs and know where the streets connect and look out for key landmarks. Sounds crazy. But you know, I didn't use MapQuest or Google Maps. Anyways, in one of those early days of my driving, I suddenly felt adventurous. I purposefully took a detour on my way home. I had no GPS, just an internal compass, which probably needed calibration. Now recall being in North Laurel, it's probably near Schaxville. Driving through unfamiliar neighborhoods, enjoying at times the scenic routes. I look and say something like, oh, I didn't know that store was there ah that's where that school is wow that's a pretty looking park ah that's where that uh those roads connect In my mind, it's as if some location popped into existence for the very first time, but of course it didn't. It's been there, it predates me, right in my backyard in my hometown. I either didn't know, I forgot, or I didn't pay close attention before. Of course I eventually got home. And this is like the adventure of studying the Bible, right? You learn to traverse less familiar paths, but it's not scary at all because you will get home and that home is the gospel, right? What's of first importance? That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. Our walk with Christ through the Bible is both exciting and homey. It's both a roller coaster and a comfy catch. So God's word, tried and true, should never seem trite to you, right? Even as you revisit the accounts of the Passion Week, as many do at this time of the year. Today I'd like for us to consider Psalm 49 as a less familiar back road. It's not as familiar as root. 22, Highway 110, Interstate 118. If you get what I'm trying to say here. But as long as I have my eyes on the true North, that is Jesus, I'll get one of the And I'll enjoy the journey on the way home. I'm going to preach on this psalm in two parts. Today I'll introduce those who compose the lyrics and cover up to verse 12. Next week I'll cover the rest from verses 13 to 20. I'll explain the structure and division. after reading. So here's Psalm 49, 1, 1 to 12. So Psalm 49, 1 to 12. If you don't have a Bible, please take one of ours as a gift from us to you if you're a visitor. Psalm forty nine, one through twelve. To the chief musician, a psalm of the sons of Korah. Hear this, all peoples, give ear all inhabitants of the world, both low and high. Rich and poor together. My mouth shall speak wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall give understanding. I will incline my ear to a proverb, I will disclose my dark saying on the Why should I fear in the days of evil when the iniquity at my heels surrounds me? His brother, nor give to God a ransom for him, for the redemption of their souls is costly, and it shall cease forever, that he should continue to live eternally. And not see the pit. For he sees wise men die, likewise the fool and the senseless person perish, and leave their wealth to others. The inner thought is that their houses will last forever, their dwelling places To all generations. They call their lands after their own names. Nevertheless, man, though in honor, does not remain. He is like the beasts that perish Now I want you to look with me at three verses of this chapter, and two of them we just read. First, there's verse four. The speaker mentions a proverb, a dark saying, right? A riddle, basically. It's a profound riddle of life One we see throughout the scriptures. Why do the wicked prosper? The response to this conundrum in Verse 12 is repeated in verse 20 with slight variation. Notice the common words and phrases: Man in honor is like the beasts that perish. He does not remain as he is, and he does not understand what he'll be. Since verses 12 and 20 act like a refrain of a psalm. Or a poem. I've divided the psalm into two parts, verses 1 to 12 and verses 13 to 20. I'd like to go on further and quarter the psalm into four parts. Up to verse 4, we have the introductory call to heed wisdom. Verses 5 to 12 then is the explanation of the riddle, and I'll discuss the remaining parts next. Next week or willing. Today I'll be doing some stage setting and groundwork. As I dive into details, keep your head above waters and cling to two basic truths. Like a life ring, right? One, utility of wisdom, two, futility of wealth. Utility of wisdom and futility of wealth. Well, to put more meat on that, I'll give you a little bit longer principle here. I'll say one, give ear to wisdom that applies to all. Give ear to wisdom that applies to all. That's verses one to four And two, take it to heart that death waits us all. Take it to heart that death waits us all. That's verses 5 to 12. And I'll repeat these points. But first, give ear to wisdom that applies to all. And before I get to the numbered verses, I must speak of the what's called the superscription over the song Over above the song, above verse 1 in your Bibles, to the chief musician, a psalm of the sons of Korah. Though these superscriptions are not numbered, they're part of the inspired and in the Errant word of God. We might skip over them in the call to worship, but we shouldn't skip over them in our devotionals, Bible studies, and sermons. So let's talk about this one. The chief musician is mentioned over 50 times in the Psalms and once in Habakkuk. A modern parallel might be a choir director, a worship leader. We know a few who held this office in other passages, but none are named here. We don't know much about the musician, but we do know who wrote the lyrics. The sons of Korah, they have a long history. They're of the tribe of Levi from the line of Kohak, distant relatives of the priests But from the same trial. So naturally, you expect them to be involved in the worship of Israel. But their forefather Korah did not have a good reputation. The earth opened up its mouth against him and fellow revilers. And God judged them right there. But we do learn later that his children did not die. Korah's descendants built a better legacy than Korah. They became gatekeepers of the tabernacle and the temple, musicians and worshipers. Some held important titles and positions, one of the most famous being Samuel the prophet. They wrote eleven psalms Forty two, forty-four to forty-nine, eighty-four, eighty-five, eighty-seven, eighty-eight. So that answers the question of Who wrote Psalm 49? As for when? It's hard to tell. You might look for clues in the text, but the topics covered are universal concerns, right? Death, afterlife, wealth, legacy. So on general, so makes it hard to pin down a specific time in Old Testament history. I am confident in identifying Psalm 49. as a wisdom psalm in category that answers the question of what as in what type of what kind of psalm is Psalm 49 It may seem strange to see those words together, like wisdom and psalm, but I've already taught about uh thought about this and taught on this um about four years ago during COVID lockdown I preached a topical sermon. Entitled Wisdom in Psalms. And it's April 3rd, 2020, if you want to look it up in the archives. And I looked at the manuscript again and found it still good and helpful. I'll share a portion of it. And so when we there are several ways to approach wisdom and psalms, right? One way is to look up key words like wise or wisdom. In the book of Psalms. Or one could compare what this book says about wisdom in context of other poetic books, such as Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and so on. Solomon. Yet another way is to classify certain chapters of Psalms into a genre called Wisdom Psalms But this is not an easy task, as scholars have debated for decades as to what exactly makes a psalm a wisdom type. Commentator Greg Craig Broyles considers three. Characteristics. One, emphasis on teaching skillful living, not on addressing God directly in worship. Two, usage of formulaic expression Of wisdom literature like Blessed is, numerical sayings, necrostics. Three, inclusion of wisdom themes like instructions for daily living and the prime of the prosperity of the wicked. And I'll be mainly using this approach of classifying Psalms into wicked Psalms and here's one more thought from Broil's a practical note of warning, and I'll paraphrase it. We must be wary of the modern thinking that worship and wisdom, church and school, corporate singing and daily living are incompatible, separate, distinct, and should stay that way But let no foolish or irreverent man separate what God has joined together: wisdom and worship. There's wisdom in the context of worship, there's worship in the context of wisdom. I go on to add that this combination of wisdom and psalm continues even in the New Testament. Paul tells the Colossian church in chapter 3, verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all. Wisdom teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Psalm forty-nine, to get down to it here, was available to the early church and is available for us in our worship. So it's while we give glory to God that we give ear to wisdom that applies to all. And by all, the psalm as one of the representatives of the sons of Qorah really means all. He says in verses 1 and 2: Give ear, not just the Israelites, but all inhabitants of the Israelites. the world. Listen up both low and high, whether you're a bottom feeder or you sit up high in the upper estrogen on of the society. Hear ye, hear ye, rich and poor together. All the Scrooges and all your Bob Cratchits, right? All of them together. Now that he has everyone's attention, the author declares his intentions. He's eager to impart wisdom and understanding, as you see in verse 3. And these are Personal insights. They come from his mouth and his heart. We also see that this man's a good speaker because he's a good listener. The one who demands give ear has a Inclined his own ear. He has disciplined himself to listen to God. He elaborates on a short saying, he illuminates a dark saying. He smouled over, chewed over, brooded over, the proverb in verses twelve and twenty. He's meditated, ruminated, contemplated. He's picked up his pen, and now he takes up his harp. His audience must give ear to wisdom that applies to all. Okay, so that's the utility of wisdom. Let's go on to verse 5 and we speak of the futility of wealth. Take it to heart that death wakes us all. Now it seems strange to seek comfort in the certainty of death, but that's precisely what the writer is doing. He's in some tough season of life, in what he calls in the days of evil. I take that just mean that someone else's iniquity or sin Affecting him. It's not some distant problem far from him. It's nipping and biting at his heels. It surrounds him, overwhelms him, besets him. And we see that the ones responsible for this evil and iniquity are those well off. To be clear, it's it's too general to say all who prosper are bad. Within limits there's nothing wrong with financial success. Some of the men are studying the Ecclesiastes, right? Ecclesiastes 5. 19 tells us As for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth and given him power to eat of it, to receive his heritage and rejoice in his labor. This is the gift of God. Think of the patriarchs and the great saints of old. Look at Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and also Job and David. They proved you could be faithful and affluent at the same time. They had wealth, but they stored Up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come. They didn't hold on to the things of this life. Rather, they laid hold on eternal life. So And all that to say the sons of Korah are bothered, not by all in the upper class, but only a subset of them. They are specifically those who trust and boast in their abundance, not in the living God. They're those who do not make God their strength, but set their hearts on the increase of the They're riches. They're those who serve mammon, not God. I love to know exactly what and how the money worshippers hurt the sons of Korah, but it's the Difficult to press for more details. Maybe something happened like the case of Ahab and Nabat in 1 Kings 21. Or perhaps it wasn't just one particular incident Could it be that one day all the injustices were piling on them like when it rains it pours? Did the psalmist nearly stumble and slip in his faith like Asaph in Psalm 73? It's a good psalm, by the way. Maybe you can look at it later. I'll just read you a portion of Psalm 73, verses three to nine. I was envious of the both When I saw the prosperity of the wicked, but there are no pangs in their death, but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men, nor are they plagued like other men. Therefore, pride serves as their necklace. Violence covers them like a garment. Their eyes bulge with abundance. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens and their tongue walks through the earth. There's a lot of overlap between Psalms. Psalms 49 and 73. My view is that the two deal with the same basic problem, but there are of course differences in their approach. For one, whereas Aesap had his moment of doubt, right, eventually restored his faith in God, it appears the children of Korah didn't waver as much, if at all. You go back to Psalm 49 verse 5. In the face of evil they ask in unison, defiantly, why should I fear? There's another contrast. Aesap had to enter the sanctuary of God to snap out of it. With Psalm 49, it's better to picture a funeral home in the graveyard. It's good to remember that. Memento mori, right? It's true that the heart of the wise is in the house of mourning. That is the end of all men. And the living will take it to heart. Now, of course, not everyone will respond wisely when facing their mortality. Some delude them. themselves. They refuse to accept that there are some things money can't buy. Their wealth has purchased so many pleasures in life, it got them out of trouble many times. Why can't it get them out of the trouble? Of death. The easy answer is that the soul is too expensive, even for them, they simply can't afford it. Now we need to define this word soul in verse. In this context, soul is not contrasted with body and or spirit, as is the case in some other passages. Here in Psalm forty nine, soul simply means life, the human life. You'll see that in some other translations So we're reminded here and elsewhere that one's life is worth more than anything, more than everything, more than all things, even the whole world. Even if the three richest Americans, right, so that's Elon Musk, Jeff Basil's and Mark Zuckerberg, if they pull their wealth, that's last time I checked, uh five hundred sixty eight point one billion dollars. They can't bring their loved ones back from the grave. They feel the same fear of death. As most no matter how much they accumulate, they're no different than us who come up short. God's not going to bargain or strike a deal so that they live forever on That is the great equalizer. In the end, in the view of the end, the rich has no advantage over the poor Take it to heart that death waits us all. Now it's as if the all the rich and famous Went swimming in search of the fountain of youth, but what happened? They find themselves stuck and sinking in quicksand. It's an inescapable place called the Pit. At the end of verse 9. The pit is fittingly synonymous with Shoal, the realm of the dead. It's the other world beyond this one, the place of corruption All rich or poor, good and evil, are on their way to death. All roads lead to the grave, and verse 10 makes this point clear And if you look there, both the wise who fear the Lord and the foolish and senseless end in shame. They know they can't take their treasures with them when they pass from here. I'll never forget while learning ancient Egyptian history, right? I learned it in college, it was just when I was young. You know, seeing them fill their pharaohs' tombs with food, clothes, jewelry, boats, oil, ointment. Etc. They thought that ease their transition to the underworld. I don't believe that, right? We laugh at that. We need to believe Job, who said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. For dust we are, this is back in Genesis, and to dust we shall return. But the foolish man is stubborn, right? Live up live long enough to know how stubborn we can be. Imagine being without the grace of God how stubborn we would have been, right? And the foolish man is stubborn, he won't quit boasting in his riches. He might say, Okay, I can't take it with me. Fine, I'll leave behind a legacy. My houses will last forever, my dwelling places to all generations. My name will endure because I'll name after myself lands, streets, buildings, stadiums. And that's the point of verse eleven, right? Well going on to verse twelve, what's the point in all that when man though in honor does not remain Ultimately they're no better than dead animals, right? They may have lived as they pleased. They may have been like a mighty roaring lion in life, not turning from any But they can't stand up to death. Once they see they can't win, they do anything to be spared. Anything to remain as a living dog, then rather than be a dead lion, right? So take it to heart that that waits us all. Do not fear in the days of evil when iniquity surrounds you. When the ungodly have all the power, despite the appearances, they're no better than us. And next week, Lord willing, we'll see what distinguishes the wise saints from the foolish unbelievers in the face of death. This week we'll dwell on these truths: utility of wisdom. and the futility of wealth. And this week, throughout this week, please see that Jesus understood both of these truths perfectly. He knew what it means to be rich. He knew what it means to be poor. Cited this earlier. Our Lord Jesus Christ, though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor. That we through his poverty might become rich. Brightness of God's glory, the express image of his person equal with God, yet he made himself of no one. No reputation, taking the form of a bond servant, coming in the likeness of men. We sang of this humility earlier, thrones for a manger, disrurrender, sapphire paid courts for stable food. For. So instead of rags to riches, our Lord Savior went from riches to rags. He who dwells on high stretched out heavens like a curtain. Roan homeless on earth. Jesus said of himself, Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And on a Sunday like this one about 2,000 years ago in Jerusalem, the people saw our majesty And we sing about how his chariots of wrath of deep thunderclouds form, riding on a donkey. Christ certainly deserves much better than that. He's perfect, holy, perfectly wise, a wise man like the sons of Korah. In fact, the gospel writer Matthew in Matthew 13, 34 to 35, observe how Jesus fulfilled Psalm 78, verse 2. Like Asaph, Jesus opened his mouth in parables and other things. Kept secret from the foundation of the world. But the people did not give ear to his wisdom. He was in the world, and the world was made through him And the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. All the people, the Pharisees, the religious leaders who knew the scriptures best, derided Jesus. Why? Because they served mammon, not God. They were outwardly clean, yes, but their inward part was full of greed. Turns out they weren't the only ones sick of Jesus speaking against the love of money. They found a willing partner in his own circle. Judas Iscariot who betrayed Christ. This betrayal led to the crucifixion, as you know, right? But this was all part of God's amazing plan of salvation. Salvation. Jesus died on the cross for our iniquities, our idolatry, our money, greed, covetousness, vanity, pride. There's a penalty for that, all of that is hell to pay. The wages of sin is death. There's nothing we can give out of our pockets to save ourselves from God's wrath. But here's the good news. Christ came to give his life a ransom for many. He became our substitute. And how precious is that life? What price can we put on it? If the redemption of our souls is costly, how much more the redeemer of our souls? At the cross he willingly took on himself the punishment we deserved. He satisfied our debt And then as a sign of his word and effective sacrifice, he was buried with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mind. Mount as Isaiah says. He rose from the dead on the third day, ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Before it's too late, know this well riches do not profit in the day of wrath. But if we repent, turn from sin, turn to Jesus and trust in Him, we can be declared righteous. There's nothing we can pay to buy eternal life. It is undeserved, unmerited gift of God. The Lord saves us by grace alone. Through faith alone, in Christ alone. So let's sing our final song now and remind ourselves of this truth, and hopefully throughout this week. What riches of kindness he lavished on us! His blood was the payment, his life was the cost. We stood neath a debt we could never afford. Our sins they are many. His mercy is more. Let's pray. Lord, we hear the warnings of the Bible. Lord, we don't have to be in the force five hundred to fall in love with money to think that we're gonna live forever. We don't have to be young or old. To realize this truth, doesn't matter what stage of life. We don't know how many days we have on earth. So we pray that it would be the highest priority in our lives To be right with you, to turn from sin and to trust in you. To realize that no matter what kind of life we build here, it comes. To nothing because we we are fallen creatures because of what happened in the Garden of Eden, because of what we have done Throughout our lives. But we need to think about these things. May we not wait until the next funeral. May we not wait until our own funeral because by then it'll be too late. But we pray that even if we are saved, even if we are assured that we're going to heaven, help us us to live each and every day. Just making just uh redeeming our time here. Making the most of the time You've given us and to think of those who do not share the hope that we have. We thank you for the redemption that was just finished for us Paid for us on our behalf. Through your son, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.