So today we're starting a new sermon series from the book of Ruth. And there are several motivations for this. For example, I wanted to preach from this book because Valentine's Day is around the corner. I'd much rather prefer this than trying to preach from the Song of Solomon. But also we must study the Old Testament and see how its individual parts and messages relate to the grand plan of God's redemption. So as much as we may celebrate the faith of Ruth and Naomi and the kindness of Boaz, I hope you are amazed by God and his work and what he's doing. So we're gonna go there to Rue chapter 1. It's a lot to cover, but we'll get through it. Rue chapter 1, you'll see the passage in the bulletin insert along with the sermon points. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to dwell in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, the name of his wife was Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Malon and Kileon, Aphrodites of Bethlehem, Judah. And they went to the country of Moab and remained there. Then Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died, and she was left, and her two sons. Now they took wives of the women of Moab, the name of the one was Of Orfa, and the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelt there about ten years. Then both Malon and Kileon also died. So the woman survived her two sons and her husband. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab that the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. Therefore she went out from the place where she was, and her two daughters in hall daughters-in-law with her, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each in the house of her husband. So she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, Surely we will return with you to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Are there still sons in my womb that they may be your husbands? Turn back, my daughters, go, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, if I should have a husband tonight and should also bear sons, would you wait for them till they were grown? Would you restrain yourselves from having husbands? No, my daughters, for it grieves me very much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her. And she said, Look, your sister in law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister in law. But Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave you, or to turn back from following after you. For wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but death parts you and me When she saw that she was determined to go with her, she stopped speaking to her. Now the two of them went until they came to Bethlehem. And it happened when they had come to Bethlehem that all the city was excited because of them. And the woman said, Is this Naomi? But she said to them, Do not call me Naomi, call me Mara. For the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why do you call me Naomi, since the Lord has testified against me? And the Almighty has afflicted me. So now we return, and root the Moabitis, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned from the country of Moab. Now they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. I believe in this chapter you will learn three lessons about God. So one, God allows tragedies for our discomfort in this world. Verses 1 to 5. 2. The Lord is kind and worthy of our devotion. Verses 6 to 18. Main body of this chapter. 3. The Almighty sovereignly directs his own to his community. Verses 19 to 22 First, God allows tragedies for our discomfort in this world. In the first few verses of Ruth, we have an introductory prologue or just the introduction to the story, the background. In broad strokes, we are given the most pertinent background information of Naomi. We can find answers to vital questions. Who are Ruth and Naomi? Where did they come from? What happened to them? We learn in verse one that Naomi lived in Israel during the days of judges and famine. She lived during the period between Joshua's death and the beginning of monarchy under Saul, sometime between the fifteenth And in the 11th century. Since her daughter-in-law Ruth was the great-grandmother of King David, we can probably place the events of this book in the timeline about 100 years before David. Closer to the end of the judges' period than the beginning. Consistent throughout the period of judges, from the beginning to the end, was the downward spiral of moral decadence in society. And the spiritual problems led to physical problems. That is, the spiritual problems in the days when the judges ruled led to the physical problems, such as a famine in the land. Though we cannot say the same about famines today, the nation of Israel at that time was under God's special care and at times of sin and apostasy, his discipline. This connection is made clear when we remember warnings of Moses in places like Deuteronomy chapter 11, verses 13 to 17. We read in the second sentence in verse 1 and all of verse 2 that a man named Elimelech took his wife Naomi, their sons Balon and Kileon, and left their hometown of Bethlehem. They have belonged to the tribe of Judah and they were Ephrodites, that is descendants of Aphrath, the founder of Bethlehem, according to 1 Chronicles 4. 4. The famine must have been severe enough for Elimelech to uproot his family, though we're not sure exactly why he chose Moab. At worst, they were disobedient and longed to serve the gods of Moabites, who were distantly related to Israelites. At best, Elimelech made an unwise decision that eventually led to the tragic death of all males in the family. Before they died, the sons Malon and Kileon took for themselves Moabite women, Ruth and Orpah respectively. By verse five, we have three childless widows, but Naomi was in the worst position of all, adding to her sorrowful position, statuses of foreigner, elderly, and I think try to prove where Elimelech and Naomi went wrong would be the miss would be missing the point of this passage. As much as I want to blame alimelech for poor leadership and his sons for marrying foreign wives, I want to stick to the principle I clearly see here. God allows tragedies for our discomfort in this world. And I could say it differently. God allows tragedies to get our attention in this world. Maybe Elimelech thought he could find security away from the land of promise. It may be that he and his family were getting comfortable in Moab, sojourning for almost 10 years. Whatever the motivation, three deaths follow, and the stage is set for Naomi's return to Bethlehem. A tragedy strikes all of us. We're affected by death everywhere. We can try to avoid it all we want. changing our address, moving to a supposedly safer place, but we can't avoid it. Terminal disease affects the elderly near triple digits in age. But it also affects little children in single digits. Around the age of 40, fatal accidents can strike an ordinary man like me Or it can strike a retired world-famous basketball legend, $600 million in net worth, dying in a helicopter crash with his 13-year-old daughter. God is good and he is powerful and yet he allows the consequences of our sins and other sins to hurt us directly and tangentially. But thankfully there is a purpose behind the pain, and we sang about that a lot this morning. Even if we don't understand what God is doing. We can trust that he is the grand weaver, as Rafi Ravi Zacharias likes to call it As you read and apply the story of Naomi, and as we listen to the background story of our suffering neighbors and friends, may we practice godly restraint. It's easy for us to be like Joe's friends and default to an overly simplistic way of thinking, almost like an equation. Your husband did something wrong and that's why you're going through this. If only you did this, then you would be that. Perhaps a better way to sympathize with someone like Naomi is telling them that their pain does not have to be the end of the story. It could be the beginning of the narrative. How often do I hear testimonies that begin with terrible personal tragedies like this one? Let's share the gospel with them. And love of Christ with them, and see where the Lord takes this person. Commentator John Reed writes, quote, The Book of Ruth gleams like a beautiful pearl against a jet black background. David Howard Jr. has something similar to say, quote, In it we see things working out right for all the main characters, and the reader finishes the story with a satisfied feeling. that all is well. Things really do work together for th for good to those who love God, as Paul was to write many years later. End quote. So in verses 1 to 5, we get that jet black background, and let's see how the pearl begins to shine and things work together for good in the next part of the passage. And as we look at the next point, the Lord is kind and worthy of our devotion. In verse 6, we zoom into the life of Naomi, still in Moab with her two daughters-in-law, but hearing that the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. Now would she have cared to return if she had her husband and her sons? Would she have thought about a return if she had enough money? Who knows? But we do know that God puts us in desperate situations so that we might be desperate for Him. In verse 7, Naomi follows this lead. But in verses 8 and 9, Naomi stops to think about her young companions, Orpah and Ruth. While it would be natural for the matriarch to return to her country, the Moabite women would be strangers in a strange land. They were still young enough to return to their parents' homes and ask their mothers to help them remarry. They had fulfilled all their marital and filial duties to Naomi's men. Remaining with their husbands until death, giving them a proper burial, and taking care of the mother of their husbands. For such kindness, Naomi gives them the best she could give, a parting wish for rest and blessings. The word kindly there is an important word in the Book of Root and all throughout the Old Testament. It's Kesed, used as a noun, adjective, adverb. We're more most concerned with the meaning of the word. First and foremost, it speaks of God's covenantal loyalty to his people based on undeserved grace. Covenantal loyalty to his people based on undeserved grace. But people can also practice tested. Precisely because Rutan Orpah married Israelite men and showed kindness to the family, Naomi wanted them to have the full experience of God's kindness. Even though Naomi has suffered unbearable loss, she still holds on to God's goodness, the Lord's kindness. Her heart is still sensitive enough to acknowledge him, and she has not become self-absorbed to the point of aquatic towards others So overcome with emotion, the three women weep together. But in verse 10, Ruth and Orpah resolve to stay with Naomi. So from verses eleven to thirteen, the mother-in-law speaks again. But this time with more force and conviction. It's a mixture of logic, grief, and care in all these words. She's too old to bear more sons to replace the one she has lost. Even if by some miracle she could marry that very night and conceive sons right away, it would not make sense for the young widows to wait close to two decades for them to reach full adulthood. So Naomi concludes with the last sentence at the second half of verse 13. No, my daughters, for it grieves me very much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. A note on the translation. I think it's better to follow the translation of New American Standard Bible, which says, No my daughters, for it is harder for me than for you. For it's harder for me than for you. For the hand of the Lord has gone forth against me. It's not that Naomi is suffering in place of Ruth and Orpah. Naomi is saying that she's suffering worst among the three. They were young enough to remarry and have children while she wasn't. The same hand that punished enemy nations and disciplined Israel has gone out against her. The only Israelite left in the family. Her conclusion was that Yahweh has singled her out and is drawing her back to Jerusalem, back to Bethlehem. As we look at our words, please don't think that Naomi is contradicting herself. The same Yahweh that she implores for their safety It's the same Yahweh that is revealed in his severity. The hand which opens to distribute bread is the same hand that went out against her. In the theology of Naomi, God is both good and great, merciful and powerful, gentle and firm. And the Lord is worthy of her devotion, worthy of the long trek back to the land of his promise. The woman weep again in verse 14, and Orpah returns to her home just as Naomi asked. But you see at the end of verse 14 that root clung to Naomi. And we should not miss the significance of this. The word clung is the same word found in Genesis 2. 24, the institution of marriage, in which a man leaves his parents to be with his wife. Ruth is not just going away for a season to stay with relatives. She's not going abroad as an exchange student. She's not going abroad just for a work assignment. She's making a life-shattering decision to leave behind her Moabite light to become an Israelite. Naomi knew the huge cost of this decision. Ruth would be a stranger in Israel. She's leaving behind all that is familiar, her religion and identity. Comforts for vulnerability, stability for poverty. But just as Naomi made clear that they should leave, Ruth makes clear that she will cleave. Her words are worth repeating. Entreat me not to leave you or to turn back from following after you, for wherever you go, I will go. And wherever you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God, my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but that parts you and me. Evidently, Ruth was so convincing, Naomi stops trying to discourage her, as we see in verse 18. No, such loyalty should be the foundation of every covenant. There's a reason that some uh at some wedding ceremonies they read these verses, the words of Ruth. And we have largely forgotten the importance of covenants, whether it's the contract of matrimony, bonds of friendship, or commitment to the local church. No, if you are a member of Faith Bible Church, I want to remind you that you have signed the covenant. And it begins like this Having received the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and openly confessed them by means of water baptism, I desire to unite with this portion of his visible body, the church. And I hope that desire to unite is still in you. I hope that you look over that document repeatedly, not just once during your membership interview. Pray your desire to unite with like-minded believers is like the way Ruth clung to Naomi, like the way Jonathan and David pledged the kindness of the Lord with each other in 1 Samuel 18 and 20. C. S. Lewis said once, quote, friendship is born at that moment when one person says to another, What? You two? I thought I was the only one. Naomi thought she would be the only one on that road back to Bethlehem, but she wasn't. Ruth also thought the Lord is kind and worthy of devotion. You know, I can speak from experience, and maybe you too, that then that when I get into lonely valleys of despair, God takes me out of introspection into extrospection. Here's what I mean. Sometimes when I forget the joy of salvation, God leads me to a new convert who is full of joy. If I lose the childlike faith in Jesus, he might show me a child who loves the Lord with all his or her little heart. In the same way, when the veteran of faith, Naomi, was at her worst, the newer convert root was at her best. Now this is why it's so important to cling to a local body of believers through membership. And that leads to the third principle. The Almighty sovereignly directs his own to his community. In verse 19, Naomi and Ruth arrive at their destination, Bethlehem, where they will assimilate into a bigger group of God's people. There's a commotion as the woman barely recognized their former friend and neighbor. Is this Naomi? The woman asked. In verse 20, the matriarch hears her name, which comes from the Hebrew word for pleasantness, and she recoils. There's nothing pleasant about what she has endured. Her very identity has been shaken to the point that she asks to be called Mara, which means bitter. And she calls out the God's name of Almighty, along with the uh name of Yahweh, the covenant-fulfilling God. Almighty has dealt very bitterly with her. She continues in verse 21, testifying how she went out full but came back empty. Now at this point in the story, it's difficult for Naomi to look beyond her plight. So she invokes the name of Almighty again, wanting to emphasize God's awesome power under which she has suffered. She felt as if she was under attack by the Lord, like she was defending in a courtroom. But even while voicing her complaint, Naomi still had faith. She must have known that God is the defender of widows. Psalm 68 verse 5. The same hand that has gone out against her is writing her narrative. The Lord Almighty has sovereignly directed her to a community of believers. I find it interesting that Naomi can be so brutally honest with these women of Bethlehem. There seems to be a safety in numbers, a sorority of sympathy. A place to bear her soul. So Naomi is back in Bethlehem, in the midst of others who follow Yahweh, she will begin to heal in her soul. Bethlehem, not Moab, is where Ruth would grow in her newfound faith. The beginning of the barley harvest would lead them to vote to God's provision. In the same way, it's the fellowship of believers, the church, and not the world, where we ought to seek the provisions of God Now as you read today's passage, you may sympathize with Ruth or Naomi or both With root, because maybe you know what it takes to be loyal to your family during tough times and be faithful to God But though you may be impressed with the willingness of Ruth to leave behind everything to follow Naomi, I hope you are more impressed with Jesus. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. He understands what it means to come to Bethlehem in poverty. Leaving behind sapphire-paved courts for stable floor, as the hymn goes. He came from heaven in majesty to earth in frailty, so that he might save us. And here's why we need saving. Like Naomi, wherever we go in this world, we won't be able to escape the effects of death. Death is all around us in the country, suburbs, cities. It affects the young and the old, rich and poor, Israelite and Gentile. That's because all of us are under the just sentence of that, which in essence is separation. Separation from our own bodies, our family and friends, and most importantly, separation from God. We're under this sentence because all of us have sinned in word, thought, and deed, passively, actively, and the wages of sin is death. Without Jesus saving us, we will first die on earth and then die a second death in hell forever. Now there is a way to find the guarantee that you won't face the second death. Jesus lived the perfect life and went to the cross. And you would think that the one being who did not have a sin nature and never sinned would be exempt from the penalty of sin. So why did Jesus die? He died on the cross bearing the consequences of our sins. He became our substitute. He demonstrated his covenantal love for you. Not while we were friends of God, but while we were still enemies. He rose again from the dead, ascended to heaven, and now offers you the gift of eternal life. So with Christ, though you may face physical death, you will never have to worry about hell. Though that could separate Ruth and Naomi, nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. The way to receive eternal life is to trust in Christ alone. You cannot earn it or deserve it. Turn away from your God's sins and the world you call home and turn to Jesus. Repentance and faith towards heaven And because it is all grace, all we can say to God is thank you. So let's do just that as we end our time together with the hymn and communion. Let's pray. Lord, we do truly thank you that in this world