Marriage. Marriage is what brings us together today Marriage, that blessed arrangement, that doing within a dream Okay, I did not develop the speech impediment of rhodoticism since last week. I'm just quoting from what I consider to be one of the greatest romantic fantasy movies of all time. It's an adaptation of a book entitled Princess Bride. Now I wanted to quote that at weddings I've officiated, but I just didn't have the guts to do it. Thanks for being my guinea pig if I ever get to officiate a wedding. But um again. So there's much in that nineteen eighty-seven movie to appeal to all kinds of people. Um There's a fictional country, pirates, a giant, sword fights, revenge, evil prince, rodents of unusual size. Pit of Despair, Poison Cup, Healer, Storming the Castle. But all these fictional elements, as fantastic as they may be, Do not compare to the most important theme of love, true love, in that movie, in the book. And the romance between the two protagonists is what begins the story Drives the story and concludes the story. It's a thing that appeals to all, Christians and non-Christians alike. We're all God's image-bearers. Unlike Princess Bride, the story of Ruth is true history. Everything you read in there is true. Like Princess Bride, there is the theme of true love. But that true love in context of the entire Bible points to a relationship not between two humans, but between fallen mankind, trapped in sin. And God who would pursue and redeem his people as his bride. So let's take a look at Ruth chapter 4 to learn about divine love and redemption. Concluding the chapter, the concluding chapter of this book of Ruth. You'll find the passage in the insert there. Otherwise turn with me to your Bible in to Ruth chapter four. Now Boaz went up to the gate and sat down there, and behold, The close relative of whom Boaz had spoken came by. So Boaz said, Come aside, friend, sit down here. So keep he so he came aside and sat down And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here so they sat down. Then he said to the close relative, Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, Sold a piece of land which belonged to our brother Elimelech. And I thought to inform you saying, buy it back in the presence of the inhabitants and the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is no one but you to redeem it, and I am next after you. And he said, I will redeem it Then Boaz said, On the day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you must also buy it from Ruth the Moabitis, the wife of the dead, to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance. And the close relative said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I ruin my own inheritance. You redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging, to confirm anything. One man took off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was a confirmation in Israel. Therefore the close relative said to Bos, Buy it for yourself. So he took off his sandal. And Boaz said to the elders and all the people, You are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Kileon's and Malon's. From the hand of Naomi. Moreover, Ruthamoebitus, the widow of Maulon, I have acquired as my wife To perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from his position at the gate. You are witnesses this day. And all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. The Lord make the woman who is coming to your house like Rachel and Leah. The two who built the house of Israel, and may you prosper in Ephrata and be famous in Bethlehem. May your house be like the house of Paris, whom Tamar bought to Judah. Because of the offspring which the Lord will give you from this young woman. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife, and when he went into her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. Then the woman said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, who has not left you this day without a close relative, and may his name be famous in Israel And may he be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age. For your daughter-in-law, who loves you, who is better to you than seven sons, has born him. Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her bosom, and became a nurse to him. Also, the neighbor woman gave him a name, saying, There's a son born to Naomi, and they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. Now this is the genealogy of Paris. Paris begot Hezron, Hezron begot Ram, and Ram begot Aminadah. Aminadab begot Nashon and Nashon begot Salomon, Salomon begot Boaz, and Boaz begot Obed. Obed begot Jesse and Jesse begot David. So I believe we can learn three lessons about God's redemption from this passage. One, the refusal of redemption is common, verses one to eight. 2. The realization of redemption is noble, verses 9 to 12. 3. The reward of redemption is lasting. Verses 13 to 22. First, the refusal of redemption is common. Now, I don't mean common in a good way, like the way we talk about common courtesy or customs I'm saying that redemption requires sacrifice. And by our sinful nature, we are selfish and self-centered people. So rather than being mad at this unnamed man who refused to redeem, we should see ourselves in him. Our first instinct and priority are to preserve ourselves, our possessions With that in mind, let's start with verse 1. While Ruth and Naomi are sitting and waiting, Boaz went to the gate of Bethlehem to sit. Just to be clear, he's not sitting around and doing nothing. According to the commentary of F. B. Huey Jr. , the City Gate was, quote, a kind of outdoor court. The place where judicial matters were resolved by the elders and those who had earned the confidence and respect of the people. A place for business and as a kind of a forum or public meeting place. Here Boaz locates the closer Kinsman Redeemer he spoke of back in chapter three, verse twelve, and pulls him aside. We still don't know the exact nature of this man's relationship with Elimelech, only that he's closer to him than Boaz. We don't know his name either, so we'll have to assign him a name like John Doe. The author of Ruth decided to leave it out along with the exact relationship to Elimelech, probably to protect his reputation. The Puritan minister Matthew Poole write, quote, doubtless Boaz both knew his name and called them by it, but it is omitted by the holy writer, partly because it was unnecessary to know it, and principally in way of contempt. As is usual, and a just punishment upon him, that he who would not preserve his brother's name might lose his own, and lie buried in the grave of perpetual oblivion. So harsh words from commentators. Next in verse 2, Boaz gathers ten men to be witnesses of the transaction about to take place. These elders were respected and well-known men of the city. They too take their seats at the gate, as Boaz explains the plight of Naomi in verse 3. The New King James Version confusingly implies that she has already sold the field, but the verb there is better translated as is selling or interpreted as has decided to sell. In verse four, Boaz tells the unnamed redeemer to purchase the piece of land to keep the property in the family And for a similar situation, you can turn to Jeremiah 32, verse 6 to 12. You can look at it later. So if this closest Redeemer won't do it, Boaz himself will do it. And the man says yes to the redemption initially. Next in verse five, Boaz reveals that if he really wants to redeem the piece of land, there's more to do. He must in addition perpetuate the name of the dead by marrying Ruth the Moabitis and having a son through her to continue the line of inheritance. As you know, Naomi was too old and long past the years of childbearing. But Ruth wasn't. The Redeemer refuses in verse 6 and asks Boaz to take his place. So there's a lot going on here, so let's slow down and let's analyze these verses in more depth. David Howard Jr. comments on two interpretive issues. And two questions. First, he asks, quote, why did Naomi appear so destitute early in the book if she in fact had owned property such as this? Now, the author of this book does not answer this question. Perhaps the property was taken over by someone else when the family moved to Moab many years ago, depriving her of any fruits of that land. The second question is this one, quote, what occasioned the near relative's initial acceptance and subsequent change of mind in verses 4 to 6? And here's Howard's answer, quote, assuming that he did not know about Ruth initially, undoubtedly he saw an opportunity for an improvement in his own will. Even if he were obligated to care for Naomi, she was old, and the field would have been his when she died, presumably in the not so distant future. However, Ruth's presence suggested that she or the son born to her by this man would retain or regain rights to the land after Naomi's death. Thus he would have endangered his own wealth by assuming the care and keeping of Ruth and any other children along with Naomi. So his an answer was in essence, I do not have the resources to do this. John Reed essentially agrees with Howard and asks that if Ruth bears a son He would inherit not only the land but a part of the redeemer's inheritance as well. To seal the deal, the anonymous relative had to give his sandal to Bois. The sandal represents the God-given rights to walk on a property as his own. And we see that symbolism in Deuteronomy 1, Deuteronomy 11, Joshua 1, and 14. Deuteronomy 25, verses 5 to 10 gives the most detail concerning this symbolic custom. There you see that if the man refuses to raise up his brother's name as the Redeemer The widowed wife would come up to him in the presence of witnesses to take his sandal, spit on his face, and give him a shameful name. But this man is spared from such shame because Boaz took his place and no one was dishonored. So only the removal of the sandal took place in verse 8. To return to the point I made at the beginning, it's easy for us to vilify this man who refused to redeem brute. But really, we as fallen humans are closer to this man than Boaz. We would rather preserve our own legacies inheritance, plans, then help others, whether neighbors or relatives. Now Paul has to tell saved born-again Christians in Philippians 2 verses 3 to 4. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each be looked out not only for his own interests. but also for the interests of others. And you read the rest of that chapter and Christ is the perfect example of that. Now, if saints have to be told to stop being selfish and conceited, how much for the unsaved, right, who don't have the example of Christ or the indwelling spirit? Indeed, the refusal to redeem, to help others, to save others is common. But Boaz through uh Boaz, though he's a sinner like us, was not common in this occasion. He possessed noble faith. And that leads to the second principle. The realization of redemption is noble. Boaz does exactly what the other guy should have done. He addresses the ten-seated witnesses and the others standing and watching. The emphasis in verse 9 is on the material possessions that were at risk. The emphasis in verse 10 is the marriage covenant with root that would be the key to redemption. John Reed again notes how every member of the family is mentioned in these two verses, verses 9 and 10. And the key figure here, the channel of their lasting legacy and blessing, Ruth the Moabites. Truly, God has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead, as it was said. back in chapter two verse twenty. Boaz's proposal is formally approved by the witnesses and the people of Bethlehem in verse eleven. The prayer of the people in that verse is amazing because Ruth the Moabites, once an outsider, is compared to the two great matriarchs of Israel Ruth was barren as Rachel once was, but the people intercede for her. The phrase, may you prosper, is literally may you make valor or make qair. You may recall from last time that the word is very context sensitive in chapter 2 verse 1. The word is used to introduce Boaz as a man of great wealth. In chapter 3, verse 11. Boaz himself uses the word to praise Ruth as a virtuous woman. Now, here in chapter 4, verse 11, the townspeople wish that Boaz and Ruth would have Cair together. Prosperity in marriage. Not prosperity primarily in wealth, but prosperity in God's kindness. I say dwell as a family in Ephrata, which is another name for Bethlehem. They pray that when the name of Boaz is mentioned in the town, people would praise the name of Yahweh. In verse twelve, the people invoke another prayer, this time comparing the house of Boaz to the house of Paris, his ancestor. This connection is also appropriate as the story of Paris' mother Tamar and Judah has key affinities with the story of Ruth and Boas. The widow of Rud found a redeemer in Boaz to perpetuate the name of Malon, her late husband. So also the twice widowed Tamar found in Judah a redeemer to perpetuate the name of Er, her late husband. Now there are of course stark contrasts. The entire story of Genesis 38 is a complex one of irresponsibility. Immorality and guile from Judah and Tamar. But Ruth and Boaz have been nothing but noble in pursuing and realizing the redemption. Ruth is a feel-good story because good guys win. Of course not every act of nobility is rewarded like this. But we need reminders, and God knew that we needed reminders through this book, that God makes provisions for redemption and rewards those who are redeemed in this life and next. And that leads to the next point. The reward of redemption is lasting. In verse 13, we fast forward to the next year or two. Boaz and Luth marry and have a son. In verse 14, we hear from the women of Bethlehem again, first time in a while as a separate group. In the first chapter, when Naomi returned to Bethlehem, the women were shocked to see her destitution. Her response to their shock in verse 20 and 21 in chapter 1 was this. Do not call me Naomi. Call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why do you call me Naomi, since the Lord has testified against me? And the Almighty has afflicted me. But see how things have changed under God's providence. Now, the same group, the women of Bethlehem, say, Blessed be the Lord. The Lord who brought her home again empty has not left her to stay without a close relative, without a Goel. Like the elders and the people at the gate who asked for the fame of Boaz's name, the woman asked that this newborn name be famous in Israel. In the first half of verse 15, the woman also prayed that this child would be a source of her restoration in life and security as she faces her latter days on earth. In the second half of verse 15, we get to the blessing that Ruth has been to Naomi. The deep bond that began in the journey from Moab is now celebrated by the women. At the end of chapter one, while I'm sure Naomi was appreciative and grateful for Ruth, she was so engulfed in grief that she didn't even as much introduce her daughter-in-law as she arrived home. The joy of a faithful daughter-in-law evidently did not quench the sorrow of losing her husband and her two sons. But here we are. The woman exclaiming, Your daughter-in-law who loves you is better to you than seven sons. And look at the fullness of Naomi who came to the town empty. Boaz has become like a son to her, and Ruth is worth many sons. Now in verse 16, Naomi practically has a new lease in life. The afflicted one who has who once asked that her name be called Mara, bitter, is now paired with the name of the newborn, Obed, whose name means servant or worshiper. The bitter shock of is this Naomi is replaced by the joyous news in verse 17. There's a son born to Naomi. As she has become a nurse for Obad, the same takes on even more significance. The word for son in Hebrew, then, is the same word used to describe a descendant of multiple generations She's practically the mother and it really a mother as well. Ovet himself will grow up to be the father of Jesse, who is the father of David. The book of Ruth ends with a genealogy from Paras to David in verses eighteen to twenty-two. As I mentioned before, Salman was not the father of Boaz in the way we as modern English speakers understand the word father commonly. Genealogies can skip some generations. So Salman was an ancestor, forefather, probably a great-great-grandfather of Boas. But the point here is that the line is unbroken and Ro Root's role has been instrumental. While all these events were monumental in the lives of these individuals, they were but small pieces of puzzles in the grand picture that God is creating. God has a vision for what he wants to accomplish, and it's a wonderful privilege to be in his hands. Derek Kidner comments, quote, God's hand is all over history. God works out his purpose. Generation after generation. Limited as we are to one lifetime, each of us sees so little of what happens. A genealogy is a striking way of bringing before us the continuity of God's purpose through the ages. The process of history is not haphazard. There's a purpose in it all. And the purpose is the purpose of God. To be used for God's purpose is in itself a great reward. He has designed his redemption to be rewarding and lasting. So all the lessons we learn from this chapter and the entire book, in fact, points us to the beauty of a greater redemption. The redemption from our sins. Now, among us gathered here or listening online, those who don't really think that sin is not a big issue, right? If you don't think sin is a big issue, I want to point you to passages that reveal the seriousness of your predicament. In Romans 6, Paul uses the illustration of employees and wages to describe what kind of life we live apart from Christ. In that chapter, we are told that our occupation is slave of sin. And wages we earn as that slave is death, eternal condemnation in hell. Our master is Satan, the prince of the power of the air, according to Ephesians 2. There's nothing in us to change our position. No one could save us, no priest No prophet, no king from this world. They lack the power to save, and even if they have such power, there will be no willingness. As I said, the refusal to redeem is common. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. We in need of redemption is neither righteous nor good. Because we have sinned in thought, words, and actions, rebelling against God But our God is not common. God demonstrates his own love towards us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He is extraordinary in power, grace, love, and kindness. Hear his gentle words spoken to his people. Fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by your name. You are mine. He redeemed us, not from a distance. He sent Jesus, God who became man, who became for us our prophet, priest, and king. When no one would step up to save us, Jesus stepped up as our kinsman redeemer, our very own version of Boaz. But Jesus is more noble than Boaz in realizing our redemption. The price Jesus paid was not cash or property. Our place in heaven has been secured through the ultimate sacrifice of Jesus on the cross. In Jesus, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. After making this payment, he rose from the dead and ascended to heaven, proving to all that he truly is a redeemer. The redemption he has accomplished is not temporary, but eternal. And so is the inheritance that comes through him. See that in Hebrews 9, 12 and 15. The reward of Christ's redemption is everlasting. If you have not been redeemed by Jesus, please know that the payment has already been made. It's finished. All you need to do now is to turn away from your own efforts to redeem yourself. Your own good works. Your own life of sin. Nothing you do will change your occupation as a slave of sin, accruing the wages of eternal death. Repent and put your faith solely in Jesus and no one else. He is the able and willing Redeemer who can transform you into a slave of righteousness. He is noble and kind, realizing the redemption that is eternally rewarding. Not only do we become servants of righteousness, but children and heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. Not only do we become male and maidservants of God, we become the bridegroom and bride of our groom Jesus As his betrothed wife, know that Jesus Christ will return to be with us forever. Be confident in his works of redemption. I am his and he is mine, bought with the precious blood of Christ. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that as we look at these words that we may have heard all our lives growing up in the church, Redemption, salvation, advent, resurrection. Pray that they will not become hackneyed, that they will not be vain to us, mundane to us, but that every time we hear the word redemption or redeemer, that our hearts Well up in gratefulness with love for you, you who have loved us first, that we will redeem we were redeemed Through the blood of your son Jesus Christ, that we will remember the price that was paid for our salvation. Whether we've been walking with you for months or whether we've been walking with you for many years and decades. Pray that we will remember each and every day the mercies that are new, the price that has been paid, that you are our great redeemer, and your son is coming back. to take us home, to take us as his bride. For that we will live in purity here on earth. Just living in pursuit of sanctification by the power of the Spirit. We thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.