A melancholy eighteenth-century Englishman named William experienced such terrible depression that he contemplated suicide. He called for a carriage one night and ordered the driver to take him to the Ooze River, three miles away. And there he planned to jump to his death. The driver suspected something was wrong and was thankful as a thick fog enveloped the area. Took a wrong turn and wandered for a while as William fell into a deep sleep. Hours later, William woke up to find himself in front of his home. He paid his fare, saw how he was spared, and began to meditate on God's providence. This is William Cooper who wrote, God moves in a mysterious way. I wonder if he thought of that foggy night and that carriage driver as he wrote You fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds you so much dread are big with mercy, and shall break in blessings on your head And such is the way of providence that God works in mysterious ways. We cannot see much ahead of us through those thick, dreadful clouds, but soon we find that sunlight and the new morning mercies breaking forth. Worries and concerns of the world filling our minds with are replaced with blessings as the Lord reveals his goodwill. And even if that goodwill is not realized in this side of eternity, you find that joy for that day. But often we are able to discern how God is working for our good through strangers, friends, and circumstances And I think today's passage gives us an example of that, of God's providence. So let's look at today's passage in Luke chapter 2. And see an example of God's provision. You'll find a passage in the bulletin insert and also the sermon points along with it. Luke chapter 2. There was a relative of Naomi's husband, a man of great wealth, of the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz. So Ruth the Moabitis said to Naomi, please let me go to the field and glean heads of grain after him, in whose sight I might I may find favor. And she said to her, Go, my daughter. Then she left and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech. Now behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they answered him, The Lord bless you. Then Boaz said to his servant, servant who was in charge of the reapers, whose young woman is this? So the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered and said, It is the young Moabite woman who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab. And she said, Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheep. So she came and has continued from morning until now, though she rested a little in the house. Then Boaz said to Rud, You will listen, my daughter, will you not? Do not go to glean in another field, nor go from here, but stay close by my young women. Let your eyes be on the field which they reap, and go after them. Have I not commanded the young men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink from what the young men have drawn. So she fell on her face, bowed down to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner? And Boaz answered and said to her, It has been fully reported to me all that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband. and how you have captured uh how you have left your father and your mother and the land of your birth and come to a people whom you did not know before. The Lord repay your work. And a full reward be given you by the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings you have come for refuge. Then she said, Let me find favor in your sight, my Lord. For you have comforted me, and I've spoken kindly to your maidservant, though I am not like one of your maidservants. Now Boaz said to her at mealtime, come here and eat of the bread and dip your piece of bread in the vinegar. So she sat beside the reapers and he passed parched grain to her. And she ate and was satisfied and kept some back. And when she rose up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheeps, and do not reproach her. Also let grain from the bundles fall purposely for her, leave it that she may glean, and do not rebuke her. So she gleaned in the field until evening. and beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about an epa of barley. Then she took it up and went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned So she brought out and gave to her what she had kept back after she had been satisfied. And her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned today? And where did you work? Blessed be the one who took notice of you. So she told her mother in law with whom she had worked, and said, The man's name with whom I work today is Boaz. Then Naomi said to her daughter in law, Blessed be he of the Lord, who has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead. And Naomi said to her, This man is a relation of ours, one of our close relatives. Ruth the Moabitas said, He also said to me, You shall stay close by my young men until they have finished all my harvest. And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, it is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young woman. and that people do not meet you in any other field. So she stayed close by the by the young woman of Boaz to glean until the end of barley harvest and wheat harvest. And she dwelt with her mother-in-law. I believe there are four principles here based on four scenes or conversations. One, providence leads to opportunity for good, verses one to seven. 2. Faith leads to testimony of praise, verses 8 to 13. 3. Favor leads to hospitality of kindness. Verses 14 to 17. And four, wisdom leads to blessings of provision. Verses 18 to 23. You'll find those points in the bulletin insert. So chapter 2 begins with some background information on Boaz. He is a relative of Naomi's husband and of the family of Elimelech, but we are not told specifically how. We can infer from chapter 3 verse 12 that he's not Elimelech's brother, so a better guess is that he is Elimelech's nephew. There's more data we can gather from elsewhere. As we saw in our study of Matthew, Boaz is a descendant of Judah. And later Salmon, a man who lived during the conquest of Canaan under Joshua. We read in Matthew 1. 5 that Salmon begot Boaz by Reha. Now the genealogy in Matthew is not exhaustive as it skips some generations to conform to the threefold 14-14-14 pattern. So Boaz was not Rahab's immediate son, but probably a great-great-grandson. Boaz likely knew the story of his ancestry. How Rahap, an enemy resident of Jericho, converted and assimilated into Israel through marriage. Maybe that's why he was so open to the idea. Of marrying Ruth later. Oh, sorry, spoilers. Um but I'm sure you know this story. Okay. We also learn in verse 1 that Boaz was a man of great wealth. Which is significant considering that Israel was just recovering from a famine. We know from this chapter that he had a barley field, a wheat field, a manager, reefers and maidservants. He was exceptional in financial status. And it looks like he reached such standing without compromise in faith or generosity to others. In verse 4, his manner of greeting with his workers and their response to him reveals his piety in his ordinary work-life. The exchange with his foremen in verses 5 to 7 indicates that they were comfortable with the poor foreigner gleaning in the field. They were following the law of Moses, especially Leviticus 19, verses 9 to 10, chapter 23, verse 22, and Deuteronomy 24, 19. I'll just read Leviticus 23, 22 for you. When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field when you reap, nor shall you gather any gleaning from your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the stranger. I am the Lord your God. So then God's word certainly paved the way for the encounter between Ruth and Boaz. But God's hand of providence put them together. When Ruth began the day in verse 2 and left the city, she did not know Boaz. The conjunction at the beginning of verse 2 should be translated as and, not so. If we say so, it is like as if Root made a B line for Boaz's field. All she knew was that the law granted provision for poor strangers like her. But in these dark times of judges, she was vulnerable, and she could have wandered into the wrong field Not only what have been worried about for her, but what choices they have. They have no one to provide for them Now we read in verse 3, she happened to come to Boaz's field, but make no mistake, there's no luck or chance here. God intended this meeting to occur. I like John Reed's commentary here. Ruth, quote, had moved forward in obedience to her rights in the law of God, and was guided by grace into the place God provided. End quote. God graciously and sovereignly used the faithfulness in small matters, showing up to work. Responsible stewardship. Caring for the less fortunate. Hard work and diligence for this wonderful opportunity Now, Ruth has already benefited by her obedience, tirelessly working from sunrise until late morning, except for a short rest mentioned in verse 7. Now the question is: will Boaz do more? Now before we find out, let's think about some applications just from this point. We should be looking for opportunities to do good with our resources. Generally speaking, I think of three resources: energy, time, and money. Are we employing them to show love for the downtrodden? Care for the marginalized. I think this is one of the consistent principles in both Israel and the church. Near the end of his letter to the Galatians, Paul exhorts in chapter 6, verse 10. As we have opportunity, let us do good to all, especially to those who are of the household of faith. Now it is God who provides these opportunities. And we look at Boaz, and Boaz was already practicing the principle of let us do good to all, opening up his field for strange uh strangers and poor people. But now the opportunity to do good, especially to those who are of the household of faith, was present before them. Ruth wasn't just any poor stranger. She was faithful to Naomi, Boaz's kin, and faithful to God, as we saw in Ruth chapter 1. She was a true member of the household of faith in Israel in that dispensation. Well has recognized this truth, and that leads to the second principle. Faith leads to testimony of praise. Boaz's conversation about root turns into Boaz's conversation with Root in verse 8 The very fact that he addresses her as my daughter, the same way Naomi addresses her in verse 2, reveals the age gap between the two. That is made even more clear in next chapter, chapter 3, verse 10 to 11. So I tend to doubt that Boaz and Ruth were swoon and heart spluttering and love at first sight. Sort of doubt it, but but I would argue that even better than such romantic first impressions are the impressions Ruth already made with the townspeople. Her story was known to the inhabitants, like the foremen, as we saw in verse 6. Boaz also knew, according to verse 11, As he received the full report of her kindness to Naomi, love for Malon, her late husband, and faith in Yahweh that led her away from her homeland to Israel. No doubt all the saints of Bethlehem were impressed with Ruth. Truly her loyalty to Yahweh and her mother-in-law led to the testimony of praise. And that explains Boaz's verse in verses 8 and 9. Knowing what Ruth has done, Boaz insists that she look nowhere else for provision besides his field. She can glean not just this day, but for months, all throughout the barley harvest, which is in March and April, and even the wheat harvest in June and July, as we see in verse 23. Boaz's young woman would lead her and provide safety in numbers. She would be allowed to move into a field area immediately after the reefers have done their work. As Boaz specifies later in verse 15, his young male workers were warned against harassment and criticism. They were to leave her alone as she gleans from the sheaves and drinks from the vessels of water. In verse 10, Ruth is overwhelmed by the kindness of Boaz, who replies in verse 11 that he knows all that she has done. But it's not Boaz who is the rewarder of her good works ultimately. He prays in verse 12: The Lord repay your work, and a full reward be given you by the Lord God of Israel. Under whose wings you have come for refuge. Ruth's ultimate rewarder is the one and only true God, the Lord, the covenant-keeping Yahweh, the great I Am. He is the Lord God of Israel, the land she now calls home. The commentator read again is helpful. Notes how the prayer ends with the figure of speech known as zoomorphism. Some attribute of God, who is spirit and has no physical part in reality, is compared to some part aspect of an animal. Ruth is like a chick taking shelter under the wings of a mother hen. This image is common in the Psalms. Seventeen, thirty-six, fifty-seven, sixty one, sixty-three, ninety-one. And Jesus uses it as well in Matthew twenty-three. For such kind words and actions, Root responds humbly in verse 13 She was touched and comforted by Boaz's generosity, especially since she was not like an Israel, or she was not an Israel like his other maidservants. She still felt inferior, and so she simply longed to find favor in his eyes. Just to be accepted Now I'm willing to bet that a brand new believer or a fellow brother or sister from another culture or country may feel the same way as they attend a church in the States. What if we were to walk a mile or many miles in their shoes? Should it matter more where they came from than where they are going? Our common destination in heaven. If we share the same faith in God, we should share testimonies. Maybe even share food together. And that leads to the next point. Favor leads to hospitality of kindness. If there's any sense of inferiority or insecurity in Ruth in verse thirteen Boaz does his part in trying to dispel it in verse 14. At the late morning break, the Moabitis is invited to sit with the Israelites, the gleaner with the reapers. The stranger is to eat the food of his familiar servants. She was served food in such abundance so that she ate and was satisfied and had enough left over to take home to Naomi. Again, a principle for us today. At our fellowship tables and meetings, as long as we have the same gospel, the same Savior Jesus, and the same God. It should not matter that we have different vocations, different social statuses, and different paths. Believers, especially mature ones, should welcome newer converts. With hospitality or kindness. And that kindness goes beyond the meal. In verse 15, Ruth wastes no time and takes nothing for granted as she returns to work. But Boas pulls the young men aside and commands them to go beyond the requirements of the law into grace. As David Howard Jr. notes, at first in verse 2, she may have begun with the intention of gleaning from the standing ears of grain. Then in verse 7, she asked more boldly to glean among the already harvested grains organized into bundles. Now Boaz grants the request and makes sure the men leave her alone. Not only that, in verse 16, the men were instructed to let the grains fall on the ground on purpose. John MacArthur summarizes the favor and kindness of Boaz towards Ruth. Quote, does he lighten the load of her labor and increase the reward of it? He lightened the load of her labor and increased the reward of it. By evening time she was she has gathered an epha of barley, as verse 17 says, which amongst the four have bushel, enough to sustain both Ruth and Naomi for five days or more. About four times more than what a gleaner could gather on a good typical day. In just one day, Ruth has experienced God's providence fully. As she faithfully trusted in the Lord and found favor with Boaz. You know, as one belongs to and stays active in the community of saints, there are normally opportunities, testimonies. Hospitality. And even as Ruth returns from the field of Boaz to Naomi, she continues to benefit from that community. And that leads to the fourth point. Wisdom leads to blessings of provision. Before dark, Ruth went back into the city and showed Naomi what she had gleaned and the portion of the meal she had set aside for her. I'm sure Naomi was surprised at such immediate success in verse 18. So she naturally asked what happens, what happened in verse 19. Whoever it was, he deserved a blessing. But when Ruth revealed the name of the man to be Boaz, in the next verse, Naomi repeats the blessing with more insight into divine providence and favor. The man who took notice of Ruth in verse 19 is Loaz from the Lord in verse 20. The kindness shown to her daughter-in-law is really a confirmation that God has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead. Now how is that so? Kindness to the living and the dead. Naomi explains to Root that Boaz is a relative, which may not seem that important to us in our modern context. But the phrase here, one of our close relatives, is full of significance in Israelite culture. Again, John MacArthur is helpful in explaining the original word for close relative, Goel. The Goel was a relative who came to the rescue. The word Goel includes the idea of redemption or deliverance. In fact, in order to express the idea more perfectly in English, Old Testament scholars sometimes speak of the Goel as a kinsman redeemer. In Scripture, the word is sometimes translated as Redeemer, Job 19, verse 25, and sometimes as avenger, Numbers 35, verse 12. A Goel was usually a prominent male in one's extended family. He was the official guardian of the family's honor. If the occasion arose, he would be the one to avenge the blood of a murdered relative. Joshua 20, verses 2 to 9. He could buy back family lands sold in times of hardship. Leviticus 25. He could pay the redemption price for family members sold into slavery. Leviticus 25 again, verses 47 to 49. Or if he were a single man or widower and thus eligible to marry, he could revive the family lineage when someone died without an heir By marrying the widow and fathering offspring who would inherit the name and property of the one who had died. This was known as the law of Leviite marriage in Deuteronomy 25, verse 5 to 10. Presented it as a duty in cases where one brother, obviously unmarried and presumably younger, was living in the household of a married brother who died. If the surviving brother refused to fulfill the duty of the Goel by marrying his brother's widow, he was treated with contempt by all of society. Now the following chapter will reveal that Boaz is neither the only redeemer nor the closest relative, but more than willing to step up for Ruth and Naomi. For now, this chance encounter was really a God-ordained encouragement for Naomi, especially. In verse 21, Ruth fully discloses the kindness of Boaz who permitted her to come back and work in his field. Naomi urged her to go nowhere else in verse 22. Ruth follows her wise advice in the final verse, staying close with Boaz's maidservants, and dwelling with Naomi through the barley and wheat harvest for the next few months. The Lord used the wisdom of Naomi, who was experienced in the matters of the law, and had sensed his invisible hand in the situation. Such wisdom led to the blessings of provision. And see how the relationship between Rut and Naomi illustrates the reciprocal blessings in a true community. Ruth had the strength to provide for Naomi, and Naomi had the wisdom to guide Ruth. Naomi's wise instructions and roots wise obedience led to the provision for both. Older women, you have much to offer the younger sisters here. I encourage you to meditate on this book, on this passage, right? And go to Titus chapter 2, verses 1 to 5. And I could say the same thing about the older men here. You have decades of experience in following God's word. Wisdom that we as younger siblings in Christ need. Now, all of these are great biblical principles for spiritual growth. Providence leads to opportunity for good. Faith leads to testimony of praise. Favor leads to hospitality of kindness. Wisdom leads to blessings of provision. But I want you to know that this chapter isn't just a feel-good story. We must understand Root, chapter 2, in context of the entire biblical theology of God's redemption. Here's what I mean. As much as the exemplary character of Boaz impresses us, and there's much more to come for sure, he pales in comparison to the perfect sinless nature of Jesus. Jesus Christ, our our own Redeemer. And here's why. We like Ruth before her conversion were without Christ. Being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. Straight from Ephesians 2, verse 12. We were futile in mind, darkened in understanding, alienated from the life of God. Ignorant, blind in our hearts, past feeling, given over to lewdness, working uncleanness and greediness. Again, Ephesians chapter 4, verses 17 to 19. In short, we were sinners, and we are sinners, in thought, word, and actions, passively and actively rebelling against God, and fully deserving God's wrath. Eternal separation from him in hell. But see how divine providence leads to our good The story of Ruth's provision points us to Christ, who was sent by the Father from heaven to do good for us. The Lord provided a redeemer to save us from our sins. He was more willing than Boaz, and he was more than willing to become one of us as kinsmen, partaking in flesh and blood, laying down himself as the substitute for our sins as he died on the cross. He gloriously rose from the dead, proving that his pen payment was accepted and he ascended to heaven Now he asks from us faith. Faith at least a testimony of praise. Like Ruth, we have nothing to bring him as if we can earn favor or deserve grace. God's gift of eternal life through Jesus, our Redeemer, is free because He paid it all. We can come poor and needy, as we sang, just as Ruth did. Jesus is more gracious than accepting than the best versions of Boaz in this world Doesn't matter what your past looks like, where you're from, approach Christ in saving faith if you haven't already. Testify to his goodness and praise him And the ta and the favor of Christ leads to hospitality of kindness at his table. As Ephesians 2. 13 says, now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. Again, Boaz gives us a small taste of it, a small illustration in this chapter. If Boaz's hospitality and kindness, if the food that he offered root with his servants, If the equal status she is given impresses you, know that the favor of Christ is far better. He calls you friend, though we are rightly his servants. He invites you to the Lord's suffer while we sojourn on earth, and the merry suffer of the Lamb when he returns. May you find favor in his sight so that you may experience the warm hospitality and kindness of Christ. And until that day, when Jesus drinks of the fruit of the vine in the kingdom of God, we are to walk in wisdom as he blesses and provides for us. And thankfully, we're not alone in this walk. He has provided members of his body, older members who can provide guidance younger members who can help in other ways, maybe physically. Ultimately, all of that stem from God's great faithfulness All I have needed, thy hand hath provided. Great is thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me. Let's pray before we praise Him. Lord, we praise you that as we look at The Bible, as we look at the story of Ruth. As we look at the kindness of people and kindness of strangers and the faithfulness of Ruth and what Boaz has done, Lord. Our hope is not just in these characters. Lord, your scriptures reveal the kindness of your son, who is our redeemer. We pray that we would see your hand in being in this room at this time. Your providence and Maybe being part of a Christian family or hearing the gospel from a a friend long ago or stranger. We know that you are a good God and you want us to be saved. That you desire no one to perish. So may we hear the call. May we not come in pride, thinking that we can earn our salvation. But may we come in humble faith. May we come in a faith with the faith that leads to praise, leads to testimonies of your goodness. And Lord, may we truly experience even now on our walk on the earth, Lord, just your kindness. Your presence as we worship together, as we seek you in your word, as we pray to you. And we're also thankful That you've given us your word for wisdom, for wise living, and you've given us the counsel of our fellowship here and the brothers and sisters. We pray that we would benefit from one another as you provide all that we need. We thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.