It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife. So begins one of the greatest romantic novels of all time, certainly the most recognized and famous among Jane Austen's works. You might think that in the olden days of arranged marriages, especially among the well-loved people, romance can be simple, smooth, drama-free. Well, if that was the case, then Austin would not have produced such an intriguing story. So whether rich or poor, there are many factors involved. And they need to align. Right place at the right time. Chemistry. Spark. Compatibility. Backgrounds. Education. Social class, common values. The list goes on and on. There are other complications like the ambitions of a mother, the prejudice of a lady, the pride of a man. But if we were to understand romance in light of God's will revealed in the scriptures, we would value different factors. Attraction of inward faith more than outward looks. Alignment of biblical values more than alignment of social classes. A common understanding of divine grace more than social grace. And as God moves his hand to bring two individuals together, We can learn about him, his desire to use circumstances, relationships, and individual acts of obedience to reveal his goodwill. I mean that the story of Naomi Root and Boaz is not just a story of matchmaking romance. It's about God. So let's look at Root chapter 3. And see what we can learn about God here. You'll find the passage in the bulletin insert. Otherwise, turn with me in your Bibles to Root chapter 3. Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek security for you, that it may be well with you? Now Boaz, whose young woman you were with, is he not our relative? In fact, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. Therefore, wash yourself and anoint yourself. Put on your best garment and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. Then it shall be when he lies down that you shall notice the place where he lies, and you shall go in, uncover his feet, and lie down. And he will tell you what you should do. And she said to her, All that you say to me, I will do. So she went down to the threshing floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law instructed her. And after Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was cheerful, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain, and she came softly, uncovered his feet, and lay down. Now it happened at middle at midnight that the man was startled and turned himself. And there a woman was lying at his feet. And he said, Who are you? So she answered, I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative. Then he said, Blessed are you of the Lord, my daughter, for you have shown more kindness at the end than at the beginning, in that you did not go after young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you request, for all the people of my town know that you are a virtuous woman. Now it is true that I am a close relative, however, there is a relative closer than I. Stay this night, and in the morning it shall be that if he will perform the duty of a close relative for you, good. Let him do it. But if he does not want to perform the duty for you, then I will perform the duty for you. As the Lord lives, lie down until morning. So she lay at his feet until morning, and she arose before one could recognize one another. Then he said, Do not let it be known that the woman came to the threshing floor. Also he said, Bring the shawl that is on you and hold it. And when she held it, he measured six eppas of barley and laid it on her. Then she went into the city. When she came to her mother in law, she said, Is that you, my daughter? Then she told her all that the man had done for her, and she said, These six eppas of barley he gave me, or he said to me, Do not go empty handed to your mother in law. Then she said, Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will turn out. For the man will not rest until he has concluded the matter this day. So as we learn about God's act of weaving together the lives of Naomi, Ruth and Boaz, we learn four principles for living that we can apply today for ourselves and others. 1. In faith seek God's security, verses 1 to 5. 2. In humility, look for God's refuge, in verses 6 to 9 3. In love pursue God's kindness, verses 10 to 15. 4. In patience, wait for God's will, verses 16 to 18. First, in faith, seek God's security. You may recall from last time the final point of the sermon, which was: wisdom leads to blessings of provision. We ended our discussion of chapter 2 with Naomi's realization that God is at work in her life and in the life of her daughter-in-law, Ruth, who left everything behind to follow her to Israel. It was not by some random chance that Ruth gleaned at the field of Boas, a close relative, and a possible kinsman redeemer who could restore the poor widows to their former statuses. Knowing this possibility, Naomi encouraged Ruth to accept Boaz's kind offer of a safe workplace. So truly, wisdom led to the blessings of provision for the next few months. But not all blessings last forever. Chapter 2 verse 23 gives us an expiration date. First the barley harvest ended. Then the wheat harvest came and went. Not only would the provisions run out, but also the time Ruth and Boaz would have together. All that would remain very soon would be the unrealized possibility of romance. Perhaps Ruth knew this as well, but it was Naomi who took action in verse 1. The word for security there is very similar to the word found in chapter 1, verse 9, basically from the same root. And let's turn it back there real quick if you have your Bible with you. Or you can look it up later. At the early part of chapter one, as Naomi decides to return to her homeland, She tries to convince her two widowed daughters in law to go back to their parents' home and try to remarry. And I'll read from verse 8 onward for context. And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest. Each in the house of her husband. So she kissed them and they lifted up their voices and wept. That word for rest in verse 9, as explained by Naomi herself, is the security in marriage that Ruth and Orpah could find with their new husbands. We have no idea what happened with Orpa, the other daughter-in-law. But Naomi's present concern is with Ruth, the one who is loyal to her and her God. In verse 2, she gets more specific, connecting the dots for Ruth, who might still be feeling secure, feeling insecure as a foreigner. But see how Naomi says, Is he not our relative? Ruth needed a firm reminder that as she is part of the Israelite community, She shares those God-given rights of kinsman redeemer. That's why Naomi tells Ruth to go find Boaz. A redeemer at the threshing floor where he could he would be uh winnowing barley. Now winnowing is an agricultural method of separating grain from straw by tossing the mixture in the air so that the heavier grain. falls to the ground while the wind blows away the chaff, the lighter chaff. During harvest seasons, men would leave their homes and camp at their threshing floors, working all day there, and guarding their crop by night against robbers and foreign invaders. And we see an instance of this in 1 Samuel chapter 23, verse 1. So verses one and two are clear enough But Naomi's instructions in verses three and four, and what Ruth eventually does later, have confused interpreters. Why not just go up to Boaz in daylight and tell him that he's the Redeemer and they need to marry right away? What's the point of Ruth cleaning up and putting on the best clothes if they're going to be talking in the dark? Isn't a clandestine meeting between a man and a woman overnight a risky business? Now all these are legitimate questions. And I tend to think that your answers largely depend on how you view our three protagonists. Naomi, Root, and Boas. I tend to think that Naomi was not only wise for understanding the law of Moses, but also wise for understanding people. In a word, wisdom isn't just reading books about relationships. It's about reading people in relationships. Over days, weeks and months, Naomi was growing ever confident that Boaz was interested in Ruth. She was also confident that these two were both virtuous and feared God so much that they would not cross the line of purity. It's still a risk, no doubt. There's still the risk of rejection, humiliation for her beloved daughter-in-law. But it's a calculated risk worth taking since Ruth has been faithful to her and faithful to God. And Boaz has done nothing but treat Ruth and her with kindness. Naomi likely surmise that even if Boaz rejected Ruth, he would be a gentleman about it, and it could be done without anyone knowing it in the cover of night. In the words of John Piper, Naomi and Ruth are exercising strategic righteousness. And it's both subtle and profound. Subtle in that Ruth would not disturb Boaz's schedule of working, eating, resting. She would not march up to him in front of everyone and make the request for marriage. But profound in that though she never touched him, she was definitely asking for a life of intimacy together. She drew close to him and opened up her heart. Interestingly, the word for wing and skirt are the same in the original language. And the act of spreading the garment skirt over a woman was a symbol of her security under the marriage covenant. as Ezekiel 16,8 demonstrates. Even today, more traditional Jews follow a similar custom. The groom's prayer shawl, called talit, is spread over the bride during the wedding ceremony to symbolize his vow of protection. So that's why Ruth later asked Boaz in verse 8 and verse 9, take your maidservant under your wing or skirt. This is reminiscent of chapter 2 verse 12, when Boaz prayed for her. The Lord repay your work, and a full reward be given you by the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings, that same word, you have come for refuge. Boaz is the one who prayed to the Lord for her protection in chapter 2. It turns out Boaz himself is the answer to that prayer here in chapter 3. The wings of Yahweh is tangibly realized in the skirt of Boaz's garment Naomi trusted that Boaz would understand the gesture. After all, for weeks and months, he has been subtly communicating affections to Ruth, but thought he was too old for her. Now Ruth would also communicate her intentions subtly but profoundly. Ruth understood Naomi's plan and decided to seek marriage with Boas. Now, even though this plan minimized potential embarrassment and awkwardness between the two, there's no way to bring the risk factor down to zero. And I think that's where humility and courage comes in. And that leads to the next point. In humility, look for God's refuge. What Naomi willed for Ruth, Ruth carried out in humility in verse six and seven. Perhaps such unconventional method of seeking remarriage would have made her uncomfortable. If she had been back home in Moab She would not need to take such risks, and her parents would have found handsome younger suitors to woo her. But she is where she chose to be Ruth is going to find refuge provided by the God of Israel, not the refuge in the gods of Moab. So she put on her Sabbath vest and she went to the threshing floor before dark. Then she waited. She had to be vigilant to carefully note where he lay down for the night. As it got darker and darker, I'm sure that she had to rely on her other senses, the sound of his movements and the voice to find him. To get closer without bumping into him, that'll be embarrassing, she seceded, uncovered his feet, and lay down there where a maidservant would sit. Right. And she lay down at the feet as a sign of submission. There's no innuendo there. She's just taking a position of humility. As the temperature dropped during the night, Boaz stirred from the cold and found root at his feet in verse 8. I'm sure Boaz was not only disturbed by his cold feet, but also an unidentified person lying there. So he asks, Who are you? in verse 9, as his eyes adjusted to the dark. Ruth quickly identifies herself and makes her intentions crystal clear. I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative. By stating her name, she assures Boaz that she's not some dangerous intruder. By stating her position as his maidservant, she assumes a posture of humility. By asking him to take her under his wing, because he is the kinsman redeemer, she proves herself to be a virtuous woman. She's a widow looking for a legitimate permanent remarriage, not someone who came for a one-night stand. So Ruth has done all that she could do to seek God's refuge. Though she speaks again later in verse 16 These words in verse 9 are the last recorded words of Ruth in this book. Her faith has led her to this moment of truth. Where she would either return to Naomi with a broken heart or return with the prospect of a new life with a new husband But like I said, whatever happens, Naomi was confident that Boaz would treat Ruth with the utmost respect and kindness. And that leads to the third point. In love, pursue God's kindness. In verse 10, the excitement of requited love fills Boaz. His words, Blessed are you of the Lord, in this verse parallels Naomi's words in chapter 2, verse 20. Blessed be he of the Lord. Boaz and Ruth are a blessed match made in heaven. It turns out that they are also a virtuous match made in heaven. So another parallel between the two is found by looking at verse 11, as Boaz assured Ruth that he and everyone in town think highly of her character At the end of that verse, verse 11, Boaz calls Ruth a virtuous woman, Eshet Kair. And that word virtuous Kair in Hebrew is a word that could mean strength, might, efficiency, wealth, army. depending on the context. This word was previously used to describe Boaz back in chapter 2 verse 1, a man of great wealth, a man of great kair. I think context shows that wealth is the correct translation there and virtuous the right translation here. And that just serves to prove my point. What Ruth lacked in wealth, she certainly matched and exceeded in virtue. While Ruth may not have the financial status to match Boaz in the eyes of the world, in the eyes of God, she has something better, noble character. There's a good reason why the in the original order of the Old Testament books, Book of Ruth followed the book of Proverbs. In the section called the writings. So it was Proverbs and then root. We find in the final chapter of Proverbs, chapter 31, verse 10. Who can find a virtuous wife, Eshet Ka'ir, for her worth is far above rubies? So Boaz actually sees himself as the privileged one who is offered what all the money in the world cannot buy. A virtuous woman. And Ruth is blessed and virtuous because she is kind. In verse ten, the earlier kindness was all that Ruth has done for her late husband and continues to do for Naomi, her mother-in-law. But now by choosing to remarry a kinsman instead of a younger, stronger, more handsome man, Ruth is showing even greater kindness. With this latter kindness, the fortunes of Naomi and the name of her late husband would be restored. Boaz's words here also reveal the main reason he has not been so forthright with his feelings. He felt he was too old and unattractive for Ruth. Now those fears are dispelled, and he assures her that she has no need to fear, and he will do as she requested. There is no need to fear what others might think, as the elders at the gates, the people of the streets know her virtuous character. Now inspired by Root's kindness and love for God and Naomi, Boaz wants to reciprocate Ruth and Boas desire to experience God's kindness in a love relationship within the bounds of God's will in a marriage covenant. But there is just one problem. Boaz says in verse 12 that while he is a close relative of Elimelech, he is not the closest relative. But this is not a dead end. In verse 13, he vows to find out whether this closer relative will fulfill the duties of the kinsman redeemer first thing in the morning. If he performs a duty, Ruth will still be provided for. If not, Boaz will do so in his place. Now, we may stubbornly suggest or insist that it has to be Boaz or no one else, but what Boaz is doing in this act is assuring that root and Naomi are provided for. Whether it's him or someone else. He's not content to leave issues at the vague and unresolved suggestion level, dwelling on the possibilities of what could be and fear of disappointment. He takes firm and immediate action, even if that means his own crushing heartbreak. So that means this night might be the only time that Boaz and Ruth could share their mutual feelings to one another openly. But there's no kiss, no gazing at the stars and each other's eyes with the Disney song in the background. No Shakespearean lines, no holding hands, no elopement. Boaz tells her to stay where she is at the end of verse 13, and nothing happened until morning according to verse 14. Before the brightness of dawn, she gets up and Boaz instructs her to leave without being noticed. This would protect the integrity of them both. So as commentator John Reed observes, Boas takes two responsible actions. One, he protects Ruth by refusing to touch her. or send her away in the dark, guarding her from possible assault or bad reputation, and two, he protects the rights of the nearer kinsmen. In verse 15, as his last act of kindness as mere friends, Boaz measures out six measures of barley to carry back to Naomi. The translators of New King James Version decided to add the word EPUS there after six, but the original language just says six barleys. The King James Version simply says measures, and that is better. Epa doesn't make sense because one epha equates to one bushel, more than plenty for one person to carry. Unless Ruth has supernatural strength, she won't be carrying six epas or six bushels back to the city. So now it's time for the widows to wait, and that leads to the fourth point, impatience, wait for God's will. Ruth must have traveled in haste and arrived there where uh Naomi was before she awoke. And Ruth is making everyone's day. In verse 16, Ruth reports all that took place. And in verse 17, she shows her the six measures, again, not epas, of barley he has provided for them. Not exactly a bouquet of flowers, but if they were like me at all, food was their love language. So now Ruth has done all that she can do. Naomi can say the same. Now the matter is in Boaz's hands. As David Howard Jr. comments, chapter 3 begins with Naomi seeking rest from Ruth, and it ends with Naomi saying that Boaz will not rest until he has concluded the matter this day. Ruth and Naomi must sit and wait while their Redeemer gets to work. This chapter certainly teaches us much about God's good gifts of family, friendship, and marriage. But these gifts point us to the greatest gift of all, the good news of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Our goal here at Faith Bible Church is to point you to something even better than marriage that ends with death. We should be like Naomi in this way. We want to tell you if you haven't already. In faith, seek God's security in Jesus the Redeemer. You do not have to be an aristocrat or rise up in the social ranks to meet Jesus. Though he is perfect and sinless, you don't have to be. Though he is God and you're not, he will accept you and bring you into God's family. All that is required is our humble repentance from the pursuit of our own righteousness and pursuit of our way into heaven. We must come as his servants at his feet, asking for his wings of protection. In humility, look for God's refuge in Jesus the Redeemer. Know that as much as Ruth has been kind and Boaz intends to be kind, their best efforts cannot match God's kindness. If Boaz has been protective and caring, know that Jesus has been, is, and will be much more protective and caring. If Boaz was a man of integrity who followed the law perfectly to pursue root, know that know that Jesus has with integrity fulfilled the law and even went beyond the law to show mercy and Grace. Here's how. Not only did Jesus live a perfect life, he died on the cross to pay for the consequence of sins that we have committed. While crucified and dying, Jesus endured hell, which we deserve. After making full payment, he was buried and he gloriously rose again from the dead and ascended to heaven. Now he offers you the gift of eternal life in love and kindness. Will you love him now that he has first loved you? In love, pursue God's kindness in Christ the Redeemer. If you have already entered into a covenant with Jesus, know also that all of his promises are yours. In in this journey of life. While there's uncertainty about whether Boaz will be roots in this point of the story, right, there's no doubt that Christ is ours. You have Christ in all of his promises. Hear his words in John 6. 47. Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me has everlasting life. Not could have, maybe have, right? Has everlasting life. Our greatest need, everlasting life with God, is guaranteed in Jesus. Then why do we worry about lesser things? Why can't we sit still? No, Romans 832 could very well be a rebuke to our weak faith. He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? So while so journey on earth, in patience wait for God's will in Christ the Redeemer. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you Father of all good gifts and Father of lights. And we confess that you are love. And we see the stories of love in this world. In the culture and even the uh stories of root and boaz And Lord, we know that it's meant to point ultimately to the love between the church and Christ. And we see the sacrifice of your son, or how he has humbled himself to redeem the church, to redeem his sins. We pray that we would see this kindness and love, and we would come by faith and humility And come to claim, Lord, the grace that you have offered to us, the love that you show us, and how you have drawn us with kindness. And look for those of us in this room who have not made that step, I pray that you will move in their hearts. That you love us and you care for us. More than any other human being in this world could love us. You love us. And you should prove that on the cross. And we pray that we'll draw closer to you and even and for those who have already made that decision, help us to be patient That we wait as we wait for your second coming, the coming of your son Jesus Christ. And pray that until that day That we would just seek you and seek to love you in faith, in your word, in prayer, in our devotion to you. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.