Retirement. Though it may be many decades away, I've been told to prepare for retirement now. So I looked online for quotes that give me some insight into this mysterious stage of life. Let me know if any of these resonate with you. When a man retires, his wife gets twice the husband, but only half the income. Okay. When a man retires and time is no longer a matter of urgent importance, his colleagues generally present him with the watch. This one's actually useful. Often when you are at the end of something, you're at the beginning of something else. I believe that one major benefit of an intergenerational church is that we have access to wisdom of older members. You guys can exemplify and teach us about fruitful living after a career. But even more importantly You can point us to the Word of God for principles in every stage of life, even retirement. In fact, in today's passage, we see an elderly man named Samuel stepping down from public office to enter the final stage of his life. We can learn much from his life, his words about God, and his words to his people. So let's turn to 1 Samuel 12. Now Samuel said to all Israel, Indeed I have heeded your voice and all that you said to me, and have made a king over you. And now here is the king walking before you. And I am old and grey-headed, and look, my sons are with you. I walked before you from my childhood to this day. Here I am, witness against me before the Lord and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken, or whose donkey have I taken, or whom have I cheated? Whom have I oppressed, or from whose hand have I received any bribe with which to blind my eyes? I will restore it to you. And they said, you have not cheated us or oppressed us, nor have you taken anything from any man's hand. Then he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. And they answered, He is witness. Then Samuel said to the people, It is the Lord who raised up Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up from the land of Egypt. Now therefore stand still that I may reason with you before the Lord concerning all the righteous acts of the Lord, which he did to you and your fathers. When Jacob had gone into Egypt, and your fathers cried out to the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place. And when they forgot the Lord their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the army of Hazar, into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them. Then they cried out to the Lord and said, We have sinned because we have forsaken the Lord and served the Baals and Ashturates. But now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you. And the Lord sent Jerubbael, Bedan. Jephthah and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and you dwelt in safety. And when you saw that Nahash King of the Ammonites came against you. You said to me, No, but a king shall reign over us when the Lord your God was your king. Now therefore, here is the king whom you have chosen and whom you have desired. And take note, the Lord has set a king over you. If you fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and do not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then both you and the king who reigns over you will continue following the Lord your God. However, if you do not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as it was against your fathers. Now therefore, stand and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes. Is today not the wheat harvest? I will call to the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain, that you may perceive and see That your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of the Lord, in asking a king for yourselves. So Samuel called to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins the evil of asking a king for ourselves. Then Samuel said to the people, Do not fear. You have done all this wickedness. Yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And do not turn aside, for then you will go after empty things which cannot profit or deliver, for they are nothing. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart, for consider what great things he has done for you. But if you still do wickedly, you shall be swept away, both you and your king. Here's the just retire Samuel's principles for fruitful godly living. One, live with integrity. That's verses one to five. Two, recount God's righteousness, verses six to fifteen Three, acknowledge our sin, verses sixteen to eighteen. And four, trust in God's goodness, verses nineteen to twenty-five. First, live with integrity. Before we delve into its details, let's talk about the significance of 1 Samuel chapter 12. According to one commentator, P. Kyle McCarter, this chapter marks, quote, the watershed between the end of the period of the judges and the beginning of the age of kingship. David Sumura says, quote, Samuel's words in verse 2 speak to this. They contrast the king who is walking before you and the judge who has walked before you. The same verb for walk is used, but the participle for Saul to indicate present activity and the perfect tense for Samuel to indicate past activity. Still, keep in mind that while Samuel is stepping down as judge, he's not stepping down from ministry altogether. He continues in two important roles. One, prophet, and two, kingmaker, as we'll see in the later chapters. For now, we wrap up Samuel's role as judge. His speech probably took place sometime after the events of chapter 11, not immediately afterwards. Robert Bergen perfectly summarizes the first five verses. Quote, Samuel's final act as judge was to put himself on trial. This shows humility because he wasn't a stranger. He was a very well-known quantity. They've known this elder since childhood. They knew his mother's piety and dedication. They knew his tutelage under Eli and his rise as prophet. How he grew and the Lord was with him and let none of his words fall to the ground, as 1 Samuel 3. 19 says Samuel spoke for God and he lived for God. His talk and walk were consistent. He did the right thing when it was difficult to do so. And that requires integrity. In verse 2, we see one of his tough decisions. At the end of the first sentence, he says, My sons are with you. According to Adam Clark, quote, it is generally agreed that these words intimate or imply that Samuel had deprived them of their public employee and reduced them to a level with the common people. That is, unlike Eli, who heard of his sons evil, but honored them more than God, Samuel removed his corrupt sons from leadership positions. Samuel honored God more than his sons. Now they stood among the normal citizens, and I can't imagine it was easy to fire his sons. But Samuel was a man of integrity, and not only in these tense moments of conflict. He couldn't tolerate lack of integrity in others because he didn't tolerate it in himself. He made the tough choices day in and day out. Never abused his authority, never stole from his people, and never cheated them of what's rightfully theirs. Unlike his sons, he refused bribes that would have blinded him to justice. If there was some overlooked injustice under his watch, he would gladly pay his reparations before he steps down. The people could not find any cause for complaint. How did Samuel live such a life of integrity? The reason this man can say, witness against me before the Lord, is because he lived in faith, openly before the Lord. This is so important. Someone once asked the late theologian R. C. Sprohl, what's the big idea of Christian life? In reply, he answered, the big idea of the Christian life is Quram Deo. Quram Deo captures the essence of the Christian life This phrase literally refers to something that takes place in the presence of or before the face of God. To live Quram Deo is to live one's entire life in the presence of God, under the authority of God, to the glory of God. Quram Deo or in the presence of God was the philosophy of Samuel. That's why he could live with integrity. Quran Deo or in the presence of God was the philosophy of Paul as well in the New Testament. That's why he could say before the Thessalonians about himself and his fellow ministers, we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. For neither at any time do we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness. God is witness. That's in 1 Thessalonians 2. That's why Paul could say before the Ephesian elders at Miletus, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men. I've coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel. That's Acts 20. That's why he could say before Felix, I myself always strive to have a conscience without offense toward God and men. Acts 24. Integrity is not found in our innate human nature. Rather, integrity is found in a relationship. Specifically, a vital and genuine relationship with God. Integrity comes from living in His presence each and every day by faith. Samuel had this relationship, and Paul as well. Do you have this relationship? Now you might say to me, I can't live before the face of God. I'm such a bad person. This relationship is not restricted to prophets, pastors, apostles, people who grew up in Christian households. In relation to God's holiness, none of us can distinguish ourselves, and none of us deserve to live in His presence. Quite the opposite. We've all sinned and fallen short of God's glory. Meditate on Isaiah 59, verse 2. Our iniquities have separated us from our God. And our sins have hidden his face from us. And how can we draw close to him with sin between us and this holy God? And we know the answer is the gospel. Jesus, God and man at the same time, came to earth to bridge that gap. He died on the cross as a substitute for our sins and on the third day rose from the dead. He gave many proofs of his resurrection, ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all. On the day of judgment, you won't be able to stand God's test of integrity on your merits The only way to stand in God's holy presence is to accept Jesus' gracious gift of salvation by faith alone. The only way the Lord will make his face shine upon you is if he is gracious to you There's nothing you can do to earn it. Nothing you can do to get your out get yourself out of God's wrath, out of hell. The only way to live in integrity is to live in God's presence. The only way to live in God's presence is to know Jesus. Come to the Lord today. Follow the pattern of saints who had genuine faith, who are justified by faith. Paul, Samuel, and many others And it's good for us to remind ourselves of God's dealings with such people in the past. And that leads to the second point: recount God's righteousness. The Lord who was witness against Israel in the present was the same Lord who worked in the history of Israel in the past. As Samuel reminds them of their history, he reminds them of God's righteous dealings with them. From verses 6 to 13, we see that Israel did not survive based on their natural talent or special status. I mean look at where Israel was socially. They were slaves in Egypt. Look at where Israel was spiritually. They forgot the Lord their God after all he has done for them. They demanded a king from Samuel when God was their king. But God did not treat his people according to what they deserve. When they cried out from Egypt, the Lord raised up leaders to bring them out and settle them in the promised land. When they sinned followed after idols and cried out again because of their enemies in Canaan, The Lord again sent leaders called judges. God delivered them and caused them to dwell safely in their land once more. These deliverers include Jerubael, better known as Gideon, Jeptah as an enemy of Ammon, like Saul, and Samuel himself. Bedan could be another name for Samson, Barak, or a judge who's not recorded in the Bible Whether it's the history of ancient Israel or the history of the church, we learn God deals righteously with us, not because we are righteous in ourselves. And we look down in verse 22. Hope you meditate on this verse. Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. The Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. And here's the lesson for all ages. We're not God's people because we're so great on our own. We're God's people because He takes pleasure in us and He keeps His promises to us. When you study history, are you humbled and amazed by God's hand in it? Recount God's righteousness in the pages of scriptures. We count God's righteousness in the history before the flood, in the days of Israel, in the days of the first century church. Recount God's righteousness in nearly two millenniums of church history. Recount God's righteousness in your own personal history. But as you recount, also move forward. Like Israel in this chapter, we are still in this journey, and some of you are at crossroads Some of you have been trying to split the difference between Christ and the world, and you need to give one up. Some of you are near adulthood, and following Christ will be your own choice to make. As you hear the Lord's voice through his command, which path will you take? Two options are in verses 14 and 15. Will you fear, serve, obey, follow, and refuse to rebel against them? Or Will you disobey and rebel, so that God's hand is against you Now the choice seems obvious, at least to me, but we can never underestimate how foolish and wicked our hearts can be At times we need dramatic reminders of our mortality, our sinfulness, to humble us. And that leads to the next point, acknowledge our sin. To authenticate Samuel's message, God sends a grants a confirmation sign. Yes, God they rejected is really that serious. Yes, the wickedness of the people is really that significant. The people needed to see the greatness of God with their own eyes. At the same time, they needed to see the greatness of their sin in God's eyes. A dramatic miracle accomplishes both. In the early summer during the wheat harvest, thunder and rain were unheard of, and as a result of the sign All the people greatly fear the Lord and Samuel. Last time there was such a dramatic heavenly sign was back in chapter seven, verse ten, when the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel, but the Lord thundered with a loud thunder upon the Philistines that day, and so confused them. That they were overcome before Israel. Now the Israelites found themselves in opposition to God, on the wrong side of the battle, in a sense As he clearly expresses his displeasure with sin. This was a fearful moment for Israel and a reminder for us today to acknowledge sin. Is this an important part of our life, individually and corporately? Let's remind ourselves, acknowledging sin is necessary for salvation. When we first come to Christ in faith, we accept that Jesus did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. We are grieved because our disobedience was made sorry in a godly manner. We could not take a single step toward God without God granting us repentance. A keen recognition that we are sinners. Acknowledging sin is necessary for sanctification. When we continually walk in faith, we seek proofs that we are truly in fellowship with God and in the light. These proofs are revealed in our attitude towards sin. We read earlier: if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And going on, if we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. There is no fellowship with God without a keen recognition that we are sinners. Acknowledging sin is necessary for a healthy church. When we do life together as a local congregation, we confess our trespasses to one another. And pray for one another that we may be healed. We bear with each other and forgive each other even up to 70 times seven. But Jesus also instructed us: if your brother sins against you, you are told to go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. Then take one or two, then to the entire church before judging and expelling the unrepentant individual. Sin can grow from an individual to a corporate problem. You may recall from the Wednesday night studies how Jesus commanded five of the seven churches of Revelation to repent. A church cannot be healthy without a keen recognition that we are sinners. And as we turn from our sin in repentance, we also turn to God in faith. And that leads to the next point: trusting God's goodness. So now the people saw Samuel call for fearful displays of divine power They heard Samuel recount God's righteousness. They saw in Samuel's life integrity they themselves lacked. Now they turn to the same Samuel for intercessory prayer. He's the right person for this rule. Remember how he cried out on their behalf when Philistines threatened them back in chapter 7. In other places like Psalm 99, verse 6, and Jeremiah 15, verse 1, we see him listed alongside Moses and Aaron as a man of prayer whom God answered. Samuel assures the fearful and repentant Israelites that the Lord won't abandon them as their God. The elder Samuel won't abandon them as their prophet either. The question is whether the people will abandon God. Will they turn aside from following the Lord or serve him with all their heart? Will they be devoted to him only or chase after vain idols? See in verse 24, if they're going to fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all their heart, they must focus on him and what he has done. It was good for them to distrust themselves, but they must also trust God and his righteousness. And that's the essence of the gospel. Distrust ourselves and trust God. That's the ministry of the gospel we emulate every week corporately. During our service, we read God's Word. A passage prompts us to acknowledge how we fall short of its demands. And that's distrusting ourselves. But what do we do right after that? We go right back into the Bible. We read another passage for scriptural assurance of pardon. We turn to the Word and trust in God and His goodness. Distrust yourself and trust God. And that's the ministry of the gospel you should apply during the week individually. Perhaps in times of trouble and seasons of sinfulness, your heart condemns you rather than assure you. Remember that God is greater than our hearts and knows all things. He knows the depth of our sin, but loves us all the same. Turn to the Word and trust in God and His goodness. In this chapter, we've been exhorted by a retiring man to live with integrity, recount God's righteousness, acknowledge our sin, trust in God's goodness. I pray we would follow these principles at every stage and transition of life. And since I began with quotes, let me end with one from As Guinness. a Christian author in his book, The Call, there is a short reflection called Entrepreneurs of Life. And here's an excerpt In all things and in all the vicissitudes and seasons of life We know that primarily, we are called not to somewhere or something, but to someone. That there is no true calling without the caller. That calling is not only being who we are, but becoming what we are to be. That no self-made goal can ever rival the ultimate why of the mystery of the Creator's purpose for each of us as his creatures. That we will never rise higher than when we follow the call, not knowing where the path may lead, so long as the caller is God. And that while we may lose our jobs and our health, or retire from a career, we will never retire from our calling. Until that final call, which is death, leads each of us to the climax and consummation of all calling. End quote. Let's pray Lord, we trace back the myriads of paths we have taken, choices we made throughout throughout our lives. And there are many more for us to take, or even in a single day. There's so many choices we make And we're thankful that you are sovereign and you call us to live with purpose. And we do pray that we can stand before You in judgment and say that we came to you through the sacrifice of your Son Jesus Christ. And that we lived a life that wasn't perfect, but that was perfectly dedicated to you. And Lord, one that serves the perfect God and the perfect Savior. Lord, help us to live a life of integrity Help us to recount your righteousness, not just in our lives, but in the lives of our friends and fellow saints. And the saints throughout history. Help us acknowledge that many times we fail. And Lord, the devil would want us to despair But Lord, we trust in you, in your goodness, and we're reminded of your promises and your love for us. May that give us strength this week, each and every day, in every moment, that we can say at the end of our lives That we have served you and we have loved you. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.