It's getting close to Christmas, and maybe you'll pick up a book that begins like this. Quote, every Who down in Whoville like Christmas a lot. But the Grinch, who lived just north of Houville, did not. The Grinch hated Christmas, the whole Christmas season. Now please don't ask why. No one quite knows the reason. It could be his head wasn't screwed on just right. It could be perhaps that his shoes were too tight. But I think that the most likely reason of all may have been that his heart was two sizes too small. So today I'm taking a break from Luke and preaching one of those Christmas sermons. I thought about preaching from a famous Old Testament passage like the ones in Isaiah or Micah. The early chapters of Matthew and Luke are also natural places to look. But this year I wanted to look at Christmas from a different vantage point. Christmas from the last book of the Bible. Christmas in light of a cosmic struggle in heaven and earth. We want to see why, like Grinch, Satan hates Christmas, the whole Christmas season. Unlike Grinch, Satan's heart does not triple in size. Satan's demise is recounted in most dramatic fashion in the book of Revelation, the last book of the Bible. I'm going to turn to Revelation 12, but before we turn there, please let me give a quick outline of the book. A good verse to Mark is chapter 1, verse 19, in which Jesus commands John the Apostle. Write the things which you have seen and the things which are and the things which will take place after this. That's 119. And based on this verse, you can divide the book into three parts. Chapter 1, corresponding to the things John has already seen Chapters 2 and 3, things which are concerning the seven churches of Asia in his time, late first century. And things which will take place after this in the future, that's chapters four to twenty-two, the rest of the book. Digging deeper within chapters 4 to 22, we have seven seals, seven trumpets, and seven bowls. There are three groups of sevens connected in a dovetail fashion. In chapters four and five, the introductory scene in heaven, we learn that the lamb that was slain. is worthy to break the seven seals of the scroll. He literally unfolds the final stages of history in chapters six and seven. Now the seventh and the final seal initiate the seven trumpets. They are revealed one by one in chapters eight to eleven. At the end of chapter 11, the seventh trumpet in turn unleashes seven more judgments, the seven bull judgments that culminate with Jesus' second coming. But there's a gap between the close of chapter eleven and chapter sixteen between the seventh trumpet and the first bull. In chapters 12 to 15, focus turns from seven trumpets to seven representative figures. We are focusing on four of the seven. Personages today in chapter twelve, verse one through twelve. Israel, Satan, Christ, and Michael. I will not explain every detail or interpretation of these prophecies, but mainly consider this passage in relation to Christmas. Try to keep the big picture in mind. According to Daniel Akin, this chapter, quote, tells us in part and in summary fashion the grand redemptive story of the Bible. It is something of a panorama of salvation history. It tells us in fantastic imagery and vision the true story of the whole world. So now let's turn to chapter twelve, verse one through twelve, and read the passage together. Now a great sign appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars. Then being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven diadems on his head. His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. She bore a male child who was to rule all nations with the rod of iron, and her child was caught up to God and his throne. Then the woman fled into the wilderness where she has a place prepared by God, that they should feed her there 1,260 days. And war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought with the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought, but they did not prevail, nor was a place found for them in heaven any longer. So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. Then I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brethren, who accused them before our God day and night, has been cast down. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives to the death. Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. Woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea. For the devil has come down to you having great wrath because he knows that he has a short time. So in line with the four representative key figures, we can divide these verses four sections and principles. And join in Israel's expectation of Christ. Verses 1 and 2. Two beware of Satan's hatred of God. Verses 3 and 4. 3. Worship Jesus as ruler of all, verses 5 and 6. And 4. Rejoice in the certain doom of the devil, verses 7 to 12. First, join in Israel's expectation of Christ You can tell in my wording of the principle that I take the woman of verse 1 as corporate Israel Of course, that isn't the only view out there. Catholics have identified her as Mary, the Queen of Heaven. Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of Christian Science, said she's this woman. Closer to my view is the view that the woman represents saved people throughout all of history. But I think the all-saints view is too general, and the one saint view is too specific. My main support for the corporate Israel view is from Joseph's dream in Genesis 37. In verses 9 to 11, there, Joseph relates the dream of the sun, the moon, and the stars, corresponding to Jacob, Rachel, and the sons of Israel. Israel enjoyed great privilege and position. To Israel were committed the oracles of God. And to them pertain the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God and the promises, of whom are the fathers, and from whom, according to the flesh, Christ came. Who is overall the eternally blessed God? Amen. That's from Romans nine, four to five. Messiah is the seed of Abraham, the lion of Judah, the root of Jesse, and the seed of David. The law of Moses contains the shadow of good things to come with the substance in Jesus. It was our tutor to bring us to Christ. The Israelites had all of these privileges through special revelation and election. But with such privileges came pain and trouble. God has often humbled his people under one bad king after another. Even under the domination of Gentile rule, according to their sinful plan and works, they have, as it were, brought forth wind. According to God's plan and works, Israel was sustained and brought forth the Messiah. For many centuries, Israel was expecting the Messiah and in this vision literally expecting the Messiah. We can join them, the faithful Israel, in their expectation of Christ. As most of you know already, my wife and I are expecting our first child in February. We're praying for a safe delivery, and we thank you for your prayers. During the last few months, I've realized that it's a challenge to sympathize with my wife. So she's been she's the one going through all the discomfort tests and of course ultimately the labor pains I can at least try to under read and try to understand all that's taking place inside of her and the child But sometimes the least we can do turns out to be the best we can do. In the same way I can't be a mother, we cannot be Israel We belong to the church. Israel already went through the pain, discomforts, tests, and ultimately the labor pains to bring forth the Messiah. But we can read and try to understand all that took place in her history and the child. We can turn to God's word, the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus Given by inspiration of God and profitable for doctrine. I encourage you to look through the myriads of messianic prophecies in the Old Testament. Starting with the first prediction of Christ in Genesis 3. And that leads us to the next point. Beware of Satan's hatred of God. This hatred goes all the way back to the first chapters of the Bible, back to the Garden of Eden. To more accurately identify the great fiery red dragon of verse 3, we need to skip down to verses 9 and 10 for his other monikers. That serpent of old, called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world, the accuser of our brethren The dragon is the serpent of old, who for his part in humanity's fall was cursed. He was cursed above all beasts to be placed below all beasts. He caused the man to return to dust at the end of his life. The serpent would eat dust on his belly all the days of his life. As for the serpent's relationship with the woman, the Lord declared in Genesis 3:15, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. And he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. The enmity against this woman's seed has continued since Eden He got right to work with the second generation, with Cain and Abel. Our Lord exposes him in John 8. 44. As a diabolical murderer from the beginning, who does not stand in truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources. For he is a liar and the father of it. He rightly deserves the name of the devil, which comes from the verb diaballo. Meaning defame, slander, accuse falsely. The devil, the murderous father of lies, hates That the word became flesh and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth. While Jesus came to save the world, the devil comes to deceive the world. The ancient serpent, the murderer from the beginning, the father of lies, the devil is also Satan, which is a transliteration of the Hebrew word for the enemy, adversary. In the Old Testament, we see Satan most frequently in the book of Job 11 times in the short span of the first two chapters. Elsewhere he incites King David to number Israel in First Chronicles 21. In the post-exilic period, Satan stands to oppose Joshua the high priest in Zechariah 3 Satan has earned the title over the millenniums as the accuser of our brethren Returning to Revelation 12, 3, Satan appears without subtlety as the great dragon with seven heads and ten horns. I'm not going to spend too much time giving various views on the numbers here, but based on Daniel 7 and 8, I believe that the many heads represent a worldwide confederate kingdom of New Babylon under multiple kings. There's a relationship with the beast, which I will not explore right now. Just know that the authority he wields is counterfeit and ephemeral. He has also at his disposal the fallen angels who have rebelled with him We don't know exactly when this revolt took place. It's likely the short time frame after the sixth day of creation When God saw everything that he has made, and indeed it was very good, and before man's fall in chapter 3. We do know for certain that the majority of angels stay loyal to God. Though he could have sent his angels to do this task, the dragon positioned himself to destroy Jesus as soon as he was born. That was quite evident in Herod's actions in committing the massacre of children two years and younger in Bethlehem region. Herod's son Archelaus would probably have done something similar. Satan tried to directly tempt Christ to cause them to fall like the first Adam. Desperate the dragon sent the religious leaders after Jesus? He may have thought that he won at the crucifixion, but he didn't realize that even as Herod And Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together against Christ. They could only do whatever God's hand and his purpose determined before to be done. Everything Satan and his minions did was futile. They were not dealing with the mere mortal. That leads to the third principle: worship Jesus as ruler of all. The long anticipation of Israel finally led up to this moment. the birth of her Messiah, the male child who was to rule all nations with the rod of iron. The rod of iron harkens back to Psalm 2, 9. And we saw the reference earlier in the message to the church of Diatira in chapter 2, verse 27 in Revelation. The iron rod first and foremost belongs to Jesus Christ. It signifies his authority, superior even to the authority of the dragon. Even with the seven heads, ten horns, and seven diadems. We see the same rod later in the book as Jesus fulfills his destiny in his second advent in chapter 19. Verse 5 does not delve into all the details of Jesus' ministry, just his birth, destiny, and ascension. As a child was caught up to God and his throne. Again, Daniel Atkin is helpful, quote: The reason the ascension is highlighted rather than the crucifixion and resurrection is twofold. One The crucifixion and resurrection were beautifully expounded in chapter 5. And two, the ascension is the unquestionable proof. That Satan was defeated in that he could not prevent Christ from rising from the dead and ascending back to his Father, where he now is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Perhaps the very place that Satan coveted when he fell. Unable to drag Christ down from heaven, the dragon persecutes Israel in verse 6 This verse looks forward to the second half of the seven-year tribulation when the Antichrist breaks the covenant with many. That's the Christ that restored Jerusalem temple, and there will be a great tribulation. For the faithful remnant of Israel, the time of Jacob's trouble. But at the end of that 1,260 days, they can look upward. Behold, he is coming with clouds, and every eye will see him, even they who pierced him And all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Even so. Amen Frustrated at every turn the dragon will rally the troops and make a desperate assault on heaven, with the end approaching and Israel facing great danger. It's no wonder Michael, their watcher, stands up as Daniel predicted in Daniel 12. Michael is the fourth great representative figure, and his appearance leads to The fourth point, rejoice in the certain doom of the devil. In verses 7 to 9, the devil and his angels fail in their attempts to invade heaven. Outnumbered and outpowered, they fall again. Unlike the first ball, they are barred, shut out, no longer able to come before the Lord, like they have done in the past, like in the book of Job. I believe that Jesus our Lord prophetically saw this final fall in Luke 10, 18, when he said, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Without this access, Satan will lose his title as the accuser of our brethren, who accuse them before our God day and night. In verses 10 to 12, we have a spontaneous outburst of praise, a frequent and delightful sound throughout Revelation. Robert Thomas observes that this praise falls into three stanzas: the arrival of God's kingdom and Christ's authority in verse 10. The earthly victory of the saints who identify with Christ in his witness and death. Verse 11. And the celebration over the expulsion of the dragon. and warning to earth because of the devil's ejection from heaven. Verse 12. End quote Just a paraphrase, all three verses speak of the dragon's disgrace, but verse 10 emphasizes God and Christ. Verse eleven, Christ and the Saints. And verse twelve, heaven and earth All three verses amount to our joy, not just in the future, but now. All three verses give us reasons to rejoice in the certain doom of the devil. You can see why Satan hates Christmas. Jesus' birth sets into motion verse four and all that follows. And every turn the dragon is denied his ultimate evil desires. The devil's condemnation and strengthened kingdom and the power of his antichrist will meet their end. Now, salvation and strength in the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ have come. That's reason to rejoice. Though hellish beasts overcome the witnesses of God, though Babylon the Great, the mother of Harlots, is drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. Though worshippers of the beast's image kill those who refuse to bow, saints overcome the dragon by the blood of the lamb and by the word of their testimony. And they do not love their lives to the death. That's reason to rejoice. Look at verse 12. Our citizenship is in heaven. In our father's house are many mansions. We are sojourners and pilgrims desiring a better, that is, a heavenly country. We will dwell in a city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. This fallen world will become hell under the dragon and his antichrist, who will reign for a little while. We rejoice because soon the kingdoms of this world will become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. That's reason to rejoice. We're not sure the exact source of the loud heavenly voice in verse ten. But could you echo those words? If Satan hates Christmas because it sets into motion his demise Would you love Christmas because it sets into motion your salvation? If you'd like to join in this chorus of praise, Look no further than the male child in verse 5 and his blood in verse 11. Jesus is the Lamb that was slain. He is the lamb without blemish and without spot. But then why was he slain? He died because all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. The Son of God shared in our flesh and blood, so that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death. That is the devil. How bidding that Jesus defeated Satan with the power of death by his humble obedience to the point of death, even the death of the cross. He rose from the grave and ascended to heaven. That is caught up to God and his throne. Someday the Lamb who was slain will overcome forces of evil. For he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those who are with him are called, chosen, and faithful If you want to be among those called, chosen and faithful, hear God's call. Know his merciful and compassionate choice of sinners. And come to him in faith God gives you victory and joy over sin and evil by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone You cannot earn eternal life. You must receive it as a gift by trusting in Jesus for your hope of heaven If you are born again, you will enter the kingdom above. And one born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world. Our fate. The blood of the Lamb is the outward object of our faith The word of our testimony is a subjective experience of our faith. Will you trust in Jesus today and forever? Even as we'll have tribulation in this world, we can love God more than our lives to the point of death. We can be of good cheer because Jesus has overcome the world. This Christmas we can sing and rejoice in the certain doom of the devil Like we sang earlier, Jesus came to save us all from Satan's power when we were gone astray. Tidings of comfort and joy. What will be your place in the grand redemptive story of the Bible? The panorama of salvation history, the true story of the whole world. Perhaps you feel like you have nothing to look forward to. Open up the Bible and join in Israel's expectation of Christ. Perhaps you've grown complacent in your spiritual walk. Be sober and vigilant and beware of Satan's hatred of God. Perhaps you lost your way and feel as if the world is spinning out of control. Worship Jesus as ruler of all. He sits at the right hand of God the Father. Perhaps you're depressed and sorrowful as you watch the world grow more decadent day by day. Rejoice in the certain doom of the devil. Satan hates Christmas because it spells the end of his rule. We love Christmas because it's the new beginning. As Christ is born, so is our hope of being reborn. I pray you'll be filled with Christmas joy, and your heart triples in size. Let's pray. Lord, we just thank you and we praise you, and we glorify you. Because we know the the ending already. We know that in the end we win. But not because we're such special people, not because you're saints, even the greatest of saints can change the world as we like to say often. But Lord, because of what your son has done when he became flesh and lived the perfect life, and went to the cross obediently and willingly to die for our sins. As the Lamb that was slain now has victory over the world, where we too can join in triumph as we trust in him. Lord, we know that the world is a scary place. And the world is a fallen place. But we look forward to that kingdom that will come when your son comes back. When you send your son come back on earth to establish that kingdom. Lord, until that day, help us to be faithful Lord, encourage us through your word. May we worship you with our hearts and our lips. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.