Adventure. When is the last time you went on an adventure I remember the adventure of going to and from church through the shortcuts and main roads of Degu, hymns and Bible lessons ringing in my head. I remember as a walker, the neighborhoods and apartment complexes of Laurel in my commutes to and from school. More recently, I remember during our summer honeymoon exploring Florence, a beautiful Italian city that appeared calm and serene, yet alive and busy at the same time. You might notice that I'm feeling stuck at home recently. Maybe you do too. So I wanted to recall the thrill of adventure I looked up some famous quotes on the topic. See if you can relate to these quote. Every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another. That's Ernest Hemingway. Quote, an adventure is only an inconvenience, rightly considered. An inconvenience is only an adventure, wrongly considered That's G. K. Chesterton. And then quote, not all who wander are lost. That's J. R. Tolkien. The Bible is filled with adventures too. Many of its protagonists have followed God's call to unknown and strange places, learning valuable lessons. Living and dying in unique ways. Now we may not think immediately of Saul in this today's passage as a protagonist That's probably because we primarily view him as a tragic figure and the enemy of David. But try to read today's passage without thinking too much about that ending. See where his life is headed chronologically, step by step, turn by turn, chapter by chapter, instead of as a panoramic whole. By doing so, I believe we can learn valuable lessons for our own adventures. So let's read the chapter together. It's 1 Samuel chapter 9. There was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bakorath, the son of Abiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power And he had a choice and handsome son, whose name was Saul. There was not a more handsome person than he among the children of Israel. From his shoulders upward he was taller than any of the people. Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. And Kish said to his son Saul, Please take one of the servants with you, and arise, go and look for the donkeys So he passed through the mountains of Ephraim and through the land of Shalisha, but they did not find him. Then they passed through the land of Sha'alim, and they were not there Then he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not find them. When they had come to the land of Zup Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father cease caring about the donkeys and become worried about us. And he said to him, Look now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honorable man. All that he says surely comes to pass. So let us go there. Perhaps he can show us the way that we should go. Then Saul said to his servant, But look, if we go, what shall we bring the man? For the bread in our vessels is all gone, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have? And the servant answered Saul again and said, Look, I have here at hand one fourth of a shekel of silver. I will give that to the man of God to tell us our way. Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he spoke thus, Come, let us go to the seer. For he who is now called a prophet was formerly called a seer. Then Saul says to his servant, Wilset, come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was As they went up the hill to the city, they met some young women going out to draw water and said to them, Is the fear here? And they answered them and said, Yes, there he is, just ahead of you. Hurry now, for today he came to the city, to the city, because there is a sacrifice of the people today on the high place As soon as you come into the city, you will surely find them before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes, because he must bless the sacrifice Afterward, those who are invited will eat. Now therefore, go up, for about this time you will find them. So they went up to the city. As they were coming into the city, there was Samuel coming out toward them on his way up to the high place. Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear the day before Saul came, saying, Tomorrow about this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin And you shall anoint him commander over my people, Israel, that he may save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have looked upon my people because their cry has come to me. So when Samuel saw, the Lord said to him, There he is, the man of whom I spoke to you. This one shall reign over my people. Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate and said, Please tell me, where is the seer's house? Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer. Go before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me today, and tomorrow I will let you go and will tell you all that is in your heart. But as for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not be anxious about them, for they have been found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on you and on all your father's house? And Saul answered and said, Am I not a Benjamite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do you speak like this to me? Now Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them into the hall and had them sit in the place of honor among those who were invited. There were about thirty persons. And Samuel said to the coat, Bring the portion which I gave you, of which I set to you, set it apart. So the cook took up the thigh with its upper part and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Here it is. What was kept back? It was set apart for you. Eat, for until this time it has been kept for you since I said I invited the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day. When they had come down from the high place into the city, Samuel spoke with Saul on the top of the house. They arose early, and it was about the dawning of the day. The Samuel called to Saul on the top of the house, saying, Get up, that I may send you on your way. And Saul arose, and both of them went outside, he and Samuel As they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Tell the servant to go on ahead of us. And he went on, but you stand here awhile that I may announce to you the word of God If we are to embark on an adventure of our own Please keep three principles close to your heart. One, God's providence despite ignorance. 2. God's design over human plan. Verses 15 and 17. 217. 3. God's grace for the humble. Verses 18 to 27. First, God's providence despite ignorance. Let's look at the first fourteen verses of this chapter, which may seem quite mundane at first. Pastor Ray Bowler, however, sees here God's guiding, almighty hand in Saul's life and by extension and application in our lives as well. I find Fowler's outline of this chapter and his four subdivisions of verses 1 to 14 very helpful. Fowler teaches from verses 1 and 2 that God is at work in your family background. From verses 3 to 4, God is at work in interruptions and setbacks. Next in verses 5 to 10, we learn that God is at work in the people he has placed around you Finally, from verses 11 to 14, we learn that God is at work in the timing of events. And I'll repeat those for you. Are you aware that God is at work in your family background? We may find it trivial, but we know from verse 1 the names of Saul's grandfather, great-grandfather, great-great-grandfather, and great-great-great-grandfather. Aren't the name of the father and the name of the Benjamin tribe enough? You may think so. I may think so, but sorry, the Holy Spirit inspired these words as much as he inspired John 3. 16. If indeed all scripture is given by inspiration of God, then there are lessons here too Saul was privileged to come from a wealthy and prominent family in Gibeah. Kish was a mighty man like Boaz or some of the other warriors in the Bible. And he was blessed with good genes. As R. P. Gordon wrote, quote, if a king is to be distinguished by his physical appearance, then Saul is every inch a king. We'll see how he handles such privileges, but regardless for the role of king, he definitely looks the part. As for us, we may not fully understand why we have our last names, why we were born to this family or that, why we look like this or that. But we must not be ignorant of God's providence in our own family background. God's hand is not only evident in the many generations of Saul's family, are you aware that God is at work in interruptions and setbacks? Kish loses his donkeys and commissions his son to go search for them with one of his house servants. The place names in verse 4 are hard to pin down, but one scholar surmises an itinerary. The search party may have proceeded northward from Gibeah to the uplands of Ephraim, turning then westward, then southward, and finally eastward. In other words, they wandered in every direction. The interruption and setback got Saul out of his home and closer to Samuel. We must not be ignorant of God's providence in interruptions and setbacks Not only in family and unplanned events, are you aware that God is at work in the people He has placed around you? Just when Saul was about to give up, his servant makes a key suggestion to visit a man of God nearby. When Saul was afraid of breaching decorum by going to the seer empty-handed, This servant found money for the honor area. David Samura believes this servant is none other than Ziba, a high-ranking servant and steward of this household. We'll learn more about him later. For now, can you think of people like Ziba in your life? Consider all the turning points of your life. And individuals who pointed you to the Lord in the right direction. We must not be ignorant of God's providence and the people He has placed around us. Not only in family, life events, and people, are you aware that God is at work in the timing of events? Saul and the servant arrived right when the young women came to draw water. That day Samuel was at the city, and that day a sacrifice was scheduled. The ladies say they will surely find them before he goes up to the high place to eat. That's exactly what happened next You see how everything came together at the right moment. We must not be ignorant of God's providence in the timing of events. What are the benefits of such awareness as opposed to ignorance of God's providence? I encourage you to look this up. The Heidelberg Catechism is helpful in supplying an answer along with proof passages. And this is question number 28. And the question is, what does it benefit us to know that God has created all things and still upholds them by his providence? Answer. We can be patient in adversity, thankful in prosperity. And with a view to the future, we can have a firm confidence. In our faithful God and Father, that no creatures shall separate us from his love. For all creatures are so clean completely in his hand that without his will they cannot so much as move. Patience, gratitude, confidence, mark the one who is constantly aware of God's mighty hand of providence. Seek to understand providence by faith. Another mystery that we seek to understand by faith is God's grand plan. That leads to the second lesson. In verses 1 to 14, the narrator told the story from Saul's point of view. In verses 15 to 17, we switched perspectives and learned that Samuel was expecting Saul. He received revelation a day prior and confirmation at the encounter, this is the king that Israel was waiting for. He will be anointed as the commander and rule over them. By the way, the predictions of Saul's success here do not contradict all the warnings of the previous chapter. Saul may be the answer to the people's cries now, but later people will cry out because of him, and God will not answer then. For the moment, let's observe God's design over human plan. Prior to this Saul was just another guy. Yes, he was good looking, but he didn't have any position per se. I'm sure he wasn't the first person to go search for his father's donkeys But this encounter with Samuel is the moment his life diverges from the typical Israelite. He is destined for leadership, combat, greatness. His homesickness and anxiety are frustrations of mere human plans. God had greater designs for Saul, who had no idea three days ago when he left home The very straightforward application of this principle is that we should not boast in our plans. Our plans are always subject to divine veto. You know, 2020 with a rude interruption of all that we scheme for ourselves. Our careers, our finances, our goals, our relationships, everything has been affected Now we are reminded of James 4, 13 to 16. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow, we will go to such and such a city, spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit. Whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that. But now you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So don't boast in your arrogance. Qualify your big plans with the important phrase, if the Lord wills. Remember, Proverbs 16, 9. A man's heart plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. If we discuss our grand future plans with our spouses, our parents, our bosses, how much more shall we discuss them in prayer with our God the King? Though we feel weak and insignificant in this confusing and harsh world, you will find that He cares for you. You will know by experience that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And that leads to the third point, God's grace to the humble, or for the humble Saul's life is changed forever as he meets Samuel. The future king is overwhelmed with the prophet's kindness in verses 19 to 20. Invitation to the sacrificial feast the same day, the next day, discussion of all that is in his heart. That's probably his long-laid aspirations for politics. Assurance that the donkeys have been found, and the conferring of the kingship on him, on whom is all the desire of Israel. I believe Saul's response to grace in verse 21 is one of genuine humility and meekness. There's no need to think he was being two-faced or read his tragic end into his hopeful beginning here. Again, let the story unfold, shot by shot, scene by scene. On a side note, I find that interesting that the story of Saul of the New Testament had a bad start, but a good ending. The story of Saul of the Old Testament had a good start, but a bad ending. Saul, the son of Kish, had a good start due to his realistic assessment of his tribe and family. Being from town of Gibeah and the tribe of Benjamin was not something to be proud of at this point in Israelite history. You may recall from the final few chapters of Judges why. The tribe of Benjamin was wicked and stubborn in tolerating and defending the evil of Gibeah. The other tribes defeated the Benjamites in the ensuing civil war. Saul's tribe was severely decimated, so much that the fellow Israelites feared its extinction. And that's not good, not a good at all. But remember God's grace to the humble Samuel takes this man who questions his word and seats them in the place of honor at the table Recall Jesus' parable we read earlier. Thanks to Samuel, Saul has to glory in the presence of those who sit at the table with him. He learned by firsthand experience the lesson of that parable. He who humbles himself will be exalted. Because Saul humbled himself privately to Samuel, he was exalted publicly at the hall before the guests. But that's not all. As a distinguished guest, Saul was served a distinguished meal David Samurai notes how the cook brought before him the meat portion normally set aside for the priest as prescribed in Exodus 29-27. It's as if the priest is saying, I'm usually the one to eat this choice and sacred portion, but I want you to have it, Saul. This is a visible demonstration of God's grace for the humble. After their meal, they returned from the high place to the city. Samuel spoke to him privately, presumably reinforcing these lessons of grace. Early next day, Samuel calls Saul to the same spot and tells him to get ready to depart. Near the outskirts of the city, Saul is instructed to send his servant ahead of him. That way Samuel can announce God's word and anoint him as ruler God's grace in Saul's life magnifies moment by moment, day by day, place by place. What about God's grace in your life? Let the favor shown to Saul be a lesson for the New Testament saints. There's a common principle of grace between the meal which Saul attended and the Lord's Supper we attend monthly. Both are beautiful pictures of divine grace shown to the humble, undeserving, the lowly. But we are so much more privileged than Saul. We are invited to enjoy the presence of our God, the King of the universe, who takes his time to meet us in fellowship. But please know and remember that this intimacy came at a great cost. We don't deserve to be near God. He is holy, morally perfect. We are sinners to the core in our thoughts, actions, and deeds. We offend them actively and passively. We must pay for breaking God's laws. So how do we get to be with them? Jesus paid the price of entrance and the seat at the table. The cost was this, he died on the cross in the place of sinners like you and me, taking upon himself the torment of hell. As proof that he has paid it up in full, he rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. He now offers eternal life as a free gift, not as a reward for works. This grace is for all who humble themselves in repentance and faith. With this gift of grace, we can thrive in our adventure, our pilgrimage on earth, joyfully, thankfully, courageously We experience his grace through faith in Christ, even as we face dangers and uncertainties It's good to remind ourselves that God's almighty hand and ever-present power governs the affairs of the universe. He has a grand plan of redemption and glory for his king and his people. He bestows grace to the humble. What about those who don't have faith in Christ? What does their story consist of? Rival worldviews offer such disappointing alternatives. Some say nothing governs history and stories of our lives, just chance Others have said fate determines all things. It's interesting to look at how Greek storytellers like Homer and Hesiod personified fate. The fates were the three daughters of Nyx, the goddess of the night. Not a good start here. One daughter would simply spin thread from a spindle The second would measure out a given piece of thread, which signify the length of life. And the third would cut the thread and thus signify death. In Greek, her name literally means the inevitable. Even the mighty Zeus had to bow to the fates. They were independent, arbitrary, capricious. They govern all events of human history and all events of a single life. How bleak and depressing is that? Here's the truth. Instead of being at the mercy of three faith sisters, we are the three persons of the Trinity. The Bible teaches that our Father is the grand weaver. Neither death nor life can separate me from the love of Christ God's Son. The Holy Spirit abides with me forever. With God's providence, plan, and grace in our favor, life is not an accident, inconvenience, a wandering. Life is a grand adventure in which we are assured a happy ending. Let's pray. Lord, we're thankful that you are sovereign and Lord, we believe in providence And Lord, we go through each day and we don't even understand the full significance Of the events that occur in our lives. Lord, but we know that you have a plan, and we are part of that plan. And Lord, you have called us to salvation to be part of this grand kingdom plan that you have. And Lord, we can only come and participate in this grand scheme of things. Not because we have done something great. But all we can say is we're sinners. We're undeserving. Am I not a sinner? Who bring nothing before this holy God of the universe. But we're thankful for the grace shown to us. Lord, grace shown to the humble that you exalt us. May we never take that for granted May we live each day, trusting in you, living confidently, joyfully Knowing that you are writing the story of our lives, you are weaving us into your grand plan. We're thankful and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.