In his book The Call, author Oz Guinness recounts a story of a prominent businessman who spoke at a conference near Oxford University. The speaker said, quote, as you know, I have been very fortunate in my career and I've made a lot of money. Far more than I ever dreamed of, far more than I could ever spend Far more than my family needs. His face revealed determination. and character. But suddenly his outward intensity faded and sorrow emerged. He continued with a single tear rolling down his cheek. Quote To be honest, one of my motives for making so much money was simple. To have the money to hire people to do what I don't like doing. But there's one thing I've never been able to hire anyone to do for me. Find my own sense of purpose and fulfillment. I'd give anything to discover that. Last time I checked, purpose and fulfillment are not for sale on Amazon or available for pickup at a local store. They cannot be found near or far in this world. It's sobering to see that even those who find their earthly calling, their so-called dream jobs Fail to discover what's essential in life. I'm here to tell you that you will not be satisfied until you are satisfied in the Lord As we continue in the story of Saul, we see a man who had no trouble finding his earthly calling. God and his prophet practically handed it to him on a silver platter. What a privilege to be the first king of Israel. He, like the prominent businessman, would eventually accumulate wealth and power over others But without a vital relationship with God and his grace, he would never find his own sense of purpose and fulfillment. In a word, to be a good king, Saul needs God as king. Let's read today's passage, 1 Samuel chapter 10. Then Samuel took a flask of oil. and poured it on his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because the Lord has anointed you commander over his inheritance? When you have departed from me to day, you will find two men by Rachel's tomb in the territory of Benjamin at Zelza. And they will say to you, The donkeys which you went to look for have been found. And now your father has ceased caring about the donkeys and is worried worried about you, saying, What shall I do about my son? Then you shall go on forward from there and come to the Terebin tree of Tabor. There are three men coming going up to God At Bethel will meet you, one carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a skin of wine. And they will greet you and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall receive from their hands. After that you shall come to the hill of God, where the Philistine garrison is, and it will happen when you have come there to the city. That you will meet a group of prophets coming down from the high place with a stringed instrument, a tambourine, a flute, and a harp before them, and they will be prophesying. Then the Spirit of the Lord will come upon you, and you will prophesy with them and be turned into another man. And let it be when these signs come to you, that you do as the occasion demands, for God is with you You shall go down before me to Gilgal, and surely I will come down to you to offer burnt offerings and make sacrifices of peace offerings. Seven days you shall wait till I come to you and show you what you should do. So it was when he had turned his back to go from Samuel that God gave him another heart. And all those signs came to pass that day. When they came there to the hill, there was a group of prophets to meet him. Then the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them. And it happened when all who knew him formerly saw that he indeed prophesied among the prophets, that the people said to one another, What is this that has come upon the son of Kish? It saw also among the prophets. Then a man from there answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb. It saw also among the prophets. And when he had finished prophesying, he went to the high place. Now Saul's uncle said to him and his servant, Where did you go? So he said, To look for the donkeys. When he saw that they were nowhere to be found, we went to Samuel. And Saul's uncle said, tell me please, what Samuel said to you. So Saul said to his uncle, He told us plainly that the donkeys have been found. But about the matter of the kingdom, he did not tell him what Samuel had said. Then Samuel called the people together to the Lord at Mitzvah and sets the children of Israel, Thus says the Lord God of Israel: I brought up Israel out of Egypt. And delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all kingdoms and from those who oppressed you. But you have today rejected your God. who himself saved you from all your adversities and your tribulations and you have said to him, no, set a king over us Now therefore, present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your clans. And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was chosen. When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Maitri was chosen, and Saul, the son of Kish, was chosen, but when they sought him, he could not be found. Therefore, they inquired of the Lord further, has the man come here yet? And the Lord answered, There he is, hidden among the equipment. So they ran and brought him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was taller than any of the people from his shoulders upward. And Samuel said to all the people, Do you see him whom the Lord has chosen? That there is no one like him among all the people. So all the people shouted and said, Long live the king. Then Samuel explained to the people behavior of royalty and wrote it in a book and laid it up before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house And Saul also went home to Gibeah, and valiant men went with him, whose hearts God had touched But some rebels said, How can this man save us? So they despised him and brought him no presents, but he held his peace. To find lasting and true purpose and fulfillment in life We need the Lord and his gifts of grace. And I think of five in particular from this chapter. One, God's confirmation, verses one to eight. 2. God's Spirit verses 9 to 13. 3. God's timing verses 14 to 16. 4. God's promotion verses 17 to 24. And five, God's approval, verses twenty-five to twenty-seven. First, we need God's confirmation. Consider what Saul is going through. I mean, in a matter of few days, he's been wandering through the land. He met a prophet who made him a VIP at a feast. He's been privileged to come be a commander over the nation of Israel, God's own inheritance. He's got precious oil running down his head. He's been told that he's God's anointed He might pinch himself to see if this is all real. God provides something better than a pinch. Samuel tells Saul to look for three confirmation signs on his way to the city of Gilgal. Sign number one: two men will inform him that the lost donkeys are found. Sign number two. Three men on their journey on their way to worship will share some bread with him. Sign number three Saul will be transformed by the Holy Spirit and join a group of prophets in prophesying. Note how Samuel's predictions of each encounter are precise in location and detail. Hills. Ray Fowler notes also how each sign increases in intensity. Saul goes from one man Samuel to two men at Zelza to three man at Zelda. Ta table to group of men, at least four I think, based on the number of music instruments. Fowler also notes that each sign corresponds to what Samuel just did for Saul. The two men confirm Samuel's words in chapter 9, verse 20. Which said, as for the donkeys you lost three days ago, do not worry about them. They have been found. The three worshippers sharing bread is parallel to Samuel sharing his special meat portion. Reserved for priests. Finally, the encounter with the prophets and the Holy Spirit corresponds to Samuel and his symbolic anointing of oil. And more on this third sign a little bit later. For now, observe in verse 7 the outcome of God's confirmation. And let it be when these signs come on come to you that you do as the occasion demands, for God is with you. As God confirms Saul's calling, he can act confidently. He can be assured that God is with him. But this kind of confirmation is not mere intellectual assent to God's word. It's living and experiencing God's Word. Saul went on his way and experienced God's gracious confirmation. And as he continues his journey, there will be more opportunities to confirm his calling. Now we may not receive out of ordinary confirmations like Saul here, but we can in his word Find confirmation in God's promises. They are true, and we can live confidently, knowing God is with us. How can Christians who experience promises of hope, peace, joy be so gloomy and pessimistic? Why so sour? The longer we walk with the Lord, the more confirmation we receive that God is good. We grow better, not bitter. As we find purpose and fulfillment in him. And what does that look like? You know, we sang about it as our first song. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus, just to take him at his word, just to rest upon his promise, just to know, thus saith the Lord. Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I approved him, o'er and o'er. Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus, all for grace to trust him more. That's living in God's promises, living in the blessings of faith. And that kind of faith can only be developed in the power of the Spirit. And that leads to our second need, God's Spirit. I find that interesting that in verses 9 to 13 that only the confirmation of the third sign is narrated explicitly. We trust that the first and second signs came to pass that day. I believe the narrator wanted to emphasize here Saul's transformation. And what the scripture emphasizes, we too should highlight. Every leader, king, ruler, take note Not by might, nor by power, but by his spirit This third sign was also distinct from others in that observers recognized the Spirit's influence over Saul. This came as a surprise to friends and acquaintances. They knew Saul as the son of Kish. They knew about the group of prophets, but they found it strange to see the two come together. So mockley was this crew that someone asks, who is their father? Father here is the title of mentor or teacher. Just as Elijah was for Elisha, or there was a leader among the musicians, you can read about that in 1 Chronicles 25 and 2 Kings 2. In other words, what sort of leader of prophets would admit an ordinary man like Saul? Well, only God, gracious to give us purpose and fulfillment through his spirit Now we should stop and ask what exactly happened to Saul in this passage. I guess the big question is, was he saved? We know that Saul turned into another man and God gave him another heart. He was even granted the power to prophesy But the rest of the narrative does not give us much confidence that he was justified by faith. He's not cited as a model of faith anywhere. I tend to believe he was not saved, but I'm not hundred percent sure. And so the question is: if Saul was unsaved, how did he have the Holy Spirit? Now we must understand that certain ministries of the Spirit extend to both the saved and the lost. An individual may be empowered simply for an office or a function in corporate Israel. In Numbers 11, God's spirit that rested on Moses was distributed to the 70 elders. I think the 70 elders were saved. But later in the same book, the spirit came upon Balaam of all people to empower him. To speak for God. I don't think Balaam was saved. The Spirit enabled the judges later for service. And then now here the Spirit equipped Saul for kingship. Later in 1 Samuel 16, the Spirit of the Lord would depart from Saul and come upon David, who was already saved, I believe. But anyway, I think dwelling on the topic of individual salvation is missing the point of the narrative. What is certain is that Saul eventually lost his power to be a good king. Somewhere along the way, he's going to forget his need for God. Not by might, nor by power, but by his spirit J. Oswald Sanders says in his classic book, Spiritual Leadership, quote, There is no such thing as a self-made spiritual leader. A true leader influences others spiritually only because the Spirit works in and through him to a greater degree than in those he leads. That's why we pray for leaders, not only for their sake, but for our sake as well. Now back to Saul, who, through the power of the Spirit, spoke words of prophecy. Through the same spirit, he kept his mouth shut about his kingship until the right time, I believe. That is God's timing. Compared to all that took place from the beginning of this chapter, verses 14 to 16 appear relatively insignificant. It's a rather ordinary conversation between Saul and his uncle, whom David Sumura guesses is Abner, the future commander of Israel's army. Abner seems to perk up hearing Samuel's name. Perhaps he at this point was eager for glory to raise the prominence of his family to national fame. Whether Saul was nervous or wise, we're not certain. Either way, he hides the matter of the kingdom until Samuel breaks the news publicly. Just a quick application here. Waiting in the wings for God's timing is crucial for lasting and true purpose and fulfillment. Abraham waited twenty-five years for the promised son. Joseph spent his youth, late teens and his twenties, as a slave, as a prisoner. Moses was 40 when he left Egypt and he spent another 40 years in the wilderness before fulfilling his purpose. Joshua and Caleb waited 40 years to enter the promised land. David had a target on his back for a long time before he became king. Most importantly, our Lord Jesus waited until he was about 30 years old, getting baptized and beginning his ministry, spending many obscure years. In an obscure city, in an obscure region. Can we wait for God's timing Now, Saul didn't have to wait very long, and that leads to his fourth need, God's promotion. Now God's promotion of Saul as king comes with a bit asterisk or caveat. Even though Saul is destined to rule over Israel, God is most qualified to rule. And just look for just look what he did for them from the time of Exodus until now. He brought up Israel out of Egypt and delivered them from their oppressors. Yet, they have rejected God, their Savior. And they have chosen a lesser Savior. Israel got their final warning. Now, from the second half of verse 19 to the end of verse 21, there is a selection of the king by lot. Two quick observations about this. First, this casting of Lod was a necessary formality to publicly identify the one God has chosen. Samuel knew, Saul knew, and we the readers knew or know the outcome because God has previously revealed it. Now the people will be assured that the selection is according to God's will. And whether God reveals in advance or not, we lean on the truth of Proverbs 16:33. The lot is cast into the lap, but it's every decision is from the Lord. The other observation Fowler makes the keen observation that this process of elimination, tribe by tribe, family by family, all the way to the individual, looks a lot like what happened in Joshua chapter 7. You may recall from there that the Israelites suffered a humiliating defeat against the city of Ai. That's because just prior to this, a man named Achan surreptitiously took the accursed things of Jericho. God was angry with Israel for the foolish choice of one man. And he was brought forward. Now God is again angry with Israel for their foolish choice of one man as king. And he is brought forward. The people made their choice, and Saul must now fulfill his purpose in history. But he doesn't step into his role with fanfare. He's found hidden among the equipment. We're not sure exactly why he shied away from the spotlight, whether it was humility or fear. We don't really know. Perhaps he wasn't excited to take on a role that's doomed to fail from the beginning. Regardless, he displayed a healthy amount of reluctance and distance from power. At this point, at least, Saul focused more on God's promotion than human promotion Of course the people just wanted him on stage and focused on his tangibles, his height, appearance. Do we patiently seek God's promotion for purpose and fulfillment in life? Personality-wise, Saul wasn't what you call a goal-getter. We may have a hard time relating to him because he because in the so-called real world We don't climb to the top without a certain mindset or attitude. But at this specific time, for this specific role of king, everyone wants in place of God. I think it was wise for Saul to tread carefully. We too would be wise by not seizing every opportunity and running through every open door. Starting up every conversation. You know, these days, Saul's reluctance and hesitation would do us good, especially in the realm of politics. I won't go there. Such wisdom and patience will serve Saul in the long run. And that leads to our fifth need: God's approval. God's approval is so vital for meaning, for purpose, fulfillment That's because the approval of men is not reliable. Sure, Saul must have felt an adrenaline rush as he heard the people shouting, Long live the king! He even had godly and valiant men pledging their loyalty to him. But tough times and tensions will come Already there were those who questioned this leadership. It's hard being a leader. Saul would need to seek stability in God's approval, not the shifting opinions of men. To help, Samuel explained the behavior of royalty This is likely a written agreement outlining the expectations of each party, clarifying the relationship between the king and his subject. The document probably included references to passages like Deuteronomy 17, 14 to 20, and even the recent behavior of the king from chapter 8. Will all the lessons Saul learned thus far, and this written reminder of his duty be enough? Will Saul focus on God's approval to find purpose and fulfillment. For now, yes, we see him resisting the urge to avenge himself against his naysayers. As application, we too can resist the urge to live for the approval of men by living for the approval of God. Meditate on Galatians 1:10. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. True lasting purpose and fulfillment are found in being a bondservant of Christ, living for his approval for the audience of one. As his servants, we find purpose and fulfillment in the Lord. In his confirmation, in his spirit, timing, promotion, approval Purpose and fulfillment are not found in education or career. Paul was taught by the best in Jerusalem. At the feet of Gamaleel. He advanced in Jerusalem, I mean I'm sorry, Judaism, beyond many of his contemporaries, more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of his fathers. But where did that lead him? Enmity against God Himself, Jesus Christ. Without the gracious calling and the revelation of Jesus Christ, He would have been lost. After being saved, he counted all things lost, his education and career included. For the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus the Lord, he counted all things as rubbish, that he may gain Christ. Purpose and fulfillment are not found in wealth or status. Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called a son of Pharaoh's daughter. Unsatisfied, he chose rather to suffer affliction with his people, the people of God, than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. He esteemed the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he looked to the reward by faith Purpose and fulfillment are not found in our good works and our efforts. For non-Christians listening, and uh and as a reminder to Christians, know that our sins have tainted everything and disqualified us from heaven Isaiah 64, verse 6 says, We are all like an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags. We all fade as a leaf And our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away. Because we broke God's laws, we face his eternal judgment in hell. But God sent his Son Jesus Christ, perfect and sinless, to save us. He lived for the purpose of the Father's glory. And fulfilled his command to lay down his life and to take it up again. That is, rise again from the dead. He paid for our sins in our place at the cross. He ascended to heaven and now offers us eternal life. We can accept this gift of life by turning away from ourselves in repentance and turning to Jesus in faith. We accept eternal life by grace alone, not by works. Take up this offer before he returns to judge the world, before you breed your last. The gospel, this purpose and fulfillment of Christ's life, lead to purpose and fulfillment in our life. Let's celebrate today what he has done for us. Remember his sacrificial death and give thanks in the Lord's Supper. Let's pray. Lord, this passage seems unrelatable at times. We go through life. Not so much meditating on the lives of uh people in the Bible. We're just just getting by. Just doing things according to our routine. Being tossed around by opinions of others, going with the trend Going to our work, going through our routines. But Lord, may we stop this moment. As we have a holiday tomorrow and as we let us think about. We want to think about what you mean to us How we would wander aimlessly. We would have no purpose in life. That we're not that different from that prominent businessman apart from your grace. May we live in accordance with your word. Not just knowing it, but living by your word, in obedience to it, in application of your word, that we would know in confirmation that you are with us. Lord, may we live in the power of the Spirit to overcome sin, to wage war against the flesh. To do what it means to live our lives for you, to walk in the Spirit, to be filled with the Spirit. That we may not grieve or quench the spirit. Nor we think about your timing and how hard it is to be patient. And to wait for your promotion and your providence, how we are eager to promote ourselves. Help us to be humble, to wait for your exaltation. That we would live for your approval as bondservants of Christ. We thank you. We thank you for just giving purpose in life. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.