Can someone be a godly politician? In 1785, a young politician named William Wilberforce became an evangelical Christian and contemplated in becoming a minister. But an older clergyman named John Newton urged him to stay as a member of the Parliament. He met others, other brothers and sisters, who encouraged him to do the same. and lead the fight against slavery. You might sympathize with Wilbur Borce He found it difficult to give full expression to his evangelicalism among the elites of the society. Stay in politics. William was zealous and hungry for the word. I'm not sure I would have advised Newton, as I'm sorry, as Newton did to Wilberforce. But John knew that God has plans for saints in every sphere of life. Public, private, laymen and clergy, rulers and citizens can live for the glory of God You might compare the relationship between Wilberforce and Newton with the one between Saul and Samuel in today's passage. For just a little bit, Saul looked like he could be a religious prophet, but it turned out that he would be a political king. Though that position was not without controversy, if Saul would remain true to God and heed the wise words of godly men, like Samuel He could make a difference. He could be a godly politician. Let's see how in 1 Samuel 11 Then Nahash the Ammonite came up and encamped against Jabesh Gilead and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you. And Nahash the Ammonite answered them. On this condition I will make a covenant with you that I may put out all your right eyes and bring reproach on all Israel. Then the elders of Jabesh said to him, Hold on for seven days that we may send messengers to all the territory of Israel. And then if there is no one to save us, we will come out to you. So the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told the news in the hearing of the people, and all the people lifted up their voices and wept. Now there was Saul coming behind the herd from the field, and Saul said, What troubles the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh. Then the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard this news, and his anger was greatly aroused. So he took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the territory of Israel by the hands of messengers saying, Whoever does not go with Saul and Samuel to battle, so it shall be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord fell on the people, and they came out with one consent. When he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand. And the men of Judah, 30,000. And they said to the messengers who came, Thus you shall say to the men of Jabesh Gilead, tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you shall have health. Then the messengers came and reported it to the men of Javesh, and they were glad. Therefore the men of Javesh said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do with us whatever seems good to you. So it was on the next day that Saul put the people in three companies, and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch and killed Ammonites until the heat of the day. And it happened that those who survived were scattered, so that not two of them were left together. Then the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Shall Saul reign over us? Bring the men that we may put them to death. But Saul said, Not a man shall be put to death this day, for today the Lord has accomplished salvation in Israel. Then Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there. So all the people went to Gilgad and there they made saw a king before the Lord in Gilgal. There they made sacrifices of peace offerings before the Lord, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly. I think lessons for Saul and ultimately for all of us are the following. 1. Spirit of God resists the bondage of evil. That's verses 1 to the first half of verse 7. 2. Fear of God empowers us for battle. Second half of verse 7 to verse 10. 3. Salvation of God achieves victory. Verses 11 to 13. And four, kingdom of God brings joyful worship. Verses 14 to 15. How do we live for God's glory? Major on these. Spirit of God. Fear of God. Salvation of God. Kingdom of God. First, Spirit of God resists the bondage of evil. I'm going to spend the most time on this point as there's a lot of background info. The first verse of this chapter introduces us, or rather reintroduces us, to the Ammonites. And Javish Gilead. The origins of Ammonites go back to Genesis 19, where Abraham's nephew Lot had a son named Ben-Amni. The descendants of Benami eventually became a distinct people with their own gods and their own land east of Israel. They also became one of Israel's enemies. As for Javesh Gilead, we go back to Numbers 32. The city was located in the Transjordan region, that is on the east side of the Jordan River. While still at this threshold of the promised land, some Israelites asked Moses for permission to settle down right where they were. Those were the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh. Moses, as a leader, was worried that such a decision would flag the morale of the people But those settlers decided and pledged to preserve the unity by fighting with their brothers until the end of the conquest. This principle of separate but united worked for a time until it didn't. At the end of Judges, the people of Jabish Gilead Failed to report for duty. That is, they failed to come to the aid of their fellow tribes in another war, in their civil war against the unrepentant tribe of Benjamin. So they were punished. As punishment, the population of Jabesh was wiped out except the unmarried woman who were given to the surviving Benjamites. As Eugene Merrill observes, it's very possible that Saul's lineage not only includes Benjamin, but also a family of the city. Now Jabesh found themselves asking for help. At the opposite end of the battle line was Nahash, the king of Ammonites. His cruel terms of surrender were designed to humiliate and prevent possible revolts in the future. When the elders of the city asked for more time, Nahash granted it. And there could be several reasons for this. Perhaps he was arrogant and overly confident of his victory. Perhaps he calculated that waiting is less costly than a full siege warfare. Or maybe he actually anticipated a United attack against him. So he needed time to prepare as well, to gear up. Whatever the reasons, the the distress call arrives in Gibeah, and the people begin to mourn. At this point, Saul was away working in the field, and let's not miss the significance of that. I agree with David Guzik here. Quote: This is the humility of the king of Israel. Saul was already anointed and recognized as king. Yet in a sense, there was nothing for him to do. He really didn't know where to begin when it came to setting up a royal court, you know, bureaucracy, and Israel never had one before. So he just went back home, went to work in the field, and figured God would tell him what to do when the time was right. End quote. Again, up to this point, Saul is doing a good job. His prophetic activity earlier, his meek spirit His concern for others in verse 5 prepare us for verse 6, where God's Spirit equips him to be a savior for others The same subject and verb were used for Samson. The Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon Samson, and he destroyed a lion, thirty men of Ashkelon, and the ropes that bound him. And just as God used Samson to liberate his people from the Philistines, he will use Saul to liberate them from the Ammonites. The spirit of God in Saul resists the bondage of evil Another connection with the judges has to do with the killing of oxen. And there's some dark things going on in the latter part of Judges. There's a Levite in that book who cut up his concubine's corpse to provoke outrage against the Benjamites in Gibeah. Now, Saul cuts up his oxen to provoke the outrage against the Ammonites, led by Nahash. But see how this time the Benjamites of Gibeah would be heroes, not the villains. This was a chance to restore honor to his hometown and his tribe of Benjamin while saving the town of his relatives Jabesh Gilead. It was a spirit-led opportunity confirmed by the prophet Samuel, who accompanied them to battle. The Spirit of God resists the bondage of evil. I see here the ministry of the Spirit exposing sin. and the evil and the grotesque nature of sin. That's why he is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit in Saul confronts the sin of commission from the Ammonites, and the sin of omission if the tribes are a no-show. You know, as an application thought, I wonder if we give enough weight to sense of omission. The more I read the scriptures, The more I realize I not only actively commit sins against God's do not and you shall not, I also active and passively choose Or fail to follow God's do, and you shall. I fail to report for duty my holy calling. And it's easy for me to judge and criticize those who commit sins and feel superior. But very often, and we pray this regularly. We have left undone those things which we ought to have done And what is the price of our omission? Not mutilated oxen. It's the mutilated body of Jesus on the cross. He died for your sins of omission along with your sins of commission. The Spirit reminds us of our sins. His ministry is not always pretty. It can make us uncomfortable. It is combative against sin. A similar ministry continues today in the New Testament age. I'm not saying the church exists to inflict physical violence, but we are engaged in a spiritual resistance against evil. As we see in Ephesians 6. Our resistance to evil in us and around us provides evidence of the indwelling Holy Spirit. Is the Spirit of God in you? If you are struggling against the ensnares of the devil and the bondage of sin, such resistance proves that we are God's children. Liberated by the Spirit, we put to death the deeds of the body and live. For as many are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. For we did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but we received the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba Father. Is the Spirit of God in you? If you follow Christ and fight the good fight, such self-denial proves we are becoming like Christ. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. And being set free, we are being transformed into the likeness of the glory of the Lord Is the Spirit of God in you? If you possess God's promises and cleanse yourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and the spirit We are perfecting our holiness in the fear of God through the Holy Spirit. And that leads to the next point: fear of God empowers us for battle. An army of three hundred thirty thousand gathers at Bezek, a city about twelve miles west of Javesh Gilead. And just a natural question is why is the total count of Judah singled out? My guess is that the narrator wanted to emphasize The unity of the nation, as if to say, back then, in the good old days, Judah and other tribes of Israel stood together against a common threat. They send back a message to the city. They will have help the next day. The men of Javesh rejoice at the news, but hide it from Nahash and act like they are going to surrender. And what motivated such a great turnout? We see there in the second half of verse 7. They all feared the Lord. In other places in the Bible, this fear comes upon people to terrify and paralyze them, but here it moves them. This fear strengthens Israel against their enemies, as it does in 2 Chronicles 14. In other places in the Bible, this fear is better known as the foundation of godly living and rule. But here the emphasis is that the fear of the Lord is the cure for the fear of men. How do we muster up the courage in our battles of life? How do we overcome our fear of the enemy? Jesus said it best in Matthew 10, 28, do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Fear the Lord more than man. The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. Say with the psalmist, the Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? In God I will praise his word. In God I have put my trust. I will not fear. What can flesh do to me? In God I have put my trust. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Fear the Lord more than man. Look to Isaiah. Do not say a conspiracy concerning all that this people call a conspiracy. Nor be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled. The Lord of hosts, him you shall hallow. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. Do not be afraid of a man who will die, and of the son of a man who will be made like grass. Fear the Lord more than man. See in the New Testament. Do not fear poverty. But be content. For he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? When suffering for righteousness' sake, know that you are blessed and do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled. And such boldness is only possible because God is ultimately our Savior. And that leads to the next point: salvation of God achieves victory. Saul skillfully splits his men into three companies, and they surprised the Ammonites in the morning and slaughtered them until afternoon. It was so bad that not even two of them remained together. So impressive was the victory that the zealous champions wanted to kill Saul's naysayers, we saw at the end of the last chapter. But Saul wisely stops them and led by the Spirit, he says in verse 13, The Lord has accomplished salvation in Israel. And pretty straightforward. We can talk about the salvation of God. And you may be impressed with the salvation that's seen in this chapter. But have you stopped to consider the salvation the Lord has accomplished for you? And we read about it earlier as we read parts of the statement of faith that were focused on our salvation. Now I encourage you to look at the original copy with the uh proof passages. But let me give you some Qualities of the salvation the Lord has accomplished for us. Salvation Jesus accomplished was ordained by God Jesus said all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be accomplished. Jesus fulfills the requirements of God's word and the eternal purposes of the Father through his death, burial, and the world. Resurrection, ascension, and eventually his return. Salvation Jesus accomplished doesn't just cover up the symptoms The strife, violence, and unrest we see in society. Jesus gets to the root of our fallenness, our sin. The name Jesus, if you forget, is the Greek form of the Hebrew name Yeshua, which is shortened from Yahushua or Joshua. The name means Yahweh saves. But saved from what? God the Father announced through an angel, you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And if you're not a Christian, please know that we can do nothing to save ourselves from sin. Repent and trust in Jesus alone for salvation. Only He can guarantee us eternal life, forgiveness of sins, redemption from the penalty of sin through his death on the cross in our place. Salvation Jesus accomplished doesn't just last for seasons of good kings and ministrations and rulers. Remember what Jesus brings us from the final phrase of our statement of faith. Eternal joy of the saved. We can do nothing to procure lasting joy in this world. Trust in Jesus alone. Only He can bring us the everlasting kingdom of righteousness and peace. Peace and joy in the Holy Spirit, as it says in Romans 14, 17. And that leads to the fourth point. Kingdom of God brings joyful worship. After the great deliverance, Samuel leads the people to Gilgal. This place is significant for two reasons. First, we saw in the last chapter that that's where Samuel sent Saul after anointing him for kingship. Saul received various confirmations on the way, and he waited for Samuel to arrive to offer offerings to the Lord. Secondly, Gilgal was the first campsite of Israel in the Promised Land after crossing the Jordan. At the site, they set up twelve memorial stones as a reminder of God's power to dry up rivers and seas. Gilgal was where the second generation was circumcised as they left behind the reproach of Egypt. Gilgal was where they celebrated their first Passover in the Promised Land Gyogo was where they first ate the produce of the land, as the provision of manna stopped. So Gilgal was an appropriate location for a worship service, but why make Saul king again? And this seems a bit redundant My answer is that the previous ceremony at Mitzbah was more of a political oration, while the ceremony at Gilgal is more of a religious or nation. There in the previous chapter at Mitzvah, they made Saul King before the people as they shouted, Long live the king. Here in verse 15, at Gilgal, they made Saul King before the Lord. As they joyfully worshipped. Perhaps a modern parallel of this interpretation might be found overseas. In early 1952, Elizabeth II was proclaimed Queen of England by councils and acceded the throne. In mid-1953, she was coronated at a service at Westminster Abbey with communion, prayers, and religious music. So I think that's sort of like a parallel. But how about some modern applications of this point? If Israel has reasons for joyful worship, we have more. Israel had Saul as God's anointed. We have Jesus as God's anointed. Israel celebrated as Saul drove away the presence of Nahash in one day. We celebrate as Jesus will drive away the presence of Satan someday. The joy of the kingdom that's coming is so profound that we can celebrate even in times of political crises. We look forward to the day when the Lord establishes his kingdom and we don't have to worry about who's in charge. Jesus Christ will reign. Because this future is certain, we can start the celebration now. We can offer sacrifices of praise and rejoice greatly As a clergyman like Samuel or John Newton, I encourage you, brothers and sisters, as you face a new week of challenges. We can live for God's glory if we live according to the Spirit of God, fear of God, salvation of God, and kingdom of God. Let me end as I began. In 1796, eleven years after his conversion, after many years of struggling for abolition, William Wilverforce found himself seeking Newton's counsel again. He wanted to quit. Just a few months ago he was optimistic about the abolition bill he worked so hard for. He was able to persuade a majority. Sadly, about five or six failed to show up to the House of Commons for the vote, and the reason was they went to the opera. The passage of Wilberforce's bill fell short by four votes. William expressed his disappointment in a letter. Newton wrote back to the dejected William, and here are some excerpts of the letter dated July 21, 1796. I believe you are the Lord's servant and are in the post which He has assigned you. And though it appears to me more arduous, And requiring more self-denial than my own. I know that he who called you to it can afford you strength according to your day. And I trust he will, for he is faithful to his promise. You are not only a representative for Yorkshire, you have the far greater honor of being a representative for the Lord. In a place where many know him not, and an opportunity of showing them what are the genuine fruits of that religion which you are known to profess. Indeed, the great point for our comfort in life is to have a well-grounded persuasion that we are where, all things considered, we ought to be. Then it is no great matter whether we are in public or in private life, in a city or a village, in a palace or a cottage. The promise, my grace is sufficient for thee. It's necessary to support us in the smoothest scenes, and is equally able to support us in the most difficult. Wilberforce continued for another 37 years until 1833. That year the bill finally passed, and that year he died. To live for God's glory. Wilberforce, you, me, all of us. We need the Spirit of God We need the fear of God, salvation of God, kingdom of God. Let's pray. Lord, saints of every age, as they strive to live for you, have faced opposition. Lord, we know that our struggle will continue, and maybe it'll get worse in our country For Christians to live out their lives in public. But Lord, we know you aren't surprised by this. That you didn't say, I didn't see that coming. I didn't see 2020 coming. I didn't see that law coming or that bill being passed. We know you are in control. And every time it gets worse and worse, we are reminded in your word that your grace is sufficient. You're giving us the spirit. You're giving us all that we need to live a godly life. And Lord, if we are afraid of threats And dangers of this world. May we fear you more. Lord, if we wonder what our destiny is going to be, May we be reminded of the salvation, the eternal salvation you give us. Lord, if we see our nations crumble and the foundations. Falling apart, may we remember that we are citizens of the heavenly kingdom. Give us the strength for this week. Lord, most of us in this room are not in ministry. We are at the workplaces, we are with our neighbors, doing various other things. You have given us the calling to live holy lives, and we pray that we will live victorious lives that can only come through your Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit. And your care for us, Father. And we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.