How important is leadership? Maybe more than we realize If I was a betting man, I bet that this week every one of you were thinking about at least one president, whether he's from US, Russia, or Ukraine. You probably have some strong opinions about them too. I try to avoid being dramatic and political, but let's face it, leadership is the stuff of legends. They fill history books. Leaders have left behind marks in human civilization. We see that the Bible also stresses the importance of leadership. It speaks of the good authority of God, it decries the simple rule of man, and no human except Christ can escape the failure and example of our progenitor. As through one man, the first man, sin entered the world. We see the importance of leadership from the earliest pages of the Bible And as we continue in our studies of 1 Samuel, we see that through another man, Israel's first king Saul, trouble enters the land of God's people. Let's turn to 1 Samuel chapter 28 and see how the ruler got himself and his kingdom into such a mess, a huge mess. And if you're using the Pew Bible, you'll find 1 Samuel chapter 28 and page 208. Now it happened in those days that the Philistines Gathered their armies together for war to fight with Israel, and Akish said to David, You as surely know that you will go out with me to battle, you and your men So David said to Akish, Surely you know what your servant can do. And Akish said to David, Therefore I will make you one of my cheap guardians forever. Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had lamented for him and buried him in Rama, in his own city. And Saul had put the mediums and the spiritists out of the land. Then the Philistines gathered together and came and encamped at Shunem. So Saul gathered all Israel together and they encamped at Gilboah. When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord did not answer him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by the prophets. Then Saul said to his servants, Find me a woman who is a medium, that I may go to her and inquire of her. And the servant said to him, In fact, there is a woman who is a medium at Endor. So Saul disguised himself and put on other clothes, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and he said, Please conduct A seance for me and bring up for me the one I shall name to you. Then the woman said to him, Look, you know what Saul has done. how he has cut off the mediums and the spiritists from the land. Why then do you lay a snare for my life to cause me to die? And Saul swore to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing. Then the woman said, Whom shall I bring up for you? And he said, Bring up Samuel for me. When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice. And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul. And the king said to her, Do not be afraid, what did you see? And the woman said to Saul, I saw a spirit ascending out of the earth. So he said to her, What is his form? And she said, An old man is coming up, and he is covered with the mantle. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground and bowed down. Now Samuel said to Saul, Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up? And Saul answered, I am deeply distressed, for the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me and does not answer me any more. neither by prophets nor by dreams. Therefore I have called you, that you may reveal to me what I should do. Then Samuel said, So why do you ask me, seeing the Lord has departed from you and has become your enemy? And the Lord has done for himself as he spoke by me. For the Lord has torn the kingdom of out of your hand and given it to your neighbor David. Because you did not obey the voice of the Lord, nor execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore the Lord has done this thing to you this day. Moreover, the Lord will also deliver Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. The Lord will also deliver the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines. Immediately Saul fell full length on the ground, and was dreadfully afraid because of the words of Samuel. And there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no food all day or all night. And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was severely troubled, and said to him, Look, your maidservant has obeyed your voice, and I have put my life in my hands and heeded the words which you spoke to me. Now therefore, please heed also the voice of your maidservant, and let me set a piece of bread before you and eat, that you may have strength when you go on your way. But he refused and said, I will not eat So his servants together with the woman urged him and he heeded their voice. Then he arose from the ground and sat on the bed. Now the woman had a fat, fatted calf in the house, and she hastened to kill it. And she took flour and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread from it. So she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they rose and went away that night. As we near the end of 1 Samuel, we're also nearing the end of Saul's life. In today's passage, I observe three critical mistakes. They have to do with the wrong place. The wrong method, the wrong emotion. I call them three steps, or rather missteps, towards disastrous leadership. First misstep, you risk going to dangerous places. So The principle for us is that don't risk going to the dangerous places. That's verses 1 to 7. Misstep number two. You employ unbiblical means to success. You employ unbiblical means to success. That's verses 8 to 19. Which takes up most of the chapter. So the principle is that don't employ unbiblical means to success. And the final misstep, number three. Saul burdened himself with worldly sorrow. That's verses 20 to 25. So, the principle for us: don't burden yourself with worldly sorrow. So first, don't risk dangerous places So since I'm sort of celebrating a year as a father, I'm going to start with a parody of Dr. Seuss. But it's a dark parody, unfortunately. And it's about our unfortunate King Saul. All the places you'll go, you'll be on your way down. You'll be seeing horrific sights. You'll join the down and outers who die to low depths The first part of chapter 28 shows us that terrible descent as we move from one verse to another From verses 1 to 7, there's a heightening and rising of tensions, each verse building on the previous one, adding to the drama. 1. The Philistines gather. 2. David appears to be on their side. 3. Samuel's been gone for a while. All other spiritual guides are expelled from the land. 4. The Philistines invade Israel and camp at Shunim. Meanwhile, Saul gathers his troop at Gilboah, about eight miles away. 5. The king of Israel despairs at the mere sight of the Philistines. 6. God is silent, even as Saul uses biblical means of revelation. 7. Saul is so desperate. That he'll go to forbidden sources. I'll discuss where Saul is spiritually in the next point. For now let's discuss where Saul is physically. Of course, our spiritual and physical locations are often related I think of verses like Psalm 111. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful Or consider Psalm 119, verse 59. I thought about my ways and turned my feet to your testimonies. Well, Saul thought about his ways, and he turned his feet not to God's testimonies. He turns his feet to dangerous places. Well be careful little feet where you go. Consider the extreme measures he take. You probably guessed that Endor is not far away from Gilboa, and you'd be right. But there's more. Commentators note that Endor's north of the hill of More and located four miles northeast of Shunim. That means dangerously close to where the Philistines were encamped. Saul would be coming up from eight miles south from Gilboa and passing by the enemies to visit Endor. What great risk he took to go there, all the places he'll go As a quick application, let's think about the places we'll go to our detriment and at our own peril. Where do you turn when people are against you? No sound advice is available when death is around the corner. That'll reveal much about you and your faith. When you hit rock bottom, what is the rock that is at the bottom of your feet? When you're lost in the night, whose name will you invoke? I pray that you make Psalm 1195 your prayer. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and I keep your law. Keep Proverbs 18:10 near your heart. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous run to it and are safe. But instead of the Lord's name and the Lord's ways, Saul's going to seek another name and another way. And that path means breaking God's laws and breaking his own laws. So now let's talk about the second misstep towards disastrous leadership. And for us, don't employ unbiblical means to success. As you can see, the illegal transaction at Endor takes up most of this chapter. The Bible is clear and consistent in condemning the practices of mediums, wizards, and necromancers. And evidently, Saul did a good job of enacting God's laws. He had to send servants to locate the necromancers, and she was afraid of getting caught. In the cover of darkness and in disguise, Saul and his men, two men, reach Endor. It seems that Saul's urgent tone and forwardness in verse eight raised the woman's suspicions in verse nine. So he assures her that no harm will befall her. And it's stunning to see how irreverent God's anointed ruler has become. Look again in verse 10. By this point, when you hear Saul use that oath as the Lord lives, you should not feel safe. His words do not carry any weight. Previously in chapter 19, the last time he used that phrase, the king swore that David shall not be killed. Well, we know how that went. Earlier in chapter 14, the first time he used that phrase, the king endangered the life of his own son Jonathan. And just as it was back then, it is now. Saul hears nothing from heaven, so he'll say anything on earth. He talks about the God who lives, but he's more interested in the man who's dead. And Saul desperately wants to hear from Samuel and the woman of Lyges. Now, what happens in chapter in verse 12 onward has raised a lot of questions. Who or what in the world or underworld is talking to Saul? Was it the spirit of Samuel himself or something else? I'll give you three major interpretations and let you know what I think. First, some say that Samuel's appearance was only psychological. Merely in Saul's head, a hallucination. Secondly, others say that it was a demon impersonating as Samuel. Thirdly, still others believe the spirit of Samuel himself appeared at Endor. The first view appears least likely If Samuel was merely a figment of Saul's imagination, what exactly did the necromancer see? How did the necromancer see him too? The second view is that the two spoke to a demonic doppelganger. This might be better than the first, but I still think it's inadequate. Conjuring and evil spirits, probably what the medium was going to do anyway, so why would she be so shocked in verse 12? Also, consider the narrator's point of view in verses 12, 15, and 16. He certainly takes for granted that it was Samuel, and it seems to agree. It seems he agrees with Saul's point of view in verse 14. So I say that the best of the three views is that it was indeed Samuel himself here. Again, his unexpected appearance explains the shock of the woman. In addition, Saul knew Samuel well. It's unlikely he would bow down before anyone else. Furthermore, the narrator himself says straightforwardly that Samuel spoke here And lastly, we know that on very rare occasions, God directly allows this kind of encounter That is, he lets deceased saints appear on earth as he did with Moses and Elijah at the Mount of Transfiguration. Now let's look at what said in verses 16 to 19. The Prophet's words are consistent with what he said before. The same old message from the same old man. He speaks only what God speaks. Seven times in seven sentences, seven times in four verses, you see the name of Yahweh. What Saul wanted were new insights, undisclosed secrets, ways of escape What he got were old reminders. What he knew already. He stuck at a dead end. Verse by verse, stalls given reiterations and repetitions. You can do like a matching exercise here Verse 16: The Lord has departed from you. Where do we see this? Chapter 16, verse 14: The spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and a distressing spirit from the Lord troubled him. Verse 17: The Lord has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor David. Sounds familiar. We saw it in chapter 15, verse 28. The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today, and has given it to a neighbor of yours, who is better than you. Verse 18: You did not obey the voice of the Lord, nor execute his fierce wrath upon Amelech. That takes us back to chapter 15 again, verses 18 to 19. The Lord sent you on a mission and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you swoop down on the spoil and do evil in the sight of the Lord? If there is new information, it would be what's in verse 19. Saul learns that his army and his people will lose. He and his sons will die in battle next day. They'll join Samuel in the realm of the dead. By the way, this doesn't tell us whether Saul and his sons are saved or not. Whether they're going to heaven or hell. We're simply talking about Sheol, the afterlife, the abode of the dead. Saul has made poor choices as a leader, and now he, his family, and his nation will pay the consequences. Saul chose to reject all the privileges God gave him. The Lord granted Saul wonderful biblical means to success. He threw them all away. God gave him a prophetic voice. Saul ignored the voice of Samuel. God gave him the priesthood to help him. But at the city of Noah, he destroyed innocent priests and their families. God gave him a faithful and loyal son. He will not listen to the counsel of Jonathan. God gave Saul David. And what did the king do to the one man who can beat the Philistines? Hadisotri, that brave warrior who decapitated Goliath, cut off two hundred foreskins as dowry for his daughter. Where's his best captain who struck the Philistines a mighty blow and saved the city of Cala? David's not lined up with him. He's lined up on the other side. More detail on that later, but God gave him all these means to success. Saul rejected God and his biblical means. So that's why he sought out unbiblical means. And even through that, the Lord has passed his death sentence with such a gloomy forecast for the next day. What is left for Saul to do? Imagine if you're soul You know you don't have years, months, or days. You have hours left. This is the time to be earnest. Be sure you're right with God. Not too late. Be sure that you have a genuine relationship with the Lord as you prepare to meet your Maker. And in such dark times, we must have the right kind of sorrow, right kind of reaction. And here I want you to hopefully remember 2 Corinthians 7:10. Godly sorrow produces repentance, leading to salvation, not to be regretted, but the sorrow of the world produces death. And be sure to avoid a third misstep towards disastrous leadership. Don't burden yourself with worldly sorrow. We see the reaction from versus twenty on Saul has come a long way since chapter 9. That's what we first read about him. And that long way has been downhill and downright wrong. How things have turned for the worse. His story began at the top as he visited Samuel. Here in chapter twenty-eight, Saul scrapes the bottom as he visits Endor. Back in chapter 9, the man of God spoke to him in the morning about his bright future. Now the woman of demons speaks to him at night under the shadow of death. Once the Samuel the Seer seated Saul in the place of honor at a lively celebration Now the necromancer begs and saw barely sits up on his bed of illness. Long ago Samuel fed him a prime cut of meat, food prepared for a noble life as king over Israel. At this point the woman feeds Saul with a slaughtered calf, who prepared for his own slaughter at the hand of the Philistines. Despite how bleak things looked, I think that God granted this indoor experience to offer hope for Saul. I believe that God sent the dead to warn the living, to turn from their sins. But Saul must hurry. The night will pass, the sun will rise, and a new day will dawn one more time. One more chance. Saul has one more chance to live out the last moments of his life. Maybe like Samson or the thief dying on the cross Even if he's wasted most of his privileges, he can offer the last portions of his life as a precious sacrifice. But he must sorrow in the godly way, not in the worldly way. And we'll see what he'll do as we continue in 1 Samuel. But for now, let's stay here in chapter 28 and talk about us. What do you think of when you read this chapter? Do you say to yourself, I would never stoop to Saul's level? I admit I'm a sinner, but I'm not as bad as him. You might be tempted to think that the king's involvement in dark magic must be his greatest sin ever. Or maybe you look at people involved in the occult today and think that they're the worst sinners ever. But the fact is we are a lot like Saul, more than we'd like to admit. Turn back in your Bibles to 1 Samuel 15, 22 to 23. First Samuel 15, 22 to 23. Even back then, the king tried to please God through unbiblical means. So in 1 Samuel 15, 22 to 23. So Samuel said, Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed then the fat of rams. Now look at this verse 23. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you from being king. Verse 23 again. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. Have you ever thought my rebellion and my mutiny against God are just as bad as divination and sorcery? You might think you're more righteous, not as bad as those who play with Herit cards and Ouija boards. But if we don't listen to God's voice. will suffer in hell for eternity, right next to necromancers and wizards The fact is, all of us have sinned and fallen short of God's glory. We've offended our holy God with our unholy thoughts, words, and deeds. And all of us have chosen to rebel and be stubborn like Saul. Be gone astray to dangerous places, used unbiblical means to success. Our emotions are conformed to the world. We deserve nothing but separation from the living God. But the good Lord did not leave us like this. He sent this only begotten Son, Jesus, to save us. He, fully God and fully man, lived a perfect life, died on the cross, and resurrected from the dead. As our substitute, he suffered the penalty of our sins. On the third day, he rose from the grave and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge the living and the dead. The great day of the Lord is coming and we need to be ready for it while we still have time. Like Saul in his darkest hour, you have a choice today. The Bible tells us repeatedly that we must make the urgent decision to come to Jesus. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. Remember, rebellion against God is as the sin of witchcraft. God's voice is calling you to repent, turn from your disobedience and your self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Place your hope of heaven in Him alone. There's nothing you can do to earn it or deserve it. It's all a gift. Grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Pray that you think seriously about what lies ahead of you. Death is the common fate of all men. It is appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment For those of us who belong to Christ, we're grateful that Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many. Let's remember his sacrifice at the Lord's Supper. Let's pray. No, we thank you for chances after chances. Lord, if you were to be swept and if you were not long-suffering, how many of us would stand here? Who can stand your wrath? We're thankful for your your patience and loving loving kindness toward us. That you did not send us to eternally apart from you the moment we sinned, or even the second time we sinned, or many other times after that. But you are gracious and merciful to us. And we're thankful for that. And as we see that in the lives of saints in the Bible, May we make the urgent decision to dedicate our lives to you, to live for you. Teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.