When most people think of William Shakespeare's works, probably the theme of love probably comes to mind. Personally, I think about all the memorable Shakespearean kings, some of them based on real kings and others he made up. The one whom I recall most vividly is Macbeth. Like so many of the elements of the play stayed with me. The three witches, the prophecies of Macbeth's rise and fall. Fate, ambition, assassination, dark signs and omens, revenge, tragic end The power of kings and politics is intriguing. Shakespeare thought so. I think so. You think so too, probably. And it's easy for us to get wrapped up in it, especially this year. Because the fact is the public rulers, because much of their lives are known to us like an open book. They teach us a thing or two about how we should live and probably a lot about how we shouldn't live, but Their climbs to the top are narrated as best-selling books. Their disgrace and humiliation capture media attention Today we're going to continue to learn about a king in the Bible who had a chance to rise and be a good king, but failed. So let's see what happened to Saul in 1 Samuel 15. Samuel also said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore heed the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I will punish Amelech for what he did to Israel, how he ambushed them on the way when he came up from Egypt. Now go and attack Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, infant and nursing child, ox and sheep. Camel and donkey. So Saul gathered the people together and numbered them into line. Two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah. And Saul came to a city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley. Then Saul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, get down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them. For you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. And Saul attacked the Amalekites from Chavilah all the way to Shir, which is east of Egypt. He also took Agath King of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and were unwilling to utterly destroy them. But everything despised and worthless, that they utterly destroyed. Now the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I greatly regret that I have set up Saul as king, for he has turned back from following me, and has not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried out to the Lord all night. So when Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul went to Carmel, and indeed he set up a monument for himself. And he has gone on around, passed by, and gone down to Gilgal. Then Samuel went to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. For Samuel said, What then is this bleating of the sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear? And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spare the best of the sheep and the oxen, to sacrifice to the Lord your God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed. Then Samuel said to Saul, Be quiet, and I will tell you what the Lord said to me last night. And he said to him, Speak on. So Samuel said, When you were little in your own eyes, were you not head of the tribes of Israel? And did not the Lord anoint you king over Israel? Now the Lord sent you on a mission and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you swoop down on the spoil and do evil in the sight of the Lord? And Saul said to Samuel, but I have obeyed the voice of the Lord and gone on the mission on which the Lord sent me, and brought back Agath, king of Amelech. I have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the people took of the plunder, sheep and oxen, the best of the things which should have been utterly destroyed to sacrifice to the Lord your God in Gilgal. So Samuel said, Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you from being king. Then Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and your words. Because I fear the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship the Lord. But Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel. And as Samuel turned around to go away, Saul seized the edge of his robe and it tore. So Samuel said to him, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today. And has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you. And also the strength of Israel will not lie, nor relent, for he is not a man that he should relent. Then he said, I have sinned, yet honor me now, please, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me that I may worship the Lord your God. So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul worshipped the Lord. Then Samuel said, Bring Agath, king of the Amalekites, here to me. So Agath came to him cautiously. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. But Samuel said, As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women And Samuel hacked Agat in pieces before the Lord in Gilgal. Then Samuel went to Rama, and Saul went up to his house at Gibeah of Saul. And Samuel went no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul, and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. I think there are four reasons why Saul failed. One, compromise leads to complete sin. Verses one to nine. Pride is a monumental sin, verses ten to twenty-one. Three Disobedience is underrated as sin, verses 22 to 26. And four, judgment always follows sin. Verses 27. First, compromise leads to complete sin The mission is clear. Annihilation of Amalek. From verse 7 and elsewhere, like numbers 13, we gather that the Amalekites were a nomadic people of Arabia, south of Israel. Existing as a distinct group as early as the days of Abraham. Their king bore the hereditary name of Agac, similar to the title Caesar, or Roman Emperors. We learn later that Haman in the book of Esther comes from this royal line of Amalek. Readers may find the idea of utter destruction disturbing. I have three responses to that. as sort of subpoints here. First, by no means were the Amalekites innocent as a people group. By the time we get to Exodus, we see them attacking Israel in Repedim, just after they left Egypt. We learn in Deuteronomy 25, 17 to 19, their cowardly strategy. Chase and destroy Israel from behind. First targeting the weakest and the smallest, the women, the children, and the elderly. Under the leadership of Moses, Aaron, and her, Joshua led some men to victory over them in Exodus 17. Later uh these people would join forces with the Canaanites, Moabites, and Midianites to oppose Israel So first they're not innocent in that sense. Second response to the utter destruction is this If the stories of Lot in Sodom, Rahab from Jericho, Ruth from Moab, and Jonah and Nineveh tell us anything God always grants opportunities for individuals and even entire groups to repent. Even if the Amalekites were doomed as a people, individuals could have escaped judgment by conversion. So God gave them, at least the individuals among the Amalekites, a chance to repent. And the third and final reason for the utter destruction is that Israel was a theocracy, unlike any nation today. Even with Saul as king, it was a theocratic monarchy, and God had the final say. That means we must trust that whether it's Israel in the past or the millennial kingdom in the future, the Lord will carry out his capital punishment with perfect justice. The anointed king, whether it's Saul or Jesus, must be the sword in God's hands So now here Saul is the epitome of starting well, but finishing poorly We saw that pattern in the previous chapters, and the pattern continues here. So up to verse 7, he's doing well. Saul gathers a large army of 210,000 soldiers. This large number indicates that some time had passed since the events of the previous chapter, Samuel 14. 1 Samuel 14. So Saul accumulated much experience and military power. His strategy to ambush is sound. His wise decision to spare the Kenites should be applauded. Evidently, in the past, the Kenite people showed some kindness to Israel. It's short of some kind of actual treaty between the two. But Moses' father-in-law was a Kenai, so maybe these people accompanied him to encourage Israel in the wilderness. Saul's doing great so far. But what do they say in sports? You have to play all four quarters. What what happens when it's crunch time? What happens when the palms are sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy? Discipline breaks down, you forget the fundamentals. Saw spares, Agat, the king of Amelech. Perhaps because he thought kings should receive special treatment, he probably cared more about their shared elitism than their different fates. Later, another king named Ahab ruined himself and his people by fraternizing with a foreign ruler. You can read about that in 1 Kings 20. In addition, Saul spared the best of the spoils and in the process made Achan look like the saint. You remember Achan from the book of Joshua? At least Achan hid his greed and tucked away the accursed things. Saul just left his spoils in the open for Samuel to hear and see. Just two verses of compromise ruin the entire mission. Compromise leads to complete sin. The slippery road of compromise is slick, and before you know it, you fall into self-deception. And that leads to the second point. Pride is a monumental sin. For Saul, that's literally true. I mean, it literally says in verse 12 that Saul went to Carmel and indeed he set up a monument for himself. While Saul was feeling like a god, God was feeling sorrow for him. Samuel's heart was aligned with God's, so he stayed up all night in agony before confronting him in Gilgal. You may recall back in chapter 11, Gilgal was the place, was where the kingdom was renewed. Saul was made king, and Israel enjoyed peace and joy before the Lord. Now Gilgal is where Saul's kingdom would end. He will no longer be king. And Israel has reasons for sorrow before the Lord. It's hard to break down large structures of pride Saul has deceived himself, as we see in verse 13. Blessed are you of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. So it looks like Samuel starts off with sort of a soft pitch to break down his pride. First, he starts on a roundabout way to elicit a confession out of him. What then is this bleeding of the sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear? The correct answer would have been, Samuel, I made a mistake. I foolishly disobeyed the Lord and spared the best of the sheep and oxen for my selfish gain and glory. Instead, he says, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spare the best of the sheep and the oxen, to sacrifice to the Lord your God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed. So Samuel's gentle approach is not working. Time for a more direct approach. He cuts Saul off in verse 16 and cuts to the chase. To get the prideful king to end the eagle trip, the prophet takes him back to his humble beginnings Saul needed a reminder that it was the Lord who anointed him, king over Israel, to be head over the tribes. It was the Lord who sent him on a mission and gave clear instructions. It was the voice of the Lord that Saul rejected. It was the sight of the Lord he should care for most. Another chance to repent, a chance to accept responsibility, another squandered opportunity. Saul's response is a mishmash of distorted half-truths. When it comes to the voice of the Lord, he has selective hearing. Yeah, he went on the mission, but it was not complete. He contradicts himself as he admits he spared the Amalekite king and then says in the same breath, I have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. Perhaps he started fumbling his words as he caught the hard and stern gaze of Samuel. He resorts to blame shifting in verse 21. Basically saying, Samuel, I did my part. It's the people. They spared the spoils, but at least they had good intentions. Saul's conscience has been so seared with poor choices, and his spirit so callous with arrogance. That God's voice no longer got his attention. He needed to understand the gravity of his sin. And that leads to the third principle. Disobedience is underrated as sin. Here's what I mean. Saul didn't take his sin seriously enough. I'll return to verse 22 later, but let's look at verse 23 for now. It's supposed to give a give him a shock. The king has to be taught that his rebellion is just as bad as witchcraft, and his stubbornness is just as bad as idolatry. Does that shock you? The Bible is filled with passages that tell us that all disobedience is disobedience. Whether it's sin of the heart or deed, sin of omission or commission, sin of thought or talk Complete or partial. Jesus warned that a lustful look is tantamount to adultery in the heart. Unjust explosive anger is deserving of hellfire. We may minimize or justify our pet sins while maximizing and condemning the sins of others. We may ignore the plank over our eyes while reaching for the speck in someone else's. Matt Smethurst, a Christian writer, wrote this the other day, quote. An immature person pursues a PhD in other sins while settling for a GED grasp of their own. That's what Saul is, an immature person. He did a good job of expelling mediums and spiritists out of the land. But he did not expel rebellion and stubbornness out of his life. He has rejected God's word, so he is rejected as Israel's king. Another humiliating moment for Saul. Back in chapter 13, verses 13 to 14, Samuel told Saul that he has lost his dynasty. Here, Samuel tells Saul that he has lost his kingship. He's no longer useful as a ruler. Commentator R. P. Gordon diagnoses the fallen king's spiritual condition. Quote: Saul is dead while he still lives. So then Saul's confession in verse twenty four rings hollow He was not truly repentant of his transgression, his fear of man, his sin. He was more interested in saving faith before the people than saving fate before the Lord. Samuel sees to the Pasad and initially refuses to accompany him back to worship. Compromise, pride, disobedience. Saul got into this mess because he refused to listen to God's voice. What is the Lord speaking to you today? David Samura observes, quote, Ironically, Saul became king because of the voice of the people asking for a king. Now he is rejected because he listened to the voice of the people. This irony, this tragedy here. Do you listen to God's voice? Or do you listen to the voice of the people? Saul's tragic end is determined because we know from the Bible the fourth and final principle. Judgment always follows sin. Every choice has a consequence, and that's what Samuel teaches as a rebuking prophet. Saul tried desperately to hold on to his power, but he was left clutching a torn piece of robe. With a prophetic wit, Samuel says, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today. And has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you. God's judgment here is certain. There's no changing his mind because God is not like Saul, weak in leadership. He is the strength of Israel. Men fail in truth. God does not lie. Even the best rulers second guess themselves. The Lord is relentless. But even if God is unmoving, Samuel isn't. Samuel gives into Saul's pleas in verses 30 and 31 Now the seer is in no mood to worship and celebrate with Saul, but perhaps he did not want to cause widespread panic or rumors by his conspicuous absence. Also, Samuel could follow the trail of the king of Israel, or the rejected king of Israel, to find the king of Amalek. The rebuking prophet is forced to take up the sword to play the part of the executing king. He finishes the job that Saul didn't finish. Judgment always follows sin. Agac could not avoid the bitterness of death. Agag is properly executed, but the judgment of Saul lingers. Samuel as the kingmaker cannot be friendly with Saul anymore. Because he's fired basically and his replacement is on the way. Just a technical note. The first sentence in verse thirty-five and And Samuel went no more to see Saul until the day of his death shall be understood as this. Samuel never again formally met with Saul in a cooperative relationship. That has to be the case because they act they do actually see each other later in chapter nineteen, verse twenty-four, but it's that's not a formal cooperative meeting. For now Samuel returns home to Rama and he plays the part of a burdened pastor. From our vantage point, we may say good riddance to Saul. Samuel, however, grieves for the rejected king and Saul's rejection of God. We all need to learn from this example. How much do we mourn over those in our lives who walk away from the Lord? This should be the emotional burden of every pastor, every Christian parent, every Christian sibling, every Christian friend, and every neighbor with unsaved persons in his or her life. Let's take the names of the lost to the Lord in prayer, both in private and corporately at our prayer meetings. And we pray to God because He is the one who saves We have confidence that the gospel of Jesus Christ is what saves us from compromise, pride, disobedience, and judgment, which is taught in this chapter. This chapter isn't just about Saul's failure. It's about our failures. We're thankful that Jesus saves us. But how did Jesus exactly save us? Now let's go back to verse 22 for a moment and reread it Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice and to heed. Than the fat of rams. Hope you commit that to memory. It's a timeless lesson. And this is a lesson that David, the next king of Israel, knew. And we can see that this is something that he truly believed in based on Psalm 40, verse 6 to 8. These are David's words. Sacrifice and offering you did not desire. My ears you have opened. Burnt offering and sin offering you did not require. Then I said, Behold, I come. In the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God, and your law is within my heart. Pretty impressed, right? Like David knows much better than Saul. But even David could not obey God and his will perfectly. In fact, no human in history could until a descendant of David, Jesus came. Jesus valued obedience even before he came to earth because he is the eternal Son of God Jesus valued obedience above animal sacrifices, just as David did in Psalm 40. Jesus valued obedience so much that he obediently gave what was most valuable. His own life. Jesus offered his own body on the cross to take away sins, one offering once for all. What priest after priest could not accomplish, sacrificing countless sheep and oxen. Jesus did by himself with his obedient self-sacrifice, making provision for forgiveness of sin and cleansing. We can read all about this in the book of Hebrews, especially chapter 10. When Jesus rose from the dead, he proved his obedient offering was accepted by God the Father. He ascended to heaven and he will return one day to judge all. Now is the time to respond in repentance and faith. Admit that like Saul you have compromised. You have been proud. You have disobeyed God's voice and listened to the voice of the world, the people. You realize now that judgment follows sin. Turn away from your sins and repentance and turn to Christ by faith. Trust in him and his and his perfect obedience We've all messed up and there's nothing we can do to reverse our past to cleanse away our sins. But Jesus never messed up and he offers salvation for all time. For those who are already saved, may the obedience and sacrifice of our Lord Jesus motivate you. Having understood the good news, I exhort you as Paul did in Romans 12:1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. As we observe the Lord's Suffer, I invite you to revisit the cross where Jesus suffered. Be amazed at his obedience. Be grateful for his sacrifice Made a profound gratitude. Need you to live for him. Let's pray. Lord, we read your word And your spirit convicts us in these fallen kings and fallen rulers, and even saints who stumble, But we see our own sinfulness on display. Lord, there may be a tendency in us to underestimate. Or to think less of our sin, of our compromise, of our pride, of our disobedience, of the judgment that follows sin. But Lord, may we take the words, the prophetic words, seriously. That it was because of our disobedience Because of our ignorance and stubbornness and rebellion, that your son had to come and die for us. Lord, as we spend time reflecting on these things, where we meditate May we be grateful. May we be motivated to live more for you from that great gratitude. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name.