Moment of truth. I've known that phrase for a while. We may use it to describe a climax of a story or a decisive event in our lives. In marketing, it is the crucial point of encounter between the customer and the brand, product, or service where impressions are formed or altered. I recently learned that the expression moment of truth originates from a nonfiction by Ernest Hemingway. The book, Death in the Afternoon, is about the ceremony and traditions of Spanish bullfighting. The moment of truth comes at the end of the struggle between the matador and the bull. Hemingway writes, quote, The whole end of the bull fight was the final sword thrust The actual encounter between the man and the animal. What the Spanish called the moment of truth. End quote. I'm sure you all can point to a few moments or times in life when tough yet significant decisions have to be made. These are watershed moments, and they reveal the deep truths about us, those we care about, those who oppose us. In today's passage, you could say that Saul was like an inexperienced matador, and the Philistine army was a raging bull headed straight for him to impale him. You might say 1 Samuel chapter 13 is his moment of truth, or moment of faith, when his true color shone forth. Let's see what happens. Saul reigned one year, and when he had reigned two years over Israel, Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel. Two thousand were with Saul and Mikmash, and in the mountains of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan and Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the people he sent away, every man to his tent. And Jonathan attacked the garrison of the Philistines that was in Gebba, and the Philistines heard of it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear. Now all Israel heard it said that Saul had attacked the garrison of the Philistines and that Israel had also become an abomination to the Philistines. And the people were called together to saw at Gilgal. Then the Philistines gathered together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots. and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the seashore in multitude. And they came up and encamped at Mikmash to the east of Beth Avan When the men of Israel saw that they were in danger, for the people were distressed, then the people hid in caves, in thickets, in rocks, in holes, and in pits. And some of the Hebrews crossed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling. Then he waited seven days, according to the time set by Samuel. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him. So Saul said, Bring a burnt offering and peace offerings here to me, and he offered the burnt offering. Now it happened as soon as he had finished presenting the burnt offering that Samuel came, and Saul went out to meet him, that he might greet him. And Samuel said, What have you done? Saul said, When I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that you did not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered together at Mi'kmash, then I said, The Philistines will now come down on me at Gilgal, and I have not made supplication to the Lord. Therefore I felt compelled and offered a burnt offering. And Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly. You have not kept the commandment of the Lord your God, which he had commanded you. For now the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel for ever, but now your kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought for himself a man after his own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be commander over his people. Then Samuel rose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin, and saw a number of people present with him, about six hundred men. Saul, Jonathan, his son, and the people present with them remained in Gibeah of Benjamin, but the Philistines encamped in Mi'kmash. Then raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies. One company turned on to the road to Ofra. To the land of Shual. Another company turned to the road to Beth Horon, and another company turned to the road of the border that overlooks the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness. Now there was no blacksmith to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, lest the Hebrews make swords or spears. But all the Israelites would go down to the Philistines to sharpen each man's plough share, his maddock, his axe, and his sickle, and the charge for a sharpening was a pin for the ploughshares, the maddocks, the forks, and the axes. And to set the points of the goats. So it came about on the day of battle that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan. But they were found with Saul and Jonathan his son. And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Mikmash. We can learn from this chapter three lessons for our own moments of truth or moments of faith. 1. Bold acts of faith stir up persecution. That's verses 1 to first half of verse 7. 2. Fearful lack of faith leads to disobedience Second half of verse 7 to first half of verse 15. And three, difficult trials of faith prepare for greater trust. Second half of verse 15 to the end of the chapter. First, bold acts of faith stir up persecution. Verse 1 provides the chronological setting of chapter 13. According to Acts 13, 21, Saul reigned forty years. And so the events of today's passage would have taken early in his reign, around 1048 B. C. Saul had previously neutralized the Ammonite threat from the east, but now here comes the Philistine threat from the west. And threats they are. You recall from chapter 4 that they killed the sons of Eli and took the Ark of the Covenant. But in chapter 7, about seven years ago from this date, they lost the decisive battle of Mitzbah and waned in the days of Samuel Now here in this chapter, as the news of Samuel's resignation reached their ears The Philistines were emboldened to regain the lands they lost. It was the way for them to find out whether this new guy Saul is just as capable as Samuel. Jonathan under Saul's command would counter the advance with a successful campaign in Gebba. Gebba likely stood between Mi'kmaq and Gibeah, the stations of Saul and Jonathan, respectively, so they simply had to win this battle and clear the path. This hit the Philistines right where it hurts, and Israel had become an abomination to them. Saul expected a violent and forceful retaliation, so he summoned more of his people to join his army. Meanwhile, an enormous Philistine army marched east and encamped at Mi'kmash. Verse 5 stresses how big the enemies looked. Verses 6 and 7 stressed how small Israel felt. The morale was so low that God's people were literally in holes down on the rocks, buried alive, dead in the water in cisterns. Some even crossed the Jordan and left behind their promised land. Saul was losing ground, but up to verse 7, I think he's actually doing a good job. You might question his leadership because he allowed Jonathan to make his bold attack against the Philistines. You might say he stirred up the enemy and created more trouble. You might criticize him because the result was not so great, at least not immediately But is following God about finding the path of least resistance? Sometimes gaining ground in faith means losing ground on earth Bold acts of faith stirred up persecution. Bold acts of faith stirred up persecution in Israelite history. Because prophets like Elijah, Jeremiah, and John the Baptist confronted the sins of rulers, they found themselves fleeing, locked up, isolated, desperate, alone. Because Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were unwilling to bow down to an idol, they were thrown into the furnace. Bold acts of faith stir up persecution. Both acts of face stirred up persecution in the early church. Because the apostles could not but speak the things which they have seen and heard. They were imprisoned, and most were martyred. Because Paul witnessed the bold fate of Stephen, he later became a witness of that same faith. Because as a gospel missionary, Paul freed the slave girl of Philippi and spoke against idolatry in Asia, he threatened local economies and angered those who profit from evil. Bold acts of faith stir up persecution. Bold acts of faith stir up persecution in the church today. Because the churches of John MacArthur and Mark Deber refuse to unbiblically redefine church as a building or an event to be watched online. Because they stand up against local governments who refuse to let their assemblies assemble and congregations congregate, they open themselves to legal trouble. Because our Chinese brothers and sisters practice genuine faith according to scriptures in true churches, the atheist government of China relentlessly hunts them down. Bold acts of faith stir up persecution. Sometimes gaining ground in faith means losing ground on earth. Saints of God, from able to faithful believers of today, must be prepared for such losses. This is true Saul needed as his army retreated and scattered. Unfortunately, the battle brought out the king's true colors. That leads to the next point. Fearful lack of faith leads to dishes. As I said up to verse seven, Saul is doing all right But time tends to reveal the truth. A lot can happen in one week as the king sees the enemy approaching, trembling men leaving their posts, and Samuel nowhere in sight. Saul the king caved in and overstepped his bounds to act as priest in place of Samuel offering the sacrifices. Only if he waited just a little bit longer. Because Samuel arrived right as he finished the ritual. Now, I really, really, really wish Samuel said. A prophet is never late, Saul the son of Kish, nor is he early. He arrives precisely when he means to. Then the two would laugh it out and hug it out, and but that's not what happened. Samuel simply loses it. What have you done? Saul gives his excuses in verses eleven and twelve. He operated with eyes of flesh, not eyes of faith. He saw Israelites scattering while the Philistines were gathering. He was foolishly disobedient. And the consequences are costly. Saul will not have a lasting dynasty, which is really unfortunate because it looks like Jonathan, his son, would have been a great leader. Instead, the Lord has sought a man after his own heart, and we'll meet him later in this book. See the author's wordplay comparing Saul and this man. He has commanded this man to be ruler because Saul did not do as he was commanded. And here's my own wordplay. Saul wouldn't keep his job because he didn't keep God's commandments. Samuel leaves Saul and proceeds alone to Gibeah. So in these verses, Saul demonstrates how fearful lack of faith leads to disobedience. All that Saul had to do was wait. It wasn't that God's command was complicated or vague. But if we tend to fear the sayings of men, we tend to disobey the sayings of the Lord. When we lack in faith, we're slack on truth. We may muck up the divine directives by adding to them, subtracting from them, reinterpreting them. Saul should have known better, and so should we. And this is even more tragic because Saul knows firsthand that the power for godly leadership. Comes from the power of the Holy Spirit. Recall that before he became king, the Spirit empowered him to prophesy back in chapter 10. Recall that before he became king, the same spirit roused his righteous anger against the Ammonites back in chapter eleven. The same spirit that made Saul a candidate for king would have made Saul an incumbent as king. But see how there's no mention of the spirit in this chapter, next chapter, or the chapter after that Saul thought he could be a good king on his own merit. Tragically, the next mention of the Spirit in relation to Saul is in chapter 16, verse 14. The spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and a distressing spirit from the Lord troubled him. So take this lesson with you. Next time you feel fear and lack of faith, ask the Spirit for help That's what Saul should have done. That's what the people should have done. That's what we need to do We need a spirit to overcome our fear. Our fear of evangelizing. Before Pentecost, Peter shrank in fear of servants and denied Jesus three times. At Pentecost, Peter preached Christ to thousands. The difference? He was baptized by the promised Holy Spirit to fulfill the Great Commission. We too have the spirit to overcome our fear. We need a spirit to overcome lack of faith during ministry. Without the indwelling spirit, Timothy would be left with the spirit of fear. Fear what people say about Jesus, fear what people say about his ministers. With the indwelling spirit, he could hold fast the pattern of sound words from Paul in faith and love of Christ Jesus. With the Spirit, Timothy could keep the apostolic commission. We too have the Spirit to overcome lack of faith. We need the Spirit to overcome disobedience in our spiritual walk. When circumstances push us toward following our impulses, ask the Spirit for peace. When people around us at work, families and neighbors get on our nerves, we need love, gentleness, and long-suffering from the Spirit. When we're driven by our need for control and self-fulfillment, we need the Spirit's goodness, faithfulness, and self-control to obey his commands. We have the Spirit to overcome our disobedience. Relying on the Spirit is vital in life I'm not denying that circumstances are important, but I see many people overestimating circumstances and underestimating the Spirit of God. Saul could afford to lose territorial ground, but not spiritual ground. Saul could have faithless soldiers leave But he could not afford to lose fellowship with Samuel and the Lord. But that's exactly how things were by the time we get to verse 15. Now, even though Saul failed in this test of faith, he could repent and salvage what's left of his kingship. And that leads to the third point, difficult trials of faith prepare for greater trust. Saul started out with thousands in verse two, and by verse fifteen, he's left with hundreds. You might think, well, that's it. Call it a game. There's no chance. But consider the promise in Leviticus 26, verse 8, if Israel would obey God. Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall put ten thousand to flight. Your enemies shall fall by the sword before you. Consider how God told Gideon the judge that 32,000 were too many, 10,000 still too many, only until only 300 were left. God used Gideon's small leftover unit to route an army that resembles sand by the seashore in multitude. That same description of sand from Judges is used to describe the Philistines in verse. Here, so consider what God can do with Saul's army, which was twice the total of Gideon's. But this lesson from getting us victory, I reckon Saul and his men forgot. Strategically speaking, Saul's group joined Jonathan's detachment and Gibeah Benjamin to form one company. The Philistines, on the other hand, sent three raiding parties out of Mi'kmaq. The itinerary is kind of interesting. One went westward to Beth Horan, another eastward toward the Jordan Valley. One of the companies went northward toward Oprah This was an opposite direction from Gibeah, which lay south of their camp. So, natural question, why did they decentralize their forces like this? Eugene Merrill concludes that the Philistines were overconfident of their advantage. They probably figured out Saul's a weak leader There's another reason for their arrogance in verses 19 to 22. They not only had a numerical advantage, they had a technological one. Leon Wood thinks the Philistines learned the secret of smelting metal from the Hittites who lived in Anatolia, which makes up the majority of modern-day Turkey. Philistines guarded their knowledge closely for good reasons. As Wood observes, quote, A sword made of iron could completely sever one made of bronze And the Israelites would only have had the latter. Well it turns out the people couldn't even get enough swords for themselves Only Saul and Jonathan were equipped with real functional weapons, the people had to resort to using their farm tools for battle. Even getting these tools sharpened took a lot of effort. PIM in verse 21 has been estimate estimated by some to be two-thirds of a shekel. And some archaeological records near Israel indicate an annual unskilled labor salary to range from 10 to 22 shekels. If these figures are accurate, some of the poorer Israelites have to pay more than half their monthly wage just to maintain their work tools. Philistines held them down technologically and economically. We can see why they felt superior and emboldened as they made their move to the passive Mi'kmaq. Yet Israelites are the ones who should feel superior and emboldened to make a move. We'll see in the next chapter whether Saul or anyone in his side will advance by faith. For now, we revisit the lesson. Typical trials of faith. Prepare for greater trust. And as you may know, trows come in all different shapes and sizes. Typical trials of faith may come in the form of shrinking numbers. God's people may feel alone, though God is with us. Let me be honest, as a pastor of a small church, I struggle to look beyond the empty pews and see the harvest that is plenty, which our guest speaker Alex talked about last week. I'm sure there are pastors out there feeling like Elijah who complained. I am the only one of the Lord's prophets left. But Baal has 450 prophets. Perhaps you feel the same as your world shrinks, children leave the nest, friends move out of the state, or family members pass away. But these times of loneliness prepare us for greater trust. Difficult trials of faith may come in the form of societal disadvantage. God's people may feel oppressed. Perhaps you'll never feel uh you'll never be truly accepted by your colleagues If you continue to refrain from office gossip or slander, maybe fellow classmates patronize you. They know that you're that crazy Christian. Who preaches Jesus is the only way and reads the Bible literally? Or could it be that unbelieving family members and relatives Shut you out of their conversations because you speak out against their immoral lifestyle. But these trials of condescension prepare us for greater trust. So then this chapter is not only about Saul and his beleaguered army We all must face our moment of truth. As we close, I want to address both the unbeliever and the believer. First to those who do not identify as Christians. Perhaps you grew up in the church and you had fleeting moments of bold faith when you were little. But if you're truly honest, you've also had your failures when you feared, lacked faith, and disobeyed God. When difficult trials of life and temptations came, you departed from the Lord instead of remaining steadfast and trusting him more. Perhaps you're here contemplating whether you shall return to the faith you once held. Now, if so, please know that we as Christians are not perfect followers of God. Far from it. We're all sinners. Our faith is imperfect and weak because we ourselves are imperfect and weak. But we're not saved by being perfect and strong. We who live imperfect lives are saved by Jesus Christ, who lived a perfect life Christ entrusted himself fully to the Father's will, while we failed to entrust ourselves to God. This Jesus, pure and undefiled God and man at the same time, went to the cross, died there for our sins. Sins which include lack of faith. He took the punishment of hell, God's wrath, rightly due to us upon himself. And paid for it with his own life. He rose again from the dead and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until then, or as long as you're alive, you have the chance to accept the gift of salvation Jesus offers. This is your moment of truth. Will it be your moment of faith? You don't have to have the great faith of patriarchs, prophets, and apostles Faith is simply placing your hope of heaven in Jesus, who showed his love for you on the cross. Just turn away from reliance on yourself, your Efforts, your determination to be good or bad, turn to Christ and receive by faith eternal light graciously offered to you. Now to those who are already saved, your life may look like the mess that we see in chapter thirteen of first Samuel. You are beset by enemies without and unbelief within. You're growing impatient and uneasy, waiting for deliverance. You are at a disadvantage in every way because of your faith. Your faith is waning. Your resolve shrinking But then you hear in your moment of truth Jesus asking you as he once asked his disciples, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Friends, let's not despair in the changing winds, unstable waters, the tumult, the turmoil of society. Be confident in the works of Jesus, who in the darkest hour of history fulfilled the mission of the Father To strengthen our faith, let's remind ourselves of Jesus and his accomplishment in the next few moments of Holy Communion. Let's pray. Lord, it's easy for us in our prideful hearts to look at these stories in the Bible, these men who cowered, who shrank back. And judge them and say, I would have done so much better. But Lord, I know in my heart that that's not true. That the same lack of faith that we see in Israel, in the saints who have fallen, nor resides in our simple hearts. Would you embolden our faith this week? Lord, there are challenges ahead of us. Maybe not as dramatic as a army gathering around us, persecuting us. Maybe not as dramatic as some of our brothers and sisters face in this world under oppressive regimes and governments. But Lord, we have our own challenges. Being a good witness for you, fighting sin. Lord, would you embolden us? Give us stronger faith Not just to have it invisibly, but to show our faith in our actions. Not to fear, but to obey you. And Lord, to see these trials of life as an opportunity where we can make tough decisions by the power of the Spirit. Lord, we pray that in this time together, as we remember the sacrifice of your Son, may you just nourish our hearts and our souls. That we may be emboldened and strengthened in our faith. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.