Hearing the rain on the roof reminds me in in our church years ago. Thankfully it's not quite that way now, but let's just say the architect that uh um designed the church. I'm not quite sure how it worked in practice with this huge slanted roof and every time it would rain like this the poor ushers they'd be there'd be uh you know uh rain coming down from the roof here and there's a bucket there, then another one there, then three or four. I mean it was pretty exciting actually. If the sermon wasn't exciting, the uh the bucket brigade was really uh pretty uh pr pretty interesting. Uh but at any rate, uh thankfully everything seems to be intact here. I don't know why that reminded me of it, but it I when I s heard that uh rain uh my those buckets. And and and our dear ushers, they moved fast too. They moved pretty fast. It was pretty exciting. Well it's great to be with you this morning. What a joy it is to celebrate the resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. uh actually four years ago I uh preached here on Easter from that incredible passage, First Corinthians fifteen, on the theme, what difference does the resurrection make? And so for me, First Corinthians fifteen is the first passage that I think of uh at uh Easter time, because it's brimming with both the fact and the importance of the resurrection. But the passage I've chosen for this morning, Luke 24, 13 to 2035. is a tremendous one as well, as we experience more of a personal interaction with what it must have been like on that first Easter day. We have these two Two disciples who are walking along the road with their hopes dashed because of Jesus' crucifixion. And reports of an empty tomb, so their emotions are all over the place. And when Jesus joins them, along the road, well we're thinking, how could these guys be so dense uh that they didn't see who this stranger was So in one way, it's one of the most ironic and humorous accounts of one of the most significant days in human history. These men didn't really see Jesus. even though he was right there with them. But before we pour out our condemnation upon these disciples, I'd like to suggest that sometimes you and I can be guilty of the same thing. So let's look a little a bit closer at this amazing passage. Now on your outline sheets, I've divided the section into five acts, as in a Shakespearean play. I'm sorry, I was an English major in college, and every once in a while these tendencies come out. Uh so my apologies. But I structured it this way because it's a very dramatic account that to me just pops off the page. But let me stress at the outset that we're not simply dealing with a nice story made up by Luke. We're dealing with an absolutely historical factual account. It's referenced elsewhere actually in Mark's gospel, in Mark chapter 16. as he recounts the post-resurrection appearances of Jesus. First, Mark mentions Jesus Appearance to Mary Magdalene. Then in Mark 16, 12, Mark says, after that he appeared in another form. to two of them as they walked and went into the country. Undoubtedly a reference to this account. Finally, Mark mentions Jesus Jesus' appearance to the eleven later on that night, also referenced in Luke and John. So this account in Luke 24 is a factual account, not just a nice story. So let's take a closer look. I've entitled Act 1 as the setting: Two disciples walking to Emmaus, seeing a stranger, but not Jesus. Prior to this account, Luke records in the first 12 verses of Luke 24 how the women came to the tomb. Early in the morning, and they found it empty. Then two men, undoubtedly angels, told them that Jesus was still alive. even as he had prophesied. Then the women told the apostles, but they didn't believe the women's testimony. Although Peter did go to see the empty tomb And he marveled at what had happened. John's Gospel tells us that John was also there at that point In fact, each of the four Gospels has slightly different accounts of this day, but they can all be harmonized If we recognize that each gospel has its own point of view and theme. So sometimes various events are compressed. And so for those of you who are detail-oriented, on the back of your outline sheets, I've provided my attempt at harmonizing the order of events in the These four resurrection accounts. I list there 13 events, and Jesus appearing to the disciples on the road to Emmaus is the ninth event listed and the third appearance of Jesus that's recorded on Resurrection Day. After leaving the women trying to tell the disciples what had happened, and Peter investigating at the tomb, but still perplexed, Luke turns his attention. to two of Jesus' disciples who are walking along to a village called Emmaeus. And he spends the next twenty-three verses talking about them That's after summarizing all the events that already happened that Easter day in a mere 12 verses. Now, these two disciples weren't even a part of the core group of the 12, now 11, disciples of Jesus They were followers, yes, but they weren't part of the core group. And they certainly weren't uh part of the inner three of Peter, James, and John. In fact, we just left Peter in verse 12 wondering and perplexed. So what is Luke doing going down this rabbit trail? And I deliberately Called it a rabbit trail because every once in a while when I'm teaching or preaching, I can go down a rabbit trail or two myself. The the really bad part is when you start going down that trail and then you don't remember where you you know, the launching off point. I mean I'm sure that's n never happened to you. Well anyway, I'm calling it a rabbit trail, but of course it's not a rabbit trail. And more importantly, not just what is Luke doing, but what is Jesus doing, spending so much time with these two lesser disciples, only one of whom is even actually named. Well if you study the Gospel of Luke as a whole, one of its main characteristics is Luke Luke's loving interest in people. He often singles out people such as Zacharias in Luke 1 or Zacchaeus in Luke In Luke 19, he singles out the women following Jesus, whom people in that day often ignored. And here in chapter 24, Cleopas and his friend By the way, we aren't sure exactly who this Cleopus is. Some people want to link him with Clopas, whose wife Mary is mentioned in John 19. One commentator who's actually a pretty good commentator, but man, he goes off the deep end here, I think, because he even speculates that Clopus and his wife Mary were the two disciples in Luke 24. But I find that view far-fetched, especially since Luke doesn't hesitate to point out the women who are associated with Jesus. Jesus' ministry. And also, by the way, the etymology of Clopas and Cleopus is quite different. Well, at any rate, we don't really know anything more about these two disciples. You see, Luke wants to emphasize that the gospel wasn't simply for important people. The gospel was for individuals like you and like me. But I suppose the bigger question here is why was Jesus spending so much time with these two? Now I often play a somewhat humorous game with myself and don't laugh too hard, but what which is this, if I were God, or if I were Jesus, what would I do? It's humorous because as Isaiah fifty-five, eight and nine tells us, God's ways and his thoughts are way above ours. But what I would do here Just in case you wanted to know, I'm going to tell you anyway, so you might as well listen. Uh what I would do here is to gra gather a large crowd of people and make a brilliant speech telling the world that I had just risen from the dead. I wouldn't waste my afternoon walking along with one or two losers. Okay, I wouldn't do that. Okay, I'm Just well, I'm mostly kidding. Uh people who do marketing for a living uh would tell you to spend time with the influencers, right? The people of status who can make your brand more popular because of their importance. And the bigger the crowd, the better. But uh here Jesus is spending time with two disciples, not even part of the twelve, and one of whom isn't even named. And let me ask just ask you a question before we move on. And I would ask the do you try to spend as much time with the so-called ordinary people that you come across each day? Or are you always seeking out people whom the world regards as important or who can do something for you? I think Jesus' example here is quite important and it should resonate with us. All people are important in his thing So in verse 13, we have these two disciples walking from Jerusalem to the village called Emmaus, which Luke says was about 60 stadia or almost seven miles. There are a number of possibilities for the village in question. There's no consensus either in antiquity or now, so we don't know exactly where it is. And while for many of us, we can't imagine walking seven miles anywhere. Personally I try to walk two miles a day, and I'm usually pretty exhausted afterwards Okay, two miles is not exactly seven miles. But for people who don't have a car or public transportation, a seven-mile walk is pretty short, maybe taking a couple hours or so. Olga Zaitzeva, a Capitol Bible Seminary graduate from Russia, who's currently here in the U. S. on furlough, and is occasionally stayed at our house, told me recently that she walked 12 kilometers that day, which is about seven and a half miles. I don't think I've ever walked 12 kilometers or seven and a half miles, but for her, that's not far at all. And it wouldn't have been at all out of the ordinary for these two disciples. As they were discussing the events of the past few days, and apparently verse 15 tells us not simply discussing them, but probably debating them as well. The second verb in verse 15 15 is often translated to Beit. Jesus Himself appeared and walked along with them. Now again In my world, if I were Jesus, I would have blown him out of the water, so to speak, right? And said, Hi, were you gents talking about me? Well, here I am. Now do you believe? And uh for sure I would have done that little glowy thing they did on Touched by an Angel, remember years ago? That you know, when you'd have Monica or whoever was an angel and you have the nice halo and everything like that. I mean I'd go for all those uh effects and the works. I mean d no. But once again, uh Jesus is far more patient than I am, and uh he doesn't uh do that. He's got some important lessons to teach them and us along the way. In verse 16, Luke tells us that their eyes were restrained. so that they didn't recognize him. It's not actually until verse 31 that Luke says that their eyes were open. This was undoubtedly a work of the Lord, and I have no idea what was precisely done here, though Mark 16, 12 tells us that Jesus appeared to them in another form. Grant Osborne points out that the two disciples in one sense typify us as we often walk in ignorance. And fail to realize the presence of Christ in our lives. Well, that brings us to verses 17 to 24, or what I've labeled as Act 2, the recounting. The recounting. Discouraged and perplexed, the disciples recount the events and their dashed hopes. Now, this is by far the most humorous act of the narrative, as Jesus doesn't choose to reveal that he knows precisely what was going on during the last few days. Ironically, he gets rebuked in verse 18 by these two for his apparent ignorance. And they proceed to give him a recap of the main events and their reactions to them. But before we discuss the details, I want you to see something here. That uh so often you and I are in such a hurry to make our points about this or that news. Item or some event or something that we don't even take the time to listen to our friends speak. In fact, sometimes we don't even give them a chance to let us know what they're thinking because we're too preoccupied with getting them to see our point of view It has often been said that a good friend and a good counselor spends a lot more time listening to people than giving advice. And yes, even our anatomy should clue us in. We have only one mouth, but we have two ears. Sometimes we tend to forget that. So Jesus doesn't just rush in here. As I surely would have done. Instead, he asked them a few general questions. First, in verse 17, Jesus observes that they are sad And so he wonders what they've been talking about with one another. And in verse 18, which is where we are first given the disciples' name. Cleopas, he says, are you the only one who doesn't know what has been going on in Jerusalem the past few days? What does Jesus do? Well, he wants to hear their version of the events and their reactions to them. So he simply says, what things? As if he doesn't know. The irony is fantastic here. So the two of them proceed to give him a summary in verses 19 to 24. Here's what they thought about Jesus in verse 19. It says they said to him the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty indeed, and word before God and the people. That's what they thought about Jesus, maybe a prophet. Well, like Elijah. They then recount the crucifixion in verse 20 and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified. Him. Verse 21 is the most telling one, in my thinking, because it speaks of their hopes that this one would be their redeemer. The Redeemer of Israel. And if you're tempted to say, well, at least uh you know they got that part uh right, um Well, I'm not quite uh sure that they did, uh because like most of the Jews in Jesus' day, they were looking for a Messiah who would Was going to be a conquering king, uh, who would defeat the evil Romans and would provide freedom and redemption for Israel. Uh ever since 722 BC for the northern kingdom, 586 B. C. for the southern kingdom, Israel had been in captivity. First to the Assyrians, then the Babylonians, then the Medio-Persians, then the Greeks. And finally, the Roman. There was more and more agitation among the Jews to be free. to be redeemed. And they read the Old Testament prophecies of the Messiah coming as one who would be a conquering king and they had hoped that Jesus was the one who would do that and defeat the Romans once and for all. But what happened? Well, that's not what happened. Instead, he was delivered over to be crucified, condemned to death without even a battle, and then crucified. All their hopes of a great conquering military king had been dashed. Yes, they saw Jesus, but they only had an incomplete picture. They saw only the mighty conquering Redeemer and Messiah who would vanquish the Romans, and that's all. But our disciples go on, and this part is even more highly ironic. They say at the end of verse 21, Indeed, besides all this, today's the third day since these things happen. Now this point, you and I, because we have a little bit of history now, right, of celebrating the resurrection. So we uh would say, now wait a minute, don't you get it? It's the third day. Jesus had prophesied about what would happen on that third day, but that didn't even make it into their conversation. They hadn't apparently considered that part of what Jesus had said because they were so caught up with Jesus being their conquering king. So here, while the third day is exceedingly significant to us, to them, they're saying, well, three days have already passed and not much has happened Then they report in verses 22 to 24 about the various visits to the tomb. First the women who reported the empty tomb and a vision of angels saying Jesus was Was alive, then a visit from certain of those who were with us, probably Peter and John, who validated the women's report of the empty tomb, but they didn't see Jesus either. But even with all this evidence, these disciples still don't get it. They still don't believe that Jesus had risen from From the dead. Their conquering king had been crucified, and who knows what happened to his body I mean, they were quite skeptical of anything else. And again, you and I want to cry out and say, but it's the third day. Don't you remember what Jesus said would happen on the third day? And the answer is no, they didn't. Because they didn't understand it. They didn't like it since it didn't fit into their narrative of what should happen to the Messiah. And so they dismissed it This is despite at least nine different occasions in which Jesus had told his disciples exactly what would happen. And I'm going to read you the references in the nine different occasions. If I were smart, I would have put them in the notes, but I forgot. So you can email me if you want to get these references. But nine different times he talked about his death. Luke 9, 22, Luke 9, 43 to 45, Luke 13, 32 and 33. Luke 18, 31 to 34. I'll just read that one. Luke 18, 31 to 34. Then he took the twelve aside and said to them, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem. And all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be accomplished, for he will be delivered to the Gentiles and will be mocked and insulted and spit upon him. as fit upon, they will scourge him and kill him, and the third day he will rise again. But they understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they did not know that things were Which were spoken. That's one example of these references. And then in the other gospels, Matthew 26, 1 and 2, John chapter 2, 19 to 22. John chapter 3, verse 14, John 12, 23 and 24, and John 12, 32 and 33. Jesus predicted his death and resurrection at least nine different times that we see recorded, but it didn't sink in because they saw Jesus. as only a mighty redeemer and conquering Messiah, not as one who must suffer and die and be raised on the third day I'm sure it wasn't entirely conscious, but they basically omitted what Jesus said when it didn't fit in with their preconce uh conceived opinions of who Jesus was. And that brings us to the third section of our text, verses 25 to 27, which I've called Act III, the Revelation Part 1. The stranger's rebuke and thorough scriptural explanation helps them see a fuller picture of the Messiah. I call this section the Revelation Part 1 because Jesus doesn't yet reveal who he was to these two disciples. Though surely he could have, and once again, if I were the Lord, for sure at this time I would have told him exactly who they've been talking to all this time, but he doesn't do that. He rebukes them. not for not paying attention to all the times when Jesus had predicted his own suffering, death, and resurrection on the third day He rebukes them for not listening to the clear testimony of the scriptures, by which he means the Old Testament Scriptures. He says in verse 25, O foolish ones and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ who has suffered thee And beginning at Moses and all of the prophets, he expounded to them in all of the scriptures the things concerning himself I've got to tell you that there are people who love to listen to this or that preacher or speaker on TV or the radio, and for whatever reason, I'm not really one of those people. But I would pay a ton of money, and uh as you probably already know, I'm a pretty frugal person. But I would pay a ton of money to get a video or an audio recording or even a transcript of exactly what Jesus said to these two disciples. Because it says he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. I mean, that would be something, wouldn't it? Notice that in the evening of the same day, Jesus says basically the same thing to His disciples that are gathered there. He says in verses 44 to 46, these are the words which I spoke to you while I was with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written Written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. Then he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it is necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead on the third day. In verse 25, it says that Jesus began at Moses and all the prophets. And here in verse 44, it says he says that the things which must be fulfilled were written in the law of Moses. and the Psalms and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. Now these two statements are virtually identical because sometimes the Jews spoke of their scriptures as consisting of So these are amazing statements in and of themselves, but I want you to see something else that Jesus Jesus emphasizes that frankly I didn't see until I looked a little bit more carefully. What is the first thing that Jesus says they should have seen in all the scriptures? He says in verse 26, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? Similarly, in verse 46, Jesus says to his disciples, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. Jesus tells first the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, and later all the disciples, that they missed the suffering part. Oh, they got all the passages that talked about Messiah's rules just fine. All the talk of him establishing his kingdom and all of that. But they conveniently ignored the parts they didn't like. The suffering part. The death part. They didn't understand a thing about what we just celebrated on Good Friday. The reasons that Christ had to die. He had to die in our place and for our sins, so that we who who trust in him might be considered righteous before God, not based on our righteousness, which is as filthy rags, but based on his righteousness They got the glory part, they got the ruling part, but they didn't get the suffering and death part. As David Gooding writes concerning this passage, they had believed what the prophets had spoken. They had not believed all that the prophets had spoken. And this is one of the big takeaways I want to leave with you this morning. What about you and me? Do we read our Bibles selectively, actually circling or highlighting the verses that appeal to us, but ignoring those that don't? This is one reason I'm a firm believer in exegetical preaching and teaching, going through a biblical book in its entirety. That way I'm forced to go through difficult passages. Because if I'm left to pick and choose, well, I'll pick only the parts I like. Uh in my ABF uh class at 4C over the last uh almost two years, I just actually finished teaching the book of Isaiah. Now, if it were up to me, I'd probably pick out only the salvation parts. Not the sin parts. But Isaiah starts and ends with the sin part. I'm in Revelation now. Somehow people convince me To teach the book of Revelation. And man, there's just too much suffering and judgment in that book for my taste, but I'm going through the whole thing. Now, of course, there's wonderful uh glorious parts as well. But Isaiah, I mean, you look at Isaiah, fantastic book of salvation, but what does he start with? Start r you know, look at chapter one. He starts with sin. Look at chapter sixty-six. He ends with sin. And so that's uh what I think we need to be uh make sure. Now I'm not saying that sometimes we preach Or teach a topical message, or we go to a particular scripture that speaks to our needs at the moment. But I am saying that you and I need to be careful that when we're reading and studying the uh scripture, we're reading and studying the whole counsel of God, not just what appeals to us. Because that's the basic problem for which Jesus rebukes the disciples of his day. In verse 27, Luke tells us that Jesus expounded or explained to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. The Greek word used here for explained is the Aramanua, which uh from which we get our word hermeneutics or the interpretation of Scripture. Now, as I've already said, I'd love to get the full list of the passages that Jesus cited to these two disciples. And here Here uh I would, if I were permitted, I'd probably uh spend at least the next three or four hours, forget any other Easter plans that you had, talking about some of these passages. But I'm a little uh wiser than that, uh and so we won't do that. Last uh spring, actually a year ago, I taught a class at the Master's Seminary. uh students uh in northern virginia every Thursday afternoon called exegesis of messianic texts. We went through around 15 of these texts in detail, one per week. And on your outline sheets, I've given you a list of some of the possible scriptures that you Jesus cited. And it starts right at the beginning of the Bible, just a few pages in, in Genesis chapter 3, right after Adam and Eve. Eve sinned in the garden. The Lord tells the serpent, who is a representative of Satan, I will put enmity between Between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he, the woman's seed, referring to the Messiah, shall crush you, Satan on the head, and you shall crush him, the Messiah, on the heel. Now, if a poisonous snake bites you on the heel, you die. So all the way back in Genesis chapter 3, we have a prediction of the death of the Messiah, but also the death of the serpent Satan. which happened at the cross, although the final sentence upon Satan won't be for a while yet. But he is a defeated foe My point is that already in Genesis chapter 3, we have a prophecy of the Messiah who will have to undergo death. We have Abraham's willingness to sacrifice his only son Isaac in Genesis 22. We have the entire sacrificial system. Especially the Passover lamb of Exodus chapter twelve and the feast days of Leviticus 16 and 23, just to name a few passages. Psalm 22 is another amazing prophecy of Messiah's death and resurrection. Remember how that psalm begins. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Of course, Jesus. cited that on the cross, and what he wanted his followers to do was go back and look at the entire context of that psalm. Verse 16 of Psalm 22 says, They pierced through my hands and my feet, referring to Messiah's death by crucifixion. Now I'm not going to go through all of these scriptures, though I'd like to, but for sure a key scripture that I believe see Jesus cited would be Isaiah 53, a passage I preached on here a few years ago. Well it's actually been six years, so yeah. know, maybe there needs to be a refresher sometime, I don't know. But at any rate, a fantastic passage. As one commentator says, it's hard to imagine Isaiah fifty three not being in the forefront of Jesus thinking in verse 25. And I would strongly agree with that. It speaks of the servant's suffering and death in our place for our sins. It there's no clearer uh statement of the substitutionary uh atonement of Christ for us in either the old or the new. testaments than in Isaiah 53, 4-6. And it also speaks of Jesus' exaltation That's just an incredible passage. I also list on your handout three excellent books on the subject of Old Testament messianic prophecy if you want to study it further, which I'd include. encourage you to do. But let's move on and briefly look at the last two acts of our passage. In verses 28 to 32, what I've called Act 4, we have the Revelation, part 2. The stranger shares a meal with them, and they see who he is. In verse 29, the disciples now ask Jesus to stay and dine with them. And Jesus graciously agrees Again, that's truly amazing. He doesn't seem to be in a hurry the way you and I often are. Clearly, they can't get enough of his which is totally understandable. And as Jesus takes the bread and blesses it and gives it to them, now acting as the host of The meal, verse 31 tells us that all of a sudden their eyes were opened, and they finally saw that it was Jesus. Now, some people speculate here that it was similar to how Jesus broke bread at the Last Supper, but I doubt that these two were a part of that Might have been similar to what Jesus did at the feeding of the 5,000. Or it could be that they saw the nail prints in his hands. We simply don't know for sure, so it's pointless. to speculate. But I want you to see the order of events here because I think it's instructive for us. Notice that Jesus first points these disciples to the word, to the revelation about who Jesus is contained in the scriptures, before giving them an experience of seeing him And I wonder, are you and I looking to experiences first or to the diligent study of the word for our spiritual insights? Jesus spent most of his time with these disciples, explaining the Word of God to them. Then we have the great reveal in verse 31, after which Jesus simply vanished. His mission was complete. Notice the disciples' reaction in verse 32 that their hearts were ablaze when Jesus talked with them on the road and opened the scriptures for them. Hopefully you and I have that same fire within us as we study the scriptures carefully and uncover its truths and apply them to our lives. I like what Warren Wearsby says here. He says, understanding Bible knowledge can lead to a big head, but receiving Bible truth and walking with the Savior will lead to a burning heart. That leads us to the final section in verses 33 to 35, which I've entitled Acts 5, the results. The disciples hurry back to Jerusalem to report what they have seen, confirming that Jesus is risen. Burning hearts lead to quick action. Hopefully, you and I are excited enough about the Lord that we want to share the good news with those around us, just as these men did. Even at that late hour, they hurried back to Jerusalem to tell the eleven and the others gathered there that Jesus had risen and had appeared to them on the road to Emmaus. From Luke's account, it might look as if the disciples received the news joyfully right from the start. But Mark 16, 13 tells us that actually the other disciples didn't believe these two at first, but soon it was confirmed because of Peter's own report that must have come right around the same time. And then Jesus himself appeared to all of them as we see here in our text in verse 36. Wow, what a day these two had and what an emotional roller coaster from discouragement and doubt to boldness and joy As we close, I want to leave you with three takeaways from this passage. First of all, be careful that you don't see Jesus only through your own filter, seeing only what you want to see. We need to see Jesus as the scripture presents him, not just as who we want him to be. These two disciples were representative of most of Israel who saw the Messiah as a conquering redeemer, but not as a suffering servant. They saw the glory, but not the suffering. They saw the crown, but not the cross. Second, make sure that you realize that our Christian journey will often parallel our Saviors. It's a false and deceptive gospel that speaks only of physical health and wealth in this life, the so-called prosperity gospel. Or the gospel that says that all of our diseases and problems will miraculously go away if we just name it and claim it. I could say those things just as well as anybody else, but that's false theology. Name it and claim it. Uh I don't know how you could possibly go through the Old Testament. Look at the poor prophet Jeremiah, for example, or Daniel, or go through the New Testament, Jesus suffering, persecution, and death, the early disciples suffering and martyrdom. in the book of Acts, Stephen and James and others, or the Apostle Paul's suffering, how you can read all of that and come away with that idea unless you think that your faith is somehow superior to the To Jeremiah, Daniel, Jesus, the disciples, or Paul. I hope you don't think that. People get this teaching from the scriptures. Because they read selectively. They see only what they want to see. No, the scriptures teach that believers will go through trouble and hardship in this world. So you and I should expect it and not be surprised by it. Maybe you're discouraged because of some of the things that you're going through right now. And you think that no one understands. But Jesus understands because he has walked that same road of suffering. You may not recognize it, but he may even be walking alongside you right now, just as he did with these disciples. Jesus says in John 16, 33, In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And finally, remember that yes, if we've trusted in Christ as our Savior, we will experience ultimate victory with him in the end. I can't help but reference First Corinthians fifteen here. And First Corinthians fifteen teaches us that just as Christ rose from the dead, we who have trusted in Christ will rise as well. We'll have new resurrection bodies, and death and decay won't be the final word. Death will be swallowed up in victory. And since we know that that is true, let's resolve to make Paul's admonition in 1 Corinthians 15, 58 our own, not only on Easter, but every day of the year. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, for the truth of your word that points, Lord, not only to a Savior who will rule and reign, but it points to a suffering Savior. Who lived a perfect life, experienced rejection, died on the cross for our sins in our place, and was raised again the third day. Thank you, Father, that we do indeed serve a risen Savior, but a risen Savior who suffered and suffered for us and understands our suffering as well. I would pray if there's anyone here this morning that's never yet trusted in Christ as their Savior, that they would do so even today. that they might have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. What an amazing truth it is that if we do that, we take on Christ's righteousness. and not our own. But I would pray, Lord, for the rest of us that you would help us, Lord, to be like these two disciples in And that our hearts are burning with the truth of the gospel, with the truth of your word, and that we would desire to share it with those around us, Lord, not only at Easter time, but Every day of the year. Lord, make us your ambassadors, your lights in this world of darkness. Thank you, Father, for all that you have done for us, and thank you that indeed You walk beside us each day, whether we recognize it or not. We pray this in Christ's precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.