So as I began last week's sermon, I spoke against the idea of Protestants collaborating with Roman Catholics upon theological foundations The main issue is that their gospel is different than our gospel. Today I want to speak against another false gospel that may be even more dangerous. The therapeutic gospel. The therapeutic gospel is an unbiblical doctrine. I would say a cousin or a relative of the Health and Wealth Prosperity Gospel. I would say it's the psychological version of the prosperity gospel. It could be seeping through our walls today. We must beware. But what exactly is the therapeutic gospel? Sometimes an illustration or a story is most helpful in grasping a concept To explain the therapeutic gospel, the late Christian counselor David Polenson borrows from a chapter of Fyodor Dostoyevsky's The Brothers Karamatsov. The chapter is entitled The Grand Inquisitor. I'll read Paulinson's summary and commentary on this. Quote, thostoyevsky imagines Jesus returning to sixteenth century Spain. But Jesus is not welcomed by church authorities. The Cardinal of Seville, head of the Inquisition, arrests and imprisons Jesus, condemning him to die. Why? The church has shifted its course. It has decided to meet instinctual human cravings rather than calling men to repentance. It has decided to bend its message to felt needs rather than calling forth the high, holy, and difficult freedom of faith working through love. Jesus' biblical example and message are deemed too hard for weak souls. And the church has decided to make it easy The Grand Inquisitor, representing the voice of this misguided church, interrogates Jesus in his prison cell. He sides with the tempter and the three questions the tempter put to Jesus in the wilderness centuries before. He says that the church will give earthly bread instead of the bread of heaven. It will offer religious magic and miracles instead of faith in the Word of God. It will exert temporal power and authority instead of serving the call to freedom. We have corrected your work, the Inquisitor says to Jesus The Inquisitor's gospel is a therapeutic gospel. It's structured to give people what they want, not to change what they want. It centers exclusively around the welfare of man and temporal happiness. It discards the glory of God in Christ. It forfeits the narrow, difficult road that brings deep human flourishing and eternal joy. This therapeutic gospel accepts and covers for human weaknesses. Seeking to ameliorate the most obvious symptoms of distress. It makes people feel better. It takes human nature as a given because human nature is too hard to change. It does not want the King of heaven to come down. It does not attempt to change people into lovers of God, given the truth of who Jesus is, what he's like, what he does. Now this Russian novelist can be helpful in understanding this false doctrine. But better yet, we turn to the true story of Jesus in Luke to combat the therapeutic gospel. The false idea that God is here to meet all of our felt desires, desire for significance and self-importance in the world When we properly hear and apply God's word in Luke 11, 27-32, we'll be better equipped as a church. That cares more about being sensitive to God's desires than being seeker-sensitive. Let's read. Luke 11, 27 to 32. And it happened as he spoke these things that a certain woman from the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breast which nursed you. But he said, more than that, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it. And while the crowds were thickly gathered together, he began to say, This is an evil generation. It seeks a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah, the prophet. For as Jonah became assigned to the Ninevites, so also the Son of Man will be to this generation. The Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and indeed a greater than Solomon is here. The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And indeed, a greater than Jonah is here. To avoid becoming a people-pleasing church, we should follow three principles from this passage. One God's greatest blessing is our obedience. That's verses 27 to 28. Two, Jesus Himself is our main attraction. Verses 29 to 30. And three, Christ's supremacy is our future vision. Verses thirty-one to thirty-two. First, God's greatest blessing is our obedience. Blessing is one of those nice things in life that even non-Christians would appreciate. Who wouldn't want a blessing? Here in the States, we say Happy New Year, but in Korean culture we say we wish you received many blessings this new year But I sometimes wonder whether this word has been emptied of its meaning. And to be more specific and practical, I wonder if we as Christians have been irresponsible in allowing that to happen. In verses 27 and 28, Jesus makes it clear what a true blessing looks like. The voice of the unnamed woman in verse 27 is a nice change in tone. I mean we got people in the crowd attributing Jesus' works to the devil, stubborn unbelievers demanding a sign from heaven. Hostility all around. What a pleasant break from the naysayers. The woman is saying, in effect, Mary shall be proud of the man her firstborn boy has become. She must have done a good job in raising such a wise teacher. Her reaction is natural, something we see at children's graduations, weddings, and other significant life events. Her reaction is biblical as well. Proverbs 23, 24-25 says, The Father of the righteous will greatly rejoice, and he who begets a wise child will delight in him. Let your father and your mother be glad, and let her who bore you rejoice But the blessing of verse 27 must be balanced with the blessing of verse 28. R. Kent Hughes comments on Jesus' response, quote, He did not reprove her sin. speech but improved it. The second does not negate the first But formulates rather what Jesus considers of prime importance and merely corrects the inadequacy of the first. And the inadequacy of the first blessing is this: familial proximity is not as important as obedience to God the Father. God's greatest blessing is our obedience. Now, let's not misunderstand this principle. This is emphasis, not exclusion. Jesus is not denying that Mary is blessed. But if we recall chapter 1, verse 45 of Luke, Mary's blessing was not only in being Jesus' mother, but also in her reaction to God's word, a reaction of belief. In addition, let's not misunderstand Jesus as some kind of rebel son, he was a model son of Mary and fulfilled his filial piety to the end. But hearing God's word and obeying it is such a high priority that everything else pales. Whatever is second in priority should be a distant second, even if it's family. God's greatest blessing is our obedience. Beware as you read the Gospels, Jesus will not sound very family friendly. Once when his mother and brothers wanted to see him, he responded, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. He reiterated how God's kingdom even takes precedence over loyalty to parents and such sacrifice will be rewarded. He warned that some who obey God will even face betrayal from their parents. Even so, God's greatest blessing is our obedience. I wonder if we truly believe that I'm blessed to have a family, roof over our heads, clothes on our backs. I live in a country where I can freely worship God. I don't have to worry about tomorrow, what I'll wear, what I'll drink, what I'll eat. But God's greatest blessing is our obedience. I'm going to be a father soon. Psalm 127 says, children are a heritage from the Lord and a reward. Psalm 128 says they're like olive plants all around your table. My friends have told me how wonderful it is. They told me other things too, but I'll just leave that out. We know children are a blessing, but God's greatest blessing is our obedience We're blessed to have big enough of a building to meet heat and air conditioning. Pews, a pulpit, a piano, instrumentalists, singers, computers, printers. A mixer, microphones. We have room upstairs and downstairs classrooms, a kitchen, nursery, bathrooms, a wheelchair ramp. But God's greatest blessing is our obedience. I remind you that our church mission has been the same for thousands of years. Jesus' final words in Matthew is that we make disciples by teaching them to observe all things that Jesus has commanded us. We must do all we can to make sure God's word is heard here and kept. That means not only caring about observation and interpretation. but also application. Not just teaching the scriptures, but living by it. If all we care about is best teaching, all of us should go to seminary or Bible college and study under the best teachers who know Hebrew and Greek and read the best books on theology. But that's not all that we do. We teach them to obey. God's greatest blessing is our obedience Now that doesn't sound like a very seeker sensitive approach, does it? Perhaps some just want nice, pleasant things as blessings. And not the hard work of obedience. Perhaps they just want to be a consumer at church. Sorry, Jesus wouldn't would not have any of that among his believers, among his followers But in this passage you see that Jesus still had enough traction and attraction from his miracles that you see crowds thickening in verse 29. Well, they said brace themselves for another disappointment. We turn to our second principle. Jesus Himself is our main attraction. To those who experienced God's grace, those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Preaching Jesus as our main attraction sounds great. Yes, give me Jesus every day and every Sunday. But to those who came to see a miracle show, they're going to leave disappointed. As the crowds gathered in verse 29, he doesn't say, This is a good crowd. You guys are amazing. What a wonderful bunch of people here today. Far from seeker-sensitive, Jesus says, this is an evil generation. Not exactly what we hear from users or see on a welcome card. Jesus knew prophetically and from experience most came to fulfill their evil desires, even if they looked good outwardly. Jesus is not afraid to call out their depravity and their lack of faith. And consider what kind of crowd this is. Is it the kind of people you see at a death metal concert screaming and delirious fans of evil music? Is it composed of unruly drunkards in a nightclub Friday night? No. It's more like the nice religious types in their Sunday vest. Attending church as consumers to feel good about themselves and be entertained They're the types who are always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of truth. Because they're not interested in obedience. They're not interested in faith. This is an evil generation. Jesus had every right to make this criticism You might wonder why these sign seekers have such an unquenchable thirst for miracles. Well, let me remind you from verse 16 earlier that they wanted a sign from heaven. Something like pyrotechnics, fireworks, a grand display. You may recall that Elijah in particular was known for such dramatic miracles Three times fire fell from heaven. Once he prayed for heaven to stop rain, and then later he prayed for heaven to give rain. At the close of his ministry, he went up to heaven by a whirlwind. But Jesus will not give them a sign from heaven. They had enough signs already. He already performed plenty of miracles. But he did not perform them to become a celebrity pastor. He performed them at self-expense. Many miracles were not flashy. They were hidden in homes and in private rather than in public stages. Jesus focused on helping those suffering, both physically with miracles and spiritually with preaching. He'd be exhausted after a hard day's work and start again next day. It was more so a grind and less so grand Whatever Jesus did would not be good enough for them anyway. Let's say he played the flute. They wouldn't dance. Let's say he mourned to them. They wouldn't lament. This is an evil generation. So instead of giving them everything they wanted, Jesus gave them the only thing they needed. The sign of Jonah the prophet. That's a strange statement because there's no record of Jonah performing a miracle among the Ninevites. As Jesus explains in verse 30. The sign of Jonah really means Jonah is the sign. God gave Jonah to the Ninevehites, and now God gives Jesus to the Israelites. Like Nineveh, Israel doesn't need great signs from heaven. They have the High King of Heaven right there in their midst. Though Jesus the person didn't look outwardly impressive to this evil generation, he is all that they need. He is all that we need. Jesus Himself is our main attraction. And if we have faith, dig deeper and follow Jesus closely. We would see there's so much to learn about him. We would see the important connection between him and Jonah Key similarities and differences. Like Jonah, God also sent Jesus to enemies under God's wrath, even more to an entire world that did not know him. Unlike Jonah, Jesus responded in full obedience. Behold, I have come to do your will, O God. Jonah had to suffer for his sin and remain in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights. Jesus too suffered, but he suffered for others' sin. He was buried in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights. By the way, in biblical reckoning of time, a part of a day counts as a whole day. So that's why the reference to three days And three nights is acceptable. Just as Jonah returned to continue God's work, Jesus also returned from the grave. Gave proof that he's alive and continue the kingdom work. Now Christ has assigned the church to continue this work for centuries. We have done so faithfully only when Jesus Himself is our main attraction. Not gimmicks. Not family-friendly content, not nice, encouraging, uplifting messages. Jesus at the center His deity, his birth, his life, his death, his resurrection, his ascension, and his return I hate to borrow from a secular book, but Stephen Colby's self-help principle is very applicable when it comes to the church's focus on Jesus. The main thing is to keep the main thing, the main thing. And our main attraction is Jesus Himself. Whether you return to our congregation or find somewhere else to worship, please find a church that exalts Jesus over all else. A Christ-seeking church, not a sign-seeking one. Jesus Himself is our main attraction. And this message of Jesus is urgent because of future judgment In condemnations and rewards to come. And that's the topic of verses 31 and 32, as we turn to our next point. Christ's supremacy is our future vision. All of a sudden we're transported to the future day of judgment. As I stated repeatedly last week, there's no middle ground in the end. You're either wheat or tear, sheep or goat, for Christ or against Christ, in heaven or in hell. And without repentance and faith, you'll face the wrong side of eternity. And the side of condemnation are the religious leaders who attributed Jesus' works to Velzebub. and this unbelieving generation that seeks a sign from heaven. On the side of salvation are individuals and groups you may not expect to see in heaven. Jesus points to one in verse 31, the queen of Sheba who visited Solomon in Jerusalem. She visited as a skeptic, but returned home a believer. She came thinking that she had much wisdom and wealth, but after seeing the king's glory, there was no more spirit in her. She ended up exclaiming, Blessed be the Lord your God who delighted in you, setting you on the throne of Israel, because the Lord has loved Israel forever, therefore he made you king. To do justice and righteousness. This Gentile queen responded in faith because of a king's wisdom and splendor. And her reward is great. But greater is the reward for those who respond in faith to Jesus, the greatest King. And reciprocally, greater is the punishment for those who respond to Jesus in unbelief. Jesus is greater than Solomon. That may not have been apparent in first century or now, but it will be later, when at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Of those in heaven and of those in earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. We willingly bow now, but all will bow eventually. Christ's supremacy is our future vision. Also on the side of salvation, the sheep and the wheat are the men of Nineveh. Like the Queen of the South, they too responded in faith. They repented when they heard a prophet's message, and their reward is great. But greater is the reward for those who respond in faith to Jesus. The prophet greater than Moses and Jonah. And reciprocally, greater is the punishment for those who respond to Jesus in unbelief. Jesus is greater than Jonah. That may not have been apparent in the first century or now, but it will be later. When Jonah arrived, one city mourned because of him and his message. When Jesus returns, all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Christ's supremacy is our future vision. Which side will you be on? The side of condemnation or salvation? Will you be among the goats or the sheep? Will you be gathered in as Wheat were burned up as tares. Will you rise with the Queen of the South and the Ninevites to condemn the unbelieving generation? Or will you stand among the unbelieving generation? The sign seekers and those who blaspheme against the Holy Spirit. If you don't know which side you will stand, I plead with you to settle the issue now. I beg of you to come to the side of salvation. Let's determine where you are with the Lord by talking about the gospel. Recall how I said God's greatest blessing is our obedience. Now that's not some new year resolution to become a better moral person. We need to first realize that we don't deserve God's blessings. Let's face the facts. Left to ourselves and our own devices, without God, without Christ, we're sinful, we're rebellious, we're disobedient. We have broken God's laws, following our desires, coveting our neighbors, bowing down to idols. Let no one deceive you. Because of these sinful acts, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience. For our disobedience, we deserve not God's blessings, but God's curse Because we cannot meet the requirements of the law. The Bible says, Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law, to do them. But now that's where Jesus comes in. His obedience is the solution to our disobedience. The Son of God became man and lived a perfect life. His horrific death on the cross is the ultimate act of obedience to secure our blessings. We read in Galatians, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. That the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Jesus hung on the cross, cursed, so that we can receive the blessings of God. After paying for our sins in full, he rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return as the one greater than Solomon, the one greater than Jonah to judge the world. Until then, Jesus Himself is our main attraction in the present. Christ's supremacy is our future vision. Respond to the gospel now and secure your destiny in heaven. Turn away from yourself, your sins, and trust in Jesus alone for eternal life. There's nothing you can do to earn your place in heaven. Receive God's love as a free gift today. And then once you're saved by grace, from an overflowing heart of gratitude, obey Jesus and experience God's greatest blessing I realize that much of what I say seemed unexciting or familiar from what you've heard since childhood. Perhaps you came to check out our church and see if we have anything new to offer to you. In some ways, we are different. We're a unique set of individuals who are covenanted together in a unique location. In a unique time in history. But our message is the same as the one preached by Jesus and his followers. And we intend to to keep it that way. Or perhaps you came looking for some therapeutic experience But Jesus of the Bible isn't here to boost your self-esteem. Hardly Remember the way Dietrich Bonhoeffer so memorably summarized the cost of following Jesus. When Christ calls a man, he bids him come and die. How can we live in such a sacrificial way? As we prepare for the Holy Communion this morning Let's look at the ultimate example of self-denial on the cross. Let's pray. Lord, we are your bride. Your son is the bridegroom. And Lord, we are living in this already not yet stage of redemption history We're still in the race. We're still striving to be shaped into the image of your son. But Lord, at times we've somehow grown lax in this passion that you give us Lord, we've been distracted. We began at times to walk by sight and not by faith Lord, we are drawn to the blessings that are gifts from you nonetheless, but they are lesser blessings. Nothing like following your word. Nothing like the supremacy of your son, who he is, what he has done. Lord, we look to signs. We look to the gifts. Instead of looking at the one signified, the giver of those gifts. We ask for forgiveness that our eyes have strayed from the glory of your Son Jesus Christ. May we seek you, seek to follow you. May we be sensitive to your word. May our lives be conformed to the image of your Son. We're thankful that you give us your mercies each and every morning, even as we fail over and over again. And we come before you humbly to ask for more grace. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.