Someday I hope that my boy will read the classic novels of J. R. R. Tolkien. And what parent wouldn't? The author created a complex and rich fictional universe with no less complex and rich characters And one of Tolkien's genius moves was to place at the forefront of the storyline the race of hobbits. Short, childlike people with furry legs. Fantasy novels have typically featured humans, elves, dwarfs, dragons, orcs, and wizards. Oh my. Those are not new. But to have Bilbo Frodo and his hapling friends as unexpected heroes who save the world, that was unheard of. Diminutive, not built to be warriors, peaceful and often overlooked. Hobbit became protagonist in Tolkien's most famous stories. Some say it wasn't a premeditated move, but it turned out to be a good one in his writing career. But generally speaking, why do stories that feature little people make such a huge impact? Some surmise that they're more relatable. Like these little ones of Middle Earth, people in the 20th century felt small, insignificant, and powerless in a big, intimidating world. Such fictional characters are memorable for the way they tap into something deep in us. But so are non-fictional characters. In today's passage in Luke, we see a true story of a man who met Jesus, and though he was small, marginalized, and unimportant in the eyes of the world. Our Lord calls him by name. We can relate with him because in these uncertain times in the dark world. We like him can follow Jesus and make an impact for eternity. Let's turn to Luke 19, 1 to 10. Luke nineteen, one to ten Then Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. Now behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, who was a cheap tax collector. And he was rich. And he sought to see who Jesus was, but could not because of the crowd, for he was of short stature. So he ran ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was going to pass that way And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must stay at your house. So he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. But when they saw it, they all complained, saying, He has gone to be a guest with the man who is a sinner. Then Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Look, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor. And if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man has come to seek and save that which was lost. How can we relate to Zacchaeus and learn from him here in this passage? I observe three principles. One, seek Christ with a childlike faith. That's verses one to four. Two, receive Jesus with eager joy. Verses five to six. And three, prove your salvation with genuine fruit. Verses 7 to 10. And I'll repeat these later. First. Seek Christ with a childlike faith. Verse 1 picks up where we left off last time towards the end of chapter 18. Jesus was approaching the city of Jericho, which tells us he was close to Jerusalem. Still outside Jericho, he healed a certain blind man. Now inside the city in chapter 19 and passing through it, our Lord encounters another person, a man named Zacchaeus. Now there are many ways to introduce this guy. We could sing together the children's song. Zacchaeus was a wee little man. A wee little man was he. He climbed up in a sycamore tree for the Lord he wanted to see and on and on. Well that song presents only the bare outline of the story There's much more in the scriptures. I think a good way to understand this man is to ask some questions about his status. Consider this a pop quiz for you, a word problem to solve. Is Zacchaeus the type of person God would save or not? Let me put it another way. We've been exploring the theme of responding to the kingdom in the last major portion of the travel narrative from chapter 1711 to 1927. Would Zacchaeus be the type of person to respond to the offer of the kingdom positively or negatively? Now we could skip down to verses 9 and 10, and it's kind of like the answer sheet at the back of the textbook. The answer is yes, God did save Zacchaeus and he did respond positively to the kingdom. But we need to show the work on this problem. Let me do that with you and go back with me to verse 2. There we learn that he's a cheap tax collector. Those three words, chief, tax collector, are actually one in the original language. A compound word with the prefix arch and the normal Greek word for tax collector. Let me start with tax collector. If you lived as a devout Jew in first century You might think that being a tax collector would disqualify Zacchaeus from the kingdom. People view them as the worst sinners, as we see that in verse 7, traitors of Israel. Working for the enemy, the Roman Empire. But if you read Luke carefully thus far, you'd see that some tax collectors are welcomed by God. Some followed John the Baptist. In line with his forerunner, Jesus called one of them, Matthew, to be his disciple. He also called Matthew's colleagues to repentance. Ironically, tax collectors were closer to the kingdom than religious leaders. Though branded as outsiders, they accepted God's will as spoken by John and Jesus. While Pharisees and lawyers did not. As we see in that famous chapter, Luke 15, they were dead and alive again. Lost, but now found. There were cause for joy in heaven. Finally, Jesus in a parable pointed to a tax collector, not a Pharisee, as a model of humility. And righteousness that comes through faith in Christ. So, based on Jesus' treatment, we can say that being a tax collector and sinner does not block you from being a kingdom participant. But we must remember that Zacchaeus was not just any tax collector. He was, in a sense, a ruler. We don't know how many, but he was an arch tax collector over lesser of his kind. In the same way, Michael the Archangel is over angels, and Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury, is over the Church of England. I bring this up because the title of ruler, from which we get the prefix arch, does not help your position in relation to the kingdom. The data in Luke supports this. Besides one exception among Jewish leaders, Jairus, the ruler of the synagogue Consider how later most rulers demanded Jesus to be crucified and sneered at him. Earlier in chapter 14, Jesus stopped at the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees. Yet what were they doing? They were watching him closely to see if he would violate their Sabbath customs. Most recently in the previous chapter, chapter 18, a certain ruler asked Jesus, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? We learned in the subsequent exchange, he was far from the kingdom of God. He loved his riches as his idol above all else. He walked away from Christ in the end. And like this young ruler, we're told in chapter 19, verse 2 that Zacchaeus was. Rich. Remember what Jesus said about those wealthy like him. How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. The Gospel of Luke contains a lot more than that in the previous chapters. Mary sang in chapter 1, verse 53, how God sends the rich away empty. Later, Jesus warned, Woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation. He told his followers, Don't invite your rich neighbors who will repay you. In parables, he taught that riches are thorns that choke the seed and render it fruitless. He who lays up treasure for himself is not rich toward God. Money is unrighteous mammon that must be handled carefully. It was the rich man who in his lifetime received his good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. Then their fortunes were reversed in eternity. He realized his folly too late, the rich man. And even when rich people show piety, they give out of their abundance, unlike the widow who gives out of her poverty her two mights, as you'll see in chapter 21. Zacchaeus' rich status is a hindrance to the kingdom So let's tally up the score here. On the positive column, Zacchaeus is a tax collector and a sinner. Christ welcomes such ones. On the negative column, he's a ruler and he's rich. At best we have a tie. So what's here in this passage that indicates Jesus would save him? Well, let's look at verses 3 and 4. Here in these two verses, we see the faith of Zacchaeus in action. Here we see him seek Christ with a childlike faith. He sought to see Jesus, and though prevented by the crowds around him, he found a way. Specifically, he found this way by becoming childlike in his pursuit of Christ. Remember in chapter 18, just before the rich young ruler came to Jesus What he said, let the little children come to me and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God. Assurely I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. We see that in chapter 19 verse 2, Zacchaeus was a rich ruler. But in verses 3 and 4, he became like a little child to receive the kingdom. He forgot about his dignity at that moment. Like the father in the prodigal son parable, he revealed his legs to the public when climbing the tree. Zacchaeus sought Christ with a childlike faith. We too must seek Christ with a childlike faith. Now I'm not saying we should we shouldn't outgrow our immature ways. I'm saying you never outgrow your need for the gospel. When it comes to your dependence on Christ. Keep it through your gray years until your faith becomes sight and until only love remains. I also want to see Christ with a childlike faith. I watch my child look to his father and mother when he's frustrated and upset. And that teaches me that my first spiritual instinct should be to pray. Look to the Lord. I need to shed my adulthood, my titles, my status, my sources of dependence, and run to Christ. And that leads to the next point: receive Jesus with eager joy. I'm sure many in Jericho were thinking, there's something we don't see every day. A short chief tax collector climbing up a tree to see the famous Galilean passing by. But the day got even stranger. Jesus looked up, saw Zacchaeus, commanded him to hurry, come down, and entertain him as a guest. Verse 6 tells us that the tax collector did just that gladly and willingly. There is the joy of salvation that invigorates his activity. But you may say to me, salvation, all that this guy did was have Jesus over for food and lodging. What's the big deal about that? Why assume he got saved here? There's an important principle when we study the Bible, and it's called Scriptures Interprets Scriptures. And this simply means that some parts of the Bible that are difficult to understand may be clarified by other passages. Because the one Holy Spirit of God spoke through all the diverse writers, there's an internal unity. From Moses to the Apostle John, we can trust that there's no contradiction. but rather harmony and agreement. So we can say confidently that the serpent of Genesis 3 is the devil, since Revelation 12, 9 says so. The Old Testament prophets remind Israel of God's faithfulness in the past, like Hosea 11:1. As we've seen in the sermon series, the gospel writers often speak on the same episode or teaching of Jesus. But from different perspectives, enriching our appreciation of God's Son. Now often following this principle of scripture interpret scripture will mean a lot of page flipping. Or cross-referencing. But in a passage like today's, we don't have to go far. We have one verse that helps us interpret another verse in the same story. I mean that Jesus' words in the second half of verse 5. For today I must stay at your house. Can we better understood when we look at Jesus' words? In verse 9, today salvation has come to this house. Let me mark off the words that are clearly parallel. Today, your house, this house. Those are easy to see But look at the parallel between I and salvation. Jesus, the Son of God, is saying that he embodies the salvation of God. Back in chapter 2, verse 29 to 32, though this is another scripture interpreted scripture, the elderly Simeon confirmed this truth before he passed away. He saw Jesus as an infant at the temple and prayed, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. Which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Jesus is salvation. No way around it That means that your hope of eternal life in heaven is so wrapped up in Christ that you can't separate salvation from Savior. Do you have a genuine relationship with him? You don't enjoy a saving relationship with the creed, an ideal, or a prayer you recited at age seven? You enjoy a saving relationship with the person Like Zacchaeus, have you received our Lord with eager joy, knowing that he's your salvation? As Paul said, has Jesus become for you wisdom from God, righteousness, sanctification, redemption? Is Christ your hope? Hope of glory in you? If not, I want to invite you to get to know him. Here at Faith Bible Church, we offer some short studies of Mark, one of the Gospels, which lasts about six to seven weeks. They're called Christianity Explained and Christianity Explored. If you're interested in knowing Jesus better, beyond mere shallow superficial knowledge, please speak with me or Steve Conrad after the service. If you're hesitant about a study, I assure you that the good news of Jesus Christ. Is not rocket science or some PhD level course. The gospel is easy enough for a child to understand. Hence the need for a childlike faith. Though deep enough for us to appreciate it forever. Here are the contents We start with God Himself, who created the universe and us to bear His image. He gave us this world to enjoy and rule, but we rebelled against Him. Wanting to be king ourselves. We turned away from him, violating his commands in every way, in thought, word, and deed. Every choice has a consequence, and that's all the more so true when it comes to our sins. The soul who sins shall die. The wages of sin is death. This death is not merely the end of this life. It's the beginning of conscious torment in hell and in the lake of fire. But God sent his Son Jesus Christ to save us from our sins. The Son of God became the Son of Man And he has come to seek and to save that which was lost. He became our salvation by living a perfect life And then offering up that life on the cross. He died crucified as our substitute, taking on himself the wrath of God, the penalty that we justly deserve. He rose again from the dead and ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge the universe. The time to receive Christ is now. You're in need of salvation. Will today be the day you invite Jesus into your life, receiving him with eager joy? To do so, you must turn from yourself, self-reliance and self-indulgence. My heart and my uh my flesh and my heart fail. All human health are stabs of broken reed. All but Christ's words are sinking sand. So repent and turn to Christ and trust in Him and His promises. He who believes in the Son has everlasting life, and he who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. There's nothing we can do to earn a place in heaven. It's all a gift of grace, and we're like a beggar reaching out his hand to a king. A child reaching out for the father's embrace. That's the choice that Zacchaeus made, and I hope that you do the same. I'm so glad that salvation belongs to the Lord our God and God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. If salvation belonged to man, judgmental and prideful people would reject tax collectors, sinners, and prostitutes, even as they sincerely turn to Christ. Thankfully, their words do not prevent your salvation, but they can still sting and hurt you. And that leads to the third point. Prove your salvation with genuine fruit. Zacchaeus was a well-known quantity in Jericho and as a chief tax collector So one day, as in the crowds who followed Jesus saw how he entered his home, they complained. This wasn't the first time our Lord heard this sort of complaint. As mentioned earlier, when Jesus ate with Matthew and all his tax collector friends, scribes and Pharisees asked, why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Their verdict on him was, look, a glutton and a wine bibber, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Later, when all the tax collectors and the sinners drew near to him to hear him, the Pharisees and scribes once again complained, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So verse seven is just another typical response to Jesus. But what's rare in the Gospels is the retort of a tax collector himself. We've heard Jesus defend his ministry and those he welcomed. Well, we haven't heard someone like Zacchaeus respond to criticism. And it's a good thing we have verse 8 because there are many saints like this one throughout history. Saints whose backgrounds seem way too checkered and irredeemable to call him or her brother or sister. Well, here's one example later in the New Testament. Consider Paul. Not too long after Jesus ascended, Paul, the persecutor of the church, became a follower of Jesus. But can you blame the early Christians for their initial skepticism? It took a lot of confirmation, including the effort of Barnabas, before Paul was fully accepted and trusted. In a similar yet less dramatic way, the people of Jericho needed convincing that Jesus really saved this guy who's been taking their money. Paul had his testimony, baptism, and preaching of Christ as evidence. What does Zacchaeus have? Well, Zacchaeus will show you his faith by his works. In the short time that he spent with Jesus, essentially overnight, this sinner shows genuine fruit of salvation. that flows from genuine joy of salvation. One fruit is his application of kingdom principles for giving. Recall Jesus' demand in chapter 12, 33 to 34. Sell what you have and give alms. Provide yourselves money bags which do not grow old. A treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also That command of Jesus corresponds to Zacchaeus saying, Look, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor. It's interesting that he's not asked to give up all that he possesses as the rich young ruler in the previous chapter I think that just means that not everyone is called to express his or her faith in the same exact way, not even among the rich. There's also another kind of fruit. It's the fruit worthy of repentance that John the Baptist demanded back in chapter 3. Recall how some of the tax collectors asked John, Teacher, what shall we do? And this is in chapter 3, verse 12 to 13. And he said to them, Collect no more than what is appointed for you. That command of John the Baptist corresponds to Zacchaeus saying, If I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold. This is a remarkable statement. Now this hated tax collector, Zacchaeus, before the citizens of Jericho, sounds like the revered prophet Samuel before his nation at Gilgal. Remember in 1 Samuel chapter 12, verse 3, his words, here I am, this is Samuel, witness against me before the Lord and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I cheated? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I received any bribe with which to blind my eyes? I will restore it to you. Again, Zacchaeus sounds like Paul before the elders of Ephesus at Miletus. Remember in Acts 20, verse 33, I have covered in no one silver or gold or apparel. Like Samuel before him and Paul after him, Zacchaeus proves his salvation with genuine fruit. If such determination of Zacchaeus isn't enough, we have the confirmation of Christ, which is more than enough. Today's salvation has come to this house. Zacchaeus is no less deserving of the kingdom than the Jews of Jericho. Because he too is a son of Abraham. Zacchaeus is no more deserving of the kingdom than us. Because like him, we're all sinners. So this truth applies to all of us. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. More important than Zacchaeus seeking to see Jesus was how Jesus was seeking to see Zacchaeus. God's grace grants us significance Meditate on these words as we sing our final song. I will not boast in wealth or might, or human wisdom's fleeting light. But I will boast in knowing Christ. Let's pray. Lord, we want to know you But we want to know you as Zacchaeus sought to know you and your son. May we be childlike. May we seek you with eagerness and joy. May there be godly repentance That comes from godly sorrow, that wells up into godly joy. Pray that there will be fruit in our lives That will glorify you. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.