God is often surprising, right? There are times throughout history when God has intruded into his creation and revealed certain things about himself. That stand in stark contrast to what man values or has as a priority. We know that after sin entered the world through Adam, And the human race multiplied on the face of the earth, that we had an earth that was filled with people whose every imagination of their heart was only evil continually. And it was in that context that great men of renown were born and grew and dominated the earth. When we look at the pages of history as revealed in the Old Testament, we often find that people like Nimrod rule the land. That it's the strong that rule and the weak that get run over. Even today, we would say that we can see that just by observing what's happening now. maybe politically in our country or politically in another country. Or we look at what happens in a kindergarten classroom. And we can even see there that often the strong rule and the weak are kind of marginalized. Those kids that are different in some way are kind of pushed to the side This is something throughout the pages of Scripture that God resists. He makes a point of choosing weak And humble people to do his work. Those kinds of people, 1 Corinthians 1 to 3 teaches us, are the primary people that he works with. Not many mighty, not many noble are called. He makes statements in the New Testament like this through James. He resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Our God is a God who looks for people that are weak and know it. And who are willing to call out to the strength that God has and do things God's way. And we see here in the Gospel of Luke, This same thing happening in the choices that God makes. Who will be the mother of Jesus? Who will God send Gabriel to to reveal the plan that's about to happen? Who will be out in their fields at night And God is about to reveal the coming of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. And so we have in Luke, Luke chapter 1, verse 1, we have Luke writing that he wants to take in, he knows, well, let's just read this to remind ourselves sort of the purpose of Luke. Luke 1, 1. Inasmuch as many have taken in hand to set in order a narrative of those things which have been fulfilled among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to us. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus, that you may know the certainty of those things in which you were instructed. We have here a man who is intent on setting out an account that is mostly sequential, mostly chronological, but not always. But he is setting out step by step what is happening in the life of the Messiah, and he begins at the beginning, even before Christ is born. And so we see Luke's purpose is a simple spreading out of the events of the life of Christ. And as we look at those events, we see the mind of God and this whole amazing revelation of the kind of people that God works with. Let me just pull out some of two or three characteristics of the kinds of people God works with. Look first. At chapter 1, let's see, verse 5, it says, In the days of Herod, the king of Judea, A certain priest named Zecharias of the division of Abijah, his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless, but they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well advanced in years. On the one hand, there are some people that are called out as righteous before God. blameless when it comes to the commandments and the ordinances of the Lord. They possessed a certain kind of character. It doesn't mean they were perfect. It doesn't mean that God looked at their righteousness and said, I will save you. It simply means that their lives were consistently in obedience to the law of God. But they were weak, verse 7. They had no child through no fault of their own, but they were barren, and they were both old. This was someone that the Lord singled out, a faithful individual, a faithful individual in need. And so the angel went and announced the birth. And then we have Mary. And you look, if you turn over a few pages, actually it's still in chapter 1, verse 20. Let's see, verse 26. It says, now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. The virgin's name was Mary, and having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying. Now we we have to sort of bring other passages in to bear upon this when it comes to this theme of of humility and calling at the same time, but we have someone who was betrothed to Joseph, and Joseph was what? A carpenter? A nobody? There is nothing really in that description that calls out Mary as a distinguished individual other than that she was of the house of David. And we know from what plays out in the rest of the Gospels that she was just an ordinary person. That God chose to send the Messiah through. And she was highly blessed among women. And she was a woman of character, but really a nobody. And that is why in the first chapter she says things like, he has filled the hungry with good things. He has put down the mighty from their thrones, and he's exalted the lowly. This is what comes out of her heart because she knows that she's a nobody. That there's nothing, God didn't look at Mary and say, here's a woman that by virtue of her position in life and the wealth that she has and her credentials, I'm going to send Jesus through her. She was of the house of David. The Messiah had to come from the house of David. She was just a humble, faithful woman It's remarkable that God does this. Folks, we're talking about the God who made the heavens and the earth, who called them into existence from nothing. And these are the kinds of people he works through. Now, this theme, of course, is carried in Luke 2, if you turn to Luke chapter 2, where we are today. You know the Christmas story. Many of you have read this Christmas after Christmas to your kids We have our Christmas Eve service. We hear Christmas carols. Now it's not Christmas, and we're in Luke 2. It's kind of strange. But what we find here is even more of this theme of God drawing nearer to the humble, sort of the castaways of society, and making himself known to them. So let's pick this up in Luke 2 and just enjoy reading the Christmas story anew today. Luke chapter 2, verse 1. It says, and it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Cyrenius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, everyone to his own city. Now, the New King James translates that registered. It really is for the purpose of taxation They were going to be registered so that they could be properly taxed. Not a very fun thing. How would you like to have to move to your city of origin so that you could have certain paperwork completed so that you could be taxed. I mean how would you like to to uproot your family or at least yourself and go somewhere Just so that that could take place. I can hear the grumbling already. And I would grumble too. I would think it was crazy. But Joseph was a faithful man And so in verse 4, Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. And Luke wants to be precise. You'll notice the historian Luke is mentioning Nazareth, Judeo, Judea. Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. Now she they were not yet married. They were betrothed. So this might have been an odd uh thing, but it for others to view. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered, and she brought forth her firstborn son And wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now, a couple of things to keep in mind here. The manger is a feeding trough. The laying of this newborn babe tightly wound in those swaddling clothes, and I'm sure you're aware that Tight means tight. I mean they would wind up their baby like this, like a mummy. His little face would be poking out, and they didn't want any uh arms moving around and maybe cutting his face with fingernails or whatever. And it was so the baby is like this and laid into a feeding trough Now, does it say that he was born in the manger? No, it just says that he was laid into a feeding trough, but perhaps he was born in the barn where this manger was But there is the intent here, verse 7. They had to do this because there was no room for them in the inn. So what do we see first in these first seven verses? We see faithfulness in Joseph, but we also see some poverty, right? They got there at the last minute. Maybe it was because travel plans were difficult to work out. We're not sure. But here are these two humble individuals traveling a distance to be faithful, and this baby is born, and he's laid in a feeding trough. What does this say about God? What does this say about God? Why didn't he help Mary out? Why wasn't Jesus born in such a way that he would be in a palace? You've heard this. Why was poor Mary She had in her womb the Son of God, and yet God allowed this couple to travel and suffer and have to and allowed his son to be put into that manger. What kind of a God is this? But it only gets more perplexing because in verse 8, there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flocks by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Now we read over that over and over again, and we're so used to the story, and some of us have it memorized. But I have to ask, why did God do this? Why shepherds? Out there in the field, watching their flocks, doing what they do every night. And when God comes to them He sends not just one angel, but a whole group of angels. Look at your Bible in verse 10. Of course, the one angel says, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. For there is born for you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you, you will find a babe. Hint, hint, application, you know, inference here, go find the babe. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger Suddenly there was, with the angel, a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. So the shepherds are out in the field doing what they always do, and this is where God sends the angels. Now, again, let's fast forward past this into the very ministry of Jesus. You know the Pharisees, you know the Sadducees. In the Gospels, both groups opposed Jesus and his ministry. The Pharisees were the conservatives, the Sadducees were the liberals, right? The Sadducees did not believe that much of the Old Testament should be counted as Scripture, whereas the Pharisees did. The Pharisees memorized entire gigantic portions of the Hebrew Old Testament. They were scholars and they were experts. The Sadducees also spent a great deal of time studying. These were the groups who were supposed to truly know God. I don't know how much of the Bible you have memorized, but imagine having the entire book of Hosea memorized, or maybe huge portions of Jeremiah. Folks, and yet God did not announce the birth of his son to those people. You know, it's possible that these shepherds were illiterate. That even others in their society kind of look down on them. Why does God do this? Why is he the kind of God that finds illiterate shepherds instead of Pharisees and Sadducees? What is it about God that would cause him to do that? Let me remind you of a couple passages. Things that Jesus said. Jesus said, I've come to seek and to save what? The lost, that which is lost. Jesus called himself a great physician, and he's come to find the sick. In 1 Corinthians, we have this idea that knowledge rather than knowledge has a tendency to what? Puff us up. And in the Gospels, we saw the Pharisees and the Sadducees, when they interact with Jesus, what do they tend to do to this nobody rabbi, son of a carpenter? They tend to misjudge him, and their attitude is, would you say this is accurate? I as a Pharisee know so much more than you. What are you just shut up? Get away. No. There's scorn, there's pride, there's there's just a total lack of respect because Jesus didn't have a PhD after his name, if I could put it that way. Now you know later on we see Jesus in the temple disputing with, or not disputing, but explaining the Old Testament scriptures to these very men, and he's only a boy. So he didn't need to go to college. But when God sent those angels to the shepherds, he was making a point. And Luke records that. That these are the kinds of people that he'll show himself to. Now, folks, there is a lie that the devil tries to tell us. It's a pretty clear one. I've heard it myself, and I say this to apply this to our lives. If you were only stronger, if you were only more talented, if you only had what this person over here has, then God could use you. Then, boy, you could really do something good. Have you ever felt that way? Have you ever felt like if you just had the talent of that person, Maybe you could do something for God. Or maybe you've been sick and had a lot of health problems and you've wondered, wow, if I just could get over these health issues, then I could really make a difference. We have a God consistently in this book who actually looks for people who have health issues, who aren't that talented. Who maybe aren't meeting the level that that person over there is, who looks to find these people. You have to believe this morning. Folks, you must believe this. That if you view yourself as weak, if you actually are aware of you you don't consider yourself more highly than you ought to think, if that's you, God is already interested in you. In you, God has already been looking at your life, probably for years and years, if you're that person. You don't have to wonder, He's already looking. And he's probably already involved in your life. The shepherds, they were out there, nobody's. And here's the other thing. What kind of a fireworks display did God give them? Did he just send this quiet individual in? Hi, I'm an angel from God. Jesus, he's over there. I'll see it. I gotta go. He gave them a spectacular kind of mind-numbing display. Look at it again at verse 13. There was with the angel, so there's one angel and suddenly a multitude of the heavenly hosts. So how much is a multitude? Well, I would say it's more than two I'm going to guess that it was something that filled the sky above their heads. They were up there and they were praising God. Now what does it sound like? When an angel, not just one, but a multitude, praises God, and at the same time they all say the same thing. Now the word here is saying, not singing. But when angels speak in this manner, I don't know, maybe we would consider it song. But here it is, the glory to God in the highest and on earth peace. And so they're watching this and their mouths are open and their eyeballs are popping out and they're just amazed. And then the invitation buried in there. Folks, the invitation to the shepherds is not just Billboard, Jesus is born, bye, we're moving on to somewhere else. The invitation is, you will find the babe. You will find the babe. It's not just that we have a God that reveals himself to the humble that these are the people he's interested in, but we have a God who invites Individuals like that to participate in his work and in his ways. And he says you'll find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes. And so, how can they not go? And see what is happening. In verse 15, so it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven. That the shepherds said to one another, Ah, if we had only looked at this more closely in our Hebrew Bibles, I'm not sure that this really is the Messiah. Wasn't the Messiah supposed to be born somewhere else? Is that what they said? How can the Messiah be wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger? Folks, what would the Pharisees have said if the angels came to them and said, You'll find Jesus wrapped in swallowing clothes lying in a feeding trough. What would the Pharisees have said to that? But these shepherds It just doesn't have an effect on them. There's no barrier of pride. There's no presupposition or precondition. There's just an angel. He's going to be in a feeding trough. Okay. And so, look at your Bibles, verse 15. Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. So verse 16, they run or they come with haste. I would imagine that running quickly, moving, getting on a donkey, a horse, if they could afford one. I don't know if they had one, a camel. Whatever it was they used, they went with haste, and they found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. You know Could it be that the shepherds had a pretty good idea where all the barns were and where all the feeding troughs were by virtue of their job? They kind of knew the undercurrent there of the city, other shepherds, other people and their animals. It was kind of their thing Maybe the Pharisees knew the synagogues and the elite, the shepherds there at the bottom. And so how long did it take them to find where they were? I don't know. It doesn't say. But they did. They came with haste and they found the babe lying in a manger. So the baby's still there in those swaddling clothes, so it couldn't have been too long. Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. Now Are you okay with that? I don't think you really. I'm trying to lead us to this idea Have you ever had somebody tell you, and I've said this before, the truth to you, but they weren't a person of the same socioeconomic status. What would you think if a smelly old bum got saved and he was out preaching in Baltimore City on a street corner, the way of salvation? Would that be okay with you? Would it be okay with you if a smelly shepherd with no education and probably illiterate Came to you and said, I saw the Messiah. He's come. He's been born. And we all saw these angels. See, folks, this is the amazing thing about another amazing thing about the gospel message: that he reveals himself to the humble, he invites the humble to participate, and then he makes the humble his messengers. And it's only a certain kind of person that's going to respond to that. The self-righteous individual will only see, will only smell sheep. The self-righteous individual is going to back away from messages from God from the lips of the humble individual or the more outcast individual. But they go, the shepherds go, and look at the response. There was verse 18 a response here. There was marvel. All those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. I mean, there was, they had some clout somehow. Their story must have been so spectacular. I mean, we were out there. I mean, were the angels visible from the city? Did anyone else see it? Doesn't say But the shepherds saw it and they were so passionate in their message. They were so convinced in what they saw. And they they told the people, undoubtedly, we saw the angels, and we went right where they told us, and he was there. And his name is Jesus. So the whole city is marveling here, at least everyone who heard what the shepherds said. And there's a sense of wonder. This is the word marvel, wonder there. But verse 9 says, Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen. As it was told them. It's amazing. When it comes to applying this to our lives even further. Let me ask you this. Let's put this right down at our level. If I if if Do you feel like as an individual, do you think, not just emotional, but do you currently think that you are someone that God is using in the kingdom of God? Do you think that God is working through your life? Are you convinced of it? Are you someone who, if I had to just take a hand raise and don't do this, but how many of you really are convinced that God is at work through your life? Raise your right hand. Would you be someone who is so convinced? That you could say, I really think God is working through my life. Or are you someone who is not so convinced? You would be at maybe 50%? convinced and you really want to be at 85-90%. So you would say, nah, if I said, okay, if you're not convinced, raise your hand. Or if you're a little timid or you feel like God is not really working through your life. And you were to say, uh, I don't think he's working through my life. There is one there is one excuse that this passage and others like it must completely clear away for all time. And as you read through the Bible this year, look for these examples. They're all through the Old Testament and the New. No one here can say ever, God is not working through me because I'm just not good enough for God to work through me. I'm not strong enough, rich enough, talented enough. I don't have a nice enough car or a good enough job. I just don't meet a standard that he has. I'm not quite sure what it is, and therefore God cannot work through me. Now there might be other reasons why you feel that God is not working through you. You might think that there's a sin problem in my life that's inhibiting my service to the Lord, or or maybe you you just need direction in your life. And maybe those are issues you need to pray about and get counsel, wise counsel on. But you can't say, I'm too weak. I'm unfit for the service of the king. You can't say that, folks. And if that's true You know what you can do right now? If you can go to God and you can say, Lord, you have found me in my weakness, my humility. Give me something to do so that I feel like you really are working through my life Give me something like you gave the shepherds, a message to share with others this week. A person to meet. I want to be faithful. Give me something to do. Now, folks, if you go to God like that and you say, Look at me, I'm really weak, and I admit it, and I need you. Can you give me something to do? What is he going to say? What kind of response is God going to have to that? You know, we've gone there again and again in 1 Corinthians 1 through 3. Look, turn there, and I want to point out a few phrases to wrap this up. Turn back to 1 Corinthians. Let me show you what he's going to do. I can show you exactly what he's going to do with you. Verse, alright, look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 26. Alright, try to pick this out. Just let the word of God speak. You see your calling, brethren, that not many many wise according to the flesh, and not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God chooses, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. Here's the first thing he can do. He will use you to put to shame proudly wise people. Worldly wise people. That's the context here. There's a spiritual wisdom, but there's a worldly wisdom. He will use you to shame worldly wisdom. Now, this is a paradox. Because you say, God, I'm not wise, and God says, I'm going to use you, and you're going to influence wise people in their own eyes I'm going to use you to frustrate the wisdom of worldly people. What else is he going to do? Look at your Bible again. Verse 27, to shame the wise, and he has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. You say, well, I'm not strong enough to deal with the mighty. Well, once you get to that place, God will then begin to use you to Influence the mighty because he's going to show the mighty that the way of salvation is not for those who think they're strong enough. It's for those who admit that they aren't, that they need Christ. God will use the weak to shame the things which are mighty. He'll use the unwise to put to shame the wise. And verse 28, this is kind of a catch-all statement. The base things of the world and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. So God takes weak and broken individuals, and individuals who don't think they have everything they need, and He turns them and fills them and strengthens them and empowers them and gets them out there, and other people Proud people are brought low. It's put this way, if you look at the end of verse 29, that no flesh should glory in his presence. Weakness given strength to humble strength. A base thing given honor. To humble the honorable in a worldly way, those who think they're honorable. Spiritual wisdom outflanks worldly wisdom. This is what God does with people who surrender their lives to God and ask God to use them because they are weak and they need God's help. That is an amazing thing. That means that not one person here should think that they're outside the realm of God using And so, verse 30, but of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. That as it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Turn back to Luke 2. And what were those angels doing in verse 20? I mean, I'm sorry, the shepherds in verse 20. It says, Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. All right. Right now in our church, we've lost some folks, haven't we? It's kind of discouraging. And we think if we had more numbers, we could finally do something for God at Faith Bible Church. And that really is a lie from hell. That is not biblical. It may be because we are currently few in numbers that God has his eye on us Because he wants to do great things through little churches and people. Now, this isn't to say that we don't want to grow, but God could be looking at us right now, ready. To bless us in an unexpected way, because this is the way he always works. He wants to confound the mighty with the weak. He wants to confound worldly wisdom with the wisdom of Christ. This is who our God is. I want to take uh about five minutes right now at the end of this sermon for a moment of prayer, okay? I want you to I want you just to close your eyes and bow your heads. We're gonna wrap this up a little earlier today, I think. You and I are shepherds. We have various struggles, weaknesses. Here's the question I put to you as you have your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Do you want God to use you today and this week? And have you been making excuses like Moses when God commissioned him? Have you been waiting for that moment when you're strong enough, smart enough, or good enough to serve God? I would challenge you to pray right now in your mind and ask God to just show you if this has been something that's been a struggle for you. Now let me encourage you, if you're someone who's been here and at this moment your heart is just saying Okay, I admit that I'm weak and I need God's help. Why don't you ask God to show you how strong He is in a fresh and new way this week? How strong is your God? What can he do? And ask him to use you, to begin using you in new ways. Maybe it's serving some way here at church, maybe it's a new way at your job, maybe Maybe it's a new relationship somewhere, giving the gospel out. I don't know. Take a moment. Maybe ask him that