Patience and endurance. Just pray that she'll have all these things, uh just godly character. And Lord help her to be a good witness to Montgomery Village Healthcare Center, to this all the staff members and residents there. Thank you that the petties take special care for her carrie and bet and just thank you for others who take care of her and just pray that Lorraine will just continue to grow in holiness and godliness Well we pray for the wireless. Thank you for Bob and Donnie. Thank you for saving them, bringing them together in marriage for their children, grandchildren, that they're such an integral part. Of this church family here. As they're a dear brother and sister to uh the congregation here pray that you'll give them strength, give them energy, give them just joy in serving you, especially as they take care of Jim. Bob's stepfather and just uh pray that Jim would be able to just really know um your love through the care of Bob and Dottie. Pray that he would just turn to you. And we just pray for their ministry and their time spent with their sons and daughters in law and the grandchildren. And just uh Just pray for especially for John at this time as he serves you in ministry. Pray that you'll strengthen him and his family and pray that he will be a good family leader as well as a leader at church among the youth group So we pray for a children's ministry at our church. We pray for children's church and nursery that's taking place right now. We're thankful for the rotation of volunteers and we thankful for uh just that you bring children to our church, um just uh some of them regularly and sometimes occasionally when there's visitors. And we just pray that you'll continue to give us this privilege of caring for them. Just pray that we will not hinder them from coming to your son. And give us strength. And we pray that um that The number of children coming to our services and Sunday morning would grow and correspondingly just the number of volunteers would grow as well So we think about ministries that we support overseas and we think about Polkoff Ministry and through Harvester International and just the work that's being done in Kenya and South Sudan. And we We pray for the upcoming events such as the uh the Pastors Wives Conference in the month of June, and we pray for stability and peace along the borders. and pray for the children's homes and the village schools and the tribes that they're trying to reach there. And we pray especially for Reuben Mario Call as he has oversight over all these ministries. Pray that you'll give him strength and his family to strength as well. So we pray for other churches in the area and as they're meeting this morning. As they're hearing your word, as they're worshiping you. We pray for Living Hope Baptist at Riceurstown. And we pray for the three main leaders there: Chris Miller, Bill Bianco, and Rich Harrison. Lord, we pray that you will bless their efforts in Iwana and pray for their uh especially for Rich as he is heavily engaged in evangelism. We're just thankful For him and his help to our church on Fridays and Saturdays. And Lord, I pray that you'll strengthen them and as they come before you to worship you and sing praises and hear From your word, pray that you will unite this congregation so that they can reach that region with the gospel. Evangelize, Lord, help us to think carefully how we can put to practice what we have learned. Lord, there's just ample resources. There's obvious see the examples in the Bible. Help us to be doers of your word, Lord. Help us to think about our neighbors, uh whether it's a Bible study and a neighborhood Bible study. study or just a conversation we could strike up or just uh local college campuses or uh friends that really need to hear your word or come back to church after maybe they back back Lord, we think about all these things and think about all these people that need to hear your word and give us wisdom, give us just even creativity in the world. ways that we can um just talk about the faith with them and Lord um not for our personal glory not for even our church's personal glory but for your glory and just pray that We would be motivated by love for the lost and your the glory of your kingdom. And Lord, as we're about to give our offering, we pray that you would take our offering and use it to further the gospel here in this area and also all over the world. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Rocking your baby to sleep may sound like a sweet activity. But it can get a little bit boring. The baby's not falling asleep right away. So my wife encouraged me to pray more during those times. I'm praying for Annette, right? And my usual list of topics go obvious for many of us with the same, like salvation, right? We want them to be saved as early as possible. You know, hopefully they'll grow up to have Christian friends, you know, have a good education career. And we even pray for our future their future spouse, right? And um that doesn't seem so urgent, but they say kids grow up so fast, so uh next thing you know they'll be thinking about marriage. right so it appears marriage is a lifelong concern at times it feels like an all-consuming matter We worry, we are entertained by TV shows like Love Connection and Bachelorette. And the Bible has something to say to those playing Cupid as well. It speaks to those who aren't really good at playing Cupid and just make things awkward for our single family and friends. On a more serious note, it speaks to those who feel lonely as singles and those who are concerned about their future. For such ones, the sermon Passage today will be especially relevant. Today we're wrapping up our coverage of 1 Corinthians 7. Last few weeks I've asked you to picture two arches, right? One like a bridge and the other inverted like a safety net. That's that we aim to traverse the high grounds, then if at all possible, Christians should strive for what's ideal and best. For singles, that's a life of self. Celibacy, right? For those married already, it's staying put, giving it all. They're 100% in the marriage they're in Suppose, however, believers fall off this high arch, then there is the lower arch to support them or catch them, stay within God's will. So a single believer will not be at fault for pursuing. Marriage. Also, there's nothing the married believer can do if he or she has an unbelieving spouse who abandons the family. It turns out for the sake of purity or peace, Sometimes one cannot remain in status quo. So we maintain this juxtaposition of ideal and real as we look at 1 Corinthians 7. 25 to 40. Here you'll find principles for singles, parents of singles, and widowed singles. So let's read. 1 Corinthians 7, 25 to 40. Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord, yet I give judgment as one whom the Lord inhabitants But this I say, brethren, the time is short, so that from now on even those who have wives shall be as though they had none. not rejoice, those who buy as though they did not possess, and those who use this world as not misusing it. For the form of this world is passing away. But I want you to be without care. He who is unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But he who is married cares about the things of the world, how he may May please her husband. And this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a leash on you, but for what is proper, that you may serve the Lord without Distraction. But if any man thinks he is behaving improperly toward his virgin, if she is past the flower of youth, and thus it must be, let him do what he wishes He does not sin. Let them marry. Nevertheless, he who stands steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but has power over his own will, and has so determined in his heart that he will keep his virgin to Does well. So then he who gives her in marriage does well, but he who does not give her in marriage does better. Liberty to be married to whom she wishes only in the Lord. But she is happier if she remains as she is, according to my judgment, and I think I also have the Spirit of God. The verse twenty-five marks another division of chapter seven. Note the phrase now concerning Which we saw at the beginning of this chapter, and you will see at the beginning of the next chapter. The fact that it's at the start of verse 25 is revealing, it reveals Paul's Genuine concern for singles. Now, here many churches these days are so focused on ministries for families that they neglect ministry. I'm not sure whether that's true of our church, but I'm sure the apostle would not make the same mistake. Paul takes a good chunk of this chapter, verses twenty-five to thirty-five, to directly address virgins, those, those who never married before. And in verses thirty-six to thirty-eight, Paul has some words for the father who has a say in the matter. After all, it is he who gives away his Daughter in marriage. Finally, the chapter ends with verses 39 to 40, reiterating the lifelong commitment required of those married and the happier alternative for the widows. Now corresponding to these three parts, I say we got three conclusions of Paul here. The first one is the longest. Um one, singleness is optimal for serving God with minimal distractions Singleness is optimal for serving God with minimal distractions. That's verses twenty-five to thirty-five. Number two, parenthood is not done until the marriage of children Right? Parenthood is not done until the marriage of children. Some of you guys would argue like it's not done even after they get married. But uh I think that the main point Paul's making here is that it's not done. There's a major job here of parenting. So parenthood is not done until the marriage of children, verses 36 to 38. And then three, marriage is binding until death. That's thirty-nine to forty. I'll repeat. Marriage is binding until death, thirty-nine to forty First, singleness is optimal for serving God with minimal distractions. I'll spend most of my time on this principle Now it may seem as if Paul's just making one long argument in verses 25 to 35, but there are wrinkles, a way to go from 1 to 2 to 3. Let's first go from 1 to 2. Verse 29 begins with, but this I say, brethren, which suggests a pause before it. Skip down to verse 35, and almost like a book end, you see, and this I say. The two words for say are different, but the idea is practically the same. So that cuts 25 to 35, versus 25 to 35 into two subdivisions, 25 to 28 and 29 to 35. Next, we'll go from two subdivisions to three. Verses twenty-nine to thirty-one consists of a cluster of verses. What holds them together is a specific sentence pattern. See if you recognize it, it goes those who blank as though they blank or as not blank. You can even put it on a table with columns in the first column. Those who are wise, weep, rejoice, buy, use this world. In the second column, as though they had none, did not weep, did not rejoice. Verses thirty-two to thirty-five form another cluster of verses They're mostly held together by one word in its adjectival form and its verbal form. You don't need to know Greek to recognize it. care. It's without care in the first part of verse thirty-two. It's care for or cares about from the second part of verse thirty-two to verse thirty-four. So that gives us three subdivisions, verses twenty-five to twenty-eight, twenty-nine to thirty-one, and thirty-two to thirty-five. And they correspond to three reasons Paul thinks singleness is optimal for serving God with minimal distractions. To identify the first reason, it helped to locate the phrase present distress. Verse 26. I'll get to the meaning of that in a moment, but first let's back up to verse 25. Paul says there, full disclosure, he has no direct revelation from Jesus concerning Singles desiring marriage. So Paul offers his judgment on the matter. He's qualified to speak because the Lord in his mercy converted him and called him to be an apostle. And teacher of the Gentiles. Now we're at verse 26. In Paul's judgment, it's good for singles to stay as they are in light of the presence. Distress. By present distress, he doesn't mean the seven-year tribulation. He's simply echoing the warnings of Jesus. In this world, you'll have tribulation. That tribulation intensifies and escalates with the spouse. Could you imagine and just a just night Nightmare of a scenario. The worst case scenario is family members of Christians are taken hostage or receive death threats. It has happened. It is happening. It will happen. Now, in case verse 26 is misunderstood as a permission to leave the marriage, Paul reminds us of the general principle in verse 27. Stay where you are. If you're married, don't seek singlehood. If you're single, don't seek marriage. But then as we go, Paul is sort of seesawing while remaining within. Biblical bounds. On one hand, there's the ideal celibate life. On the other hand, there's that dose of realism in verse 28. The single one would not be sinning by Mary. But then again, as Paul finishes verse 28, he pulls them back to the other side, his own side. Like it's hard enough to live as a live for Christ as a single person. As you face danger in this world. If you're married, now the risk of danger extends beyond you to the one who's one flesh with you and the children of your union. So the first support for singlehood, Paul's mind, is based on present distress. The world is so bad. That's the second reason. Time is so short. In verse 29, Paul wants to put some force behind what he's about to say. say so he says but this I say brethren he's saying listen up I'm talking here eyes up here be all ears right and to get the thrust of the apostles argument it helped to locate the phrase Time is short. This doctrine of the imminent end is not some scare tactic to move us toward urgency. It's a real reason to give thought, consider the ideal idea of celibacy As Paul says later, upon us the end of ages has come. He'll say that in 1 Corinthians 10 11. Now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. Romans 13 11. So how does one act when time is short? Paul offers all kinds of examples. In the second half of verse 29. Relationally speaking, the love of your life takes a distant second place to the love of Christ, our life. In verse 30, emotionally speaking, there's no time for extreme lows. And extreme highs. In the last part of verse 30, and then verse 31, economically speaking, you purchase things without grasping them too tightly We may use the world for our benefit, but there's no need to misuse it or overuse it. Just take what you need and move on. After all, everything is perishable. The form of this world is passing away. No need to hoard it, no need to gorge on it. It's just stuff. Thieves break in and steal them. Mot and rust destroy them. They all grow old like a garment So time is running short, and that's another reason to stay single. Here's a third reason that singleness is optimal. It would help to locate the phrase, cares for the things of the Lord, in verse 32. the things of the Lord. That's what's ideal. Undivided devotion to seek first the kingdom of God. A single woman can be single-minded for Christ, set apart and set on living for his glory. She can serve God with all her being, both the outer and inner person. Body and spirit. But once married, we have no choice but to care about the things of the world. Of course, we shouldn't worry about tomorrow. We should be anxious for nothing. But as the head of the household we still need things, right? As an Ephesians five man, you must nourish your wife, right? As a Proverbs 31 woman, you must seek provisions for the household, food, garment, land. If the Lord grants you children, you stock up for their present needs and store up for their future needs. That's the whole point of verses 33 to 34. Now please understand that Paul's not anti-marriage or anti-family. The same man Ephesians 5, one of the most beautiful passages about the marital union. And what it should represent. It's because Paul takes marriage so seriously that he wants singles to stop and think people walking down that aisle. It's a huge commitment. They would listen, he stresses that there's no shame in being single. Singles are not second-class citizens in the church. Far from it, we ought to honor those who decide. To live like Daniel, Jesus, or Paul. Here's why that word proper in 1 Corinthians 7:35 is elsewhere translated as prominent. Presentable. So when singles serve Christ without distraction, it is excellent, noteworthy, deserving our attention. Now picture a servant that's sitting nearby a table waiting on his master. He's eager, attentive, dutiful, diligent in fulfilling his wishes. There are no other customers to please. In the same way, Paul wants us to be without care, exclusively caring for the things of the Lord. But he doesn't say these things to bind singles to celibacy is still a decision between God, you, and your Parents, right? More on the parents in a moment. But first to sum it up, singleness is optimal for serving God with minimal distractions because of our present distress. Time is short and we care, we can care for the things. Here's a quick application before we move on to the next point. I understand that most of us won't be single for all or even most of our lives. But I think verses 25 to 35 teach singles how to live. live the single phase of life to the fullest. If I could time travel and talk to my single self in my My twenties, I push him to please Christ in every way. Care more for the things of the Lord. Grow more in holiness in body and spirit. Alas, I can't change my past, but some of you singles can change your present. Devote this precious season of your life. To do great things for God. And don't live as if you're stuck. You're very free. Ask one of your merry friends, right? The single life is not a purgatory, right? The merry life is not heaven. Don't be envious of your friends who are now domesticated men and soccer. Moms, right? There's so much difference you can make in your current role. Present singleness is a gift optimal for serving God with minimal distractions. But again, for most of us, our single lives Will come to an end. A reality check leads us toward marriage. That path obviously involves God and you, but it also involves your parents. Right. As we read earlier, by definition, right, in Genesis, right, marriage is when a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become So before we cleave, we leave, right? That takes us to the second important conclusion of Paul. Parenthood is not done until the marriage of children. Now in verses thirty-six to thirty-eight, Paul turns to the father of the single woman. Now, before we get to the details, it helped to bring out into open what is assumed. Here. God intends that the husband and father be the head of the family. He's the leader. He and his wife must work together to raise their children. Children. They must not only provide for their immediate needs, they must also secure a bright future for them. For most, that future involves marriage Right? And the parents must help them get there. And these have been parental responsibilities for much of human history. Hopefully that doesn't require Much convincing here. Now, what has changed in about the last hundred years or so, at least in the West, is the path of transition from singlehood to marriage Prior to the early 1900s, courtship was the way to meet and evaluate potential spouses. It was a focused task with built-in safeguards and accountability. The man and the woman usually belonged to the same community. Once the process was initiated, The two normally met at the woman's home under the watchful eye of the family. Parents and siblings and trustworthy friends would have key input in the decision Well, things have changed a lot. American historian Bet Bailey notes how we still search for spouses, but now the setting has changed dramatically. Courtship used to be a public act in private spaces. Imagine the living room or the family parlor with proper surveillance of the community. But now it's become a private act and public spaces, like the drive-in theater or the parking lot, with minimal surveillance of the community. You see how dangerous that could be with our youthful lusts. As Bailey's provocative book title indicates, we went from the front Porch to the back seat. Now I say all this because somewhere along the lane, along the way, many parents decided to relinquish their responsibilities They bought into what the culture says is acceptable. Oh, let them figure it out. You know, make the mistakes and So often they vacated parents, their duty to pay for their children's spouses and help them get married. I'm not advocating arranged marriages here. I'm just saying this parenting is not only raising up children, it's also preparing them for marriage and helping them Them get there. So it's not merely symbolism when the father takes his daughter down the aisle for the last time as a single woman So, okay, now in returning to our text, the question is whether the father of the woman will soon become the father of the bride. The details of verses thirty-six and thirty-eight help in the decision process. It could be that the father is behaving improperly toward his virgin. That simply means he's preventing his unwed daughter from marriage without good reason. It could be that the that his girl is not really a Paul type, not gifted to remain single, but the father refuses to admit it. I guess this could happen. Or it could be that the father's too picky. I understand the sentiment. No man will ever be good enough for my daughter, right? I I agree we need to set high standards for our little girl. Right. Such as being a growing believer, don't compromise on that. Has to be a believer, right? But if she wants to get married, she's getting up in the years, moving past the flower of youth, it's time to Find her some suitors and narrow down the list to one. The father would not be wrong to do this. Let them marry. Let them eat cake or The wedding cake. But Paul also considers the possibility of a man not giving away his daughter The apostle uses various expressions to describe the same requirement. The Father must be absolutely certain and resolved in his choice. Internally, there must be no wavering of his heart, no weakening of his will. Externally, he must have no necessity, no strong outside force influencing his decision. his conviction. All of these conditions must be met if he were to deny his girl a chance at marriage. I like to add that this is probably a very rare case, this withholding. Again, most of us men and women are not gifted to be single forever. We cannot exercise self-control for too long. We burn with passion in our lusts. Most singles need marriage. Most fathers should know this about their sons and daughters. So they ought to give them up in marriage. That's what usually happens in life. But as Paul reiterates in verse 38, marriage is good, but singleness, when possible, is even better. But even if tying the knot is inevitable, until then we should be thankful when fathers and father figures exercise their authority. and protect children from unworthy suitors. True story, my father-in-law said no to a local Malian man who offered cows, leather, and camels for E-Ray while she was still a teenager. That was an easy no. There may be more complicated reasons for fathers to say no. Just keep in mind fathers and mothers. Parenthood is not until the marriage marri is not done until the marriage of children. Don't stand aloof, right? I guess don't push too much either alo You need a lot of wisdom here. I got like 18, 20 years to think about it. Finally, Paul ends this chapter with the reminder: marriage is binding until death. I'll be quick on this point. The last few verses are where they are, not only to return to the topic of widowhood from earlier. are merely picking up from verses eight to nine. Rather, I think he's reviewing here now all the possible ways a person might give up singlehood in favor of marriage. Marriage. So as we just saw in Paul's time for a young virgin, the choice to marry is up to the parents. The father has the final say, but say a woman's widowed later in life after the dad's Gone. Now it's up to her to make the decision to remarry. The only constraint put on her is to marry a fellow believer in the Lord. But even a Christian marriage is not as good as Christian singlehood, happily devoted to God. Paul saying, trust me on this. This idea of happy singleness is not mere opinion or testimonial. It comes from a man inspired by the Holy Spirit. So we're going to close this chapter now, and as we do, we need to take seriously all that Paul says on these matters of marriage. Widowhood, singleness. He's dealing with a major part of our identity. He's leading us to ask important questions, timeless questions Will I marry? Will I remarry? Who? When? How do I speak to my parents or kids about marriage? But Paul will be the first to remind the saints that whatever our marital state, whether we live or die, we are the Lord's. All of us must, by mercies of God, present our Bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God. We are to flee sexual immorality, whether that's premarital or Extramarital, we must present our members as slaves of righteousness for holiness. Now, if we're really honest with ourselves, we often fail to live up to these ideals. Yes, even as Christians, we messed up badly. We sinned. But at the same time, you know, we should remind ourselves To repent, right? Trust that we trust in Jesus for salvation. We're not any kind of sinners. We praise God because in the gospel there are promises. We need to tell others about the love of Jesus that they would know him. Time to good time to review here. And before he became man, he had a pre existence. He is God, the word who became flesh. And while here he was a single man, right? Single-minded, living for a single Purpose. The Son of God was about his father's business. He always did the things that pleased him, serving him without distraction. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death. of the cross. And why was he crucified? He was crucified for our sins, our adulterous lusts He paid him for the penalty of wrongs we've committed. His body broke him because we broke God's law. His blood was shed For our forgiveness. He declared his work was finished. He died, he was buried, he rose again from the grave on the third day. After proving he's alive, he went up to Heaven and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now we can be saved, set apart, sanctified through the offering of Christ's body Through him we can die to the law so that we release from our bondage to it. We can be free from our sinful past. We can be liberated from the penalty of eternal death. We can be released from the law to be married to another, to him who was raised from the dead, that we should Bear fruit to God. This is one marriage, one proposal, all should accept, whether single or celibate, say yes to the Spiritual union with Christ, God's Son. He can be yours, you can be his. That's by repenting Turning from all other suitors, you want to call them, false gods, idols of money, power, and sex. Turn away from self-love and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in him for eternal life. Cannot earn it or deserve it. Heaven is a gift undeserved. Can be saved by grace alone. This call to be saved is the most urgent, most urgent than more urgent than career, marriage, or any other status-defining event. So consider carefully, but do hurry. We need to tell people to get right with God very soon. I think the last song sort of reminds us of this urgency. Call. As summer flowers we fade and die, fame, youth, and beauty hurry by. But life eternal calls to us at the cross Let's pray. For a life that can be devoted to you. We see examples of godly men and women who even from a young age have served you, gave their lives to living for your glory. And Lord, you each have a we each have a different um role You have a different plan for each one of us. Some of us, probably most of us, find ourselves in marriage or will be married. These things are so time and energy and consuming in so many different ways. But Lord, we want to just give ourselves to you. We want you to be glorified Whatever state we find ourselves in. May we not lament where we are and only look longingly for what's ahead or what's behind us, but in our present state, in our each and every day. Serve you to not to worry beyond what's out of control. So we ask for your help that whether we're single, married, widowed, Lord, Lord, that we would seek you above all things. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. L