Open your Bibles to Romans chapter one, Romans chapter one. Romans one What is your good news? What is the thing that when you think about it, it lifts your spirits? It gives you a sense of anticipation. Your emotions respond. It puts a little spring in your step. It gives you direction in life. What is that if you could in a sentence describe the one thing that gives you the greatest sense of joy and pleasure, your good news, what would it be? You don't have to answer that out loud, but think about that for a second. Do you have any good news? Do you have any message to your life, something you put your faith and your trust in that gives you that sense that you have something worth living for? We live in a world right now where there's a lot of bad news. It's everywhere. And justifiably so, because we live in a world of conflict and sin. It was shocking this week, wasn't it, to see what happened in France. It was a reminder of what happened on 911 with us, 9-11, here in New York City, not too long ago. It's a reminder of what could happen again. It's a fearful thing to see the kind of world that we live in. So isn't it true that somewhere Somewhere you should have some good news. Let me tell you what people say to me about their good news. For example, how many of you have ever sat at a break table at work? Don't raise your hand, these are sort of rhetorical questions to get you to think. And it was Friday. And you start talking to your co-workers in that room, and they're talking about what they're going to do on the weekend And they're looking forward to it. And they might even be joking around and smiling and saying, hey, I can't wait for tonight. I can't wait for tomorrow. And their good news is can be summed up in one word. Weekend, or is that two words? Hyphenated. The weekend is their good news. And if you could really boil it down to what really brings them joy, it's sort of the pleasure of life. Not having to do the daily grind, going out and doing what they want to do the way they want to do it, just enjoying life apart from the grind of work. That's their good news. Or have you ever talked to someone who's going through a difficult time and they've had a financial setback? And have you ever heard someone say, I'd be all right if I just had this amount of money? And in their mind, their good news would be, even though they don't have it, that that check in the mail, that that Financial something that comes their way. That's their good news. Some kind of material blessing. That would be their good news. Or maybe you've talked to someone who has family problems. Our Old Testament is filled with families in conflict, literally. When you think about Abram becoming Abraham and the father of many nations, when you think of the twelve tribes of Israel and the conflict that took place even before they became literal tribes of people. They were families in conflict. And so we have families like that today. And people go through divorces and have trouble with their kids. And if you were to say, hey, what kind of news would you need to hear to really make your day go better? They might say, hey, if my kids would just do what's right. And that's their good news, the healing of their family. Folks, do you realize that the letter to the Christians at Rome and the kind of things that are written in these 16 chapters? Answer the biggest question, the question that really overshadows all those other lesser good things. What is the true and abiding and eternal good news that God has for mankind? What is the gospel? I mean, is the gospel to only be relegated to, and that's what the word gospel means, good news. Should it only be relegated to the healing of relationships and receiving your great time on Friday or getting your finances in order? I mean, is that all there is to the good news of life? And is that all that God has to tell us? If so, it doesn't matter what religion you join. Doesn't matter a bit. The Muslims want to be prosperous, and many of them are. You think of Saudi Arabia, you think of the oil reserves they're sitting on top of. There are a lot of prosperous Muslims out there. Those in other religions, they might say, they might emphasize one thing or another, but whether it's karma that's working out well for them in their life or one day achieving the state of nirvana or perhaps You know, earning whatever it is God asks of me. There's their their good news is all. Could we say this? That probably in much of this religion of the world, the good news can be sort of reduced. to earthly things, having it now. And if you can't have it now, making sure that you can have it later. If that's all it is, folks. It really doesn't matter what you are. Romans reveals to us that there is a definite message. Look at Romans 1. And look at what he says. In verse 16, Paul writes, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, the good news of Christ. It's the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first, and also for the Greek Now this is not a singling out of Hebrews and Greeks, people living in ancient Greece. It's the two categories that the Bible often puts people in, is Hebrews and non-Hebrews, Jew and Gentile. It means everyone. Regardless of your background or the country you're from. Paul writes, I'm not ashamed of this gospel because it is the power of God. All of Romans is the expansion on this idea of what the good news is. Let me stir up your thinking and you faithful Christians here today who have sat in Tim's Sunday school class and read Romans on your own. Think about this. What are some of the answers to life the gospel approaches it solves? Here's one. How should I treat that guy sitting next to me? How should I really treat him? I he's my friend, or maybe he's my spouse. Or if you're a man here this morning sitting next to your wife, how should I treat her? Romans answers that in the gospel itself It talks about human relationships in the church. It talks about how Christians should deal with one another. But it's deeper than that because it talks about the nature of salvation itself. Here's a question that Romans answers in chapter one. Why is there idolatry in the world today? Why is there false religion? Are people just searching after God and they kind of decide to make an idol because in their hearts they seek the true and living God? I mean, is that why there are all these idols? Romans answers the question: why are we in such a mess today? I mean, why did those terrorists kill people in France? Why did that happen? Romans and the gospel answer that question. Folks, have you ever felt guilty? Have you ever done something and then felt guilty for it? Romans and the gospel tells you why you feel guilty. As a matter of fact, the letter to the The Christians at Rome, it also answers a lot of questions about how you feel. Have you ever felt a struggle in your heart? Like you want to do what's right, but you also want to do what's wrong. And so there's this conflict between Your desires, the desire to do what's right, and yet the desire to do what's wrong. What is up with that? Romans answers that Now the problem that you and I often have with letters like this is that we read them and we kind of just let our eyeballs roll over them like throwing marbles across the pages of your Bible, like that's somehow going to get the message into your book. We read it in the same way. I used to read the rule book at the Bible college where I used where I graduated from. When I was in Bible college, every semester I was required to read the entire rule book, and it was thick. It was like a small novel. I mean it was bad. And so I would I I I'm an honest person, so I had to read every word. Folks, I mean I was so I I try to be keep it clear conscious to the point where I'm gonna look at the page numbers. I want to read every word. I want to know so here's how I read it though. I would turn to the first page, and I did not read for comprehension. At all. I would say, welcome to Yes, this is my okay, make sure you don't do the right number. I would read it that fast in my head. And if I could read it faster out loud, Which is kind of tricky, I would do it that way and I would just go blah blah blah blah blah. Phew. Glad that's over. And then I and then they made you sign on a piece of paper that you read it. So I did that. I signed it. And I felt good because I read it. But I don't understand what was in it. I didn't know what it said. So you know what I had to do? I had to carry it around with me and make sure I didn't break any rules. You say, this is crazy. Well The school I went to had a lot of rules, let's just put it that way. So there were certain places that I had to make sure I didn't go on campus. So I had this book with me and I would get it out and I would look. So what's my point? The point is this, don't why do you read the Bible? Why do you read it? Folks, you need to read it so that you can actually figure out what in the world is going on with your life. How can you glorify God? Not just to check, now I'm not minimizing reading schedules, that's not what I'm saying. But just to sign I read this is not enough. You have to understand it, meditate on it, apply it to your life. All that to say, that is why moments like this when we try to go through chapter content are so, so important. So let me tell you a story. Alright, we're in Romans. Let me tell you the story of Romans 1, 2, and 3, all the way up until we get to a very important section. In Romans 3, chapter 3, verse 21. And I want you to try to think of Romans this morning as a story. As something that has a beginning, a middle, and an end. And we're not going to get to the, maybe we'll get to the middle this morning. I'm not sure. And we'll try to make some applications along the way. First, Romans 1. Paul says he's not ashamed of the gospel. That's good news. And he says it's the power of God unto salvation to all who believe, the Jew and the Greek. And then he says that therein is the righteousness of God revealed from heaven He begins right there at that point to talk about the wrath and the anger of God It's not a very happy beginning, but that's where he is, and he's realist, because that's where we are right now, right? We're living in a broken world with broken people, and so he's going to explain in Romans 1 why. It's so broken. So he begins with talking about how creation reveals from heaven things that can be known about God. You look outside, and everyone looks outside and sees The beautiful grass, the stars in the heavens, and they know that there must be a God. And if you look at your Bible, you can see right here in chapter 1, verse 20. Since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Essentially two characteristics about God, power and divinity. The fact that he is of a class of being that is, if I could use this word, superlative above every other class. There's only one God. And there's only one slot for that God, and He's it's the highest one. And there is eternal power in him. He can do whatever he wants. We see that from nature. There is a God, and he can do what he wants. Now, Paul's saying here in Romans 1 that everyone, when they come into this world and they look at creation, they see this. And there's something in them that recognizes this through the things that they see. Now, this last couple of years we've had an onslaught of atheists. How many of you have heard of these guys? I think there's Hitchings. I think he just died, didn't he? Have you heard of the fundamentalist atheists? Have you heard that term? They've written books. One book I have on my shelf called The God Delusion. Another book by an atheist called Why Why Evolution is Correct. And in these books, they just slam on God and the concept of God in the Bible. And now let's answer this question. Do they look at nature? And was there a time in their life when they could have responded to what they saw? The Bible answer to that is yes. Every person coming into this world sees the heavens declaring the what? The glory of God. But what happened to those fundamentalist atheists is that they responded in the same way that Paul says humanity has responded to the revelation that is in creation by rejecting it. And here's what's happened. They looked at all of creation and they didn't want to thank the God who made it. And rather than responding in worship to the one true God. They decided to suppress, to hold down that knowledge. And so they gave up on the worship of the one true God and they replaced that worship with idolatry. And you see that right here in your Bibles. Look down at verse 21. Although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God. Nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became Fools and change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. What this tells us is that when you go to another country, like we have missionaries in Hong Kong, the Conrads, right, and Linda Reynolds. And Victor Ho. And they're over there ministering, getting the gospel to Chinese folks, and you walk by a shrine. Next to a building that has incense burning and rice on a plate and a little idol, and they're worshiping their ancestors. And someone says, and I've heard Christians say this to me many times. They really have a heart to seek the true God. They just can't find him. Folks, that's not true. When you see idolatry manifest itself anywhere in this world, it is evidence not of mankind seeking after God. Oh, I can't quite get him, so I've got to worship this lizard. No, it's, whoa, I don't want God. I don't want anything to do with that true God. I'd rather worship a lizard. That's the truth about idolatry wherever you find it. And so the sad story is: mankind knew God. But they didn't want to have anything to do with him, so we rejected him and we went to where our hearts led us, and that's to creation. There are lots of of things to worship in creation because there are things in creation that are bigger than mankind. The sun, wow, it's magnificent. And so the Egyptians worship the sun for hundreds and thousands of years. Wow, the the wind and the trees and and maybe there are spirits in everything and so animism is made. There are spirits everywhere within creation and so all these religions are born and the devil himself As the father of false religion helps to promulgate it, to make it move across the earth. Now, what was God's response to this? He's been rejected by creation. His people, not just creation in a general sense, but humanity has rejected him. They're walking away. And so God has to respond to this. Now he doesn't strike us with lightning bolts. He doesn't put everyone right into hell He does something that in a sense is almost worse. He gives humanity up to its own desires. Kind of like if A rebel. Like you remember in the New Testament, you have the story of the prodigal son. And the son says, Hey, I want all my money. And the father knows it's not going to be good for him, but he All right, he gives them the money and the prodigal goes out and just lives high on the hog. I was listening last week to a radio program as I was driving to a visit and they were interviewing Willie Nelson. And it was back from the 90s. And Willie Nelson was talking about his days when he was making a lot of money, when he was just breaking into the movie business. And he and the the lady was interviewing said something along the lines of, well, you probably really lived it up back then or whatever. And he said, Yep, I burned it as soon as I made it. It was gone. And she said, Well, who were you married to at the time? And he told her, and he said she didn't like that very much. But this it's this idea of just giving humanity out like the prodigal here. This is what you want. And what did that look like? Now here's the thing. This is fascinating. I'm staying here because I don't have my my mic on Humanism teaches us that if you just released humanity from religion and the concept of God, if you could just free ourselves from all this stupid religion. Then humanity would prosper. There would be a golden age of technological advancement. We would put down our swords and stop killing one another. That's what humanism teaches us, that humanity is the zenith of creation and that we can solve our own problems. One of the best illustrations of humanism is the television show and the movie Star Trek. In those movies, you have no God. You have humanity through technology conquering the universe without God. And whenever they encounter religion, it's always mocked in any way, shape, or form. Here's the truth of it. Maybe you've never thought of this, but that's exactly what's happened. God did release humanity to its own devices. We are living in a world where humans rule without God. Folks, think about this. It's not that humanity needs to be released. We are released. We've rebelled against God. We're living it our way. We're the ones who have invented the false religion, the idolatry, and the war that has resulted because of it. All these fundamentalist atheists who just rail on us as Christians, they already have what they're preaching they wish they had. Here's the result. Look at your Bible. When mankind is released to his own devices, is it a golden age of prosperity? No, look. Verse 24, therefore God also gave them up to the uncleanness and the lust of their hearts to dishonor their bodies among themselves. who exchange the truth of God for the lie, and worship and serve the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason God gave them up to vile passions, for even their women exchanged the natural use for that what is against nature. Likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust. for one another, men with men committing what is shameful and receiving in themselves the penalty of their error which was due. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge God gave them over to a debased mind to do those things which are not fitting, being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness. maliciousness full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil-mindedness. Does that sound like a golden age of humanity? Does that sound like the Star Trek universe where humanity is conquering the universe, literally, going where no man has gone before? God made Adam and Eve to be dependent on himself. Have you ever had a wind-up toy? You wind it up and you let it go. After a while, what needs to happen for it to continue to move? You have to wind it up again. We're kind of like that. We need God to keep his hand on us to keep us moving if you remove the influence of God. The Bible describes us as men and women living in darkness, complete, utter darkness, and we're trying to move and we trip because we don't know what's on the landscape around us. That's the way the Bible describes us. Christians, they're like they're like the way of the righteous is like the rising of the noonday sun that grows brighter and brighter with the full day. But the way of the wicked is like the way of darkness. They don't know over what they stumble. And so where does the end of chapter one leaves us? Well, we've got God making humanity and humanity responding, and of course you know the story of Adam and Eve and saying, No, and I'm not going to worship you as the one true God. And then humanity Being released, released, released, or given over, given over, given over three times it's mentioned there. And now in the golden age of humanity, we dishonor our bodies. We live with a debased mind. Our relationships are twisted and broken. And not only this, if you look at your Bibles, you see verse 29, 30, and 31. You get to the end of verse 32. It says, who knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death, not only do the same, but also approve. And that word that's translated approve. It means to give hearty approval. One translation translated it applaud, which might have been a little interpretive, but it's hearty approval to those who practice them. So it's not just that people are. Out there in their sick golden age without God, there's still enough knowledge out there that they have a nagging sense of judgment. They know the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death. And even knowing that, this is how sinful and wicked people are, we all are without God. They still give hearty approval. They applaud. When they see evil, they really enjoy it. Now folks, everyone on this earth is not sinful in the same way and to the same level of practice. Okay? You might have a great-great grandmother living in a nursing home who served her family, but she was born a sinner and she has not repented and put her faith in Christ and she is not saved. And then you have Adolf Hitler, who has ruined nations. Not at the same level, okay? But all in the same boat. Whether you're the captain of the boat or just the guy working down in the coal room, there's still a sense in which we are all in this together. And so people out there know, they know there's something in their conscience that says, this is right and this is wrong, and there's going to be something to pay for what I'm doing, and they don't care. Those of you who know the Bible, think of Genesis for a moment. Think of Eden, perfection, joy, beauty, everlasting, and now think of where we are today. What a contrast. And that's the story of Romans chapter 1 in a nutshell. God rejected, God replaced, mankind set free. Mankind in rebellion against God. Now, after this, Paul wants to get more personal because often when a preacher speaks in broad generalities, there might be someone in the audience who says. Amen. Preach it, brother. You got that right. The problem is they might be self-righteous. Have you ever met someone like that? Have you ever been someone like that? Where you feel like, hey, I'm not as bad as that guy. Whoa, that guy's life is totally messed up. Totally messed up, and I am not as bad as that guy. We live in this day and age when it's easier to do that. When they have gay pride marches in Baltimore, when I've had some of you tell me that you work with men who come to work dressed as women. You work with them. You sit next to them. You see evil and all its blatant forms out there. It might be easy for you to be self-righteous, to think, hey. Amen, Paul. I see what you said in this first part of your letter. Whew, that is bad. So Paul gets personal in chapter 2. Look at verse 1, where he says, look Therefore, you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge, for in whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself For you who judge practice the same things. Think of the list back in chapter 1, verses 29 to 32. You might not be a murderer, but have you ever been angry with someone and really just let them have it verbally? Jesus said that was just as bad as murder in the sense of guilt. Alright, it it it is just as sinful as murder before God. It puts you in the guilty category. Let's put it that way Have you ever stolen anything? Well, maybe you haven't, but have you ever really, really wanted what that guy had and dreamed about attaining it and just said, God, you're not fair. I should get that. That's covetousness. And that's in our hearts. And Jesus said that that will place you in the guilty category just as much as taking physically from that individual. And so we are all in the same boat, even those of us who have a better sense of judgment than others of us. Have you ever met someone who had a real ability to point out what was wrong in others, but they weren't willing to accept being their own responsibility for their own sin? And then what we have in chapter 2, the first paragraph here, is Paul wants to begin to speak of this matter of righteousness and how much righteousness you need to have eternal life. Alright, he's already put us all in the same boat. He's already really hit hard on an individual who might be judging. And of course the Jews, because they had the scriptures, they were in that position more clearly, and they were to be addressed later. But he wants to answer the question, okay, is there anyone righteous? Is anyone good enough? Look at your Bible. He says in verse 2, we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things. And he's still speaking to that one self-righteous person in verse 3. O man, you who judge those practicing such things and doing the same, that you will escape the judgment of God Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? But in accordance with your hardness and your impenitent heart, you're storing up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment to God. judgment of God, who will render to each one according to his deeds eternal life to those who by patient continuance in doing good For glory, honor, immortality. But to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish on every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek But glory, honor, and peace to everyone who works what is good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, for there's no partiality with God. Now here's what he's saying. Look at your Bible carefully at verse 6. He's going to render to each one according to his deeds. If the self-righteous one dares to think, Maybe I'm an exception. Maybe I'm that one person, and my life is totally different than the rest of humanity. I mean, I've tried to do what's right, then live by this standard. Was there ever a time live by the standard of your deeds, your works. That's what you're saying. So here's what you're saying, verse 7. If you're self-righteous here this morning, you are saying that you have patiently continued in doing good your entire life. And in the context of chapters 1, 2, and 3, it's never once sinning, ever, in thought, in word, or in deed. To truly be self-righteous, that has to be you. If you want to gain here what it says in verse 7, eternal life. Is there anyone in this room who can say that's you? What we have here in the first paragraph of chapter two is Paul clearing away misconceptions that we have. Let's get a little more specific with this. I don't know what it is, but when I grew up, I never had that moment when God, well not God, my parents. My parents had to sit down and have the conversation where they taught me how to lie. I knew how to do that. They never said, Dan, this is the way it works. First, Shift the blame to the other person. That's a good lie. You know, if you get caught in the act and your brother or sister, this is called shift the blame on the other person lie. Point to them, say they did it. Here's another lie. You can use the lie, I didn't have enough time lie. That's where if we ask you to do something and you don't do it and you were out playing, what you should do is tell us, well dad, I just didn't have enough time to get that one done. The reality was you did. That's a lie. So this is very effective too, son. This is lie number two. Lie number one, shift the blame lie. Lie number two, I didn't have enough time, Dad. That's a good lie. Could you think of four or five or six other lies or motivations as you used while you were growing up? And do you realize that that puts you into the category of sinner, not saint? And that's just a small, small corner of what it means to be a sinner. And what happens to those who are sinners? Look at your Bible. Look at verse 8. But to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation, and wrath, tribulation and anguish. Wow. That's just a pileup. That's a car wreck of horrible concepts. All piled up there. Indignation, wrath. Who is that coming from? God. It's talking about his attitude and his posture toward you. Tribulation and anguish. That's the effect of his attitude of indignation and wrath. tribulation and anguish on us, every soul of man that does evil. And so what we have here in chapter 2 is Paul is going from the general in chapter one to the specific. He's clearing away the misconceptions and rubble of the individual who might think that they haven't sinned and that they can get to God. What about you this morning? Seriously, what about you? Which category are you in? Are you saved this morning? You see, verse 11 of chapter 2 says there's no partiality with God. Aren't you glad? Do you think someone like Bill Gates, if he could, would buy his way into paradise? Or that's one of these princes in Saudi Arabia who are even richer than Bill Gates that they would oh they're already trying to do that. I forgot. That's Islam But maybe they're trying to, if they could, buy their way in to the heaven of heavens. And yet God is not partial with men. He doesn't look at a rich man and say, I'll let you in, but I'm not going to let the poor man in. And in this case, the partiality that's spoken of here in verse 11 is explained in verse 12. Look, as many as have sinned without law will also perish without law. And as many as have sinned in the law will be judged by the law. Now, of course, the self-righteous person is one of them is are the Hebrews. And they think because they have the law that they have righteousness, and it's just not so. So, where do we get righteousness? How do we get into heaven? How do we get to where we need to be? I mean, is there any hope at all for any of us? Well, it only goes from bad to worse in chapter 2 to chapter 3, where he just piles on the guilt, and he finally concludes here in chapter 3, 9, verse 9 all the way to 16. With a series of quotes from the Old Testament where he is really just drawing the noose around everyone's neck. Look at what it says in verse 10. There's none righteous. No, not one. Verse 11. There's none who understands. There's none who seeks after God. Verse 12, all have turned aside, altogether are become unprofitable. Does that include the Pope? Does that include the Pope? Probably. Yes, it does. Does that include the Dalaiama? Lama? I always mispronounce his name. But yes, it does. Does that include the priest in St. Augustine's Church? Does that include me, the pastor of Faith Bible Church. Does that include you? It does. Look at your Bible again. None righteous, none who understands, none who seeks God, all have turned aside, all have become unprofitable. The description of our words, their throats are an empty tomb. I'm sorry, an open tomb. Their tongues, they practice deceit, the poison of asps, snakes is under their lips. Their mouth, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Wow. I mean, it's just a description of humanity, our words, and the fact that none of us here are doing what is right. Verse 17: the way of peace they have not known. And so that's where he leaves us. There's humanity in general, chapter one, God's given us over three times to this golden age that we're in right now of idolatry and horrible sin. There's the self-righteous one, the Jew, and the Gentile both are under the condemnation of the law, chapter 2 And finally, in this section in chapter 3, just the out and out, everyone has sinned, everyone has sinned, everyone has sinned, everyone's a sinner. That's the point that he's making. Now someone should say, well, where's the good news in all this? Because this certainly is bad, bad news, and I don't really like it. And I'm a little bit discouraged from hearing it. Well, what do you want for your good news? What do you want? I have been uh aware of a number of preachers the past couple years who have a really good message that encourages me. And they say things like this. They say, look, if you're a Christian, you should have the money you need. You should have the health you need. A matter of fact, if you really want to be a good Christian, send me a check now, and I will send you a prayer cloth that is blessed by my tears, and you will receive the healing that you need. And I even talked to one of the brothers here who said that in his country they're selling water, bottling it, and saying that it has some sort of miraculous Ability. And so I was thinking of sending away for at least two or three thousand bottles of it for myself and then maybe share it with you guys because I could really use the miraculous ability. But is that the kind of good news you want? Doesn't that put us back in the category of all that earthly news that any religion can come up with? I mean if you really had a real message from God, wouldn't you want God to tell you the truth? Or do you want him to just tell you a lie like everybody else tells you? Do you want a God who's a used car salesman? Now, forgive me if you're a used car salesman. Not everyone's a bad used car salesman. I've dealt with good ones and bad ones. But you know what I'm trying to say. Sorry guys if you're a used car salesman. But you don't want a dishonest God. You don't want a God who's trying to cheat you and s and sell you snake oil or, you know, like the days of old, like the water that's being sold. In that one country. You want a God who tells you the truth. Folks, sometimes it's good to hear the truth, even if it hurts You tell your son, get out of the street, you could get killed. You tell your daughter, don't go there after dark. It's a dangerous place. And your children want to disobey you because those are fun places to be, but the reality is they need the truth. And so, by obedience to the Old Testament, by being good, by trying to be more than you are, by I don't know what, it's none of it's good enough. And I don't know if you've heard the passage from the book of Isaiah where it says, All our righteousness is like filthy rags to God. Of zero value. I mean, what can you do with that rag? You throw it in the rubbish bin. That's it. It's trash. It's history. It's worthless to God. So, where do we get righteousness? Look at chapter 3, verses 21 to 26, and this is where we'll tie it up and we'll end our message this morning. The righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed. Being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe Okay, so now there is this righteousness and it's available. Whoa, now that's interesting because he's already concluded that all are under sin. So it must have nothing to do with my obedience because he already told me that I'm I'm bad. I'm disobedient and I'm a sinner. So now he's saying, guess what? You can get righteous, or you can get righteousness, and I'm thinking to myself, huh? How is it possible? I can't go back and relive my life. I can't be a baby again and tell my dad the truth all those times I should have. You know, I can't do it. Where does it come from? Well, it's apart from the law and obedience to the law. It doesn't have anything to do with obedience to a standard. But it is, verse 21, witnessed by the law and prophets. It's from something in the Old Testament. That's the this this phrase law and prophets is a Jewish way of talking about the Old Testament. It's witness. They talk about it. But it doesn't have anything to do with the Torah or obedience to the law. And this is it, verse 22: righteousness through faith in Jesus Christ. This is the first time here that we have this idea of faith in something in Jesus Christ in Romans. Faith, what does that mean? Do you have faith in your senator this morning? Who's in Congress? Do you have faith in the Senate? Do you have faith in the President of Australia? Do you have faith in our Secretary of Defense? Do you have faith that your car is going to work on Monday? I mean, what does it mean? And when I was growing up, there was some rock singer in here. He had this song about faith, and the whole point of this is going back to the 80s, and no, I wasn't, I I thought the song was stupid. But the whole lyric was you gotta have faith, faith, faith. But he never told you in what. So is faith sort of the object of something else? Well, the object here of the faith is Jesus Christ, that is the Messiah, Jesus, the man born in Bethlehem. Who is the Christ, the Messiah? We have to have some kind of faith in him. Now this is how the Old Testament Witnessed to righteousness available for those someday through a Messiah. It said, This: all we like sheep or like animals that run away. We go astray. But the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Isaiah 53. We're like animals that rebel and run away. That kind of sounds like Romans 1 and 2. And yet the Lord of heaven has laid iniquity on us, and the Jews would understand because they had a sacrificial system where they had things like Scapegoats, or they would touch the sacrifice before it was killed, and the sin from them was supposed to pass to the head of the sacrifice and represent their death. What is this Jesus? Folks, this morning I want to tell you that there's no one on this earth who loves you more than Jesus. No one. Absolutely no, and not your wife, not your husband, not your grandma, not your aunt, not your uncle, not your best friend. Because Jesus was the one who was willing to come to the sick golden age of humanity, to fly down into this mess, to be born as a a poor baby in a barn. To endure all the sadness and grief of this place, and finally to hang on a cross and take all this sickness of sin. And I don't want to make I don't mean that in the sense that we're not culpable for it, but he took all the sin upon himself and died in our place. He was the one who knew your name before you were ever born. And died to take the punishment that Romans 1 says they know the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death. Jesus is the only one who is willing to take that punishment, that just punishment on himself and die in our place. He did that for you and for me. He did that for every man, woman, and child who ever was, is, or will be. He is the propitiation for the sins of the whole world, John wrote in 1 John. And so, look at verse 22. If you put your faith in him to save you. you will receive the righteousness of God to all and on all who believe, for there's no difference. And here's what it listen to, try to follow what's written here. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Now it's a little hard to follow, but here's the logic of it. Just like everyone's a sinner and we're all in the same boat and we're all guilty. So everyone can be justified in the same way and receive salvation. Everyone There aren't just as there are no exceptions, all have sinned, so there are no exceptions. Salvation is available to all. You want to be in the first boat, so you can be in the second one. That's the glory of this passage. Righteousness is available. Now, real quick, and we'll finish here. I'll try to stay along. This righteousness is not God saying to you, okay, here are ten commandments. Go do these, memo from God. And then come back and tell me how you did, and I'll say that you're righteous, and I'll let you into heaven. Folks, that's the Catholic view of the righteousness. Martin Luther really argued about justification, and that's why he put that piece of paper on the cathedral there. And that's why, in a sense, we're Protestants, because we believe what Paul wrote. We try to be, it's better to say we're biblical in this. What is he saying then? Look at your Bible. Look at verse 22. To all and on all who believe. For there is no difference. Look at verse 24. Being justified freely. justification and righteousness on all. Here's the idea. It's more of a legal sense of someone being declared righteous before God. You know what? You're guilty, but I'm just going to declare you righteous. The guilt was paid for by another I know so many of us Christians in here have heard this illustration so many times, but just listen and pray for someone who here might not know Christ. The judge. Imagine going before the judge, and you are guilty of some heinous crime, horrible crime, and you know you are. And the trial goes forward and your lawyer does the best he can, and your lawyer is your conscience and sort of your mind coming up with excuses and excuses to very and it's your lawyer lies. Your lawyer makes up reasons why you should get off the hook. But in the end, your lawyer fails and you know it. And so you're sitting there and you look at your lawyer and you just put your head down and you go, you know what? There's no hope for me. I am guilty. And you know what? If that judge says guilty and sentences me to life in prison or the electric chair, he would be doing the exact thing that I deserve. So the time of sentencing comes. He tells you to stand as they do in the courtroom so you can receive your sentence And he says to you, son, you're guilty. I pronounce you guilty. Everything you did was hard. Horrible, it was wrong, and you deserve a righteous judgment. Guilty. And you agree. You don't argue. But then he says this. He says, but but you know what? Someone has come forward today, and they are going to take your guilt and punishment, and they are going. To take your life imprisonment. And so, even though you are guilty, I'm going to pronounce you not guilty. I'm going to pronounce you righteous and send them to your punishment. And from this moment onward, imagine this. This is crazy, I know, but imagine this. The judge says, all your record of guilt will be wiped from the records of this courtroom and from the court from the system of this entire country. You will not be a guilty of any federal crime or any crime on any books anywhere before me, this judicial system. You are set free. You're free to go. That is what God the Father did in sending Christ. To take our punishment to go and do what we justly deserve. He died on that cross. And the sinner now can be declared righteous. Before God, righteousness is available through faith in Christ and upon all who believe. It is not according to what we do. It's according to who we put our faith in.