In nineteen forty seven, Harvard sociologist Carl C. Zimmerman wrote a book entitled Family and civilization. He reported that in ancient Greek and Roman cultures there was a collapse of a specific worldview The loss of this particular worldview preceded a general collapse of civilizations. The worldview that was abandoned was called familyism. Familyism prioritizes family over individual interests. Familyism is vital to the survival of Western societies. So what happens when tribes, nations, and empires start devaluing the family? What happens when radical individualism rules the day? Marital norms are abandoned, fertility rates drop, divorce rates rise, all kinds of sexual immorality abound. Now, all this may sound awfully bleak and depressing. You may wonder why a pastor in his right mind would start a Mother's Day sermon like this. Why not talk about like famous moms of the Bible, like Jochebed, mother of Moses? What about Hannah, the mother of Samuel? Or how about Proverbs 31, celebrating the virtuous wife? No, but I'm continuing in Genesis, Genesis 19. But I promise you, I am hopeful Not all doom and gloom. There is something we can do about our situation as family and civil civilization fall apart around us Just celebrating Mother's Day today or showing love to our moms and grandmas makes a huge difference. There's a lot we can do. But to be most effective, we must retrace our steps and learn where we went wrong That requires us to face the fact. The collapse of the family and civilization is nothing new. It happened before. Before ancient Greek and Roman empires. It can happen again. So as we see in Genesis 19, we must learn from the horrid example of Sodom. That's how I tied all this to my uh introduction here. So I will take a few weeks to go through Genesis 19. I could cover it all in one week But when it comes to the ugliness of sin, sometimes we need to take a long, hard look at it. And if we're honest with ourselves, we see sin not only through our windows and TV screens, we see depravity staring back at us. In the mirror. We find that there's Sodom in us as well. Before we read today's passage, here's an outline of Genesis 19. Genesis 19 contains some natural breaks in the narrative. These allow for division into smaller passages. First, there are time markers in verses 1 and 15. 1. The two angels came to Sodom in the evening. 15. When the morning dawned, the angels urged Lot to hurry. And then later in Genesis 19, we have two more breaks in the narrative. They are location markers in verses 23 and 30. 23, Lot entered Zoar, 30, then Lot went up out of Zoar. That gives us four sections of Genesis 19, verses 1 to 14, 15 to 22, 23 to 29, 30 to 38. I'll cover first of the four sections today, so let's read Genesis 19, 1-14. Now the two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them, and he bowed himself with his face to And he said, Here now, my lords, please turn in to your servant's house and spend the night, and wash your feet, and you may rise early and go on your way. And they said, No, but we will spend the night in the open square. But he insisted strongly. So they turned into him and entered his house. Then he made them a feast and baked and baked unleavened bread and they ate Now before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both old and young, all the people from every quarter surrounded the house. And they called to Lot and said to him, Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them carnally. So Lot went out to them through the doorway, shut the door behind them, and said, Please, my brethren, do not do so wickedly. See now, I have two daughters who have not known a man. Please let me bring them out to you, and you may do to them as you wish. Only do nothing to these men Since this is the reason they have come under the shadow of my roof. And they said, Stand back. Then they said, This one came in to stay here, and he keeps acting as a judge. Now we will deal worse with you than with them. So they pressed hard against the man Lot and came near to break down the door. But the men reached out their hands and pulled Lot into the house with them and shut the door And they struck the men who were at the doorway of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they became wary trying to find the door. Then the man said to Lot, have you anyone else here? Son-in-law, your sons, your daughters, and whomever you have in the city, take them out of this place For we will destroy this place because the outcry against them has grown great before the face of the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. So Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who had married his daughters, and said, Get up, get out of this place, for the Lord will destroy the city. But to his sons-in-law he seemed to be joking. Again, happy Mother's Day. I know this is maybe not what you expected, but uh um anyway, uh account is straightforward, three scenes Okay. First Lot meets the two angelic visitors at the gate. He shows them hospitality. That's in verses 1 to 3. That's the men of the city surround Lot's home like a pack of wolves. That's in verses fourteen eleven Finally, after the visitors pull Lot back into the house, they reveal the fate of Sodom. Lot hurries off to warn his sons-in-law to flee, but to no avail. That's in verses 12 to 14. As we follow Locke through these three scenes, we see him as an example, but he's an imperfect example. Kind of obvious there. Lot is a light in a dark place, but he's a light that's slightly dim, maybe flickering a little bit. He's still a light, nonetheless. So as we think about the last bleak night of Sodom's existence, There are three bright spots, courtesy of Lot. And we as believers can follow the good things Lot did while weeding out his bad. So in the midst of moral darkness Shine your light without compromise in the following manner. First, show hospitality without seeking glory. That's one to three. Secondly, protect boldly everyone, including family. Thoroughly warn with urgency and avoid complacency. 12 to 14. First, show hospitality without seeking glory. That's one way to shine your light in darkness. As I go through each of these points, note that there's something to emulate and something to avoid. Let's start with something to emulate. As we turn to a new chapter, we move from somewhere near Heaven to the threshold of Sodom. Remember that earlier three supernatural beings stayed with Abraham. One was the Lord Himself. He's the pre-incarnate Christ, the second person of the Trinity, disguised as man. The other two were angels, also disguised as men. These two angels had moved on ahead to Sodom. Meanwhile, the Lord stayed with Abraham to discuss the preservation of the righteous and the wicked. The two angels must have moved swiftly. We get the sense that the events of Genesis 19 unfold in the same day as Genesis 18. Note that upon their arrival, Lot does something we can emulate. Like Abraham in Heaven, Lot in Sodom showed hospitality to strangers By entertaining strangers, he unwittingly entertained angels. He took the initiative to greet them, he bowed to the ground, he offered to wash their feet, he opened up a place to rest. He spread a feast before them. Lot, just like Abraham, displayed all of these acts of kindness and show of hospitality. All of this is admirable We can learn a thing or two from Locke when it comes to hospitality. But we need to backtrack and see where this chapter begins. Read verse 1 again. Where was Lot when the angels arrived? Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom, it says What's the big deal about that, you ask? Well you don't get to sit at the gate of a city unless you're a leader of that city It was customary in that time to have elders, the wisest and the most influential, be it at the city entrance to make big decisions, consider the city gate back then as the city hall of today. That's where Lot was. Lot has come a long way. Consider where he began. Back in chapter 13, verse 12, when he separated from Abraham, we're told he pitched his tent as far as Sodom. Next in 1412 he went further. He dwelt in Sodom. No wonder he was taken prisoner of war when Ketalaumer and other kings invaded the area. After Abraham rescued him, Lot returned to Sodom. That's a head scratcher to me. Somewhere along the way, he ascended to a prominent place of the city. Now I'm not condemning every saint who seek public office or influence. Perhaps Lot believes he could make a difference at the gate. Maybe by having a seat at the table, he could influence the wicked to repent. But in my opinion, just as Lot was once drawn to the beautiful plain of Jordan, back in chapter 13. He was drawn to glory and popularity. So we learn from Lot both the good and not so good. To shine our lights in the dark world, show hospitality without seeking glory. I want to make it clear before going on that Lot is saved. We'll see him in heaven. His survival next day is the answer to Abraham's plea for the righteous. We'll see that later in this chapter in verse 29 Also in the New Testament, 2 Peter 2, 7 confirms this as well that Lot is indeed righteous. But when I meet Lot in heaven, I want to ask him, what were you thinking? Even if lots in right standing before God, he's not in a right place in the world, literally. A man who started with a promising future, but in in compromise. Sure, he's among the saints who trusted in God. Again, I don't question Lot's salvation, I just question his wisdom. Commentator Derek Kidner says it well. Lot was a righteous man without the pilgrim spirit. Locke was a righteous man without the pilgrim spirit. He got too comfortable down here. He was too much at home at Sodom. I don't think he'd sing along with us that hymn, This world is not my home. I can't feel at home in this world anymore. Lot failed to exemplify the principle of Psalm 1-1. He's not blessed, at least in this side of eternity. He walked in the council of the ungodly. He stood in the path of sinners, and eventually he sat in the seat of the scornful. So the ungodly, the sinners, and the scornful have influenced Lot over the years, and it's evident even in this passage. There's some questions to consider for application. Ask yourself: Am I living for God's fame or my own? What are your aspirations and ambitions? Do we seek earthly fame or heavenly reward? Is our pursuit of God evident before family and friends? Maybe you are righteous by faith, but do you have the pilgrim spirit? Am I modeling it? You know, my son once told me he wants to be a paleontologist. Like this will pass. More recently, he told me he wants to be a NASA space engineer. Okay, well Sure, that's better, right? As a typical Asian parent, I intended to drive them towards a high-paying career, have success in life. But really the best thing I can do is model the faith, right? That's what best that any dad or mom can do. Grandma, grandpa, right? I should encourage them to love God, to glorify Him, flee from the moral dangers of the world Of course, there's no way to avoid the world completely, right? But we can be careful. Be careful, but also be courageous in bearing witness. and living a holy life. Shine your lights without compromise. Lot in the next few verses in the last night of Sodom does some of that As a host, he does protect boldly his guests, but as a father, he does not protect his daughters. Understatement there So mimicking his success and learning from his failure, we can shine our lights in moral darkness like this. Protect holding everyone, including family. While Lot was entertaining his guests, the city was up to no good. Before turning in for the night, masses have gathered around Lot's home. Verse 4 looks like a scene from a zombie apocalypse movie. Men of Sodom, young and old, were spiritually speaking, the walking dead. They fit the description of Ephesians chapter 2, dead in trespasses and sins, walked according to the course of this world, conducted themselves in the lusts of their flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. by nature children of wrath. Verse five proves why they deserve wrath. Within hours the word concerning the strangers have spread There's no indication that this lusty mob is drunk or on psychedelics or something. They're consciously attempting to assault the visitors It's tragic that the only decency they show is the customary linguistic use of euphemism. No in this context is to be with someone intimately Adam knew Eve his wife, Cain knew Eve his wife. I'm sorry, Cain knew his wife. But these men wanted to know men. So they didn't realize that they were dealing with angels This is unmistakably the synonym homosexuality. Some think that the men of the city knew the visitors were angels or celestial beings, but remember the sodomites Have not seen them up close, they think those are normal human males. And such was the perverted regular practice of this city and its neighboring cities. Jude 7 says Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner as these have given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh. This pursuit of strange flesh, homosexuality, how wicked and perverted the men have become That's why, as you see at the end of verse 8, Lot knew this well and he was eager to get the visitors under his roof, not out in the open square. Lot does a good job at first in verses 6 to 7. He bravely goes out to try to disperse the crowds. He makes sure to close the door behind them. And he pleased with the sodomites to well stop being sodomites. A lot is different from the rest. He was willing to live with them, but not to everything they do. Again, remember what Peter says in 2 Peter 2, verse 7. Righteous Lot was oppressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked. I have the verse here. Verse 8, the righteous man dwelling among them tormented his righteous soul from day to day by seeing and hearing their lawless deeds. Again, Lot's not himself wicked and lawless, but he put himself through a lot of pain, really poor choice of you know settling down at the wrong place. That external oppression and internal torment living among the wicked. And why Even if Allah stands out from the sodomites and stands up for his guests, he wasn't perfect, far from it. See, he should have protected everyone, including his family. Now I wish the first half of verse 8 isn't there. I wish La had only said the second half of verse 8, do nothing to these men, since this is the reason they have come under the shadow of my roof. But the first half of the verse is there. Evidently at this point, his two daughters were engaged. They were pledged to be married, but they have not yet consummated their marriage And lawfully, because they were virgins, the Mawood valued them. It's a disgusting offer and a dumb solution. But here lots morally strong one moment, morally decrepit the next Besides, his plan didn't work. Anyways, look at the first half of verse 9. All he did was anger the mob more. Sadly, all the time spent with his fellow citizens didn't mean anything. Lot called them brethren in verse 7, but they don't even call them by name. With contempt they call them this one who came in to stay here. He sits at the gate, but they don't trust him to be their judge. They threaten to harm him more than the guests. So in the second half of verse 9, the sodomites literally pushed back against Lot. They're ready to break down the door to invade his home and drag off the guests. Now it was the now it's the guests' turn to protect the host. First then they pull him inside and shut the door. Verse 11, they struck all the sick violent men with blindness. The word for blindness here is rare. It's found later in 2 Kings 6. 18. Thereafter, Prophet Elisha prayed to open his servant's eyes. to see the heavenly army surrounding their enemies, he prayed that these enemies might be struck blind. God answered that prayer. Now at least the Syrian army in Second Kings 6 learned their lesson. The sodomites were here continued to search for the door even while blind, they wore themselves out in their depraved quest. So you could say that the angels did for Lot what Lot was supposed to do. Lot as host and father was supposed to protect his two guests and his daughters. When he failed to do that, the celestial beings had to step in and protect boldly everyone, including family. Lot was righteous, but there's still the influence of Sodom in him. He had put himself in a position of compromise. He's now putting others in a position of danger. Okay, so Lost getting mixed reviews here. He showed hospitality. That's good. But he got comfortable in Sodom. That's bad. He tries to protect his guests. That's good But he was willing to sacrifice his daughters. Bad. Really bad. At least we can end on a good note today by looking at verses 12 to 14. There in the midst of moral darkness, Lot exemplifies how to warn with urgency and avoid complacency. So once safe inside, the messengers themselves mourned Lot with urgency. The two angels witnessed in the city all that they needed to see. Remember last chapter when the Lord disclosed to Abraham in verses twenty to twenty-one, because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grave, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry against it. that has come to me, and if not I will know. Well, it just took a few hours to gather evidence of their sin, it's confirmed. The outcry against the city is great, in fact it's deafening. Right? And the angels didn't even need to go explore the city. All the men of the city, young and old, small and great, came to them. They proved themselves to be very wicked. Now the Lord knows through his angels that Sodom must be destroyed. So now the angels urged Lot to leave Sodom in verses 12 to 13 He's told to gather up everyone close to him and flee. The angels are about to destroy the city. You'll see later, by the way, that the destruction will extend to Gomorrah. and two other cities, Atma and Zeboim. And we learned that from Deuteronomy 29, 28 and Hosea 11, 8 Only Bella, also known as Zoar, a small city, would remain intact. And more on that city next time. For now, immediately Lot thinks of two others besides his wife and two daughters and two daughters. He thought of his two sons-in-law. By the way, back then betrothal was practically the same as marriage. So the two men pledged to marry Lot's daughters were already considered his sons-in-law. But technically they haven't, you know, they're not married yet. Our Pew Bible in the New King James Version can be confusing. More accurate translations better convey the sense of the Hebrew participle in verse 14. I prefer the English Standard Version, ESV, or the New English Translation, NET. Instead of who had married his daughters, it's better to say who were to marry his daughters, or better who were going to marry his daughters. You can look up those translations on your own. So even now Lot cared for them as family. He keeps the message to them short and simple. Get up, get out of this place, for the Lord will destroy the city The two uh the response of the two young men is very tragic. I think it's tragic for two reasons. First it's obviously tragic because the two young men didn't listen. They thought Lot was joking. They were sodomites through and through. So these two will be among the wicked, destroyed the next day Lot's sons-in-law were complacent. They sought the things of the world. Like the rest of the city, they were busy. We saw in that passage in Luke. They ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built. were busy doing those things on the brink of disaster, they were not ready for the judgment day. The other reason this is tragic is that La seems to have compromised his testimony. I think it's likely that Allah spent more time seeking status than bearing witness. So if he's been busy speaking for the city at its It's eight. His talk of leaving it makes no sense. Again, they thought he was joking. I wonder if that's true of us. If this is our last day of earth, right, and judgment day is right in front of us, and we call somebody up and said, Let's meet, what they think we're joking? Because they never heard such a thing from us before? Is our speech and talk of departing this world a joke to the lost around us? Or do we live and speak in a way that shows them we're dead serious? In Hebrews 11, we hear of saints who confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth It says in verse 14, those who say such things, those who say such things declare plainly that they seek a homeland. Verse 16, they desire a better, that is a heavenly country. Again, no doubt lots of righteous men. But lots of righteous men without the pilgrim spirit. While he spoke with urgency, they must have felt the inconsistency between his words and his character. We must avoid this example. Instead, by faith and holy living, speak in a way that's evident that this world is not our home. So at every turn in today's passage, we see that while Lot's doing his best, his poor choices in life catch up to him. But it's comforting to know, at least, that Lot's not righteous because he's perfect. He's far from perfect. Lot's only righteous because he trusts in God. We too can be righteous by faith, not by works. This is the good news that we find in the Bible We learned from the beginning that God created all things. He created us in his image, male and female. He has joined together the two in holy matrimony. We're to be fruitful and multiply within the context of marriage. But we've taken our Creator's good gifts and spurned them. We've dishonored our bodies, we indulged in all kinds of sexual immorality, not just homosexual sins, but heterosexual sins too. It's not merely our outward perversion, but also inward coveting and secret reviling is not only acting in lust, but looking with lust. The Bible warns that those who commit such sins cannot inherit God's kingdom. We're justly under divine wrath. We're destined for hell, separation from God for eternity. But the good Lord did not leave us like this. God the Father send his Son to the world. His name is Jesus. He's God and man united in one person. Live the perfect life During his ministry, he performed many mighty works in cities like Capernaum. Most in those cities rejected him. They were worse than the Sodomites. At least if the men of Sodom had seen Jesus and his miracles, they would have believed. But those who got to see him up close rejected him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. Jesus says light shines in the darkness, but the darkness does not comprehend it. And in the hour of the great power of darkness, Jesus faced the ultimate rejection. He was betrayed by his own disciple. After welcoming Jesus a few days earlier, the crowds at the city of Jerusalem turned on him. Multitudes cried for him to be crucified. But in all this, he was in control. He voluntarily gave up his life for us. Jesus, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered outside the city gate. On the cross, he paid the penalty of our sin. He satisfied God's righteous anger against us. Having finished his work, he breeded his last. He was buried. But on the third day he rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection. Then he ascended to heaven. He now sits at the right hand of the Father. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now, this good news of Jesus demands a response. We must repent, turn from sin, turn to Jesus. Only trust in him for entrance into heaven. There's nothing we can do to earn or deserve eternal life. It's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone and Christ alone. So now if you're declared righteous by believing in the name of Jesus, live for Jesus and his glory. Show everyone your pilgrim spirit. Make our final song your prayer. Jesus, I my cross have taken, all to leave and follow thee. Destitute, despised, forsaken, thou from hence my all shall be Perish every fond ambition, all I've sought or hoped or known. Yet how rich is my condition! God and heaven are still my own. Let's pray Well, we thank you that Lord, as um it is true, like that allegory written hundreds of years ago, that we are leaving the city of destruction and headed for the celestial city. That is a truth that is found in the Bible. And Lord, and that is no allegory, that is truth. We are to be pilgrims here and strangers here on earth. Lord, and we find examples of faith in the scriptures and we're thankful for them, but we also find it instructive to know that it was a rough path and rough travel for some of the saints. And so help us to learn from Lot. Help us to study carefully his life. Or just learn to avoid his mistakes. And learn as we just go our separate ways this week. And just face another week. Help us to be a witness for you. Or as we take our seats of influence or positions in the society, pray that everyone would know that this world is not our home. That all must repent. This world is headed for destruction. You'll give us opportunities and conversations and chance to shine our light in a dark world. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.