What what do they call it? He makes and keeps promises with the people of the day and people yet to be created. It's as if each apt after each rainstorm and local flood, as the sunbeams break through the clouds and rainbow shines, he restates verse 17. We will be in this broken relationship forever. And for those that we know out in the community and our families, in Christ's name we pray, Amen. at the pews there. Or we may think. Over a year later, now is the time here in Genesis nine, eight to seventeen. Ezekiel one twenty-eight is the vision of God's glory similar to John's in Revelation four. Then he died. And he ascended to heaven. So one of the joys of parenting is discovering and rediscovering the world through our children's eyes. There was the interactive mutants alley where kids learn about energy force and motion. that he desires peace with us. Thus I establish my covenant with you. The passage both begins and ends with the Lord speaking on the covenant he establishes, but then you can further divide the text into two smaller parts. Here's more repeated vocabulary. Say it slowly. So if you look at it there. It's as if the Lord is saying, humans, you are to fulfill the order to fill, obey and apply the commands, be fruitful and multiply. Noah, but it's been repurposed for this occasion. That's why Christians observe the Holy Communion. There's one between Abraham and Abimelech, Isaac with another king with the same title, Abimelech, Jacob with Lavan. As he was given as a covenant to the people and light to the Gentiles, we must go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. believe. And we heard it, and many of us here have responded already to it. When we went to Pittsburgh, we've skipped over the Andy Warhol Museum. In Zagreb, the capital city of Croatia, there's what's called the Museum of Broken Relationships. and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations. creature of all flesh that is on the earth. So these six latter verses emphasize the indication and the permanence of the covenant. this first full discussion of the covenant, then we'll fully appreciate later covenants in the Bible. To understand fully your part in it, read it thoroughly. It's called common because it's universal for everyone. may anglicize it as Q E S H E T H. the divine warrior. Not the traditional D shape of the projectile weapon. Us. He was not jealous of David, whom God made the next king of Israel in place of him. When David was in trouble during his few years. Lord. He formed them as a nation, gave them land, and made even more promises. own blood. Jesus Christ. Um that you promise to do and you draw us and you invite us to come to your loving embrace. The joke became a reality. With friends, family, relatives, co-workers, classmates, roommates. That just proves true what Genesis said about earth being corrupt and filled with violence through mankind back in chapter 6. He gives them guidance as they face the unknown. And with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you, of all that go out of the ark, every beast of the earth. In verses 8 to 11, you find the verb established twice, the phrase my covenant twice, never again twice. And point to covenantal concepts very near to your heart and at the milestones of your life. This covenant was a matter of life and death, right, between those who lived through the flood and those who died in it. It's worth our effort and energy because the covenant is a central theme of the Bible. If we get how God related to Noah in covenantal terms, we'll better grasp his ways with Abraham and David Nor will I again destroy every living thing as I have done. But first, note next how even after the Lord declares and repeats his intentions in a solemn vow, he displays a visual symbol of his covenant. So not only does God act as the covenant initiator to preserve his creation, he also shows the covenant indicator to remember his promise. Also note how the Lord Himself contextualizes Keshet with the key phrase in the clouds, right? That's long before Isaac Newton's white light refraction experiments through the glass prism. in June of every year. In case you missed it hit, again in verse 16, the rainbow shall be in the cloud, and I will look on it to remember the everlasting covenant. Later in the Bible, there's the covenant between David and Jonathan, which is one of the most beautiful bonds between two individuals. Be that person who does what he's counted on to do. Show up on time and do your work as you promised. Just as we sing regularly, my sinful soul is counted free, for God the just is satisfied to look on him and pardon me. You communicate with us through nature, yes, but most importantly through your word. If I may extend the analogy, I may say God's covenant with Noah is like the portions of the spine near the neck where it begins. We better appreciate the old and the new covenants and the Lord's relationship with Israel and the Gentiles. For murdering Abel. So there's nothing left for him to do but hang it up. After making the covenant with Noah, he later made more with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. A solemn and weighty agreement. We need an initiator and an indicator. God speaks for our benefit. We need to know what he really means what he says. To be clear, this doesn't contradict the doctrine of final judgment to come. It's for perpetuity. Some modern English versions do translate it that way. There's no need to over-spiritualize this or complicate matters. At work, fulfill your employment contract with goodwill, doing service, asked to the Lord and not to men. Und display are relics of our infidelity and disobedience. But such gracious forgiveness comes at a great cost. Tell them how the Son's at the Father's right hand as a perpetual reminder of our eternal redemption. Up to this point, behold, in Genesis was a reaction to bad news, dismay, horror, judgment. In fact, we learn in verses 14 to 15 that he shows the covenant indicator so that he might remember the promise. Isn't he all-knowing, omniscient? This is the sign of the covenant I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. All these are ways for God's children to be godly, to be like our Father in heaven, the Father of lights, in whom there is no shadow of turning. Where there was dreadful knowledge of sin. Even from his humble beginnings, Jesus humbled himself like no other. You're not the God of the deist who just created the world and just that departed from us forever. Most recently, we went to the Maryland Science Center in Baltimore Inner Harbor, saw bones and skeletons and dinosaur mysteries on the ground floor. Another display contains a damaged garden gnome, it was hurled at the car of a departing husband. He desires to reconcile with us, establish and continue a lasting bond with us. I don't have time to discuss all that the Bible says about the covenant, but a short, concise definition is helpful at this point. The initiation and the establishing of the covenant. We're deeply and profoundly shaped by documents in our drawers and bins, similar to covenants in our Bibles. You may not care about your routine grocery receipts, but what about the purchase agreement you sign for your car or for your house? God chose the covenant indicator to remember his promise. It was used for hunting, fighting since the age of the patriarchs. Don't even associate it with bag of Skittles or the final stage of Super Mario Kart, right? He remembers that the covenant he establishes is for perpetual generations. If we as God's children imitate our Father in heaven, we too must take initiatives, make promises, and fulfill our commitments. In the same way we break the law and turn away from our Creator. C1 to C seven? Shooting rain rain and thunder from heaven. He's accommodating for our weakness of our futile minds. We read earlier how this one's better than the old one that discontinued, the one Israel broke. To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry, nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. It shall be when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the rainbow shall be seen in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant which is between me and the Seven times within ten verses. Since this is the first passage in the Bible that extensively speaks of God's covenant with us, we'll take some time to discuss some details. He not only employs the familiar idea of covenant so that we understand what he really means it, he uses the familiar human experience of remembering to express his continual care for us. Earlier this year, we visited the Please Touch Museum in Philadelphia, as the name suggests, is a place for many tactile explorations. After preserving him, his family, and the many creatures in the ark, the Lord leads them into the post-flood world For example, maybe you've been a beneficiary of a will, and upon that person's passing, you receive wealth and assets. Before Noah and his sons can respond once, God states his intent to establish his covenant twice. You read that right. But again, it's clear the rainbow is for God to remember his covenant. It literally says, behold I or behold me. But the immediate context of Genesis 9, I don't think, really supports or encourages this interpretation. We feel falsely, we lie to one another. The story of Israel in the Old Testament is our story as sinners. He did this to become the surety and mediator of a better covenant. For the demonstration of his righteousness, the Father set forth Christ Jesus as a propitiation by his blood. The Lord equips us for this task. And as if saying it once isn't enough for us, he does it again in verse 11. Trust in Him only for salvation. Or how about your marriage license or employment contract? Then we go on to verse 9, which begins with emphasis on God Himself. It's available to all. Naturally, this talk of common grace leads to talks about supernatural special grace in the gospel, which I'll discuss later. Here's further support for Keshen as a rainbow, not a war bowl. He gave more assurances that he would heal the broken relationship with his people. In the new covenant, our sins and lawless sees God remembers no more That blood was shed to dedicate the new covenant. Second, God chose the covenant indicator to remember his promise. Let me take a few moments to explain the origins of this word. But on the third day, as death could no longer hold him, Jesus rose from the grave. Lord, we thank you for your word. Now, if we were to extend the broken relationship motif beyond romantic ones to platonic ones. But there is progress when we look to God, God who never breaks promises. Genesis nine, eight to seventeen. God acts as the covenant initiator to preserve his creation. Our Lord is a covenant-making God. We thank you that you make you initiate. You can take one for discernment and just actually take it home as a gift from us to you. First, so the two core elements to covenants, first, God acts as the covenant initiator to preserve his creation. Son of God made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. There are many parallels between our formalities and ancient practices. So just as you won't get far in life without learning to read contracts in society. And we get an early such depiction of God, a gracious creator and redeemer in the story of Noah. Like the earlier verses of this chapter, today's passage has a simple message and structure. Back to Genesis, many readers will recall chapter 6, verse 18, how this isn't the first time God spoke to Noah about a covenant. In both verses, the personal pronouns are at the front, right? God lamented the consequence of sin. That leads to the other application concerning the gospel, the good news. There's payment paid in full at the cross. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. So I find this theory fascinating but ultimately unconvincing. Again, this language of covenants familiar to us as humans. The most important relationship being the one we broke with God. But the good Lord never broke his vows and oaths and promises and covenants. As we sing now our final song, we're reminded no sign on earth or sky can fully capture God's great love toward us sinners. And our message is that all must repent and believe. A more fruitful study of the rainbow involves his scientific origins. We'd have heaps and towers of artifacts that reach up to the moon. After ending their four-year romance, two artists joked about storing their leftover personal items in a museum. But there's no use merely lamenting the past. So here we see how God acts as the covenant initiator to preserve his creation. Our Creator owns it. It's tragic that many today have forgotten this covenantal motivation behind the rainbow. It shall be when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the rainbow shall be in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant. But at the Mount of Crucifixion, Jesus suffered in our place. Others contributed to the con uh to the collection. As Noah and others have exited the Ark, they haven't done much. As we go on to verse 12, we learn that there's no end or expiration date when it comes to God's commitment. Three times there's the key phrase, sign of the covenant. Sorry if I got the medical things wrong, but you got the idea, hopefully. On weightier matters of life. It's a sign of God's faithfulness, not meant to be a flag for the LGBTQ plus movement. And the Lord has kept his vow for thousands of years despite our sinfulness. Never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood. And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. In chapter 8, verse 21, we heard the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground for man's sake, although the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. One artifact there is what's called an X axe. So let me land this sermon with two applications before we end. Of course, going to the other application, we realize that even at our best, we fall short of God's ideal, God's faithfulness. Now there's an intimate knowledge of God. And so we bring this good news to the world. So let's turn to Genesis 9 and read from verses 8 to 17. And then to stress even more God's initiative in the covenant, you see the word behold. In fact, this promise to never flood the world again is termed common grace. He assures us of this with the visible sign of the covenant. With your spouse, remember and renew your marriage vows till death do you part. Well, we thank you that you took the initiative. He also provides assurance in the aftermath of a horrific judgment. It's grace for every living creature and every beast of the earth. Keep it as simple as that. That's just us as individuals. They say the Lord is victorious over the rebellious world. We come to the Lord's table in remembrance of Him and enjoy His presence there. First, God acts as the covenant initiator to preserve his creation. Adam's and Eve's at the fall and the world's decadence before the flood. We thank you for you being who you are. You wouldn't sign on the dotted line without reading the body of a contract. He's like Legolas from Lord of the Rings or Cacnus from Hunger Games, but much more powerful. He makes us sufficient as ministers of the new covenant. That's why he says it's my rainbow. Hang up the bow. And in most passages of the Old Testament, Keshet refers to the weapon that shoots bows, I mean shoots arrows. Display the fruit of the Spirit and be faithful in your duties. What's worse than hurting fellow humans, we offend God. Pray that all would respond to it in repentance and faith. The rainbow existed from day one of the universe when God said, Let there be light. Lord, if we were to wait until we are ready to come to you, Lord. Ours is a museum of broken relationships. God the Father sent his only begotten Son. He did this for the sake of sinners, we who are covenant breakers. I set my rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be for the sign of the covenant between me and Okay. That's a good news. It could be as simple as Jesus said. All this to say, I don't think we need to look at the rainbow in the sky like some regal weapon mounted on a castle wall, right? A read. It was shed for many for the forgiveness, for remission of sins. So with that in mind, as we look at God's covenant with Noah and his descendants, we have two core elements that are key to covenants in general. But now he's done with the use of the the bow, right? Heaven is a gift. So I don't have it up so I'll repeat it and He makes and keeps promises with creatures of land, sea, and sky, as we see in verse 10. What's new in this verse is that we finally get to the terms of the covenant. It just means that the catastrophe that had just ravaged the world, a global flood, will not be repeated again. We must clearly portray Jesus Christ as crucified before the eyes of the lost souls. Three times the Lord equates that sign as the rainbow in the cloud. You humans, me God, he says. It's hung in the sky with it pointing upwards so that we're assured of our safety. Imagine how the entirety of human history is littered with ruins of failed packs, painful betrayals, horrific wars. You sent your son. So it's safe to say the text this morning is all about the covenant between God and man. But as Noah's sacrifice and worship was a soothing aroma that pleased the Lord, adoration led to revelation. You might call this an interjection or exclamation. I get that we tend to forget our covenant with God, right? He remembers that it's everlasting Turn from sin, selfishness, and self-righteousness. God speaks again to build up our confidence in Him. So verse 8 is for all of us, as each of us come from Noah and one of his three sons. The next place you find the words bow and cloud together is Consider the life you've lived up to this point and what's ahead of you. There he declared his work finished, greeted his last, and then There's no lasting benefit collecting debris of broken relationships. That's long before Noah's flood when sunlight passed through mist or spray. All this to say, imitate God who initiates covenants and remains faithful. He remembered his promises to them and rescued their descendants out of Egypt, where they were enslaved. Until then, the church is called to proclaim Jesus as the Son of God. But we deserve nothing but separation from God to be punished forever in hell. In place of reminder of sins every year, now there's mercy for our unrighteousness. For our covenant of peace, he was forsaken. And we see your promises all throughout the scriptures, and we're thankful that all your promises are yes and amen in your Son's name. Never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. The Hebrew word behind rainbow in this verse, in these verses, is keshet. Packed in every corner, our idols of greed and sexuality And if we travel in Europe again, here's one museum I'm purposefully avoiding. And Genesis is the first book of the Bible. I agree with John Calvin that like other covenantal signs such as circumcision, the rainbow existed prior to the start of this covenant with So that you are not a God that is distant from us. My wife's good at locating museums for our kids in nearby cities and cities far away. And ask for me in verse 9 contrasts with verse 7, which began with and ask for you. So no doubt many passages in Psalms and prophets like depict God battling with bow and arrow. And then moving on to verses 12 to 17, we see another subunit. He makes and keeps promises with the old and young, Noah and his sons. Its definition is more literally simply a bow, right? So every time there's a rainbow after the rain, be reminded that God remembers Besides God's covenant with Noah and patriarchs, we see covenants between humans in Genesis. Let your yes be yes and no be no. And even when they were unfaithful, God remained faithful. That gives us verses 8 to 11 as one part, 12 to 17 as another. It cannot be earned or deserved. And that we would we do pray for that for everyone in this room. I'm sure that each of us would have enough to build our own individual museums. Anyway, so again I'm saying we must study carefully Just one for believers, one for those who are not Christians. I could go on and on It's amazing how long-suffering he's with us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So we know exactly what he's talking about. Interestingly, in both prophetic passages, the rainbow is actually like a complete circle. This unusual idea was well received and even awarded by the European Museum Forum. That required him to pay for our sins with his Cain was shocked at the sentence he received. It's grace for all kinds of pe uh people and animals and all flesh. With the preponderance of this use of Kashet, some suggest that we have in today's passage a picture of God as Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying, And ask for me, behold, I establish my covenant with you and with your descendants after you. In the same way as you encounter covenants in Scripture, be sure to read it carefully He gave many proofs of his resurrection for forty days. You sent messengers to carry the message of the gospel through all the world. Instead of securing his own position, Jonathan strengthened David's hand. Don't lie to one another, because after all, we are new creation. If the scriptures are likened to a human body, covenants are the backbone of the storyline of the Bible. A great and valuable skill in your spiritual life is learning how to read covenants in the Bible. In verse 13, we learn that it's the rainbow. Know it as a sign of the covenant made with Noah. He has subdued the ungodly with the deluge We don't get to use it for our own purposes. Now you might ask, why does God need reminders? You won't get the big picture of God's redemption plan if you neglect the study of covenants. As we talk with the lost around us, we start with the bad news about our dealings with the covenant. But now here's behold again, but behold, it's good news. Here the Lord communicates with us by means of what's called divine accommodation. That means that in the sacrificial death of Jesus, there's the satisfaction of God's holy wrath against us. If you don't have a Bible, you can just take the one But God didn't spell out the terms of the covenant right there and then. And while covenant may sound obsolete today, it's much more relevant than we think. So the four verses here stress They transgressed the covenant and dealt treacherously with the Lord. And so it was in accordance with covenants made earlier that he initiated a new covenant. And amazingly, it was Jonathan who initiated it. So we thank you for your love. A score lover used it to chop furniture into heaps and fragments of wood. That's God speaking. He was never the type to be passive either. God chose the covenant indicator to remember his promise. So you go to chapter nine, verses eight to seventeen. The word bow, right? But with many other places, we'll probably wait until they're older or just skip altogether. In every sentence spoken by God, you see the word covenant. This is all in Genesis. Commit wholeheartedly to a local church. Here are some quick notes on the passage structure. And as you do what you're supposed to do in your duty, I will do what I do in mercy. The Lord gives us what we don't deserve. Twice he says that it's a reminder of the promise he made He doesn't settle for a broken relationship with us, awful simple humans. There's comfort knowing. And God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. God the Son. Turn to Jesus and believe I'll repeat those points later So we need to hear repeatedly His calming assurances. And God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I make between me and you. That's the first one based on 8 to 11. But we're thankful that the Lord doesn't forget. Lord, you are near us There, before he entered the ark, the Lord said, I will establish my covenant with you. There's that guarantee the Lord will never again destroy all life with floodwaters. He used up all of his arrows, they say. We thank you that on your part you have done all that. There's no catharsis in donating them as memoirs to the public. Let's pray and sing It's a solemn and weighty agreement. Does he need calendars or post-it notes on the refrigerator? The first one for believers. Sign the church covenant. Mercy that are new every morning. We don't lend it out to some community. That's what grace is all about. He waits until after the deluge. He's emptied a clip as the saying goes. Become a member. There's I could give you the list.