I had sex in a windmill, but Jesus still loves me. is a line expletive rephrase from ABC TV show The Bachelorette It's a show about one woman's search for true love among many eligible male contestants. This season's bachelorette is Hannah Brown, who identifies herself as a woman of faith. She was even caught on camera praying to God for wisdom in choosing the right man. One of Hannah's final suitors was Luke. He too professes to be a Christian and abstains from sex to save himself for his future bride. He shares his convictions with Hannah and wanted to make sure she felt the same way and that she hasn't been sexually intimate with other contestants. Then things got nasty. Hannah felt condemned by him and blurted out, I had sex in a windmill, but Jesus still loves me. She cited the account of the woman caught in adultery from John 8. She accused them of threatening her, like the way the religious leaders held up the stones to publicly execute the woman. Then she sent him packing. Many have praised Hannah as a model Christian and a hero for expressing her freedom to do what she wants with her body. Her windmill quote has been seen on t-shirts, mugs, and phone covers. I have not actually watched the show, so I do not want to jump to conclusions about any individual. My first instinct is to side with Luke and condemn Hannah. But is my opinion of her what she really needs? If I were to meet her, I should remind her of Jesus' parting words to that woman in John 8. Go and sin no more. I would probably ask her to look at the Bible again and see if we follow the same Jesus. It's likely that we are not following the same Jesus. I would tell her, like I would tell you, that we may get lots of things wrong in life But it's imperative that we get Christ right and Christianity right. That's what I hope for you as we go through today's passage. You may recall from last time that Jesus' fame was rapidly growing as he sent out his apostles to preach and perform miracles. People from all walks of life were forming opinions about Jesus, whether it's a ruler like Herod Antipas or the common folks of the day who were fed by his miraculous feeding. As Jesus continued in his ministry, crowds swelled and shrunk as he taught them hard sayings, and religious leaders upped the ante against him. Matthew and Mark record that Jesus strategically withdrew himself and his disciples away from the action, at least for a little bit. In effect, Jesus organized a retreat, just with this twelve, at a location called Caesarea Philippi. And the question is, why get away from the action? Well, why do we have retreats in the first place? Usually, retreats are organized and attended so that some important agenda can be discussed with urgency, energy, and concentration. So we're going to see here what was so important that Jesus pauses his public ministry and takes them 35 miles north of Capernaum, which was their normal base of operation. So what's we're gonna go to Luke chapter 9 verses 18 to 36 Luke 9 18 to 36 and If you don't have your Bible, we have a bulletin insert there for you. So please read along Luke nine, eighteen to thirty six And it happened as he was alone praying that his disciples joined him and he asked them, saying, Who do the crowd say that I am? So they answered and said, John the Baptist. But some say Elijah, and others say that one of the old prophets has risen again. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said, The Christ of God. And he strictly warned and commanded them to tell this to no one, saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes. and be killed and be raised the third day. Then he said to them all, If any one desires to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. Well, whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him, the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels. But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who shall not taste death till they see the kingdom of God. Now it came to pass after eight days, about eight days after these saints, that he took Peter, John, and James and went up on the mountain to pray. As he prayed, the appearance of his face was altered, and his robe became white and glistened. And behold, two men talked with him. who were Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. But Peter and those with him were heavy with sleep, and when they were fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him. Then it happened, as they were parting from him, that Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here, and let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. not knowing what he said. While he was saying this, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were fearful as they entered the crowd cloud. And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son, hear him. When the voice had ceased, Jesus was found alone, but they kept quiet and told no one in those days any of the things they had seen It's imperative that we get Christ right and we get Christianity right. As the earliest followers of Jesus and future church leaders, the apostles really needed this time to solidify key ideas. But what they learned is recorded for our benefit as well. I believe there are three truths for us who follow Jesus First, Jesus is Christ, God's anointed man who suffers for us. And that's in verses 18 to 22. Second, Jesus demands us Christians to suffer now for glory later. Verses 23-27 Third, Jesus is God's Son confirmed by the Father to have authority. Verses 28 to 36. You'll find these points in the bulletin insert. First, Jesus is Christ, God's anointed man who suffers for us. Luke frequently points out the rich and exemplary prayer life of Jesus. In this incident, he was preparing to teach an important lesson. Our Lord has gathered his apostles for Christology 101, the entry level of Christ, right? Entry-level study of Christ. And without passing this course, there is no advancement spiritually. You won't be doing algebra if you don't know how to count to ten. You won't be writing a dissertation without learning the alphabet. In the same way, these men will not lead the Great Commission without first identifying Jesus. Without understanding the head of the church, there can be no foundation of the church. I spoke on Matthew's version of this passage back in February in a sermon entitled The Authority of the Church. Please listen to it if you haven't already done so. So Jesus starts by asking the popular um opinions about him. They include John the Baptist, Back from the Dead, a Conclusion Herald, Antipas Favor. We talked about that last time. Elijah, the one who comes to prepare Israel for judgment, according to Malachi, and one of the prophets of old, like Jeremiah. But it's easy to spew answers to what others say. Jesus turns to them to ask, but who do you say that I am? Peter answers as the representative, the Christ of God. What Luke records is actually a truncated version of a fuller answer We read in Matthew 16, 16, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. So what's going on here? The phrase of God at the end of Luke 9, 20 can be translated Son of God. We see the same exact phrase in chapter 3, verse 38 of Luke. And that's the last entry in Jesus' genealogy. But we talked about then how um Jesus is God's son in a way that is completely different than the way Adam was God's son. Adam fell to sin and dragged us down to the grave with him. Jesus conquered sin and lifted us out of the grave with him. Every human being has been tainted by sin at his or her core, not so Jesus, who is a perfect sinless Savior, who is both man and God at the same time. What Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record for Peter's answer is that Jesus is Christ. And that's what I want to focus on for A little bit. No, the title Christ has become a cuss word. Sadly, even professing believers do not understand the term clearly. Often there is a failure to grasp how weighty and authoritative that title Christ is. Christ is such an important title that we really need to slow down in our evangelism and maybe even our Bible studies to explain what Christ means. Last year Kerry led us uh led a series on the titles of Christ, and you know there are a lot of them and he went through a lot of them, and it was necessary for Kerry to divide up the titles into a few groups. And so these there are titles that relate to his identity, ministry, authority, saving work, and mediatory status Now let me tell you that Christ is such an important title that it relates to all these roles. No, Christ appears so frequently next to Jesus that some think it's his last name. It's not his last name. Actually, Christ is simply the Greek translation of Messiah, which means anointed one. In the Old Testament, three offices of authority were anointed: the king, the prophet, and the priest. Jesus has been anointed to preach the gospel during his ministry. Jesus has authority as the anointed king and prophet. Jesus, as our perfect anointed high priest, saves us and lives forever as our mediator between us and God. Now when we hear a title of privilege like Christ, we may think that it's all about power and domination over others. It probably didn't occur to the disciples that their master would suffer. I mean, he casts out demons, heals the sick, calms the storm, walks on water, feeds multitudes. There's no way that Jesus Christ would suffer, right? That's why in verse 21 Jesus tells them to stay quiet about it. They weren't ready to proclaim Jesus as Christ yet. William Barclay comments, quote, before they could preach that Jesus was the Messiah, they had to learn what that meant, end quote. And it's interesting that verse 22 flows smoothly in the same breath as the previous verse. In Matthew and Mark, there is a hard stop after Jesus' command to stay quiet. But Luke wants to emphasize that the additional information in verse 22 must be considered alongside Jesus' identity. That is, Jesus' identity as Christ of God is tied closely to his identity as the Son of Man. who must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised the third day You may wonder why such terrible pains are necessary. Well, the prophets of old did indeed speak of a glorious Messiah who will restore the kingdom of Israel. But there are also predictions of the suffering servant in chapters like Isaiah 53, and we sang about it before the sermon. The servant would be a man of sorrows. Wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities. This one, the Messiah, will stand in the place of sinners as the Lord lays on him the iniquity of us all. Jesus taught during his time on earth that the glorious Messiah and the suffering servant are one in him. There's no contradiction in the two titles. Christ of God and Son of Man who must suffer many things And you know, we are just thankful that Jesus is bulking. You know, often when we face problems in life, we want someone to understand our pain, to sympathize with us. We are grateful for those who stand by us. But we don't expect them to take all our problems away. If you do, you have the problem is with you, not with them. But that's why we also want someone to have authority and power. That's why we seek experts. That's why we seek people who know better than us. Yet often such people seem distant and unable to meet our immediate needs. While Jesus appears to us both in power and weakness. He is victor over death, yet he knows our pains. At the cross, we see our Jesus Savior power to save as the Son of God Yet at the same time our Savior's weakness and suffering in our place as Son of Man. He endured the agonizing cruelty of crucifixion for our sins and rose again to eternal life. And such is the pattern for us believers who follow him. And that leads to the second point. Jesus demands us Christians to suffer now for glory later. You might ask why included the word Christian there, since we don't see it in the passage. It's true that the word is not there, but the concept is there. Here's what I mean. Christian is a title That was originally used by unbelievers to refer to believers. Disciples were first called Christians in Syriac, Antioch in Acts 11. How did this title come about? Well the racial diversity of the church was rapidly increasing. So no longer could outsiders label the early church as a Jewish sect. Right, with all these influx of Gentiles. Christian, as a title caught on quickly, as we see Herod Agrippa II using it later in Acts 26. Peter is also familiar with it as a derogatory title, alongside murderer, thief, evildoer, busybody in 1 Peter 4, 15 to 16. So it seems that a lot of people are using it as a a way to insult the saints. Now it's a very common phrase to refer to believers. But it's helpful to look at the the etymology of the word. We already talked about Christ as an absolutely important title for Jesus I said it is the Greek translation of the Hebrew Messiah, anointed one. But what about the suffix I-A-N? Well we have a curious curious combination of a Latin ending and a Greek word. The subject I-A-N meant you belong to the party of an individual. As a proponent, as a follower, whether it's Christ, Herod, or some other leader. So there's terms like Herodian in the Bible, too. In other words, you follow someone. So if you're a Christian, you follow Christ. And the individual we follow here is Jesus. And he gets to decide how we follow him. Just signing up for a newsletter doesn't mean you follow him. Just following him on Twitter doesn't mean you follow Jesus. I don't think he would have an account, but who knows? Okay. But each verse from 23 to 27 clarifies what it means to be a Christian, a follower of Christ. In verse 23, we learn that self-denial is essential. Jesus provides a vivid picture of self-denial when he demanded they take up their cross daily. Here's a c here's a helpful commentary. Quote When the Roman Empire crucified a criminal or captive, the victim was often forced to carry his cross part of the way to the crucifixion site. Carrying his cross through the heart of the city was supposed to be a tacit omission that Rome was right and he was wrong. So when Jesus enjoined his followers to carry their crosses and follow him, he was referring to a public display before others that Jesus was right and that the disciples were following him. even to their deaths. End quote. Immediate question to you. How are you taking up the cross daily? How are you denying yourself today? Tomorrow? If you're not taking up your cross daily, you're not doing Christianity right. Self-denial is the only way to follow Christ, and it's worth it. The next few verses explain how. The paradox of verse 24 is that our self-preserving efforts Do not pay off at all. But losing for Jesus is actually winning. Verse 25 warns that gaining everything means nothing if we are lost. Archaeologists have found tombs of Egyptian kings filled with jewelry, furniture, pottery, and even little figurines of servants who would help. Right? In the afterlife. And it was thought that the deceased would enjoy a comfortable afterlife with such things and people. But what use are these treasures if you are burning in hell? Better to count all these as lost for Christ. Verse 26 further warns that present shame is worth it for future glory. when Jesus returns to establish the kingdom of God, accompanied by the holy angels. Verse 27 hints that the some of the twelve will get a taste of this glory to come. In fact, we know that this preview takes place in the next, very next passage. But before we get on to that, let me say it again. As Christians, Jesus demands suffering now for glory later. Don't let anyone tell you that the gospel is about health, wealth, and prosperity here on earth. Jesus promised the exact opposite. So as we suffer in the present, we are thankful that God didn't just leave us in the dark. Like a light at the end of the tunnel, we have glimpses of heaven in the scriptures. Peter, James, and John got a preview in verses 28 to 36, about a week after Jesus' lesson at Caesarea Philippi. We have glimpses of heaven from the prophetic books of the Old Testament and the last book of the Bible, Revelation. There are popular books out there that record visions of resuscitated people who saw heaven in near-death experiences. Now, I haven't read too many of them, but I can say confidently that any personal experience of heaven must be submitted to the testimony of the scriptures. And any description of heaven that does not have Christ at the center is suspect. That leads to the third point. Jesus is God's Son, confirmed by the Father to have authority. In verse 29, again, Jesus is praying before the next big lesson of faith. Suddenly his face was altered and his robe became bright white. Matthew and Mark report that Jesus was transfigured, literally metamorphed. Peter is also helpful as he reflected back on this event in 2 Peter 1, 16-18. 2 Peter 1, 16-18 says this. For we did not follow cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of His Majesty For he received from God the Father honor and glory when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased And we heard this voice which came from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. The three became eyewitnesses of Jesus' majesty John adds later in his gospel, in chapter 1, verse 14, in this report, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And how glorious and majestic is our Lord Jesus! His superiority is not only clearly manifest in the bright spectacle, but also in the way he outshines the two other people there, Elijah and Moses. Charles Virgin observes, quote, The apostle saw the greatest of the prophets, Elijah, and the great lawgiver. Moses, after whom there was never the light till Christ himself came, yet the inspired record concerning the event is they saw his glow and the two men that stood with him. You know, Moses and Elijah would be the main attraction in most parties. They are embodiments of the law and the prophets that make up the Old Testament. Yet Jesus surpasses them both. You know, it's easy for us to get impressed with certain people, certain individuals. I know I I get carried away. But Jesus outshines them all. Now imagine sitting in a lecture listening to these three speak I find fascinating the observation that the three disciples, Elijah, Moses, are probably representatives of three groups that will be there at Jesus' second coming. Elijah represents saints who never faced death, right? Like Enoch in Genesis and the raptured church. Moses represents saints who lived and passed away normally. Peter, James, and John represent saints who survived the seven-year tribulation and remain alive at Jesus' descent from heaven. So it could be that these groups represent all kinds of people at Jesus' second coming In verse 31, the heavenly trio of Jesus, Moses, and Elijah discuss, it says in the NKJV, deceased, it actually says Exodus, literally the Exodus. Right. About to be accomplished in Jerusalem. An interesting word choice. According to the commentator C. Marvin Pate, quote, the term in large part, Exodus, portrayed Jesus' suffering and death. as a means to his receiving divine glory. So they're talking about Jesus' departure from earth to heaven. Their exact words, however, are not recorded. Perhaps Moses warned Jesus about the difficulty of leading stubborn people. Maybe Elijah told Jesus about the depression he felt after confronting evil authorities like Jezebel. We don't know what they were talking about exactly. And I don't know how, but Peter and the Zebedees were struggling to stay awake. But then they got a second wind, so they didn't miss out on the whole experience of of the heavenly glory. As the conversation was wrapping up, Peter tries to get Moses and Elijah to stay. He probably thought that the kingdom has arrived and it was time to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles as predicted in Zechariah 14. Because God the Father did not want this event to be misinterpreted, he steps right in. He sends a cloud over the heavenly beings. The three disciples were likely afraid that Jesus was being taken away from them. That's when the Father spoke up, just as he did at Jesus' baptism. This is my beloved son. Hear him. This is the confirmation that Jesus has authority. It's an audible confirmation that comes from the Father's voice. It further reinforced the visible confirmation of the transfigured Jesus. Suddenly Peter, James, and John looked up to see Jesus alone And so the prediction back in verse 27 has come true. Three of the twelve did not taste that before they saw the kingdom of God. So we have the testimony of Peter, James, John, Moses, Elijah, John the Baptist, the Holy Spirit, and God the Father to back up the authority of Jesus. This is Christ whom we serve. What further proof do we need? But it's one thing to know that Jesus has authority Demons know Jesus has authority. Can we listen to him or do we listen to him in obedience? Will you deny yourself today and take up your cross daily to follow after him? That's what a Christian looks like. You know, without opening the scriptures and learning about Jesus, somehow strayed from the biblical understanding of Christ and Christianity. I can't judge every person who comes on TV and claims to be a Christian. I may not know in detail how you live 167 hours every week outside of this building after this one-hour service. I can't force you to do anything. I can only warn you from the Bible. We may get a lot of things wrong in life, but it's imperative that we get Christ right and we get Christianity right. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the clear revelation of scriptures. How it's harmonious from Genesis to Revelation in revealing your will, your administration of your purposes, and revealing you to us. And Lord, you have in these last days spoken through the Son. And Lord, he makes it clear to us what it means to follow Him. to be saved. Not only the initial initial salvation, but not not only the initial justification and regeneration, but what it means to be Christ-like. To be a Christian, to be growing in sanctifying grace, to bear the fruit of the Spirit. To be conformed in the image of your son. Lord, we understand that you have just given all authority to your son. Help us to live in a way that reflects that. Lord, if we have held back an area of our life Or a hour or some kind of just dark recess of our personal lives So you already know all these things. May we surrender to you in every way possible. May we surrender by taking up our cross daily. Forsaking ourselves. Denying ourselves. Lord, would you teach us this week what that means? What that means in our personal life, what that means in our relationships, what that means in our in our work life May we deny ourselves to follow your son this week, knowing that you have glory waiting for us in the future, but our calling in the present is to suffer. We pray that you'll give us the endurance to do so this week. And we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.