Good morning. Good to see everyone here today. I uh generated Not to eat this morning, since I figured that maybe the bulletin would not have enough space for you to write and to doodle and whatever else You will notice the title of today's message is Speech, the Instrument So Difficult to Play. The alternate title is Teaching Could Be Hazardous to Your Health. And I have the six sections that we have been through in our last, I think, nine times together. So the verses aren't really that clear, but 1 to 12, Trials of Friends We Deplore, is chapter 1. So we had four sections on chapter one, and then numbers five and six are chapter two, and today We're talking about speech. So I have some fill-in-the-blanks there just to see if you can figure out where I am. We need to start today with a quiz. Alright. I didn't spend 30 years in college teaching for nothing. Question one, what is the strongest muscle in your body relative to size? That is correct. Tongue is correct. Tongue is the strongest muscle in your body and also most flexible. And also the only muscle in your body that is not connected on both sides to a bone. Question two, how large is the tongue of a blue whale We want exact dimensions here. I'm giving you a choice. The size of a human That's A. B, the size of two humans. C the size of an elephant. Two humans. Do I hear any answers? I think I hear B. Do I hear C? No C. I got a C. Yes. C is correct. Everybody understand the size of a blue whale, the largest Mammal on Earth, probably almost as long as this sanctuary, the big ones Question three. Giraffes use their tongues to, a, clean their necks, b, clean their eyes, c clean their ears All the above, huh? Uh the answer is C, clean their ears. Giraffes have very long tongues. Our granddaughter, who doesn't live far from here, was in Kenya at a zoo got near a giraffe and the giraffe stuck out its tongue and licked her, licked her face. Don't realize how long they are. Question four, how many taste buds are on the surface of the average tongue? Meaning yours if you're not too old. Your choice is 3,000 A, B is 30,000, and C is three million. And the answer is? 3,000 is correct. A. 3 to 10,000. And each butt taste bud has somewhere between 50 and 100 taste sensor cells. And your taste buds die off and are replaced every two weeks. Uh-huh. And by the age of 60, most adults have lost half their taste buds. Do you notice that? You ever thought about the fact that your tongue is the strongest muscle relative to size in your body? It's actually a combination of several muscles. But today we're talking about the fact that the tongue is the strongest muscle in your body in more ways than one For example, do you remember about the fourth or fifth or sixth grade when someone said something to you that still affects you? Maybe they said chicken, four eyes, fat, stupid Alien. You know? It's possible for somebody to use their tongue and say something that almost becomes like a tattoo. On you. It stays there permanently. And yet, people use this weapon in their mouths every day. Often without understanding its power. Often without understanding the damage they are doing The thing that causes James fear in this chapter is that one of these unthinking individuals walking around with a tongue that goes off at unexpected intervals. like an eight-year-old carrying an Uzi will try to direct a Sunday school class. And in the process of teaching in a Sunday school class, we'll blow a few class members out. You know, tattoo them with some poison in the name of the gospel. It's a pretty frightful thought That someone in the name of Jesus Christ would ruin a fellow believer's life. And yet it happens. Thus the caution with which James begins this chapter in verse 1, he says, go slow on becoming a teacher The command, let not many of you become teachers, controls the rest of the chapter. James assumes that his readers are going to ask the question, why? Why such a caution? And the rest of the chapter answers why. And the overall answer is because as a teacher. You have to use as your major instrument of performance the most untamable part of your body, the part of your body that is least Christian. So the point is, become teachers slowly. Stop this mad rush of everyone becoming a teacher. Don't be in a hurry thinking that it's something simple that can be done with little preparation. The truth is that teaching is inherently dangerous. So James is developing this claim in five sections. Today we're talking about four sections. You'll notice one, two, three, four there. Next Sunday we'll do verses 13 to 18. So the first statement James makes is few people can control the teaching instrument. Few people can control the teaching instrument. I'm reading verses 1 and 2. My brethren, do not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body. James lived in a context that was different than ours, at least slightly different. Back then, almost anyone could stand up and speak In the synagogue. The synagogue had sort of an open pulpit, so that when Jesus came home In Luke chapter 4, he stood up and they gave him Isaiah 61 to read. He was not At that time, known as Messiah or Prophet or Preacher, he was the town carpenter. But he stood up to read. When Peter and Paul and James went to different towns, they could stand up in a synagogue and speak. Even though people didn't know who they were or where they came from, because speaking was The pulpit was much more open back then. The lectern was much more open. And so there was this great emphasis on learning to speak And those who had a silver tongue would, you know, they would have the YouTube viral, YouTube uh Things because of their ability to speak. At the same time, there was a big emphasis on becoming a rabbi Rabbis were the professional teachers, and it was prestigious for a family to have a son training to be a rabbi. There was competition for the privilege of being admitted to rabbi school. So there was a big desire to be called rabbi and to become a teacher. So, what James is saying in this passage is don't be in such a big hurry. You need to realize the fact that this whole business of instructing others Has great dangers to it. So he has three sections here A. The consistent testimony in life is that people say and do not do. The consistent testimony in life is that people say and do not do. James says we all stumble in many things. We overstate, we exaggerate, we lie, we offend others, we put others down, we mislead others I'm waiting for an Amen. Oh, okay. Paul says in Romans chapter 2. Romans chapter 2, he describes the Jewish nation that viewed themselves as instructors of these Gentiles who don't know anything. These ignorant Gentile dogs. And they saw themselves as the rabbis, the teachers. And he says in verse 21, this is Romans chapter 2, verse 21. He says, therefore, you who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that one should not steal, do you steal? You who say that one should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols. Do you rob temples? You who boast in the law, through your breaking the law, do you dishonor God? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. Here are people that viewed themselves as above the common Gentile, as an instructor of Gentiles, and Paul says, your ministry is blasphemy. Because you say and don't do. Matthew 23, Jesus pronounced woes on the Pharisees. And he pronounced woes because they said and didn't do. They said and didn't do. Matthew 23. 3. B says the standard of judgment is greater for teachers. The standard of judgment is greater for teachers. James says, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. The rest of the world may be graded on the curve, but not teachers. Or the curve will be different. Why? Because their sphere of influence is greater. They're not just talking to one person. They may be talking to 20 or 50. Their sphere of influence is greater. The judgment is more strict. William Barclay in his commentary says that we do not understand how important rabbis were back in those days. Rabbis were way up on the ladder. And he said there was there's a statement, there's a directive that says, if your house, if some house is burning down. You come upon a house that is burning down. He said, the first thing you do is you save the rabbi. Then he said, you save the parents. Can you imagine that? Rabbis are more important than parents, apparently, back then. So the standard of judgment is greater for teachers. And then C says the tongue is the most difficult part of the body to control. If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man. There's a close connection between tongue control and maturity. People that grow up demonstrate it by how they talk. So why should we become teachers slowly? Because the instrument you use is so difficult to handle. Secondly, James says, the tongue is the major player in how we live. It is the major player in how we live. I was going to word this: it is a major player. I changed A to the. I think it is the major player. Here's verse 3, 3, 4, and 5. Indeed we put bits in horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn their whole body. Look also at ships. Although they are so large and are driven by fierce winds, they are turned by a very small rudder wherever the pilot desires. Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasts great things. See how great a forest, a little fire, kindles. So the influence of the tongue can be compared to the bridle on a horse. The influence, its influence can be compared to a bridle on a horse. Notice verse 3. You've got the contrast in verse 3 between bits in horses' mouths And we turn their whole body. What does it take to direct and control and rule and guide a horse? A bit and a bridle. How much do horses weigh? Anybody of you carry any of you carried a horse recently? I thought horses weighed like a thousand pounds, and uh I checked this week On a Clydesdale, you familiar with a Clydesdale? Martha and I saw Clydesdales when we were up at a fair and couldn't believe that these things, you know, were taller than us. Clydesdale normally weighs 2,000 pounds and can weigh up to 2,400 pounds. They say Clydesdale's usually weigh more than Volkswagens. And the babies, when they are born, usually weigh at least a hundred pounds. That's a big horse. How much does the bit and the bridle weigh? A couple of pounds. So you can control that Clydesdale with something that is one one thousandth Of the weight of that horse. One one thousandth of the weight of that horse Think about that. What does it take to guide a horse? Something one one thousandth of its weight So if we can govern the will of an irrational creature with a small bit and bridle so that losing the reins would be similar to losing control of the horse. Think about what that says about the power of your tongue. Losing the reins of your tongue is comparable to losing control of your life. Losing the range of your tongue is comparable to losing control of your life Isn't this what Solomon said? Back in Proverbs chapter 13, verse 3, he who guards his mouth preserves his life. But he who opens wide his lips, meaning to let anything go out. Shall have destruction. He who guards his mouth preserves his life. But he who opens wide his lips shall have destruction. What James is talking about here is not entirely public speech. He's talking about how we talk to ourselves. He's saying you need to keep the reins on how you talk to yourself. You say, how do you know that? What makes you think James is talking about something besides public speaking? Well, if you go back through James chapter 1. You'll notice that chapter 1, verse 2 says, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. Count it all joy. How do you do that? Do you publicly make an announcement? No, it's the way you talk to yourself. Verse 5 says, ask God for wisdom. How do you do that? That's not public communication. Verse 9, chapter 1: Let the brother, lowly brother, glory in his exaltation. He's talking to himself. Verse 10, but the rich glory in his humiliation. Verse 13, let no one say when he is tempted, I'm tempted by God. Do you see what he's talking about? He's talking about how we talk to ourselves. See, the major player in the direction of our lives is how we talk to ourselves. What we say to ourselves, what we justify, what we rationalize, how we argue ourselves into something or out of something. And then I think the key verse here that is so clear is chapter 1, verse 26. 126 says, if anyone among you thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart. This one's religious is use religion is useless. Deceives his own heart. See, he's talking about how we talk to ourselves, that we deceive ourselves by our conversation. So James is saying if you don't bridle your tongue, it's like dropping the reins when you're on the back of a wild horse. You get on the back of a wild horse, you drop the reins, you could go anywhere. And the end result of that is usually damage. Then he says it's comparable to the rudder of a ship. Here we have even a stronger case. Because the ship doesn't have any reasoning ability. It can't be taught obedience. It offers dead resistance It's much larger than a horse. It can be driven around by current and by winds. Yet the whole vessel Can be turned by a very small rudder wherever the pilot desires. The question in our lives is often: who has the rudder? And then C, or on C it says it steers our lives. It steers our lives. Here's the conclusion in verse 5. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasts great things. You see the word boasts? Most people think that the word boasts means you get out there and you exaggerate And you're talking about in a bragging way. The word boasts is not used that way here. The word boast is used in a way of accomplishing things. You say, how do you know? Because of the rest of the verse. Do you see the rest of the verse? The rest of the verse says, see how great a forest a little fire kindles. So the fire is boasting in this sense that it can take the forest And it just starts small, but it accomplishes great things. And the point in verse 5 is how much your tongue controls the direction of your life. It's small because we overlook it. It's only words And probably at the age of seven you heard the statement that said, Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never harm me. Right? That's a lie. Sticks and stones may break your bones. Words can send you to hell. Words can ruin your life. Words can get you to do the wrong thing. Words can put you on drugs. Words are very powerful. So much of our lives are controlled by our tongues. Why do we do what we do? Because we talk ourselves into it, or because we talk ourselves out of it, or others talk us into it, or they command us to do it, or we or they harass us to do it. Have you ever done something not because you had to, or even wanted to, not because somebody physically made you do it, but just because of somebody's. Talk. It was Black Friday, right after Thanksgiving, the year two thousand and three. When I went with my daughter and my son-in-law, John, Sarah and John, who are sitting back on row 10. With our two children who were with us this weekend, and we had a great time with them. We went, we three went to Best Buy. Because there were things on sale, and I was going to buy a stereo. And when we finally got there at 10. 45, there were still four boxes left So I took one box. I found the end of the checkout line which wound halfway around the store. I talked to myself for a little while about whether I wanted this item badly enough to stand in line for the next half hour. Then a young kid cut in front of me, and I talked to myself about what I should say to him. Maybe, did you have trouble finding the end of the line? Do you invent the line anywhere you want to? I didn't, thank goodness, because about five minutes later he put his box on top of other boxes and left, along with the girl in front of him who had been in line before me. Then I passed through a section of CDs, which looked to me like Christian CDs, so I read the titles and talked about whether I wanted any. I thought about whether I wanted to pay this much. And then I found I could send in one of those $50 rebates that you might get back. A guy was standing near handing out candy, and somebody else was handing out free coupons from McDonald's. And I thought about what I should say to them. A woman and her daughter cut in front of me just as I got to the cash registers, so I talked myself out of going up with them. To pay. And I waited probably three minutes for all the cashiers because they all were talking to their customers instead of cashing out. Thinking back through that experience, I know that I've talked to myself about at least 10 different subjects in 15 minutes. Any one of those subjects could have controlled my actions and led me in a different direction. But I bought my on-sale receiver for $139, and now 15 years later, we still use it So your tongue is the major player in how you live. Section number three. An uncontrolled tongue is the source of major horrors in life. An uncontrolled tongue is the source of major horrors in life. Verses 6, 7, and 8. Let me read verse 6. And the tongue is afire. A world of iniquity. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature and is set on fire by hell. That is a scary description. There are five parts to this description, verse six. Part number one: it's a fire. Fire is great. Fire is wonderful. Fire is necessary. It is such a blessing until it gets out of control. Out-of-control fire takes on an independent existence of its own. Verse 5 ends with, See how great a forest a little fire kindles. What sized fire kindles what size forest? The California fires this past year show the horror of out-of-control fire. According to Wikipedia, The 2017 California wildfire season was the most destructive on record. A total of 9,133 fires burned 1,381,000 acres damaged more than 10,000 structures, which was more damaged than the previous nine years combined. It killed forty-three people, more than the previous ten years combined. And most of those fires probably started with a little flame, or perhaps nothing more than a spark. The point is that our tongues can start something that becomes independently destructive. You say something, and once you let out the words, they take on their own existence, and you can't do anything about it. So like a kid playing with matches in the backyard in a little woods back there and he likes a blade of grass and he watched the fire go down the blade. And then go up the next plate. And then go down to the next plane, you know And after a while the yard is on fire and the trees are on fire, and all of a sudden he comes to realize that this thing could take the house. And his one-year-old sister, whose he's babysitting, is in the house. And as he's running to the house and confessing his sin and asking God for forgiveness and asking God to do something, he realizes the fact there's nothing he can do. It's out of control. And that's what happens with our words. I can say them, and they become independently destructive. Independently destructive. To me, that is very scary. Can you imagine someone saying, well, Shupi started 9,133 fires in his ministry? Damaged more than 10,000 churches and 43 people committed suicide because of him. Can you imagine that kind of thing? It's all connected with the power of the tongue. So B says, here's the reason why the tongue is a fire. B says it can create any and all kinds of evil. It can create any and all kinds of evil. Verse 6 says, a world of iniquity. A world. The word world means a boundless store, inexhaustible source of iniquity. It contains endless possibilities for sin. It can do anything in the dictionary as far as evil is concerned. Jesus says in Mark 7, There is nothing that enters a man from the outside which can defile him, but the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. That's Mark 7. 15. Here's verse 20. Mark 7. 20. And he said, What comes out of a man, that defiles a man, for from within, out of the heart of men. Procede evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness All of these evil things come from within and defile a man. And guess how they get out? Through the tongue. They begin in the heart, with the way we talk to ourselves. They're evil thoughts to begin with. And then they take voice and then they take action. See, it can defile any and every part of your body. Any and every part. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body, James says. Everything in your body gets dirty because of your tongue. It repeatedly defiles the body. It plans your activities, it directs your activities, it defends your activities, it sort of supervises your activities, and then after you've done it, the tongue justifies it and then excuses it and then defends it. All of this directed by the tongue. One small member marshals all of our body parts. D. It can destroy any and every time and connection in your life. Time and connection. Any and every time in connection. This is the clause that says it sets on fire the course of nature. Sets on fire the course of nature. The word course is the word wheel. It's talking about Life existence goes around and around, you know, once a week or once a month or whatever, it goes around and around. And the picture is that this fire Starts at the hub, at the axle, and as the wheel goes around, this thing goes out the spokes and and burns everything So it sets on fire and destroys every time, every connection in your life. Relationships How much slander does it take to set a family ablaze, a church ablaze? The whole round of existence can burn up by an out-of-control tongue. Proverbs 16, 27. An ungodly man digs up evil, and it is on his lips like a burning fire. And then E says, it can even collect its power from hell. It can collect its power from hell. It is set on fire by hell. Do you believe that? Do you believe that Christians can say things that come from hell? I got two nods The rest of you are non-committal. We're in Maryland, you know. One of the things I noticed in moving to West Virginia, since we lived in Maryland for twenty years. Moving to West Virginia, West Virginians, at least the ones we are connected with, don't say anything and don't nod or anything. You know? We're in Maryland. You're supposed to acknowledge agreement or disagreement. Mm-hmm. Jesus said to Peter in Matthew 16, Matthew 16, 17, Blessed are you, Simon Farjonh, for Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. What you have just said comes from heaven. Jesus said that in Matthew 16, 17. Amen. Amen. And he said, Blessed are you, Simon Bargettin. Six verses later, he said, Get behind me, Satan. Six verses. Verse 23 of Matthew 16. He said, What you have just spoken came from hell. So Peter was connected to heaven and connected to hell and did it within six verses. I find I can do it faster than that. You know? You listen you're you're in such an you're you're in such an emotion and you you you've gotta say something and you wanna say something and something springs into your mind that comes From Satan himself, probably, and you say it. And he gets his word out I was in a church business meeting. I was a teenager. This is long ago. Not as long as some of you think. This is I was a teenager in a church meeting, business meeting, trying to solve a problem, and one of the older members of the church stood up and you could tell the guy was angry and he let out some words. That completely destroyed the meeting. I have no idea what he said. I can just remember the mess. There was nothing to do almost after he let out his words. And it was just like Satan invaded the meeting. He invaded the meeting and ruined it. And he can do the same kind of thing through our tongues. They can be set on fire of hell. And then verses, this is number F, it is untamable. It is untamable. Verses 7 and 8. For every kind of beast and bird and reptile and creature of the sea is tamed, has been tamed by mankind, but no man can tame the tongue. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. Not only does the tongue do such a frightful amount of damage But we can't tame it and subdue it to the place where we can say, now, it's controlled and it's not going to break out again. The truth is, no one can tame the tongue. Now, people normally respond to this by saying, well, yes, no man can, but the Holy Spirit can. Well, that's not what the passage says. The passage is not contrasting what man can do and what the Holy Spirit can do. The passage is saying nobody can tame the tongue. So, what happens if You're riding a horse, and you know that that horse is wild and has never been tamed. But you're riding it. You've got a bridle on the thing, you know what you're doing, and you're riding a wild horse. With what kind of attitude do you ride that horse? A very careful attitude If you are on the back of a wild horse, you can never relax. You can never say, that's never going to happen again. You know? And I think that's the attitude here. The attitude needs to be I can never relax when I'm talking. I can never relax when I open my mouth. I need to be careful. What is going out? What it's going to do. I need to think about this. Because I am riding an uncontrollable tongue. So this passage encourages us that the tongue can be bridled. We can bridle it. We can keep it from Interjecting poison everywhere. We can shut it at times, but never tame it. So we never relax when we're speaking, saying, just open your mouth wide and let it go out. Because you never know what ja what's gonna come out. How many of you are afraid of snakes? Mm. We have all right, I'd say forty percent of you may be afraid of snakes. So the notion of keeping a pet rattlesnake or maybe a block black mamba under your bed doesn't encourage you? There are some people that think that's the greatest, you know I had a pastor friend who had who collected snakes. He had snakes in his bedroom, poisonous snakes in his bedroom. His son had a snake. You know, it was just sort of like Raising cats. So you'll notice that James uses the word poison here The word poison refers to something that can be injected, injected just into the tip of a finger, like a snake, a poisonous snake can do, and spread through the whole body. And the truth of the matter is that the venom spurted by an angry tongue is often more deadly than any snake poison. And the truth is that you and I are living with a poisonous snake. It's in our mouths. One shot inserted into the bloodstream of our families or our church. One swift strike of your fangs. They damage the whole thing. So here's the point. The point is, it can be checked, it can be disciplined, it can be bridled, it can be taught to do good and useful things, but it can never be tamed. and must never be trusted. That's why Christ says, there's nothing that enters a man from the outside which can defile him. But the things that come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. You notice in our culture today we place such a great emphasis on what goes in. Too many carbohydrates. Not enough vitamins. You know? It needs to be organic. Are we worried about anything organic coming out? You know, what comes out is at least as important as what goes in, and probably more important. So when you speak, the question is, does it edify? Does it help? Does it encourage? Am I doing something with these words? That accomplishes God's will. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29 says, You want to minister grace through your words. You want to edify. You minister grace by giving somebody with your words what they don't deserve. In a good sense, not a bad sense. So the the family, I think I used this before, but the family's waiting for the 16-year-old daughter to come out because they're going to church You know, six children in the family waiting in the family van for 12 minutes. She finally comes out. The father says, you're late. But you're worth waiting for. You're late is the truth. You're worth waiting for is the love, is the grace. He's using his words to speak truth at the same time to give grace. We're on to number four. The double-minded tongue reveals immaturity. The double-minded tongue reveals immaturity. I'm in 9 through 12. With it, with the tongue, we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men. Who've been made in the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceeds blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter water from the same opening? Can a fig tree, my brother, bear olives? Or a grapefruit, grape vine bear figs? Thus no spring yields both salt, water, and fresh. So James says here, A, we what we are shows in the contradictions we speak. What we are shows in the contradictions we speak. We excuse our contradictions, but they reveal our character. Out of the same mouth we bless God and we curse man. Maybe not outwardly. Maybe inwardly. We judge people. We dismiss people. We put down people with words. Out of the same mouth we sing praises to God. From hymn number 177 on a Sunday morning. And then we cut down our brother We bless God, and then on the way home, somebody pulls out in front of us on the way home, and we call him by some choice name. A name we say for people we hate. You've got the word similitude here. Similitude. We curse men who are made in the similitude of God. That's the word likeness. That's the word image. The point is that when you curse the one made in the image of God, by implication you curse the prototype. The horror of this action is that we actually think that we can do this as children of God. We actually think it's okay. I'm singing praises to God. At the same time, I'm blowing off People in the church or other people are, you know, talking them down. Chapter 2 brought this out with the usher who was blessing God while assigning a poor man A junk C. We do this with slander. We do this with gossip. We do this when we chew up the pastor for lunch. And spit 'em out. I'm not referring to anything Now, of course, there is a right way to judge. There is a right way to talk about people. And we should talk about the sermon over lunch. And we should evaluate people, and we should evaluate what's going on. But there's a right way to do it and a wrong way. B says, nature always displays consistency in its fruit. Nature always displays consistency in its fruit. The quality of water gushing from a spring tells us how good the spring is. You don't judge the spring by what's around it. You judge the spring by the water taste. So do you expect that a spring will produce freshwater on Sunday and salt water on Monday? Maybe Sunday afternoon. Why do we get both from our tongues So what happens when you have both things coming out of the tongue? Sunday morning you've got good stuff. Sunday afternoon you've got Corrupt stuff. What happens is that only one is real, the other is false. So if you are cursing those made in the image of God, you are not worshiping God when you worship God. You may think you're worshiping God. But that's fake worship because of what you say toward those made in the image of God. So the point is that nature says there is a consistency. And there ought to be a consistency in the way that we talk. Here's John in 1 John 4, verse 12. 1 John 4. Not 12, but 20. 1 John 4:20. If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he's a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen? And this commandment we have from him that he who loves God must love his brother also. Notice, must. Love his brother also. What John is saying in 1 John 4 is the seriousness of your love for God is shown. In the seriousness of your love for your brothers and sisters. You say you love God who you haven't seen and you hate them. This is a lie. You don't love Him. Doesn't matter what you're saying. Doesn't matter what you say, doesn't matter how well you say it. He who loves God must love his brother also. So the overall command. Everybody see where John James is going here. The overall command is become a teacher slowly. Slowly. Don't rush as if it was something easy to accomplish with little responsibility. Anybody feel like I'm aiming at them as I've been speaking? Or James is aiming at them? I have felt that as I worked on it this week. So let me give you just four simple applications. Number one, be quiet. You've heard this all your life. Be quiet. Turn on your ears, turn off your tongue. Simplest thing to do. Turn on your ears, turn off your tongue. This is James chapter 1, verse 19. James said this back in verse 19 of chapter 1. He said, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Do not engage your tongue until your brain has thought about where this is going and how this is going to accomplish God's will. Ephesians 4. 29, let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth. None. Number two, confess your sin. Ask God for forgiveness. Confess your sin to those you have offended. To those you have said things to, say to them, I said this. It was wrong. Would you forgive me? When you confess something to someone, you do not say, if I offended you, will you forgive me? You don't use the word if. You tell them what you did. Here's what I did. And I used these words, and I meant to hurt you with these words. Would you forgive me? That was wrong. Number three, guard your heart. Proverbs 423 says, Out of your heart spring the issues of life. Your tongue will always talk about what your heart delights in. That's why treasuring God's Word, reading God's Word, spending time with God's people, listening. You know, those kinds of things guard your heart. And number four, ask for protection. Ask for protection Psalm 141, 3. Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth. Keep watch over the door of my lips. Let's pray. Father, what a privilege To hear your caution, your warning, your direction, I pray that we might take this chapter seriously. I pray that there might be changes in each of our lives by your grace. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.