I'm going to read for you again the passage in Colossians chapter 1. I'm going to read from verses 1 all the way through verse 20, just again so that we can get the context. Colossians chapter one. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God and Timetheus our brother, to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are at Colossae. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have to all the saints. For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, where have ye heard before in the word of truth of the gospel? Which has come to you as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day you heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth As ye also learned of it, of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who was for you a faithful minister in Christ, who also declared unto us your love and the Spirit. For this cause we also, since today we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God Strengthened with all might according to his glorious power unto all patience and long-suffering, with joyfulness giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and light who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature? For by him were all things created, that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. And having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say, whether they be things in earth, or things in heaven. As we begin last week, we talked about how prayer is a non-negotiable in the Christian life. It is, as an author commented, the daily spiritual breathing that sustains one's life in Christ. Now, if that's true for individuals, certainly it's true for us as a church. In fact, as much as we need prayer for trial and difficulty that we encounter, we need prayer to sustain us through our daily living. Prayer for the church in this way, and really in the way that Paul exemplifies here, is as one writer put it, preventative maintenance. This is not taking the car into the shop because the tire blew, right? This is taking the car into the shop for the tune-up, for the maintenance to ensure that the car continues to work properly. As it is preventative maintenance, so to speak, this sort of prayer can and should be done regularly and faithfully for the saints. Certainly there are things that we hear about that happen in the body of Christ. Accidents that happen, folks who become ill, and we want to pray for those things right away. And maybe we pray for those things for a season until the person gets better or the situation is resolved. The things that Paul prays for here are things that we can be praying regularly for one another. The outline that I developed for this section of Scripture follows Paul's pattern for prayer In verses 9 through 14. That's where we're going to focus. From last week we talked about how Paul first prayed for the Colossian believers that they would grow in their spiritual allegiance to Christ to do what pleases him above all other things. That was in. Verse 9 through the first part of verse 10. Generally speaking, he asked that God would fill them with the knowledge of his will so that they might walk in a way that pleases Christ. We talked about the fact that spiritual growth does not happen on the strength of men alone. We need for God to fill us. We need for God to fill us. We need for him to fill us with the knowledge of his will. He says that the knowledge of his will is in all spiritual wisdom and spiritual understanding. In other words, it is wrought by the work of the Spirit in our lives. Moreover, as we get into the rest of the section, we'll see that the echoes of this same truth throughout the rest of the passage that not only does the Spirit do a work in us initially, but he continues to do a work in us as we grow spiritually. We also briefly discuss the fact that the will of God is not some abstract concept, nor should we seek to know the will of God only so far as it pertains to us. Rather, that the basic sense of the will of God, that which we are to seek, is the preeminence of Christ over all things. I mention also that as we behold Christ Even as we honor and acknowledge Christ as supreme over all things, that we grow in spiritual wisdom and understanding. Fullness comes only in Christ, not apart from him. And all these things lead to a life that is worthy of Christ. A life that's pleasing to him in everything. That is our ambition, as Paul says again in 2 Corinthians, to be pleasing to him, whether at home or absent Our new nature compels us to desire that which is pleasing to him and convicts us when we do not. The world knows nothing of this. In fact, it is their ambition to do what pleases them. Their God is their appetite. They glory in their shame. They set their minds on earthly things, as Paul says in Philippians 3. My challenge to you was to pray faithfully that this remains true for your brothers and sisters and the church, the true church of Jesus Christ, particularly as we weather through the ungodly philosophies of our day. As we get into this section for our study, this next part of the outline, where Paul left off in verse 10, Here we're going to see that Paul prays for their spiritual growth to be faithfully borne out in daily living. And again, he specifically mentions four characteristics that ought to be present in the lives of those who are living to please Christ. This is a short list of the things we should be praying for one another. It's not an exhaustive list, but it'll get us going in the right direction. I mentioned them briefly last week. I'll mention them again, and then we'll go through each one. They are spiritual fruit, spiritual depth. spiritual strength and spiritual gratitude. Again, they're spiritual in nature because these are things that the Spirit of God does within us as we yield to Him. Look again at the text. Verse 9, again, Paul says, For this cause we do not cease to pray that ye may be filled with the knowledge of his will. He goes on in verse 10 and he says, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. The first characteristic that we come to is spiritual fruit. Paul says, my prayer for you Is that God works so mightily in you that you desire to do what is pleasing to him in every way, and that as he works in you as you walk in a way that pleases him, that you bear fruit in every good work. I make two observations. First, this text assumes that we will be doing good work. The emphasis is on bearing fruit in every good work. In other words, Paul is praying that as they do good works, they bear some fruit for the Lord in it. We ought to be pursuing good works, good deeds as believers. We know that we're not saved by good works, but that we're saved unto good works. Ephesians 2, 8 through 9. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works. lest any man should boast. There are no good works that we could do to merit salvation. Salvation is by grace. Grace by definition cannot be earned. It is something freely given. We often call grace unmerited favor. When we speak of the grace of God, we cannot think of it as something that He owed us, because He doesn't. I go to work to earn a paycheck, right? I earn a paycheck based on the work that I do, the time that I put in, the effort that I put forth. When it's my birthday, I'm given a birthday gift. That's not something that I've earned. I haven't done anything to be born. It's a gift. It's a free gift of grace. It is someone's favoring me and providing me with a gift. So that I might be blessed and encouraged on my birthday. While I cannot earn salvation by works, while I do not work in order to be saved, after I am saved by the grace of God, I am given work to do. That same passage of Scripture, Ephesians chapter 2, right after verses 8 and 9, you have verse 10. He says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. And that verse tells us a number of things. First of the church is the workmanship of God. The whole church, the group of believers that composes the church, the group in whom is the powerful working of God for salvation. In the original, the word translated workmanship is poema. You might hear something familiar in there. We get our English word poem from that. We are, as it were, a poem, a creative work of God, written and laid bare before the rest of creation of his grace and powerful working in the lives of men. A church is not the work of men. It is not designed to glorify man. When we seek when we see a work of art or read a beautiful poem, we do not praise the colors on the canvas or the ink on the page, right? We praise the author. We talk about how wonderful the author is, likewise, for the church. It even says that in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 20 through 21, which is, in my view, the thesis statement for the whole book of Ephesians. Paul says, Now unto him who is able to do exceeding, abundant, beyond all, above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works within us, unto him be the glory and the church by Christ Jesus through all ages, world without end. God's desire is that he be glorified in the church of Jesus Christ. And so he created this masterful work of the church. He created the church in Christ Jesus, and he created works for them to walk in. So that those works would point back to him as the creator, as the one who made the church. The second thing that Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10 tells us. Is that part of the way that God has designed, again, for him to receive glory is as we walk in these good works. I'll give you another text, Titus chapter 2, verses 11 through 14. Titus is a book that emphasizes good deeds, again, not for the sake of salvation, but rather in order to stand in stark contrast to the ungodliness of the society in which they lived. Crete was an ungodly and wicked society, probably as wicked as you would get. I mean, even today when you call someone a Cretan, it's usually not a good thing, right? And so Paul spends much of his time in the book of Titus writing to Titus to encourage Titus, to encourage the brethren to make sure that they're zealous for good deeds. So that people will see the work of Christ in their lives as opposed to the ungodliness of the society around them. Listen to what Paul says in verse eleven of chapter two. He says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself up for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity. and purify unto himself a pe peculiar people zealous of good works. Why did Christ give himself up for us? So that he might purify for himself a peculiar people zealous for good works. to set us free from iniquity and to set us apart to do good works for his glory Back again to our text, we ought to be pursuing good works as believers. Good works do not accomplish salvation, but good works always accompany salvation. Paul does not make explicit in our text what those good works are. That's not really the point that he's making. He's not trying to drive down to what those works are exactly We do know from other passages of Scripture that there are things that are core to what we ought to be doing as the Church of Jesus Christ. A text that I'm sure you all are familiar with in Matthew chapter twenty-eight really gives the core mission, the core work of the church, right? Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded to you. To teach or to make disciples of the nations, that's evangelism. To also baptize and teach them to observe all that Christ has commanded, that's discipleship. All of this leads to an increase of worship of the true and living God and His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Evangelism, discipleship, worship, those are the core Work, that is the core work, the core mission of the Church of Jesus Christ in this world. As we do that, then we bring glory to our head. We bring glory to the God who created us to do it. We bring glory to him. We honor him. Back in our text, Colossians chapter 1, verse 10. Not only does Paul assume that believers ought to be pursuing good works, but a second observation I want to make is that when Paul says being fruitful in every good work, he assumes that it is possible for believers not to be fruitful in every good work. Right? You remember the parable of the two men who went into the temple to pray in Luke 18? Jesus said the two men went up into the temple to pray, that one a Pharisee and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, even this publican I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus' conclusion to that. I tell you this. This man, the publican, went his way, on his way to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. It is entirely possible to do all the right things for all the wrong reasons. And thereby to bear no fruit that is pleasing to the Lord. That's the example that we have from the publican, right? Or from the Pharisee, rather. He was doing all the right things, it seemed But he was doing it for all the wrong reason. And God was not pleased with that. All the publican had to offer, all he knew he had to offer, he couldn't even look up to heaven because he was so ashamed by his sin. He was so aware of his sin, of his repulsiveness before God. All he could do was cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. A contrite heart is what is pleasing to the Lord. A heart that knows and loves him. How are you guys doing with that, by the way? You come to service every Sunday morning without fail. You come to Bible study during the week. You participate in some meaningful way in the life of the body. You usher, you sing on the choir, you handle the offering, you give offering. You teach Sunday school, you read your Bible, you pray, you participate in evangelism. You're not like those heathens who go running early on a Sunday morning, right? Or who just sit around and rest and relax. You're not a homosexual or transgender person. You're emphatically pro-life. In fact you go to all the rallies. You have the t-shirt, you got the bumper sticker right on the back of your car, right? You got it together. Just as a Pharisee, we can do all the right things for all the wrong reasons. We can do all the right things and not have our heart right before the Lord. And we'll go home Sunday after Sunday, no closer to the Lord than the murderer, the unrepentant. murderer on death row. Our deeds are, our good deeds rather, are fruitful, only as we constantly purify our heart motives by sifting them through the grid of Scripture. Wherein we find the will of God. That's what Jesus says in John 15. And that kind of brings us to the next point, the next thing that Paul prays for. Again, Colossians 1:10, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. Not only does he pray for spiritual fruit, he also prays for spiritual depth. Go ahead and turn to John chapter 15. I want to look at that for just a second. Jesus is preparing the disciples for his um his crucifixion He's giving them some words of exhortation, of encouragement, to leave with them the last words that he'll say to them before he's taken away. John chapter 15. Should be starting at verse 1. I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit he purges it, so that it might bring forth more fruit. Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you As a branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same, bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done for you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, and so ye shall be my disciples You all are probably pretty familiar with this I am statement of Christ. I am the vine, you are the branches. Of course, there is a necessary life-giving union between Christ and his disciples. Here the emphasis is on abiding, on abiding. Abiding in Christ, remaining in him. What is the result of that abiding? He says, You will bear much fruit if you abide in me and I in you. In fact, you will bear additional fruit because the father will prune you so that you'll bear even more fruit. We'll get back to this idea of the father pruning disciples later. At any rate, it says later that this is what glorifies the Father, and this is what proves that we are disciples of Christ, that we bear much fruit. Of course, God is interested in us bearing fruit, right? He desires for us to bear fruit for his glory. Well, if abiding in Christ is the way to bear fruit, then how do we abide? Look again at verse 4, compare that to verse 7. He says, abide in me and I in you. In verse 7 he says, if ye abide in me, and my words abide in you. Again, what does it mean to abide? It means to allow the words of Christ to remain in you. If you want to abide, if you want to bear fruit, then his word must remain in you. And his as his word remains in you, back to our earlier point. Your heart and motives are constantly being cleansed to ensure that your good deeds bring forth fruit for Christ. Your holy affections are constantly being stirred so that you're desiring things that are pleasing to Christ. Your ambitions are constantly being kept in check and constantly redirected as you read God's word and abide in His truth, so that you desire to do the things that are pleasing to Christ. If you want to abide, if you want to bear much fruit, his word must remain in you Again, Paul prays that they are bearing fruits and increasing in the knowledge of God. As we've already mentioned, the knowledge of God has to do with his will. And his will again is found in his word and his truth, which truth we must allow to continue to abide in us. This is really a call to pray for a greater commitment to the word of God in our lives. We know that the Word of God is important for us. We talked about that a little bit last week. Here Paul is mentioning again that the Word is responsible for ensuring that we bear fruit in every good work that we do. Really, when you get to Ephesians chapter 4 and you think about how God has designed the church, how he's given pastors and teachers and evangelists to equip the saints, what do they equip the saints with? They equip the saints with the Word of God. As they teach and preach and proclaim the Word of God, the saints are equipped. They're given the tools that they need in order to do the work of service, and as each individual member is equipped, And does the work of service equipped again by the Word of God. And they do the work of service, then eventually the whole body is built up and Christ again is glorified. Now the main difference between the mention of knowledge that we talked about last week, and it's important for our faith, and here as Paul is talking about knowledge, is that here the emphasis is on increasing in knowledge. I think if we're not in danger of being led astray by anti-Christian philosophies that inundate our culture today, something that we must all be vigilant to guard against is complacency. While we must be content in all circumstances with what the Lord has given us, we must never be content with the development of our faith. This is an area that we can never let our guard down. Listen to this quote from Tozer, A. W. Tozer He says, Himmedee is sweet with the longing after God, the God whom, while the singer sings, he knows he has already found. His track I see and I'll pursue sang our fathers only a short generation ago, but that song is heard no more in the great congregation. He says, how tragic that we in this dark day have had all of our seeking done for us by our teachers. Everything is made to center upon the initial act of accepting Christ. A term, incidentally, which is not found in the Bible. And we're not expected thereafter to crave any further revelation of God to our souls. He says we've been snared by the coils of aspurious logic which insists that if we have found him, we have no more need to seek him. Part of the point that Tozer is making there is that we make a big to-do often in our presentation of the gospel of accepting Christ. And we say nothing else of the rest of our faith, nothing else of the rest of our life, and our obligation to pursue Christ. Paul says it this way in Colossians chapter 3. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, if you've come to faith in Christ, if you've believed in Christ, if you've been washed by the blood of Christ, If you're in Christ. If ye then been be raised with Christ, seek things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things. On the earth. Moses, a man who walked with God and spoke to God face to face, who was probably closer to God, save the Lord Jesus, of course, than any other man who's walked the face of the earth. Moses prayed, show me your glory. After all the conversations that God had with him, after all the FaceTime that he had with God, right? He still prays, show me your glory. Let me know you. The Apostle Paul says a similar thing in Philippians chapter 3. He says, I know that Christ is my righteousness as you go through. He says, I know that I have no other righteousness before God. I know that I have no other way to be right before God, to stand upright before God, to be acceptable by God, but in Jesus Christ alone. I know that. I know that I have faith. But I press on that I may know him. That I may know him. Him more, that I may know him in a deeper way, even to the point of death. Even in seeking the resurrection from the dead, he says. There are no seekers outside of Christ. Romans 3, speaking of unbelievers, says that there are none who seek after God. But everyone in Christ must be a seeker. We must constantly be in the position of seeking to know him in greater ways through his word. If you've grown content with your Christianity, if it has become to you a rote, memorized, practice, a check mark on your to-do list for the weekend, then you've missed the point. And it doesn't matter how old or young you are, it doesn't matter how many years of experience you have with respect to ministry, as much as you've continued to this day to feed your fleshly body for its growth and vitality, so you must also continue to nourish. your soul on the word of truth in an ever-increasing way, that you may know him better. We never learn all that there is to know about a person that we meet in our first encounter, right? We understand that. We know if we want to get to know someone, we have to spend time with them, we have to converse with them. God is infinitely greater than any other human being that you'll sit with. If you have to spend time with a person, some of you all have been together, had a relationship together for decades, right? And you still probably don't know everything there is to know about each other. And that's part of the reason for that is because we change, and life changes, and life changes us. And while God doesn't change, again, he is infinitely greater than all of us. His mind is infinitely greater. His heart is infinitely greater. His personality is infinitely greater and more perfect and full than any one of us. That's if we ever hope to know him, we have to continue to pursue him. We have to continue to pursue a deeper relationship with him. One of my favorite quotes is from Samuel Rutherford, and he says very simply, I urge upon you a deeper communion with Christ. And he goes on, I don't remember the exact quote, but um his point is that we have to keep pursuing Christ, and that part of the joy of pursuing Christ, part of the joy of knowing Christ is the pursuit. Right? Part of the joy of knowing one another is the time that you spend with each other. Part of the joy of knowing Christ is the pursuit. If you're not pursuing and you don't have joy, that's why. Again, as you consider the things that you could be praying for the church, consider Paul's example as he prays for spiritual fruit, as he prays for spiritual death, and next he prays for spiritual strength. Back in our text, verse 11, again he says, strengthen with all might according to his glorious power unto all patience and long-suffering. Call praise for their spiritual strength. We may not often think of it this way, but the way in which we handle difficult circumstances in life may or may not be pleasing to the Lord. Paul's desire, our desire for one another, ought to be that as we are equipped by God to weather life's storms, that we weather them in a way that brings him the most glory. He prays that they might be strengthened with all might. We're told in Hebrews chapter 4 to come boldly before the throne of grace. Paul's prayer here is a bold prayer that God would grant not some, but all might. For the believers to weather each trial. Notice also that he prays for God's strength. Paul prays that believers would be strengthened with all might according to, consisting of the same stuff, of God's glorious power. Again, talk about a bold prayer. The glory of God is his weightiness, his importance, the fullness of all of his perfections. In other words, Paul is asking that the fullness of God's perfect power would be given to believers to strengthen them. Affliction. He doesn't pray here that God would increase our own strength. Sometimes I think when we pray, God, give me the strength to do that. We're asking for God to fill us, to strengthen us in our own right. to give us the ability to uh stand up against whatever it is in our own strength. Paul is not asking for that here. He assumes the weakness of believers. He assumes their inability to have strength enough to weather the difficulties of life until he prays. Not that God would fill them with their own strength, but that God would fill them with his strength, his glorious power, his glorious mind, his strength in all of its perfections. In 2 Corinthians, when Paul prayed that God were to move the thorn from his flesh, do you remember what God said? He said, no. Paul prayed. He's like, I prayed three times. I'm sure he prayed more than that. These are probably, when he says I pray three times, these are probably like laid flat on the ground. Begging and beseeching God, that sort of desperate prayer, to remove the thorn of the flesh. Paul prayed that God would remove the thorn. Paul, the Apostle Paul, that guy. But God said no. And he said, no, because my strength is mur made perfect in your weakness. My strength is exaggerated. My strength is shown in all of its brilliance, in all of its fullness, and all of its greatness, in your weakness. So Paul's conclusion, I'd rather boast in my weaknesses. I'd rather boast in my weaknesses, because I know that when I'm weak, then I'm I am strong. I'm strong not from my own strength, but from the strength which God supplies. That's what he prays here for the believers at Kalasi, that God would fill them with his strength. He goes on from there, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering. He says, for all patience and long-suffering, patience and long-suffering to the greatest degree. Patience is a word that is often translated endurance in the original, its basic meaning is the ability to bear up under an external pressure for a long duration of time. The imagery of that of is that of bearing the weight of a large boulder on your shoulders and just holding it. Just standing there, holding the weight, bearing up under the weight of it. Paul says, in order for you to live in a manner pleasing to the Lord, you need the ability to endure in trials. Again, this is what God said to him, right? I'm not going to remove the thorn. You have to endure, and you'll endure by my strength. You remember James chapter 1: Counted all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing that, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience? That's endurance. But let patience have her perfect work that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. And if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God to give it to all men liberally and abrayeth not, and it shall be given to him. Often when a trial comes, when the pressure comes, when the difficulty weighs down on us, we pray first what? God, get me out of this. We say, God, get me out of this. It's too much for me to bear. Well, first of all, we know that God wouldn't give us anything that we couldn't bear. Right? And we know that if he does give it to us, he's going to give us the strength to endure it. But the point of James is: if you want endurance, if you want the ability to endure, you know what you also need? You need trials. Because that's how endurance comes. And if you want to be spiritually mature, You know what you need? You need trials. Because that's how spiritual maturity comes He says, as you go through the trial and you remain under the trial, under the difficult circumstance that you're in, God produces patience in you. And that production of patience in you, the producing of patience in you is what leads to spiritual maturity. Without patience, there's no spiritual maturity. Without trials, there's no patience, right? But James also says: look, if you need wisdom, if you need help, ask God, and He'll give you the wisdom and the help that you need Not only is it difficult circumstances that we need strength for, Paul also prays for long suffering. This word is often translated, patience in other places. But it has to do with patience and dealing with other people. Patience carries with it the idea of being slow to boil in the original, slow to become heated. It's a slow-boiling pot, right? Some people are quick-tempered. In fact, many in the world pride themselves on being quick-tempered and quick to tell someone off, but that's not the Lord's way. Paul even says this to Timothy, the Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but patient when wronged. Patience is commanded in Scripture, 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient with all men. It's part of the fruit of the Spirit according to Galatians chapter 5. Patience in dealing with others is really rooted in our salvation. Why? Because God was patient with us. Right? In fact, Peter makes the point that the reason why Christ hasn't returned up until this point is because God is being patient. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, and so he's waiting until the gospel goes forth, so that those who hear the gospel might have the opportunity to believe. That's the patience of God. They mock. Peter says. They mock and they laugh. Where is the promise of his coming? He's not coming back, you foolish Christians. What are you hoping in? But the thing that they're mocking is the very thing that God has provided. It's the very opportunity that God has provided for them to repent. That's their foolishness. But we have to understand that it is God's patience. And again, as God has been patient with us, so we also ought to be patient with one another. As you pray for your brethren, pray that the strength of God would be manifested in us. As he fills us with his power to endure trials, both with difficult circumstances as well as with difficult people. We all endure trials, and we most certainly all have to endure life with difficult people. Of all the prayers that we could offer, this is probably the most relevant. But again, in this section of Colossians, this is just a recap here. Paul prays for believers whom he had never met, that they would walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. He prayed specifically for them in four areas of life. He prayed for them to bear spiritual fruit consistent with Christ's calling on the church. For them to have spiritual depth to grow in their relationship with Christ, plumbing the depths of his mind to know him better. For them to have spiritual strength to endure difficult trials and difficult people, and finally, for them to have spiritual gratitude. Look at the end of verse 11, going into 14. With joyfulness, giving thanks unto the Father, which has made of me to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Now this last admonition forms the basis for all the rest of what Paul says through verse 20. In other words, all that he says in verse 11 and 12 about joyously giving thanks to the Father is supported by the rest of what he's going to say. About our salvation and about the Lord Jesus Christ. Note first that Paul says that we are to give thanks to the Father. There's often some confusion as to whom you address in your prayers. This text doesn't solve that issue for us. It's not intended to, but it does direct our attentions to the fact that when we give thanks, particularly for the plan of salvation, we are to give thanks to the Father. Because it was his plan. As we go to Ephesians chapter 1, that's what we see. We see the Father is the one who has planned even from the beginning, from before the foundation of the world, that we will be holy and blameless, that we will be adopted as sons. That we would be set apart in Christ. The Father is the one who planned it. The Son is the one who was sent to implement the plan, and the Spirit is the one who seals it. But as we give thanks to God, Paul says we are to give thanks to the Father. Peter says a similar sort of thing. He says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Note second that in the King James the words with joyfulness are at the end of verse 11. Really, in the original, they can be linked to what follows, and that's kind of how I take it. Translators differ there. Either way, it accomplishes the purposes for which it was written, I think. As verse 11 stands in the King James, it reads, Strengthen with all might according to his glorious power unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Taking it this way, the point is that the strength that God gives, he gives to provide patience and long-suffering with joy. It's not as if we're strengthened to be patient and to have long suffering while being down in the mouth and somber about our trials. But rather that God strengthens us to have patience and long-suffering with a joyful heart. When you translate with joyfulness with the following verse, in my view, it seems to flow a little more naturally. It would read something like this: with joyfulness, giving thanks unto the Father, again, who hath accomplished salvation for us. The point there would be to show the direct correlation between giving thanks and the accompanying joy that follows. Joy here is not akin to happiness based on favorable circumstances, but rather as a product of thanksgiving. It is the heart attitude that accompanies the discipline of giving thanks for that which you truly value, namely our salvation. Joy has an emotional component, though it's not purely an emotional response, otherwise it would be difficult to command it. But to rejoice is a command in Scripture. Again, Paul says multiple times in the book of Ephesians, rejoice in the Lord. He says, Rejoice in the Lord. the Lord always. Christian joy, whether an emotional response or as a response to the command of Scripture, has the Spirit of God as its source, we're given joy as a part of the fruit of the Spirit, according to Galatians 5. And this is a natural outworking of Christ's desire to share his joy with us, according to John 15, verses 10 through 11. If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments, and abide in his love. These things I have spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. God wants us to have joy. He wants us to be joyful people. He doesn't want us to be somber. Melancholy, sulking about life and about the difficulties of our lives. He wants us to be rejoicing. We are commanded to rejoice. We have no excuse not to rejoice. If we do not, then we are being disobedient. Now, the focal point of this last character trait that Paul prays for is not joy, but thanksgiving. Again, thanksgiving is also commanded in Scripture. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 he says, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus. I like this quote from Hughes. He says, Thanksgiving is more than a happy feeling that causes one to bubble with joy. Since Paul commands thanksgiving, he says it must be more than a feeling over which we have no control. It is something we can decide to do. Therefore, it can become a discipline in which we can grow. Chronic complainers are never satisfied and always feel cheated in some way. They also become more susceptible to heresies in their desperate search to find something good and something else. True Christians I like this. True Christians experience God's grace intensely and allow their gratitude for what God has done in Christ to shape their whole life. Did you hear that? True Christians experience God's grace intensely and allow their gratitude for what God has done in Christ to shape their whole life. He says, This gratitude makes life richer, happier, and more wondrous. Unlike joy, thanksgiving is not an emotion. It has no emotional component to it. To give thanks is an action. It is an action that we're commanded to do whether we feel it. Like it or not. Again, as Hughes points out, the opposite of giving thanks is complaining. It is an expression of dissatisfaction on account of what you do not have. Again, as Hughes pointed out, complainers are never satisfied. Chronic complainers have no joy in life. Those who are in Christ who are constant complainers rob themselves of the experience of joy, the joys of their salvation. The gateway to depression is a complaining spirit. For even a spirit that's always wishing for the next best thing, never finding contentment in anything. If complaining is expressing dissatisfaction for what you do not have, thanksgiving is expressing gratitude for what you do have. And often it's calling to remembrance of these things, the meditation on these things, the value ascribed to these things in the heart of the one who is thankful that leads to joy. I was thinking about this some time ago when we um had the opportunity to go on a vacation as a family, my wife and and the girls and I. And uh we had previously gone on a vacation together as a family. I think it was our first time going on a vacation together as a family, and uh one of our daughters became very ill and ended up in hospital for her maybe about a week or so. Um and so that kind of cut our vacation short. Uh when we went on this vacation a little bit earlier this year, my wife and I afterward were talking about it, 'cause it was a little you know, we went to the beach and so we're, you know, wanting to Spend some time in the water and you know uh have a nice time with that, but uh it was kind of overcast and a little rainy and a little cool and um we were kinda tempted to come complain about that, but then we thought, you know what, the last time we had a vacation, we ended up in the hospital. This time we were all together. We're all able to stay together. We're all able to enjoy time together. We played games together. And uh that just brought joy to our hearts just thinking about that. We could have sat and complained about the fact that everything was dreary out and that we didn't get to do all the things we wanted to do, but you know what? The Lord blessed us And just the remembrance of the things that we had to be thankful for brought joy to our hearts. No matter the circumstance, that's kind of what Paul is getting at here. Again, true Christians experience God's grace so intensely and allow their gratitude for what God has done in Christ to shape their whole life. It's that same sort of idea. Our hearts, our lives, even the anticipation of eternity becomes joy-filled as we give thanks to the Lord for his goodness to us in salvation. Paul says, For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. He said that in Philippians. He said that just before he started talking about all the goodness of God to him and his salvation, even though he was a dirty, rotten, stinking sinner before. Even though he was like one of the dogs, as he says in Philippians chapter 3, he said, God showed me grace and mercy. They saved me. And so now as I think about life, no matter what happens in life, and he said that, he wrote that while he was sitting in prison for the cause of Christ. Christ. He said no matter what happens in life, I'm going to rejoice. I'm going to rejoice in Christ because of what he's done for me. Salvation is precious to the believer. Thus, life and death are viewed as a means of drawing closer to Him. Life is an opportunity to serve Him, and death is an opportunity to enjoy the fullness of fellowship with Him in heaven. As we get to know him better, this desire for future grace, for greater fellowship with him only increases. This is in essence the joy of Christ, as it talks about in Hebrews chapter 12. It says, For the joy set before him You remember? He endured the cross and he despised the shame of it. And now he sat down at the right hand of the Father, waiting until he returns to claim his prize. The kingdom. We have that same joy as we fix our attention on the gospel. People have often said that we should preach the gospel to ourselves. I didn't really understand what they meant by that at first. But I think this is what they mean by it. They don't mean necessarily that you should go through the Romans road with yourself, right, as a believer. That's not really what they're saying. I think what they're saying Is that you should meditate on the goodness of God to you in the gospel? Meditate on the effects of the gospel in your life. And do that often. Paul prays that the Lord would help them to walk in a manner worthy of the calling which they have been called by making them thankful. As you practice the discipline of thanksgiving, thanksgiving for the many benefits of the gospel, God will flood your heart with joy. The truths of the gospel are an eternal well to draw from. So that we may have joy at any time in our lives. He mentions a number of these truths, and I'll just mention them. We don't really have time to dig deeply into them, but um he mentions a number of these truths in the rest of the passage. First, that the Father has made it possible for us to have an inheritance with the saints. The text says that he has made us need to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. To be made meat is, in other words, to be made adequate, to be qualified, to be given the right. God the Father in His mercy and grace toward us has made us qualified when we're previously disqualified. He has made us qualified to be a part of his family. And as a part of his family, he has made us qualified to share in his inheritance, the inheritance that he gives to his children. That's something that we have to look forward to now. That's something that is guaranteed for us. Peter says that the inheritance that God gives is imperishable, undefiled. will not fade away and is reserved in heaven for you. Now what are you going to leave as an inheritance for your children? A house? Some money that they're gonna use, it's gonna run out, a house that's gonna wither and decay, right? Those are things that we want to leave to our children because we want to be a blessing to them. And those are good things to want to leave to your children. There's nothing wrong with that. But what's greater? What greater inheritance is there? It's the inheritance that God has left. For us in Christ. If we would rejoice over an inheritance that our earthly parents gave to us, think about the bounty of the inheritance that our heavenly Father has left for us. That He is preserving us for, that He is preserving for us in heaven. You have that to look forward to no matter what. No matter what. God determined that from before the foundation of the world. Is that not a reason to give thanks? Second, the way by which the Father has qualified us is by rescuing us from the authority of darkness and delivering us into the kingdom of his Son. Specifically, the text says, Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness? and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. And usually people who are rescued need to be rescued, right? The word for power here is the word that's often translated authority. In other words, it is as if Paul is saying that we were rescued from under the very authority of darkness, under the domain of darkness. Darkness had authority over us before we came to Christ. It ruled over us. It enslaved us. We had no ability to get out of the kingdom, the authority of darkness. God is the one who did that for us. He is the one who made it possible for us to be released from the captivity of darkness over us. God did that. You were enslaved to sin. You were a child of wrath. You were a son of disobedience. That's who you were, Ephesians chapter 2. But God being rich in mercy. made us alive together with Christ. He released us from captivity to sin. And not just so that we could flounder about. To do our own thing, right? He didn't just release us from the captivity of sin to do our own thing, but he released us from the captivity of sin and he moves us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. He didn't just leave us as orphans. He moved us from that domain to the better domain to the kingdom of his Son, the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. What else? Father has made it possible for us to be a part of his family, thus received in the share of the inheritance. He made it possible for us to share in the inheritance by rescuing us from the authority of darkness and freeing us to be subjects. To the kingdom of his son. A third blessing of the gospel, a benefit from the Father, for which we can rejoice and give thanks in, is that in his son, not only do we have a righteous king, but we also have a sufficient Savior. His dear son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins, Paul says. Again, as you grasp the depths of this, your heart will not fail to give thanks with joy. For we have sinned against an infinitely holy God. Thus the offense is an infinite offense which demands an infinite justice and consequence. You guys get that? We have sinned against a holy God. If you sin against me, what maybe I'll be upset with you for a couple days and And then we'll reconcile, right? You sin against the President of the United States, you're going to prison. Right? Because he's due more honor than me. I can't send you to prison. You sin against an infinitely holy God, you deserve an infinite consequence. And yet that same infinitely holy God did not give you the consequence that you deserve. He gave you grace. And he poured out the consequence that you deserve on his dear son, so that you might have redemption, so that you might be redeemed, so that you might have the freedom. Forgiveness of sins. That's what God did for you. Is that not a reason to give thanks? Is that not something that you can hold on to no matter what is going on around you? Is that not something that you can rejoice in? It says as far as the east is from the west, so far as he removed our transgression from us, Psalm 103. One author has said, gratitude to God for the blessings of redemption is the crowning Christian virtue. In one of the quotes that I read to you earlier, Hughes called Gratitude a Discipline. Pray that the Lord would grant you and your brothers and sisters in Christ this crowning virtue of gratitude. Pray that you would truly treasure the many blessings of the gospel, that you would have the discipline to give thanks, and that no matter the trouble, you would be able to reflect upon and rejoice in the goodness of God to us in salvation. I like this quote about Helen Keller. It says, Helen Keller, who became blind and deaf at a very early age, wrote in her autobiography. For three things I thank God every day of my life. Thanks that he vouchsafed me knowledge of his works. Deep thanks that he set in my darkness the lamp of faith. Deep, deepest thanks. that I have another life to look forward to. A life joyous with light and flowers and heavenly songs. He says she claimed that so much had been given to her that she had no time to think about what had been denied her. Pray that your brothers and sisters in Christ would be filled with the knowledge of His will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding. Pray that we would walk in a manner worthy of Christ. Pray that we would grow and bear spiritual fruit pleasing to Christ, that we would increase in the knowledge of Christ, grow in our love for him as we get to know him better. Pray that we would be spiritually strengthened as we behold Christ, as we're filled with His power, His might, to endure difficult circumstances, to endure with difficult people. Pray that God would help us to be thankful people. And as we give thanks, that He would fill us with His joy, for His glory. In Christ's name. Let's pray.