Justification might take above this. Frankly will be fixed of media, partisan reformation Rad to do so at this time of the year than to do so at the offer, our neighbors in America. We must not forget what to make the first discovery of that doctrine of the script. We don't want to doctrine of original sin. But literally all the truth. That we're sinners by nature, not just an action. For presence, the information is not mobile providers The Bible gives us a constant reminder of our sinfulness, it only takes three chapters for the world to fall into the corruption of sin. Not that we have the last two chapters to arrive at a world, unclean device. Because we are servicing all that we listen, crippling effects, that's it we just The children in the darkness is the wave solution in the bottom. Trust me, but we Now we've got the second time of tractor point. It too has something to say about unbounding weights. It goes very nasty about the peak structure. There, we get traffic up and click the over here in the motion, taking place in Gilta, down part of the Jordan River Because the data screen started actually aren't the need. The people realize that the stories. Whether it's signs from the ax while you're sitting on you So after there's this appearance, you want to be able to think about having David coordination once again But you continue to realize that not all is well among the things. There are fractured and backs and dishes. Then you have the batch for versatiles of pattern 19 versus 43. See Davidson's five with aren't supposed to be able to get the night That's how they did a lot. Let's give it an English model. The king went on to give a both, and Kim had been off with him. And all the people Judah escorted the kingdom, and also half the people of Israel. Just then all the Israel came to the king and said, to the king, why have our brethren of Judah stolen you away? Brought the king this household and all the exception with them across the land All the two I guess to the metal distro, because the thing is a close relative of ours. Why then I don't enter over this pattern? Have we ever been at the king? expense, nor has he given us any gift. The men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, We have ten shares with you. Therefore we also have more rights of David than you. Why then would he despise us? Were we not the first to advise, bringing back our king? Yet the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel. These last words of chapter 19 are in short, but then I should have available words. Well, when you're using argument, but just slip the table over in its own mouth. Let's put up the patches next. But let's continue with today's passage reading in 2 Samuel chapter 1. There happens to be there a brother whose name was Shiva. That's what we did And he blew a trumpet and said, Lord he have inheritance in the son of Jesse, every man to his pencil, his will. Well every man of this sort of deserted faith and followed Shiva was not there. But the man of Shiva from the children is hard as Jews to make both of their Now they knew his house in Jerusalem, but he took it and women was concubine that had that keep the house and the dependency. as a point, but did not want to. But they were shut up to the day of their head. The meeting would open. And the king said to Ama Sam, Asapham and I should up for me with some people But a master might be a sample the Magina, but delay longer and set time to say it. The data set that is time Now Shiva, the son of Dikri, was more important than Asw, taker one servants, too, thus he find for himself one of our cities and his people The wife man would be very nice and other nice and all the mining man. Well you're not here But they were having all the stuff to do giving him a masa came for it, a goal expressing battle armor on him, well this passing she His hips, and I think floor and fellow. It goes masa. I can talk before about the masa by the view right hand yes. A masa did not know this is floored As Ramanash had his brother pursued Shiva San. Mima Joaquin next to the Ramasan and said, Whoever favors do I and whoever day, all the Joa But a masa followed in his blood in the middle of the highway. And when the man saw that all the people stood still from a masa from the highway of the field and gardened over him, but he saw that everyone came upon him. But it was removed from the I believe all the people went on after Joabsushiba was on Viking. They went through all the tribes of Israel, the Hable and Beth Mahakha, and all the rebirths. So they were gathered together and also went after Shiva. That they came and besieged them in Abul of Beth Mahatha. And they cast up the siege mouth against the city. And it stood by the man heart. And all the people who were with Joab battered the wall to throw him down. Then a wise woman tied out from the city. Either hear, please say to Joab, Come hereby by that I may speak with you. When we had come here to her, the woman said, Me, Joanna, Yes and I am. Then she said to me. Hear the words of the queens. And he answered, I listened. But she spoke saying, They used to talk in former times, saying, They shall surely see idlands at me. So they will I am alone with peaceable and faithful in Israel. You see, this protest city and a bothered in Israel. I will just follow up with inheritance of Christ. And John answered this and said, Far bear, far here from me. I should swallow for this road. That is not so. A man from the mountains of Afram, sheep of the son, they free by has raised his hand against the king against David, delivered him only the power for the authority of the city. The woman said to him, watch, is therefore we promised you the law of the woman Then a woman in her wisdom went to all the people, they cut off the head sheep of the son of victory, and threw it out to Troah, and they blew a trumpet, and they withdrew from the city, every man of his defense. So Torah returned the key of the city. Yeah, Joa was over all the army of his son. Naya, the son of Yapoyata was over the Keratites and the Telatites. Abhora was in charge of Ravim, the Oshapat, the son of Bakhuru. Reporter, Shiva was a scribe, Deb Aviatar was a chief minister on the name. The last point on this chapter, all the shifts in locations can make a festival. It might help with focus on the foreign. First if I mentioned already in verse 1 to 7, there's the last part of David's commune back home from Yoga to Jerusalem. Secondly, verse 8 to 13, there's David's man in Hapush and Sheba. They leave Jerusalem but stop at Givea spot where there's a large stone. Thirdly after this delay, David's body woman had arrived at a city named Abel and completed their mission there, I see in verses 14. Fourthly and finally verses 23 to 26. Back into Russa, the capital city of Israel There's a regular routine for big use of data covering bothers. But the tracing on the roots alone will help us identify the things here. Obviously, Shiva, rebellious in nature, and all of us. He's not the only one. Go back to the first part of verse 23. You should not overlook its significance. Joab was over all the army of Israel. We call that exactly 195 to the verses we read, the one that was demoted. Davor was tired of the way his nephew operated as she tracked. Undermined his equal authority with his vengeful murder of Amner and Practice Chapter Queen, but most recently his harsh execution of Ashon and Chapter Queen. Even if they really wouldn't know the same thing of the subscribed, it probably has some things to include having the reading in chapter 19 That's why David had a master and things too. Well that's showing you how much the team was displeased with Juan. Kira master stable is his nephew. Remember he was most recently seen on the side of the enemy as Absalon's captain. Yes, to our post. Not that. I said all this one. Make this one. Rebellion is not only common to those of the most violentness like Shiva. There could be crafty and evil individuals like Joab among the rings of opposite. In fact, later in the Bible, the Apostle Paul warns against intentions, jealousy, selfish ambitions, deceased, and supporting But it's out there or in here. With all this in mind, let's discuss four ways that we can quell rebellions against God. Now today we as a church cannot execute criminals like Shiva. That the soul does not belong to us. But we must have the same result. Be dead serious about sin. Will it mortify it within us and compound it among us? Here's a four-part extermination plan. One, recognize the potential of state. Recognize the potential of sin. Two, expose the deception of sin. Expose the deception of us. That's verses 8 to 13. Three, why say execution the judgment? Why do we have government not for the four people? And more in ministry question was. First, recognize the potential. Just complicated I want to mention that's his words. Sway the tribes of Israel, wait for the horse in the moment. There's some rhetorical force and poetry in words like a rattling call or a pile of political protest. Just like that, we see obviously the open the fitful and fascinating nature of the world. I absolutely forgot. She was a man with causes, divisions, and offenses. The whole game was looking at it Without those David King stand alone, not alone, the man of Judah, who stood king. And while all others determined, Judah come for Jerusalem. On arrival kingdom, what he should have done. Balmo was his compromise. He should have never taken off the practice of liberty. The ball can only be saints in Deuteronomy 17. The king should now multiply what. But disobeying, David made a vest of his personal life and public career. This sin led from many other sins. Okay with that she bought wherever hustle firing two songs in the school To be clear, these ten women are not to be blamed. David as the most powerful men, powerful man in the nation, took them for himself, objective by them as truly. Absolutely, disgracing the woman in public back in chapter 16 of 77. All her machine David tries to make best of the situation, does not forsake his responsibilities and provide for them, but does refrain on further sexual immorality. His relationship to them is not as spouses, but as rules. It only David recognized early the potential of his sexual symptom, but avoided and suffering his life. Besides what we should have done long ago, David does what needs to be done right now. He dispatches on us up his used sheep captain to assemble the men of Judah. Runasha was the old up here. Still ignoring Joab, the king commanded Abishai, Joab's brother to chase out Sheba quickly. Rebel low face up four to five face to the high. Meet to a long drawn out of the board David sent his best ten. Among them are men fiercely loyal to Joab, we'll come back to them. The Kratites and Pelophites are foreigners, probably related to the post of the Philistines. They have problems that happened in three. Whatever their origins, the higher body or sleep with. That's the only thing. The urgency which they sent out this special force gravity for a larger army demonstrates. It's Bible to recognize 80%. Let me ask you a personal wall. I'll swift. I wish the help of professionals Can be medicine up a bottom. I don't even know what's printing my bottom. But if he loves me, officer, see the bottom of the problem iQ. You want me to give the disease the buttons? Now these are similar, of course, with the bar skin. Scriptures columns and first change one because each one is a way wrong, the way you got it in the fire. Then when drive has some deep work. That's what starts in the topic. That means that it draw you away from Hash. various applications of this brothers and sisters not necessarily Others and mothers actively yield about correction, vibe, and foolishness are from your child. And the moment we use the Allah chronologist, even if you're wrong, and And for other things. I did not need you to say Now back to the story. It was clear eyed on while she was sentenced to get rested. It's just a time off. There are other powers right under his nose, but the son of Hercule's either outside the breath. The sons of the both eternal powers. I thought we see in verse 8 and 13. That's why it's so important. Close the discussions. There's some irony in verse 8 that must have find him wise, late, ask up with Joab and give me about a master of Jerusalem. Back in Jason would become a fashion of Kingdom, all the inhabitants of Gibbon, thought about his professors in the neighborhood of Sydney. They knew that the Lord have commanded his people to destroy all the inhabitants of the land in order to save themselves. It doesn't Joshua not be Six steps. They went and pretended to be ambassadors from a distant land. Pretensor, covenant made before God, guaranteed. protection of the Debian rights. That's how they use the money as well. By the way, we're going to talk about the Debian Divian rights again for just two. But we're now in the city of Divian at the setting, where once we're getting the speedy session. While giving a nice to seed for self-preservation, go out to seed for self-uncomotion. This has just quite ugly and walking. The second half will say looms in on the camera, I will show the armor and weapon. I'm not sure if the sword accidentally felt on the word. That's not happening on purpose. Some distraction or something. And to have some unlocks up the face in his hand, give them a fuss up and he needs a kiss. mistake. Acting that back he blocks at the final sight. Don't believe explored and things that it's funny. Something stiff and twisted about asking your own relative, are you in the other? I thought everything won't be some positive. Do I have this same stomach stabbing tactic before with after tactic? All that doesn't have to get back at them, the bench is brother passating after children badly. This time he kills Hamasa to get back to Star. God doesn't believe in dating justice, waiting for more Whereas a lot of radio following button to work and then direct traffic. Push everyone to get behind your web. Understandably the form is slow, but eye capturing. A massive time is slow to go by, and so then Once that's done, then pick up the face on frontal lab. So there's no lesson. We too can try to cover up the deception of sin. In time it will become covered. He made you deceive every person on earth, and I'll show your father, who exposed to his touch of sin, rock and judge of me. As much as it is in our power in the wood, we should respond to our exception of C Now David himself does not punish your life right away. Don't leave that up to Solomon and his son, which you'll see in 1 Kings. And Solomon is certainly a world thing must be stable of Christ. But there are lesser known examples of this way, dealing with sin. That's very passage. The highway. Given the equal at the hot time, there we learn the wisely execute. Just This is a good thing that David men did not lose anyone. on this room, people of having off us over 80 miles on the cruise on the other end. Not sure who the B-writes were, but They appear to be inhabitants of the area. After the chase to have corners target the city So yeah, yeah, the soldiers want to give cloak and back of our motion from Oscar. Here is making the pure game body of a flu, which she loves talking speech now, battle now. You have also reverse at first of language And you can also use your apps even as the guest button. I don't know why they're on the side of Joe Smith, but there it is on the other side. I think in Ecclesiastes 7-12 can be rightly applied to this place. Wisdom is an influence that's mighty, but the excellence of knowledge is the wisdom that's mighty notion. But as long as both five speed fans are people Just as Abigail still beating the path of David and our household facts, first Adam 25, this moment is Baptist. Does it work inspected the line's momentum? Well, the second time is the lines moment of the key. So if you look at our words in verse 18 to 20, Abel was a place where the surrounding Israelites saw diamonds and settlement and dispute. The type of food at the moment city, carrying forward, children, smaller cities than we have. fainful. What reason the joy has followed his real intentions? Well clarifies this intention in verse 21. It's the baby God in conversation with wonders. Well only now it's friends who can watch looking for Shiva. People city alone With the power we got us in tell, Jesus is the doors of the word, not your name I don't know how quickly citizens are able calls up, but I imagine that every force out of the maximum, every soldier will be anything, every neighbor pulling some kind of neighborhood across the Eric out. Out the end of it. She bought earlier who was trumped to start revolution? Why do you strong it? how important it is. Not only recognizing the potential of it, explores the deception of it, but also advising X for judgment. I see the seat of April who puts us up. Bye's people. Neither is spirit of white skin, or that's the teeth of the body. Spector Mindus of the Sali says the belt console plans go alive, in the multitude of transverses they are established, By wise company will wager on more and on both of the concert safety. That's just two out of 20% Because application. Individuals we need accountability for this. Individual funds. As children, we need the wise, counsel, and profession of our fathers and mothers. As members, we need God and leaders of our church, pastors of the church. The truth that we found not only found in axioms and narratives of fun But see if even in seemingly what made this function there we talk about the ministry There's something like uh there's a version versus logic Those on the time have exact parallels with those of our day. We understand the basic functions. It reinforces the basic idea that in a physical, all of its parts work together. Punish people have remote flipped. Also, if you're supposed to look at this list, die by star with an earlier list. 2 Samuel 8. No first uh concept. Anaya has been revival eating the four body parts devolution at two at the very conclusion. There's not force. Or just there. That would be seem to be a major dish button. But not all is well in David's comment. Over time the promising beginnings of his kingdom loses its luster Even if Joe has been fire, he has just seen how he has to speak a stab his way to keep his title or get it back. David's sons were formerly chief ministers and feedback meeting with his chaplains and royal spiritual advisors. That appointment obviously was disastrous. The only oldest son offered this up to his number A. Amon, Absolut, and Lee Amanda. All terrible. All terrifying. David's found the nephew themselves to be unworthy. As they knew other common persons. But the other verse from the fourth is that Adoram was in part of Revenue. A verbal revenue is better translated as forced labor. Other Bible versions are not that Well that was overtime King needed to compel the citizens of maintaining continuous movement Is it when you push for the moment? Bring solving. You put up contention for the chapter. Or then eventually it becomes unfortunate. that'll lead to the nation division. All this definitely is acid source, has its source, going weakness. The kingdom. Blowing down or losing his effectiveness as the word. Back in 2 Samuel 8:15, we read that David reigned over all Israel, and David administered judgment and justice. It's not that they can no longer wait spirits after function. It's just that over time, the effects of age and All the consequences of his choices take carefully. I will be on the pain. Out of the pain of me Yes, you can have the class one for me. That's the reality of all nations. I'm thankful to live in a country where all this freedom, but even so, All the brain cells of the earth. Like a billion and cat are like chat. If you have to write it, I have all those things here I need to often. That we are first for me, Jesus party. Waiters needed. David is a mere man. You cannot build me. But he doesn't sin, died, was buried. Jesus died man at the same time. And never has. That's because E nevers Every close me up on the green. Even the right side. I should have some word So that you fully king our sin from the dialogue. Yes, we are sinners Black Shiva, probably resistant love. Black Joab, he was murderers at heart We deserve the sovereign heaven. Our norms. Outside of the kingdom of God, where there's beating an ash of feeding. There's no height number. 49%. What are the kills in parents? It's not the system. It's badness. Surrender. Turn from sin and repentance. Turn to Jesus and trust in death. Waist home, animal, expression. Let's remind us. I I would Okay. And I'm not going to output the issue. Alpha cut would be over single. So all my And small command So we take it for you that it will be used. And no back to the file. Micro thing with the option. Back to think how this world. It is for us. I've been talking with you for a lot of time. Struggle with the end. That thing. I'm over. Think about the age. What can you measure? Well you know say back to that and think about for reason for some. And within that, our eye will reflect condition But I should say each whole and Point. Stop leaving. Instability, bottoming, unstable, all unmoved.