Let me direct your attention to Ephesians chapter 6, verse 10. Ephesians 6:10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Let me explain what we're doing. So hopefully you won't get mad at me for actually skipping a section of scripture. I've never done this before, and obviously we're not intending to cut anything out of God's word. But we, if you remember, last week we were back in chapter 5, verse 18. Look at that. And be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the spirit. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of the Lord. In this section of Ephesians, Paul commands us to be filled with the Spirit, This filling results in the speaking, the giving of thanks, and the submission in verse 21. And then he, as you are probably familiar with, begins to give specific instructions to different groups of people. In verse 22, wives. In verse 25, husbands. In chapter 6, verse 1, children. In chapter 6, verse 4, fathers. In chapter 6, verse 5, servants or slaves. In chapter 6, verse 9, the masters. Instructions To Christian wives, husbands, children, fathers, servants, and masters. We not too long ago went through these instructions as they're presented in the letter to the Colossians. And there's a great deal of similarity there. I'm going to save that section for another time and another place. Not because we're perfect wives, husbands, children. employers or employees, but because I am so burdened, I am so burdened for this topic of spiritual warfare Right now we are living in a difficult time, a changing culture, a changing church. And you and I are endeavoring to live by the Spirit of God and according to the Word of God. And so many Christians out there have forsaken the simplicity of Jesus Christ and are in danger of replacing the simplicity of Christ and his gospel with something else. What I see when I look at you every morning are people who want to do what's right and who need encouragement. We have often spoken of marriage, and I've preached frequently on it, and that's why I'm kind of going to go into the spiritual warfare verses. And then either we'll go back to the marriage or save that for another series because you're familiar with that content. What we're looking at today, again, is Ephesians 6, verse 10. And where the topic is strength from the Lord's mighty power. Let me begin this way. Are you aware that if you are someone who is striving to walk by the Spirit, that you are also someone who is going to have to accept the necessity of spiritual armor for spiritual conflict. A walk by the Spirit is a walk through a battlefield. That's the way it is for you and I as Christians. We're striving to be controlled by the Spirit, but this is not taking place in an ivory tower. This is taking place in an arena of conflict. There are those times of quiet reflection when you and I can step back from our spiritual battles. But there are also those times of overwhelming effort in the Christian life. There are those times of ceaseless faith. Folks, do you agree with me? There are those times of exhausting strong resistance. The Christian life is not the life of a bookworm or a scholar, at least as we would define the stereotype of those individuals. Sitting in a library with hundreds of books piled around them, sort of just studying the Christian life away. The Christian life, now that is not to say that study is a sin or that being a scholar or a bookworm is a sin, but you understand what I'm saying. The Christian life, in addition to being educational, is transformational. The goal of Sunday morning is not just to come and acquire knowledge like You come with a sack and there are stones I'm handing out, precious stones. You kind of just pile those in your sack and go home. The goal of a Sunday morning church service is for the people of God to encounter the Word of God and to become more like the Son of God. It's biblical transformation. It's the doctrine of sanctification. And all of these things are hard. They don't happen automatically. Maybe you were like me as a child before the test day. Did you ever dream of putting the answers under your pillow while you slept? And just hoping, beyond hope, that that algebra content would soak through the pillow and into your head. I can't remember if I actually tried it, but I did think about it. Wouldn't it be great if that's the way it was? Sleep on your Bible, be more like Christ. Sleep on your Bible, be more like Christ. Doesn't work that way. It is a battle. And I have to convince you of that I have to take a few minutes before we look at this particular verse and expand it to argue with you and even to scare you. I have to. Singing and being thankful and being mutually submissive, having being a Christian, a Christian wife who submits to her husband, a a husband who loves his wife Endeavoring to walk in the spirit as a child, obeying your parents. Is that easy, kids? Parents perfect? I'm not as a parent. Fathers, servants, all the doing this, it's it's difficult. And let me tell you why, folks. We have an external Enemy. He is a living being created by God who desired to be sitting in God's throne. He looked at the throne of God. Imagine this: another being of beauty, an angel, looking at God on his throne and coveting the very throne of God. After his expulsion, he now lives here, and let me give you Bible words that describe his intent to you. He wants to devour you. He wants to sift you like wheat. He wants to accuse you of your faults before God. He wants to deceive you. He wants to entrap you like a bird in a fowler's trap. He wants you enslaved. He wants to defraud you of your spiritual blessings. He wants to blind you even as a Christian. Now those are Bible words, and they should carry some weight. Devour, accuse, deceive, entrap, enslave, defraud, blind. That's the devil. That's what he wants to do. Folks, right now he has a myriad of demons. He has an agenda, and he's working that agenda. You're living in a world that has a devil, a being of incredible evil, and he is your enemy. And make no mistake, he wants your destruction. Not only do we have this external foe, but we have the an internal enemy, the flesh. And what does the flesh seek to do in our lives? What does the scriptures teach? Well, it wishes to allow us to be enticed, that we would be led away by our own desires. It wishes to betray us. At that one moment when we desire to do good, evil is present with us, and it desires that we would betray what is right. The flesh resists us, and we can become enslaved to the flesh. An external enemy, the devil? An internal enemy? Could we not call the flesh the internal traitor? What else? Well, then there's the world itself. The world is an environment of attractive temptations. All waiting to be enjoyed. You know, that morsel of sin is very sweet for that one moment. And if you can do it in secret and no one knows, well, there's a great attraction. There is pleasure in sin for a season. And we live in a world that is Vanity Fair. I don't know if you've ever read Pilgrim's Progress, but when John Bunyan's character Christian arrives at Vanity Fair, the town of Vanity Fair, There's every manner of temptation and enticement present. And all the vendors come out and flock around Christian and his friend, and they say, hey, come on, try this, try that, try that. And Christian responds and says, no, we buy one thing, the truth. And his friend was martyred at that place. Let me get you to open your Bible now to Revelation 12 to see some of this for yourself. I've summarized some Bible words and I've pointed out the enemies. Revelation 12, 7 to 9. What was the devil's intent? Well, go all the way back to the beginning when he was in heaven. What did he first seek to do? Revelation 12, 7 to 9. And there was war in heaven. This is Revelation 12, verse 7. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon And the dragon fought and his angels, and prevailed not, neither was their place found any more in heaven, and the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the devil, and Satan. Which deceiveth the whole world, he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. Folks, the devil was cast out of earth Raging, and he continues to do so even now as he is down here. He's cast out of heaven onto the earth, and he is war, he's fighting a war. Look at Romans chapter 7. Flip back to Romans chapter 7. The nature of the devil is to be a creature of war. What about the internal conflict that you and I have? You're familiar with this passage. Read it again, but try to read it again for the first time. Romans 7, 15. The Apostle Paul, probably far holier than I am, and probably farther along in his Christian walk than you are, and this is what he says about his walk. For that which I do, I allow not. For what I would, that do I not. For what I hate, that I do I If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good. He's saying the conflict is evidence that the law of God is right. Verse seventeen. Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me. But how to perform that which is good, I find not. For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now, that's hard to follow, but would you agree that that's a man who is talking about internal conflict? A real issue in his heart. There are things he wants to do and he does not do them. There are things he shouldn't do and he does those, and yet he agrees with the law of God. And yet there's this other. Something within him called sin. That is quite a conflict. Have you ever felt that way? And 1 John 2 verse 16. Just go ahead and turn there. 1 John 2, 16, you're very familiar with this verse as well, I'm sure. In this verse, we are told to love, in this passage, to love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. Think of the world this way. It's desire that is sinful. It's desire that is sinful. And it's pride. And what is the result of all this desire of the eyes, desire of the flesh, and this attitude of pride? Well, we see it everywhere. There's this entire sort of system or organis organized way of living that's grown up on planet Earth. The people of the kingdom of God are supposed to seek the kingdom first, but the Gentiles don't do that. Unbelievers don't do that. They seek for material wealth, prosperity, and comfort, whatever their eyes see, and whatever will comfort their flesh. Whatever will result as a as because of their proud attitude, sorry, that is the result of the world. That is the context. That's the hamster aquarium that we live in. That's the environment that surrounds us. And surely you see this. Good night. How many reality TV shows do we need to watch before we realize that that's a reality that people want? And it's really not God's reality. So we have a persistent antagonist, an unavoidable traitor, and we're in an ever-present tempting environment. Now folks, let me give this to you straight. Why aren't you reading your Bible? If this is true, and we're in a battle. If you're here today and you're not reading your Bible, I have to question you why? Do you not believe that this is true? Do you not believe that there's a devil that wants to devour and destroy you and your marriage and your kids and your grandkids or your great-grandkids? Do you not believe that there's the flesh within? Have you not encountered internal resistance as you seek to walk by the Spirit? You say, well, I just not that interested in the Bible. Well, okay. Bonapet, devil. Seriously. That is what the Word of God teaches us. And folks, why is it that Christians Throughout their lives? Why is it that the divorce rate seems to be so dangerously high? Why is it that Christians seem to fall so quickly into different sins? Why is it that the the Church of Jesus Christ Seems to have so many problems. Is it could it be? Could it be that they've reduced Christianity to a pile of musty books? In the library and to the life of a scholar, instead of taking up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and doing battle as they ought to I I really pray for you because the days ahead are are not good. This last week I was looking at uh Uh there's a website that's compiled all the different uh businesses in this country that are being sued for not giving in to the the current cultural revolution. And it has a whole list of Photographers and bakers whose First Amendment rights have been trampled on now, and they're all involved in lawsuits and they're being fined, and it's happening, it's happening infrequently now in this country Many of you work in jobs where the homosexual agenda is a given and you better never, ever say anything contrary to it. Or you could jeopardize your position in that job or in that company. Not to mention an entire group of children who have grown up And the divorce rate among that group is low because they just cohabitate, they live together, they have no sense of morality. And this past week I also read of a poll That's pretty conclusive that Americans are completely rejecting religion. They want nothing to do with it on an increasing level. The world that we live in is getting worse for Christians. But it's also a great opportunity because the gospel is brighter. The good news is more good, and there's more hope in Christ for those who find him for the first time. The message and learn the message. So, what are our options? Alright, what are the options for someone who is in the midst of this battle? We're going to get to Ephesians, but I want to go through this next. Here's option number one. Spiritual battle, all those three things. The world, the flesh, the devil. You could just give up. It's hard You could say, uh, this is I the the struggle of temptation that I have is too great within, and the world is too attractive, and you could be like Demas, who loved this present evil world, and he He forsook Paul. He just left. He was attracted to all that light like a moth to a light. You could do that. You could sort of cave in to the wor the thinking of the world. Or you could be like John Mark, who when the going got tough, John Mark got going. But he left. He forsook them. Now he did return and he became profitable to Paul. But when he really started, I'm not sure if this missionary thing is for me. You could do that. The Laodiceans did that, right? In Revelation. They were neither hot nor cold. What were they? Lukewarm. And what happened to them? Well, God wrote them a letter that said, I'm going to spew you out of my mouth. Decide hot or cold. It just kind of caved in. They had all the money they wanted. They had all the clothing they wanted. And God said, no, you are poor, wretched, naked, and blind. He called them on that. We are in danger of doing that, I think. Here's a test that you could. How do you view your material blessings and the provisions of God? How do you look at that? Do you view it as a means to glorify God? Or are you just like a squirrel collecting nuts and burying them in the ground? Are you just trying to accumulate as much as you can so that you'll be safe in the world? In this world, are you seeking the kingdom first? Think about that. Here's another option, and this one is even worse, I think, in some ways, although they're both bad. Turn to Colossians. Turn to the letter to Colossians, verse 23. The first response to the spiritual battle is you could give up. And remember, one step from the white flag, there's only one step from the white flag to the wedding ring when it comes to the world The second option is you could replace the power of God in your life with something else. Because it's easier. The battle, the spiritual battle, is too difficult, and trying to learn how to use your armor is too much, so you replace it with another method, another means to spiritual victory. That's what was happening with the Colossians. Paul's writing to these Christians and saying, you're complete in Christ. You don't need to seek for any external method by a be it a diet or the the The celebration of certain religious holidays or standing on visions that were people say they've seen or living living ascetic lifestyle, lifestyle where you you deny your body certain things in order kind of like a hermit Or someone who lives in a monastery. You don't need to do any of that because you are complete in Christ. Colossians 1 verse 23. He says, look, you're going to be okay if you continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard. and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister. The Christians of Colossae were in danger of being led away by false teachers Of forsaking the simplicity of the gospel. And the armor is called gospel armor, Ephesians. And that's why we're making this connection. If you look at chapter 2, verse 4. Paul says, Look, listen, this I say, lest any man but should beguile you with enticing words. For though I am be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. As ye have received, therefore, Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. You receive the gospel by faith, you continue by faith. Look out, verse 8. Beware, lest any man spoil you, the idea is carrying you away as spoil through philosophy and vain deceit and the tradition of men after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye're complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power. All right, look again at verse 8. There is philosophy, empty, deceitful kind of philosophy. There's tradition, verse 8, that men produce. And there is this rudiments or principles of the world that have nothing to do with Christ. They're not after Christ. You could begin in your life to feel the pressure of spiritual battle and you say, this is what I need. I need to start doing something way out here. I need to listen to what this man says, and that man could lead you away from the principles of Christ. There are examples I could give. Have you ever had the have you ever exercised your own spiritual faculties to the point where you're watching television and you look at the guy and you say, That's crazy. That's not Bible. That's not the gospel. I can't build my life on that. Look, I don't want to just call out yoga, Christian yoga. I don't want to just say, well, you could replace Christ with an with an exercise program But let me try to illustrate this in a way that hopefully won't offend you. There are a lot of evangelistic methods out there, correct? There are quite a few. I risen to a sermon not too long ago. There's a book that exists. It's like this thick of every known evangelistic method. I thought about buying that book, but I thought I'd be discouraged. Not sure I'm going to get it. There are hundreds of evangelistic methods. There's the way the master, there's E. E. , there's that method that we use for our cantata. There are lots of different ways to present the gospel. And many of us here know the EE method, and then we've learned some other methods as well. Chick has these, Jack Chick has these tracks you can give out with cartoons, the cartoon method. Here here's here's what concerns me. You need to know your savior more than a method. Do you remember the man born blind? And Jesus healed him. And the Pharisees grabbed him and pulled him in, even before he could really learn who Jesus was and what his message was. Was it entirely? And the Pharisees are grilling them. Tell us who was the man who healed you, who made who gave you sight? And the guy's like, I'm not really sure, but one thing I know. I was blind, and now I can see. And then later on, Jesus came and talked to him and explained who he was. And the man worshipped Jesus and so on. That man didn't know a whole lot about anything, but he had a personal experience with Christ. He had this personal time. I don't know a whole lot, but once I was blind, and now I can see. Here's what I'm concerned about. We as a church need to be so interested in having that personal walk with Christ. And make sure that we don't replace our personal, intimate, living and growing walk with Christ through the Word of God with this pursuit of a perfect evangelistic man. Folks, it comes down to this, and this is the word goes for any area of our lives. You are a witness not only to the gospel, but to what Jesus did for you. What has he done for you this week, today? Can you look someone into the in the eyes and without any evangelistic method, can you say with sincerity? Hey, I'm not a Bible scholar, but I know this. Once I was lost, and now I've been found. I am saved Let me tell you about my savior. And then you can learn a method of presenting the gospel that you think will work. Do you know the savior of the gospel as well as you know a method? Now again, I want to be careful. I'm not criticizing all these different methods, but this is what I think happens sometimes. I think that you and I subtly start to search for the perfect this, the perfect that, and we forget about there is nothing perfect in this life. But there is a perfect Savior. And He saved your soul. And yes, it's hard. We've got to get into the book and we've got to learn, but we have to be careful not to replace Jesus with anything else. Nothing else. Because now turn back to Ephesians. This is where I'm heading, because you cannot do it. You and I. Turn to our text, and I'll try to get there before you, but it doesn't look like they're not going to. The Bible's not cooperating In Ephesians 6 verse 10, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. He's about to talk about the spiritual armor, and so much of this armor goes back to the gospel. Look at it. First, there is in verse 12, I'm sorry, and let's go up to verse Let's just start at verse 14 for now. I don't want to preach ahead of what I'm going to go over. There's truth and righteousness, verse 14. There's the gospel, the willingness to present it, verse 15. There's faith, and there's salvation, verse 17. And these things all sound so basic, but when it comes to actually being strong in the Lord and in the power of his might, it's a reference to those things. It's the armor of God. And to succeed in the Christian life, we've got to put that armor on. It's so important for all of us. It's not a new method. It's going right into the gospel, learning it, cherishing it, living it, loving it every day. If you look again at verse 10, there is this strength that is in the Lord, and there is this power that is his might. What is that like? Look, I'm trying to wrap, let me wrap it up this way There was Creation Day. The Lord spoke. Folks, the Lord spoke and light came into existence Galaxies began spinning billions of years away. The sun, the moon, and the stars, and all these things just appeared out of the Eternal mind of God. That was an example of his power, his might In the life of the Hebrews, Moses stands up before a body of water that cannot be crossed and puts two bodies of water, but each time it parts. This massive, I don't know, millions of gallons of water, and it moves of the Lord's power. The Lord takes the gods of Egypt and stamps on each one. Colossians teaches us that Jesus Holds everything together. Folks, God takes people that are dirty, rotten sinners and he saves them And he does that with his power. And so you and I are commanded, brethren, be strong in the Lord. I can do all things through. Christ through him who strengthens me. Paul writes to Timothy to be strong in the grace with the power that is in Christ Jesus And that leads me then to this. As we get into this series, will you take it seriously? Will you want to put on that gospel armor? But I pray that you will. This is serious stuff. Let's go. Let's pray together right now. Let's pray.