Oh, good morning again. Thank you for having me back. Hope that everyone enjoyed the extra hour of sleep. I'm sure for many pastors though, it's like they're happy to get an extra hour of sermon preparation. Um but when spring comes around They get very nervous because they think that people will be late for like about an hour to service. But this time around, extra hour of preparation. And that's sort of the mindset of pastors on sub um Saturdays as they're getting ready for Sundays. But you m might want to ask, like, what is it that makes a good pastor? I'm sure that's maybe at the forefront of your mind as you're looking at me or But um I read this one poem which spoke to me and I hope that's true um of my heart and it's a poem entitled a pastor's heart written by a church member for her pastor at his ordination. The word pastor is used as an acronym So it says it goes like this. A pastor's heart is protective and guards his flock from Satan's snares. A pastor's heart is attentive and seeks to know his people's cares. A pastor's heart is sacrificial and for his sheep will give it all. A pastor's heart is tender and listens to the Spirit's call. A pastor's heart is obedient and heeds the master's commands. A pastor's heart is reflective and considers he is but a man. Maybe we can put music to that, Steve. I don't know. It sounds beautiful to me. Um very sweet and thoughtful work of poetry. Um Definitely spoke to me. And if I may add another line to it, I'll probably say something like, a pastor's heart is strong. Depending on Christ, right? I can't be as poetic. I gotta make it rhyme somehow, but but I do think there is biblical basis for that. And that's what we see in the passage for today. We'll turn there in a minute, but before we do, uh please allow me to give a bit of a background on the letter of 2 Timothy. Second Timothy is a letter in the New Testament written by Paul. Seems pretty obvious from the first few verses. This epistle, along with 1 Timothy and Titus, are known as pastoral letters. Since Paul wrote to individual church pastors. Now, like I said, it seems pretty obvious from the get-go that this is written by Paul. But liberal scholars today believe that Paul did not write the pastoral letters. They'll say something like: Well, the circumstances behind these letters do not seem to match the book of Acts. The theological emphases in these letters do not seem to align with other Pauline letters. The linguistic style seems different as well. But I think that these so-called problems with Pauline authorships are not really problems at all. The reason is that the circumstances of pastoral letters do not align with Acts is because they're written. After acts. Okay, so that's pretty simple for for me to understand. As for deferring um theological emphases Paul is writing to mainly church leaders who already knew Paul's gospel and doctrines very well. He wasn't writing to church congregations that needed constant reminders of basic gospel truths. So then Timothy and Titus, what they urgently needed were not just another review session, but instructions about church government and exhortation to persevere. So that explains the different emphases found in the pastoral letters. As for the differences in language and grammar Near the end of his life, Paul had to heavily rely on dictation and letter writers known as amanuenses. Uh he was getting older, yes, and his eyes and body was starting to fail him. And he was stuck in a dark prison, unlike the way he was in Rome first time. um when he was in a house arrest. Very different circumstances. So here's how pastoral letters, first, second Timothy and Titus were likely composed. So this is a bit of a historical reconstruction after Acts 28. Paul was released from Rome and it and continued his ministry, strengthening churches. He took Timothy and Titus with him to various churches he founded, leaving Titus at Crete and Timothy at Ephesus. He pressed on towards Greece, stopping at churches in Macedonia and Achaia. During these journeys, he wrote the first letter to Timothy and a letter to Titus. Now he tried to make his way back to Ephesus, but something happened at Troas, and we can see that if you go to chapter 4 of 2 Timothy and read from verses 13 to 18. So 2 Timothy chapter 4, 13 to 18. We'll turn to today's passage in a minute, but just want to show you what happened as Paul was on his way back to Ephesus to join Timothy. He writes to Timothy, bring the cloak, and I'm reading from New King James Version, bring the cloak that I left with Carpus. At Troas when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. Alexander the coppersmith did me much harm. May the Lord repay him according to his works. You also must beware of him, for he has greatly resisted our works. In my first defense, no one stood with me, but all forsook me. May not be charged against him. But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that the message might be preached fully through me, and that all the Gentiles might hear. Also, I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. Let's stay here for a second, going back to verse 13. It seems like an interesting request. Bring the cloak that I left with Carpas at Troas when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. What that verse suggests is that Paul was suddenly and unexpectedly arrested at Troas. Otherwise, why would he leave behind his cloak, books, and parchments? Those items are indispensable to Paul's ministry. Seems very likely that this Alexander the Coppersmith in verse 14 is the one who pressed charges and orchestrated this arrest. And this Alexander is probably different from the one in Acts 19 and 1 Timothy. And we just know his occupation. But one thing we are certain of, other than his occupation, is that he was successfully able to. uh denigrate Paul in trial. Paul had no one at his side, no friend, but the Lord helps him through this first hearing. But even still, it seems like his circumstances are very bleak, much more than the first time he was imprisoned in Rome. If you go to verse six of the same chapter, there's a tone of resignation here. Verse 6 of chapter 4. For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. So Paul is writing this letter to his protege Timothy shortly before his death. It's like his last testament or will, wanting to see him. Paul begins this letter in chapter 1 with thanksgiving for Timothy's genuine faith and the gift of ministry that's been given to him. He asks Timothy to be courageous. In associating with the gospel and Paul himself, even if that means suffering would ensue. He charges him to follow his example in teaching sound doctrine, and he ends chapter one with some notes about his friends. Some who aren't very loyal, like Pergellus and Hermogenes from Asia. They abandoned him. But there were also a loyal friend like Onysiferus and his um family And it's in this context of trying circumstances that Paul writes the following words in chapter 2, the passage for today. So he just gave examples of good and bad examples of faith. Now he turns his attention to Timothy, his closest disciple. So let's read. Um chapter two verses one through seven. You therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses Commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. You therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. And also, if anyone competes in athletics, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. The hardworking farmer must be first to partake of the crops. Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things. So the title of my sermon, Strong in Grace, is the first exhortation here in this chapter. And I want to consider Three relationships and three illustrations. Basically adding up the six points to help us understand what it means to be a good pastor. The three relationships that characterize a man strong in grace, whether it's a pastor or a layman, Are mainly described in verses 1, 2, and 7. Relationship with Christ, relationship with apostles, and relationship with faithful men. Christ, Apostles, and other faithful men. The three illustrations of strength and grace are in verses three to six Soldier, athlete, and farmer. So three relationships and three illustrations So let's look at the three relationships first. Foundational to a Christian is power that is in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. In other words, Timothy must be strong by means of grace found in the person of Jesus. Now, this command is not just for pastors, but for all of us. We're not truly strong because we have a stable job or a or a good education or we can bench press three hundred pounds. Okay It doesn't even come from our closest family members, coworkers, our friends, or relationships. All these things are merely channels or instruments of common grace, not sources of divine grace. That grace is found only in Jesus. I don't want to assume that everyone here knows what that means. The same grace that John talks about in his gospel, Jesus as the word of God who dwelt among us and revealed his glory, was full of grace and truth. The same grace through which we are saved. The grace which Paul speaks of in Ephesians 2. Though we were dead in our trespasses and sins, walking after the world, lustful in the flesh. And children of wrath. God being rich in mercy, revived us, saved us, seated us in heavenly places. How? By grace through faith. God gave us eternal life as a gift, not by works. And he's not done either. He wants to show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. As he says in verse 7 of Ephesians 2. Do you know this grace of Jesus Christ? That you are a sinner that deserves God's wrath, but he wants to give you grace through Jesus Christ alone. And if you are saved, we are living in this time between our moment of salvation and our future rich inheritance of grace. And in this time, God strengthens us by means of Christ's grace. And how do we apply this? Well, sometimes these um answers are not that complicated. In my current church, we admit and express our need of this grace by praying. Of course, the congregation is encouraged to pray individually at home, but much prayer takes place corporately. And my church too. So of course there's the customary opening prayer, benediction, and praise. But in addition, there's prayers of confession and pastoral prayer of petition During regular service and in the evening service, like intercessory prayer continues. However we do it, whether we do it corporately or individually, privately and publicly, we need to admit our need of God's grace through prayer. So first relationship. Being strong in grace means we have a proper relationship with Christ, the source of divine grace. But we also have to be in a proper relationship with Christ's servants as well. Jesus chose a handful of men who followed him from the time of his baptism until the ascension, and they're called apostles. They were eyewitnesses of Jesus' miracles and teachings and became the leaders of the early church. Jesus continues to speak through these appointed leaders And he even specially called Paul to be an apostle to the Gentiles, even though he didn't follow Jesus during his earthly ministry. And that's why we don't just have the four Gospels. We have the book of Acts, and we have the letters, and we have the book of prophecy, which is a revelation. We believe that Jesus continues to speak to his church through the Holy Spirit, and the recipients of that revelation were the apostles. So Timothy had this awesome privilege of learning from an apostle firsthand. He was Paul's right-hand man, he was Paul's son. And he was there often when Paul preached the gospel and taught doctrine. He received personal individual discipleship as well. But one thing we all have to do, not just hear Paul's words, but apply them, entrust it to others. To consider them carefully. We can't just be passive listeners of Paul. So Timothy had a job to commit these truths he heard to faithful men. And he will need to prayerfully consider and meditate on his truths, as he commands in chapter 7. Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things. No. And I'm so glad that Paul wrote these pastoral letters because let me just be honest with you, I am not a natural leader or this great pastor. I'm not an alpha male that inspires people to run through walls. I'm in need of Christ's grace and the teachings given through Paul. So today's passage is like it's like a soliloquy. I'm preaching to myself here as as much as it is for you guys. I'm gonna be like Timothy, you know, considering what Paul said and asking the Lord to give me understanding. in these things. But there's still obviously an application for all of us. We have to study the apostles' teachings and imitate their lives. We recognize apostles like Peter, John, Matthew, and Paul, and those who recorded their testimonies like Mark and Luke. So as we look at this passage, we need to be listeners of Paul and carefully consider his words. And we have to guard what we call the apostolic doctrines, which we as we find them in the New Testament. And just since we are a Protestant church, I just want to make sure that we all affirm and uh deny what is called the apostolic succession. Just a little warning. Unlike the Roman Catholic Church, we do not believe that spiritual authority uninterruptedly passed from Paul to Timothy to popes and bishops. The only way for us to be loyal to the apostles is by studying the word, knowing that the scriptures alone record the apostolic tradition. It's not passed on into from an office. It's not passed on to another human being one after another. Authority comes from scriptures along which record Apostolic Doctrine. So being strong means finding grace in Christ and adhering to his apostles. Being strong also means surrounding yourself with a group of faithful leaders. Let's reread the first part of verse 2. And the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit these to faithful men. Now, while Paul gives some details here, it's still up to Timothy to identify specific men and look at other passages that give qualities of these men. And see if they're faithful. And it would take some time to get to know and observe them and observe their lives. Raising leaders cannot be done overnight. Now, here are some really important benefits of having multiple leaders. My pastor Mark Deber outlined some important benefits of this practice. Uh for example, the great burden of pastoral care is shared. A bar a variety of perspectives is brought to the table. There's accountability, there's checks and balances against errors and lapses in judgment. But the most important reason for having multiple elders is that the Bible tells us to. Paul not only commands Titus and Timothy to appoint them, he lists specific qualities to look for and elsewhere. Another detail we observe throughout the entirety of New Testament is that we never see a lone elder overseeing a church. I don't have time to read through all the passages, but there's always a plurality of elders. So Timothy 2 had to make sure that there were qualified leaders to help them in Ephesus. So these are the three relationships that Timothy and good pastors have, whether first of all through Christ Okay. Secondly, be adhering to the apostles and their teachings, and then having faithful men around him. But even though God provides grace through Christ, guidance of Paul and assistance of faithful men, that doesn't mean ministry is easy. Timothy needs to display some grit. Paul asked Timothy to endure hardship. We know already that Paul is the well-known model of such perseverance. Uh this word translated endure hardship in English. It's found in two other places in um in Second Timothy, in verse nine of this chapter, in chapter two, and later in chapter four, verse five. And I think the verse nine of chapter two is the one that's Uh most revealing. Uh verse nine describes Paul's unjust p imprisonment as a criminal. Suffering for Christ will often lead to Really unfair treatment from others. There's a similar word in chapter 1 verse 8, except there's a prefix that in front of it that means together. In that verse, Paul asked Timothy to continue associating with him and suffer together with him. So sometimes suffering for Christ means You are unfairly treated, treated like a criminal. Other times you're just killed by association. You are maligned along with other people who stand up for faith. There's nothing glamorous about being an apostle or imitating one. So besides Paul as a model of inherit endurance, We see in verses 3 to 6 three illustrations of strength and grace. First, there is the soldier in verses 3 to 4. Let's reread that. You therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. So Paul wasn't a soldier himself. Um but he got to know the conduct and codes of Roman soldiers intimately. He was stranded out in the sea with them, he was shipwrapped with them, he was chained to them as they took ships guarding him in Rome. And I'm sure Paul got came to respect the character and the austerity of Roman soldiers. Looked into a little bit of what a typical Roman soldier looked like. A typical legionary soldier, he enlisted around Acts, I'm sorry, age of 18 to 20. They would have to serve about more than two decades in dangerous military campaigns, so no promise of returning safely home. They would have to carry a full gear, which includes a body armor, a sword, a shield, and a pair of spears, and up weighing up to a total of 45 pounds. Not only that, they had to carry a backpack filled with food and tools. They had to march and rank under the leadership of the centurion during the day and slept intensive night away from comforts of home. Sometimes they have to take turns being uh watchmen. And when marshes and bodies of water impeded their paths They didn't just turn away. They would build causeways and bridges over them. They made all these sacrifices physical and emotional to protect and expand their empire and serve Caesar and ultimately gain glory for themselves too. And you know, though we're two thousand years removed from Paul's time, it's not hard for us to imagine uh the sacrifices made by military men in our own time I mean we have Memorial Day to remember those who died serving. And next week we have Veterans Day to remember those who are still among us. And Paul wants us not just remember them, but emulate their willingness to forgo normal privileges of life. What does that mean? Anything in our Christian life, that means anything that would hinder us from properly following God through colours. And that means not just giving up bad things, but even good things that are not the best things. I mean think about it. Soldiers depart from the comforts of home and family to serve their nations. And um I I would say that many church elders and leaders make similar sacrifices in s shorter verse. Yeah. Now as much as I'm impressed by pastors who do great things, I'm really impressed with church lay elders. Right. The ones at my church, like I mean, in addition to attending all the major church functions and working nine to five jobs Like the elders in my church, like they meet every other week, actually twice a month on um on seven PM Thursdays, and I heard that their meeting sometimes lasts till like one AM And um so I'm just like, wow, that's impressive. And I'm also impressed with the wives who stay home and just put their multiple kids to bed by themselves. I have friends who have kids and I'm like, I don't know how you do that by yourself. And I'm sure that leaders at this church, elders at this church make similar sacrifices, giving up good things to protect others and to help others. And let's appreciate what they do for congregations. They're like good soldiers who serve and protect the civilians. They teach us to suffer dutifully. Another image is that of the athlete in verse five. And also, if anyone competes in athletics, he is not crowned unless he competes. According to the rules. Paul seems to use um illustrations from athletics and sports a couple times. See if you can identify it in 1 Corinthians 9, 24 to 27. I'll just read it for you. Um if you don't want to turn there. But um yeah, this I'll just read it. Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way as to get the prize Everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training. They do it to get a crown that will not last, but we do it to get a crown that will last forever. Therefore I do not run like someone running aimlessly. I do not fight like a boxer beating the air. No, I strike a blow to my body and make it my slave, so that after I preach to others, I myself will not be disqualified for the prize. So in this short passage we already got um some sort of track and field, we have boxing. We can add probably one more in Ephesians 6 12. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. So add wrestling to that. But what is it that Paul wants to emphasize about these forts? That there's rules A good athlete follows these rules and do not cheat. They're able to overcome these physical limitations, yet conform to the rules. Sadly, we see a lot of tragedies related to this topic. I grew up watching people like Lance Armstrong, the winner of Seven Straight Tours de France. And he was a cancer survivor, so it was so inspiring to see him compete. And then twenty years ago, um Mark McGuire, right, ignited the major baseball league with seventy home runs. I vaguely remember Ben Johnson in in back in my time in Korea in Seoul in Olympics in 1988. He recorded a stunning time of 9. 79 seconds in a hundred meter dash to win the gold medal. But what are what do all these people have in common, as you probably already know? Yeah. They were all disgraced because they used steroids to enhance their performances. I mean, if this just brought back memories, perhaps forgetting about them was a fitting and just penalty for their violations. But the point here is that a good athlete does not take shortcuts. They play according to the rules. In the same way, a good pastor does not take shortcuts in ministry. They may want to bring in lots of people and just make the church inflate with numbers. Maybe they'll get away from doctrine. Maybe they'll look for some attractive ways to compromise doctrine. Maybe they'll they're so busy they start plagiarizing sermons. They don't work on their character. Maybe they win Bible studies We can't take shortcuts. And there's no shortcuts for Christian maturity either. We have to realize we need to pray. We have to evangelize if we want our churches to grow. We have to do what it takes. We have to follow the rule book. We have to know the rule book, which is the Bible, and play according to it. Study it diligently, the way that um that way like a good athlete you may compete while respecting the rules. So there's a way to suffer and that way is to suffer properly. Finally, we see the image of a hardworking farmer in verse 6. The hardworking farmer must be first to partake of the crops, it says. Now, I was just thinking about some of the differences between the soldier and the athlete, but a farmer's labor is relatively obscure and very little recognition involved. I mean I'm sure we can think of famous soldiers or generals. I'm sure we can think of famous um athletes Like right off the bat. But like who is your favorite farmer? Like I don't know I don't know a single like yeah, I don't have a picture or a poster of a farmer in my wall, right? Ministry too can be a thankless job. Initially you feel as if you're buried and hidden away, like the season. There's not much a farmer can do after planting either. You just wait. You just have faith that it will grow. They can only trust that God makes the seed growth to be a crop. Much parallel with pastors. That's why I never seem to understand. If we look at passages like this, how we can have celebrity pastors? Like it doesn't make sense to me. God calls us to be like farmers. If God is the one who causes growth, even famous apostles like Paul and people like Apollos, famous preachers are merely farmers. You may know what I'm referring to in First Corinthians three. Paul definitely warned against lining up behind you know big preacher names, including his own So it says in chapter 3 of 1 Corinthians verses 1 to 8. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as the spiritual people, but as the carnal, as to babes in Christ. I fed you with milk and not with solid food, for until now you were not able to receive it. And even now you are still not able. But you are still carnal. For where there are envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not carnal and behaving like mere men? For when one says, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos, are you not carnal? Who then is Paul? And who is Apollos? But ministers through whom you believe as the Lord gave to each one. I planted Apollo's water, but God gave the increase, so that neither he who plants is any Nor he who waters, but God who gives us uh gives the increase. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive his own reward according to his own labor. So we are just merely ones who plant and ones who water. But Paul did believe that there will be future rewards for his labor. Just like when the harvest comes, farmers are the first to see the fruits. In the same way then, Paul believed he would be the ones to see it first. So Christians strong in grace have three essential relationships. First of all, and most important, with Christ, and then with the apostles And then with other faithful men, other believers. They also suffer dutifully, like soldiers, properly like athletes, and expectantly like farmers. As I said earlier, this is a sort of a preaching of a sermon to myself. But as you know, all scripture is given by inspiration of God, profitable for doctrine, reproof. Okay, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. So we should ask, is there anything we can do as a church to adopt this mindset that Paul is asking us to do? To endure hardship, to be strong in grace, to entrust gospel to faithful men. Is there any paradigm shiva? I just want to end with this one illustration. If you happen to visit Long Beach, California, You may want to go see in a port, in this port, a retired British ocean liner named Queen Mary. You might wonder what makes this particular ship special to have a place of retirement. Well, it's definitely big. It's about the length of three football fields. It was ordered in 1929, christened in 1934. This ship Queen Mary captured a nineteen thirty-six blue ribbon, which is an accolade given to the passenger liner that crosses the Atlantic. Uh in the fastest time. The ship would hold that record for fifteen out of seventeen years. So pretty impressive. But there's another reason, Queen Mary, is historically significant. During World War II, it was converted from a luxury liner for leisure and fancy dining to a troop ship for carrying Allied soldiers. Someone described as he was taking a tour inside that when you go in, you will see a partition with the reconstructed dining room on one side. In peacetime table setting, you see this dazzling array of knives, forks, and spoons. And then on the other side of the partition, There is in sharp contrast display of wartime austerities. There's this just this one metal tray that replaces the 15 plates and solcers. You go on to the sleeping quarters. There's no longer these spacious rooms, but bunks eight tiers high. The peacetime capacity of 3,000 gave way to fifteen thousand troops on board So a missionary was reflecting on this shift and began thinking about what churches are doing. Are they fulfilling the Great Commission? Are they being a good soldier? Are they being a hard-working farmer? Are they athletic in a spiritual sense? Are they entrusting the ministry to faithful men who are willing to fight? Are they being strong in grace? Are they fulfilling the Great Commission? When we think about our church, right, or when we think about FBC, does it resemble more of a luxury liner, or does it resemble more of a troop shift? Do you have a mindset that we're in a battle together? Do we think more about our comfort or do we think more about endurance? Do we see ourselves as oh friends that I see on Sunday or band of brothers and sisters? We need to be strong in the grace of Jesus Christ. We need to entrust the word to faithful men and women. And we need to show some grit spiritually. Endure hardship as a good soldier, as athletic uh as an athlete who plays by rules and a hardworking farmer. Let's consider these things. Let's pray. You alone will be my glory. Nothing in the world I see. You have cleansed and sanctified me. You yourself have set me free. Lord, we thank you for this grace, this love that you show us, this marvelous, glorious Savior's love for us. And because of this grace, Lord, we are here today and we are able to glorify you. And You did not transport us to heaven immediately, but you gave us a mission on earth to make disciples of all nations. Lord, this charge to Take the words of the apostles and entrust it to faithful men. And Lord, you ask us to have some endurance As we uh engage in spiritual warfare. We pray that um you would show us this week what that would look like. May we labor in prayer, may we equip ourselves with the word of God. Or direct our eyes towards the field where the harvest is plenty and the workers are few. Direct our eyes Toward the battle scenes. That we will not stand back, but Lord just strive after souls and seek to um evangelize to them. Lord, may you give us strength for this. Strength that is only found in the grace of that is found in your Son Jesus Christ. For all things in Jesus Christ's name.