Wonder if you guys are looking forward to the big event this month at the end of it. Just Olympics and all eyes will be turning towards France. And when I think of France, I'm indebted to my wife and my in-laws for my first hand exposure to the French culture. But there's still much I don't know. Such as how one can stomach eating frog legs like my wife. I just don't get it. Nah I'm good. That's why a few years ago I picked up a book entitled French Kids Eat Everything by Karen Levion. Not all subtitles are helpful, but this one is How Our Family Moved to France, cured picky eating, banned snacking, and discovered 10 simple rules for raising happy, healthy eaters. Now in the book, there's a meal scene with a lively debate going on. It's about an attempt to place the French cuisine in the UNESCO's World Cultural Heritage list. It's a list that includes the Spanish flamenco and the Japanese silk making. The French were insisting not only are their food the best, but their approach to it. Approach to eating, passion for it are unrivaled. The author, who's Canadian, took this to be hubris, arrogant, and elitist And then came the counters. French gastronomy is not for the elite. It's for everyone. My father was a bus driver. I work for a telephone company. I grew up in a very ordinary family. We all did. Actually, Americans are the elitist ones, the snobs. Only the middle class and the wealthy have access to good food and eat well. No one else in France everyone eats well. Good food is for everyone, no matter rich or poor. We actually we're actually more egalitarian than you are. Well stop here because I'm no nutritionist. I'm not French I won't be ending this debate. I'm just a tourist who like croissants and baguettes. But something in this energetic exchange stuck with me after I read it. Now I'm moving into a topic I am familiar with. The Bible speaks of a Christian culture of eating that brings together people of all kinds of socio-economic backgrounds. Around the supper, we can see each other as equals, as we're all redeemed by Christ. If that seems like too much to put on a table, here's what English theologian and church historian Henry Maville Watkin observed from the Early Church and the Holy Communion. In the whole range of history there is no more striking contrast than that of the apostolic churches with the hedonism around them. They had shortcomings enough, it is true. And divisions and scandals, not a few, or even apostolic times, were no golden age of purity and primitive simplicity. Yet we can see that their fullness of life and hope and promise for the future was a new power in the world. Within their own limits, they had solved almost by the way the social problem which baffled Rome and baffles Europe still. They had lifted women to her rightful place, restored the dignity of labor. Abolished beggary and drawn the sting of slavery. The secret of the revolution is that the selfishness of race and class was forgotten in the supper of the Lord. And a new basis for society found in love of the visible image of God in men for whom Christ died. And let me repeat that last sentence. The secret of the revolution is that the selfishness of race and class was forgotten in the supper of the Lord. and a new base basis for society found in love of the visible image of God in men for whom Christ died. You might disagree with that sentiment. You might think that the Lord's Supper is not that significant. Whether you agree with Watkin or not, we should pay attention to what our God says about the matter. Just listen to him speak through Paul in the sermon passage, 1 Corinthians 11, 7. seventeen to thirty four First Corinthians eleven, seventeen to thirty-four Now, in giving these instructions, I do not praise you, since you come together not for the better, but for the worse For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. For there must also be factions among you, that those who are approved may be recognized among you. Therefore when you come together in one place it is not to eat. the Lord's supper. For in eating each one takes his own supper ahead of others, and one is hungry and another is drunk. What? Do you not have houses to eat Eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. Therefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together for judgment, and the rest I will set in order when I come. Within this passage I observe three parts, verses 17 to 22, 23 to 26, and 27 to 34. Verses 17 to 22 introduce the problem. It's a problem that manifests when they come together. Paul begins and ends this paragraph with a note of disapproval. I do not praise you, he says. You could call this part Paul's reprimand. After the reprimand comes a reminder. In verses 23 to 26, the apostle takes the church back to the solemn evening, the Last Supper before Good Friday. It's a straightforward recounting of how the communion was instituted. Paul pears it down to his essentials. He comments how this ordinance proclaims the saving power of Christ's death. Finally, besides the reprimand and the reminder, there is the redirection in verses 27 to 34. That is, Paul not only calls out poor manners at the Lord's table, unworthy manner, he says, he's demanding change. The adverb therefore used twice signals some practical action to be taken in consequence of Paul's instructions. The action comes in the form of two main imperatives. One is individualistic. In the singular in verse 28, let a man examine himself. The second is corporate in the plural at the end of verse 33. Wait for one another. So I got three rules of dining etiquette for the Lord's supper. Three rules of dining etiquette for the Lord's Supper. One, gather to promote unity and avoid divisions while eating. Okay. Gather to promote unity and avoid divisions while eating. That's seventeen to twenty-two. I'll repeat that point. Two, commemorate Christ's death and proclaim its significance. Commemorate Christ's death and proclaim its significance. That's verses 23 to 26. Three, look within and look around the table to avoid judgment. Look within and look around the table to avoid judgment. That's verses 27 to 34. First, gather to promote unity and avoid divisions while eating. Let me start with the big picture of 1 Corinthians 11. Between verses 2 to 16 and verses 17 to 34, there's a progression from good to okay to bad in three steps. He starts out positively in verse 2. Paul's saying, generally speaking, I praise you, you're doing good. He's a bit more neutral from verses 3 to 16. He says, I want you to know as if the Corinthians were missing some truths about the head covering controversy. It's not a huge problem. You don't know what you don't know, so Paul remedies that. But then it goes from there's room for improvement to you failed miserably. I picture Paul like that time, R. C. Spro looked at the audience, exacerbated. What's wrong with you people? My view is that these instructions in verse 17 refer not to what he has just discussed, the head covering problem, but to what he's about to discuss in the rest of the chapter. And Paul cannot praise them as they gather for the worse. When God's people gather philosophically speaking, the whole is supposed to be greater than the sum of its parts. Spiritually speaking, there should be edification. But that wasn't the case with the Corinthian church. In verse 18, Paul says he hears of divisions. And he's convinced at least part of the report is true. It's been a while since he spoke of divisions. Recall that Paul began the body of the letter, this letter confronting this problem right away. He wrote in chapter 1, verse 10, Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus. Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. There's much work to be done to achieve the same mind and same judgment. And it starts at the Lord's table. Now even as Paul pleased with them to stop the divisions, he sees good even in these trying circumstances. Verse 19 reveals his optimism. During tough times, tough folks rise to the occasion. Those who are genuine and mature in their faith will step up. Such are those who are approved. They'll lead the way in endeavoring to keep the unity of peace, unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. That's how they'll be recognized among the Corinthians. But still, the problem is bad enough that Paul's not going to sit idle, he's not going to leave the resolution to others. He does his part, so he gets more specific in verse 20. When you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord's Supper, he says. He's not saying they removed the ordinance from the worship service. The problem was that what's supposed to be the Lord's Supper became something else entirely. It has degenerated into something more fit for the unregenerate. How could this happen? Look at what it says in verse 21. In eating each one takes his own supper ahead of others, and one is hungry, and another is drunk. This assumes that the ordinance was observed in the context of a larger meal at the assembly. Perhaps this meal is what Jude called the love feast. In verse 12, it's likely this full dinner took place before the Holy Communion. And as they gathered, instead of making sure everyone arrived at the table, The ones already there started stuffing their mouths and gulping down wine. By the time others got there, all the food was practically gone, so that those running late had nothing to eat. What a horrible sight that is. In short, the Corinthians did not gather to promote unity and avoid divisions while eating. That's taking it lightly, actually. Paul's furious. Look at the rapid fire barrage of rhetorical questions in verse 22. Of course, those better off have houses to eat and drink in. Since those belonging to higher social ranks are more likely to get off earlier from work, they could easily eat an early dinner before the church gathering. Or just practice some self-control for goodness' sake. Be considerate of others. It's not just bad table manners to get tunnel vision and eat every crumb and drink to the very last drop. Rich believers were despising the entire congregation. They were shaming the poorer members. Again, Paul has no praise for them. Paul's tone reminds me of some other passages, like the time he called out Peter for separating and withdrawing from his Gentile brethren in Syria and Antioch. This is in Galatians 2, except this time it was Gentiles hurting fellow Gentiles, and it's more about differences in class than ethnicity Or earlier, Luke records how the Hellenist widows were neglected in the Jerusalem church in Acts 6. And then elsewhere, James called out partiality, as some reserved good seats. at the church for the rich and relegated the poor to the worst seats. So how do we avoid such mistakes? What's the application here for us as a church? I think of two specific events in this month alone, one we're about to have at the end of service, the Lord's Supper. The second is the potla later this month on the 28th, right? Now in my view, we're not the type to cut in line or act entitled because of our salaries. We don't favor the rich and despise the poor. We treat each other as equals. All that to say I'm willing to bet Paul would praise us. We do our best when we gather to promote unity and avoid divisions while eating. So Not really an application, like just keep up the good work. I think we're doing great. Still, even with the best intentions, there's always a danger lurking of practicing poor etiquette at the Lord's table. That's why we must remember to remember. The reason we observe the Holy Communion is to commemorate Christ's death and proclaim its significance. That's the second rule. Now if you've been a regular church attender for a while, you've heard verses 23 to 26 before They're read often at the communion, maybe with the parallel verses in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Now, if you juxtapose and compare all of the passages that record Christ's institution of the supper, You'd see variations in wording and order that does seem to allow for some liberty in the practice of the ordinance But among the contest uh constants are thanksgiving and symbolism. In all four accounts, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and First Corinthians, we're reminded that Jesus gave thanks for the food. Also key or elemental are the elements of bread and wine, representing Christ's body and blood respectively. That's how the one and only last supper served as the basis for the regular and repeated Lord's Supper. As saints break bread, break the bread, they are to recall that they're made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. As they drink wine, they remember how Jesus shed his blood for many for the remission of sins. Now the blood has special significance in a covenant, as Hebrews reminds us, especially chapter 9, verses 16 to 28. Just as a will and testament does not go into effect until the death of the testator, so also death must precede the covenant. And just as it was the case with the old covenant through Moses, the same is the case with the new covenant through Jesus. But that's where we see the new is better. What the animal sacrifices and the blood of bulls and goats cannot do, Christ did with his own blood, washing us from our sins. With that cleansing, there's belonging, intimate knowledge of the Lord, mercy and forgiveness. These are spiritual blessings of the new covenant. This is the significance of Christ's once for all work on the cross. The bread and the wine help us look back to that event. So that's the symbolism. Now our Roman Catholic and Lutheran friends would have us believe that Jesus' flesh and blood are themselves the elements or are in or with the elements. We don't have time to get into a full debate here, but that can't be at the time of Jesus spoke these words, he had not yet gone to the cross. So that's one argument against it. But to some, both the Last Supper before the crucifixion and our regularly observed Lord's Supper after the crucifixion are symbolic. Besides Thanksgiving and symbolism, there are some key time-related aspects of the Lord's Supper. I'll go in this order, past, present, and future. Right. First as it is obvious in the context, there's the memorial of the past. Luke and Paul stand out from Matthew and Mark for their special emphasis on this memorial aspect Luke records the command, do this in remembrance of me once, but Paul, who probably received the supper tradition through eyewitnesses, just as Luke did twice, records the command. So clearly, one reason we celebrate the Holy Communion is to commemorate Christ's death. We're brought back by memory to the great work of Jesus in the past. But while looking back, there's also something powerful going on in the present. There's a proclamation. If you think that the only proclaiming done at our weekly meetings from this pulpit, read verse 26 again. As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you Right? Proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. See the Lord's Supper, as is the case with the believers' baptism, functions as word made visible. Okay? Through our participation. You yourselves become object lessons. You visualize salvation through Christ, unity and diversity in the body, helping others see the scriptures while they read it. So this powerful effect takes place in the present even while we reach back into the past. We as disciples sometimes overlook this important live dimension to our detriment. But the greatest detriment of overlooking it is for the unsaved who may visit us. They're missing out on the great message of salvation. So for us to proclaim it well, every time we gather for the supper, we should be ready. We should rehearse the gospel message. Be ready to tell our visitors that we're all created in our Maker's image, but we all fallen as sinners. We've done all kinds of wrong, breaking his laws, sinning in word, thought, and deed. The consequence for our guilt is the Lord's wrath, eternal separation from him in hell. But then we shouldn't leave them in the mire. Speak to them about Jesus, the bread of God who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. He's perfect, holy, sinless, yet he suffered in our place. He was broken so that we might be made whole. He blessed so that we may have life. He died on the cross as our substitute and paid our penalty in full with his life. He was buried, but rose from the grave on the third day, ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until then, all must repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus and trust in them only for eternal life. Heaven is a gift, not earned or deserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And by faith, we look forward to Christ's return. And that brings us to the third and final aspect of the Lord's Supper, the time aspect. Besides the past and the present, there's a future orientation to it. It's revealed by the short phrase at the end of verse 26, till he comes. Paul saying this ordinance will not last into eternity. When Christ returns, we'll no longer partake of it. The Holy Communion will give way to communion with Christ Himself on earth. He himself has said that night before the cross, I say to you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. With this future aspect in mind, you could say that the Holy Communion, spiritually speaking, is a small meal between two main large meals. I really need those sometimes. No. It's the appetizer before dinner if you want to say that too, but I mean that we as church stand between the Last Supper of Christ of two millennia past and the Mary's supper of the Lamb in the millennial future. We partake in the Lord's Supper regularly to whet our appetite for Christ's return. So then it's proper etiquette at the Lord's table to not only commemorate Christ's death in the past, but also to proclaim it in the present and to anticipate his return in the future. That's a lot to consider, isn't it? It requires some introspection. It also calls for mindfulness of those around you, and that's basically where Paul's going with verse. Verses 27 to 34. He's saying, look within, look around the table to avoid judgment. Paul's wrapping up this chapter with some practical action items. As I mentioned earlier, he signals two main imperatives in particular with the double use of the adverb therefore. In verse 27, he's stressing again the grave danger of partaking the bread and the wine unworthily, treating with contempt the body and blood of the Lord. To desecrate the symbols is to profane the reality. To offend the sign is to violate the referent. How do we avoid such mistakes? The solution is offered in verse 28 with the first imperative: let a man examine himself. The man here is generic. Everyone must be preparing before coming to the table What does that entail? There's much to consider in preparing. But the immediate context, in the immediate context, we look to verse 29. It provides at least part of the solution. If not discerning the Lord's body leads to judgment, then we should do the opposite. We should discern the Lord's body. What does that mean? This discernment has to be more than an academic matching exercise, as if to state the obvious bread corresponds to Christ's flesh. No, it's got to be much more than that. I tend to think discerning the body is like the children's pencil activity, connect the dot image drawing. I mean that first you look within and you look around the gathering and realize that those were like dots on paper. Seemingly randomly spread out. Together we are the church. The body of Christ. We have shape. We have form. We have unity. Here's the need to stop seeing the Lord's Supper as a highly individual event, cater just for you You're only a single dot. We must see it as it is, a group activity, an intimate meal that draws us in, pun intended. The consequences of ignoring this vision are disastrous. Look at verse 30. Paul explains why there's been physical ailments in the congregation. He links the infirmities to their irreverent and inconsiderate attitude at the table. It got so bad the Lord had to even kill some of the saints. That phrase many sleep does not mean that some of the members got food coma. No, we're talking about the Lord's direct discipline, like the time he struck down Ananias and Sapphira. It's true. God killed those who drank and ate in an unworthy manner. All this could have been avoided if, as Paul says in verse 31, they had set some standards and boundaries and judged themselves correctly. He means that if they had stopped to discern the Lord's body, if they had examined themselves in advance, if they had eaten and drank in a wordy manner, they would have avoided all the consequences listed in the previous verse 30. But alas they did it. Yet not all is lost. If we consider what Paul said back in verse 19 and says here in verse 32, the situation is not all bad. When we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. The judgment in this context is not eternal condemnation, thank God, far from it. The fact that the Lord took some of the saints home early, I call it early dismissal, reveals he wants this particular church to continue and have a future. He was purifying it. Our holy God wants the partakers of the Holy Communion to be a holy community. At times, our calls for chastening. This talk of chastening reminds you of Hebrews 12 and reflections of God as our loving Father. Let me just read a portion of it, verses six to eight. Whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. So if the Lord is convicting you, us today, good. It's a sign. You're one of his child. We are his children. If you think you've not observed the Holy Communion properly There's room for repentance. Look within and look around the table to avoid judgment Paul ends with another major command for practical application. There's a second, therefore, in verse 33, and the imperative, wait for one another. If one finds waiting too difficult, they could they should curb their appetite by eating at home before church. Again, it's generally true that those who had time to do this were the richer ones in the congregation, who work for fewer hours, surely they can make this small adjustment to their schedule. Make a quick detour. If it means avoiding God's judgment. So that's that. Paul ends this chapter saying he has other communion-related details. to address, but he rather do that in person. Now we turn our attention to our own congregation. A unique opportunity to practice what we just learned, okay, as we go to the Lord's table. Will we follow the rules of etiquette at the Lord's table today? Will you examine yourself and search your innermost motives? As we prepare for the communion, let's prepare our hearts. Join me in a prayer of confession. Father, we come before you, recognizing, as it says in 1 Corinthians 10:16, that the cup of blessing we bless is the communion of the blood of Christ. And the bread we break is the communion of the body of Christ. As we partake of that one bread, we though many are one bread and one body. But Lord, we confess that we don't always recognize this truth. We do not consider how this is a church event, a chance to come together for the better, for edification. We neglect to honor those who may have nothing, those who have nothing but you as their exceedingly great reward. The poor of this world you've chosen to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which you have promised to those who love you. God, omniscient and merciful, we examine ourselves now. Help us now as we search out and examine our ways and turn back to you, Lord. Forgive us for the idols we've set up in our divided hearts. Instill in us a godly fear as we remember that we serve a powerful and jealous God whom we must love with all of our being. As we look around us today at this gathering, we are sorry that often we've been too much of a consumer at church, looking out only for our own interests, not the interests of others. We come to church and the Lord's table to check off a box in our spiritual to-do list. We do not check on our brothers and sisters in Christ, who need our committed lovingness and membership and help. We do not assess our relationship with our church leaders and members. We set aside unconfessed sins and harbor bitterness. We do not consider the body of Christ, and so we do not eat and drink in a wordy manner. We repent of these errors in our motives and actions. Cleanse us now. So now Father, we remember your covenant with us. Be merciful to our unrighteousness, our sins, and our lawless deeds. Remember no more. We thank you that the blood of Jesus Christ, your Son, cleanses us from all sin. It's in his name we pray. Amen. The scriptural assurance of pardon comes from Titus 3, 4 to 5. But when the kindness and the love of God are savior toward man appear, Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us