All right, I invite you to open your Bibles back to Romans as we continue to hike through Romans in an effort to see the big picture and to learn this so that we can communicate it to others. If someone were to come up to you this morning and say, why is this world in such a mess? You go to church. You seem to have some answers. If someone were to come up to you, I should say, on a Monday morning at work, or halfway through the week, or when they're going through a tough time and say, why? What would you tell them? What answers would you give? Biblical answers, Bible answers that you could tell them in love to explain why the world is in such a mess. Folks, do you realize that of all the people on this planet, it is evangelical, born-again Christians Who know who God is, who know who they are, who know where they're going, and they know we know why life is so hard. It's Christians, Bible-believing Christians who have the Spirit of God within them, who are qualified to be the true interpreters of life's events. Even for those who are lost. Let me give you an example. What did you think when the Twin Towers were knocked down? What did you think God was doing? When we saw what happened recently in France, the terrible events that took place there From God's perspective, what were your thoughts as you thought through it biblically? As we look at even the recent events that took place, And now they're calling it, I guess, true terrorism in our own country. What do you tell people that God's thoughts are on these matters? As Christians, we have a resource. We know why these things are happening. Because we're sinners. Because we're born this way. Because people are born with an inner problem that doesn't have any solution in creation or in humanity. We know. We know And it's an amazing thing that we can look at a book like Romans and see, summarized for us, the big picture story of humanity, what's taken place and what will happen in the future. So far we have seen that Romans 1, verse 16 to Romans 3, verse 20 is the first section of Romans, and in it we see the decline of humanity and the fact that all are under sin. I want you to picture for a moment a group of people who know God are facing God, and there's this brilliant light representing God. And there are these people and they represent humanity and they look at God And rather than responding with thanksgiving, they turn away from God. Now, in turning away from the truth of the one true God, they see around them the creation. The stars, the sun, the moon, the things that are outside their house every day. And deciding to suppress the truth and unrighteousness. They make idols. What do they make these idols of? What they see. Well, let's make an idol of a man. Let's make an idol of a horse. Let's make an idol of an owl. Let's worship the sun and have art that represents the sun. And so they reject God and they replace God, the incorruptible God, for corruptible things of creation. And as they go toward these idols, the Lord of heaven gives them over to their own desires. What is the worst thing God can do to a man, to a civilization, to a country? Nothing. That's the worst thing that can happen. God just says, okay, I'll let you do what your natural godless desires dictate. I'll just take the my hands off the reins of humanity. And so in Romans 1, three times we have God giving them over and giving them over and giving them over to their own desires. And so humanity, unhinged from the true source of life Lives on this planet a life that is filled to overflowing with sin. That sin list is seen in Romans 1, the last couple of verses there. We are filled, the Bible says. Filled up. Look at verse 29 of Romans 1. This is a review. Hopefully you could say this to someone else in explaining why the world is such a mess. Romans 1. 29, being filled with all unrighteousness. And then here's that list, and you can see it. It's really bad. So you're imagining in your mind this group of people turning away from the true light of God, the true God, making idols out of creation, bowing to these idols. and just indulging in all their base appetites and desires. Wherever the wind of desire blows, that's where they go. And so we can see why the Apostle John in his letter of 1 John defined the world in terms of desire and pride. The lust of the eyes of the desire of the eyes. The lust of the flesh is the desire of the flesh. And the pride of life, the pride that keeps humanity, saying what it says right here, look at your Bible at the last verse of chapter 1. They know the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death, not only do the same, but also approve, and the word there could be translated heartily approve. of those who practice them. There's this applause they could give. They're over here. They love it. That's the pride. That's the rebellion. Desire. So if we were going to put this into sort of a panel of artwork in the first panel, you have these people, they reject God and they turn to idolatry. In the next panel, you could sort of Put a picture of the earth suspended in space and lines coming out from it, and then just fill it up with all these horrible words here in verse twenty-nine sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness. Maliciousness, verse 30, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters. I mean just imagine all that moral pollution coming off of planet Earth. Here's God over here, and here's the earth here, just indulging in all that moral smog and pollution. It's a horrible place. In chapter 2, there are three people who step forward. God is saying these things. God is saying that the earth is under his judgment. But there are three who step forward, and Paul is addressing these three because they bring arguments which might indicate they don't belong on that planet. They're in the planet, but they don't belong under the judgment of God. These are first the man who judges, the one who has a certain level of agreement with God's judgment. He would like to think of himself as standing back and here's God and here's those people, and he kind of strokes his beard and says, hmm, you know what, God, you're right. That is a mess. You're right in your judgment, but whoa, I'm on your side. I'm gonna stand with you. Go ahead. Go, go, get them. Sort of this kind of an attitude where I'm apart from that. And so Paul has to say here in Romans 2, whoa, whoa, whoa, you're look at verse 1, you're not you're inexcusable, oh man, whoever you are who judge. For in whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you who judge practice the same things. In other words, the judge who stepped forward, who tries to agree with God, he's not exempt because the reality is, even in his judging, he practices the same kind of things. Now, maybe he is not an Adolf Hitler or an Osama bin Laden. Maybe he is not a member of ISIS, but he still has told lies And lusted when he shouldn't have, and cheated on his taxes or something. He's still in the category of sin. If there's a spreadsheet with two columns, one is sinners, And the other is not, he still has to put his name in the column of sinners. He is without excuse. And when he agrees with God Paul is saying in Romans 2 that he is agreeing that he himself deserves to be in that judgment. But then there's a second person that steps forward. This is the Jew. We see this here in chapter 2, and he deals with it also in chapter 3 and 4. He says, okay, so here you are, someone who is a Jew, and you One of these days I'll learn to keep my glasses up here. You call yourself a Jew, and here's the Jewish argument. I have right in front of me here a copy of Part of the great Isaiah scroll from the Dead Sea Scrolls. It goes like this. It's a fascinating thing to look at. It's a piece of animal skin. It has stitch marks here on the one side where the two pieces of animal skin have been stitched together. It has discoloration from the centuries that it sat there in those clay pots. But here's the Jewish argument. The Jewish argument is, hey, I got this law from God. I've got this thing Whew, that is awesome, isn't it? God gave me a law, the law of God, the law of Moses. So I don't belong in that group. That planet Earth suspended there in space with all those lines, with all those sins, that slog. Okay, I don't belong in there because I'm in a separate category. I got the law of God. I'm a Jew. And God's response to that, and Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, responds to that and says, it's not those who hear the law who are justified, it's those who do the law. So how are you doing with the law? And by the way, this is inward as well as outward. Have you perfectly obeyed the law? Or you who call yourself a guide to the blind are do you not do the same things? And so the Jew, even though he has received the law and heard the law, he is just as guilty as the judge. Who's trying to separate himself from the judgment of God because he has disobeyed the law? The third person that steps forward is the Gentile. What do you think the Gentile says? The Gentile says, Hey, I didn't receive any law. This isn't fair. I've got no law. I mean the Jews, they got the law. I've got nothing. And you're going to judge me with that mess? And Paul's response to the Gentiles is, now wait a minute. The Gentiles, when you have a conscience. And you have nature. Now, this is sort of the argument of chapter one. I have before me a picture of snowflakes. Under a microscope, I've showed you these before, they fascinate me now. Microscopes are relatively new invention, okay? Bible folks in the first century never saw this. But it sort of represents the nature that's out there. There's the book of creation, and the Gentiles see it And they're culpable for seeing that and rejecting it. And more specifically than that, there is their own conscience. Their conscience. And what does their conscience do? Look at your Bible, Romans chapter 2, verse 14. For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do the things of the law, these, although not having the law, are a law to themselves. Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and between themselves, their thoughts accusing or else excusing them. What is Paul saying? He's saying, Gentiles, look, you sort of have a law. It's not the same one that I gave the Jews, that God gave the Jews, I should say, but you have the law of your conscience. It sort of creates a standard. And when you violate that standard, you violated the law of your conscience, if we could put it that way. So Paul addresses all three of these groups, and yes, there could be some overlap. You could have a Jew who is, he's obviously judging others, and a Gentile who's judging others, and but There are essentially three different kinds of people, and every time Paul is saying, no, sorry, you're guilty. No, sorry, you're guilty. No, sorry, you're guilty. You've all disobeyed. Either the law of God that He gave you as a Jew or the book of Nature, which you could look at and you're and somehow respond to that. By the way, I'm not saying that creation provides enough. Data in order to trust in Jesus Christ of Nazareth for salvation. You need a preacher to get to that point. But there's still culpability if the Gentiles don't in some way respond. And so all three groups, all three groups are under sin. And that's where we end up in chapter 3, verse 9. Where he says, What then? Are we better than they? And he's talking about Jews. Not at all, for we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. Verse 19, we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped. And all the world may become guilty before God. Now there's some there's some movement in there between the different arguments where he might address the Greek and the Jew and then go back. And there's a little movement there, but essentially that's what we're talking about. Finally, we get to this point. Everyone is guilty. Now, what I just did, could you explain that to someone? Could you just in very simple terms let someone know, hey, you know, we're in a mess today because humanity has rejected the true God. Could could you remember that? And could you say to them, look, you know all this violence on the earth and all and even all this religion could This religion is not mankind seeking God. This religion is mankind suppressing the truth of God that they see in creation. Could you tell them that? And could you kind of differentiate for them, okay, biblical Christianity is not a religion like idolatry is Could you tell them this? Folks, we live in a day and age which is it going to get worse? Could there be another terror attack in Washington, D. C. or New York City? I don't see how we could say no right now In the last decade, it has only gotten worse with the with, in my opinion, I'm not quoting scripture on this, okay? But it appears from the media when we watch ISIS and the barbarity of their methods The value of every person in this room has skyrocketed when it comes to interpreting life to lost people and preaching the gospel of Jesus. Christ. Can you tell them these things? Could you take them on a hike through Romans? Well, where does this lead us today? Quickly, there is this hinge, I called it, in Romans 3. 21. This is where we have righteousness. What's the problem? Well, There are those three people, and we're all under sin, and we're all unrighteous. Well, I can't earn righteousness, and that's the point. So now Paul writes in Romans 3. 23, there is the righteousness of God apart from the law revealed. It's witnessed by the law and the prophets. That's a reference to the Old Testament, even the righteousness of God through faith, which is in I'm sorry, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe. And so here we have this amazing transition where Paul stops making his arguments about the guilt of mankind and he says, all right, here it is, here it is. Righteousness is available. Even though we're all under sin, we can have a standing before God that is stable and he looks upon us as righteous. So this is the doctrine of justification. And in Romans 3, he wants, he just at the end of it, he nails that and he introduces the possibility of righteousness through faith. Now that is not faith. that God looks at and says, I will count, I will take that and merit righteousness as a result of it. It's more faith as a channel. It's we look and we are credited with what is not ours. Justification is when God takes something that belongs to someone else, Christ, and he credits it to our account. He who knew no sin was made sin for us. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So we receive Christ's righteousness, and Christ receives our condemnation on the cross. And so we are justified when we are accounted righteous just as Christ was accounted guilty when he was not guilty. Now, this is sort of financial terms. Do you ever get emotional about finances? And here's where we start to get into where we are today. In in in in the passage in Romans 5. Do you ever get emotional about finances? I mean, do you ever do your bookkeeping and you just start praising God? Well, maybe if you got a raise. Or if you got an inheritance, or if you found 50 bucks on the sidewalk and you didn't know who to give it to, so you felt your conscience was clear to just take the 50, because there's no way you could ever find who it belonged to. Maybe that would give you rejoice, you know, an emotional response. The truth is, when it comes to this doctrine of justification, it is supposed to, when it's properly understood, And when the results of it, sort of what it does for us, when we get that into our mind, we will respond to this. And that's where we are in Romans 5. Now, in Romans 4, Paul talks about Abraham and David Abraham was justified by faith. David talked about the blessedness of righteousness that comes when we're forgiven, and it's for everyone. That's the argument of Romans. But in Romans 5, if you look at that, we have this these results of justification. What are the results? Look at Romans 5, verse 1. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. That's the first result. Peace with God. The second result is in verse 2. Through whom also we have access, or could be translated, an introduction, by faith into This grace in which we stand. The first result of justification, peace with God. The second one, it's the standing of grace. We are now in grace. We are in a favored status. Whereas before we weren't, now we have the standing of grace. The response is rejoicing, exalting. Glorying, I could put it that way, and that's what we see in verse 2 when he says, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And in verse 3, we also glory, and in verse 16, I'm sorry, verse 11. And not only that, but we also rejoice. So what we have in Romans 5, if you break it down, is sort of the results of our justification and our response. Now you could just make a long list and sort of organize the whole chapter as the blessings of justification. You could do that as well, but I'm simply trying to kind of Define and build like a bricklayer would build a wall, that would be the results, and then look and rejoice at what we have because of Christ. It is so important for you and I to be firmly fixed on our justification And to be able to explain to other people what this means and pray for them that they'll repent and believe. And of course, to explain to Christians what this means. So first, we've defined justification as when God takes the righteousness of Christ. And credits, credits, it's hard to say that word, credits or accounts it to us. He credits it to our account. And so that radically changes our posture to God or our relationship with God. Before you were a Christian, you were God's enemy. Do you accept that? Look at your Bible at Romans 5. And you see it right there in verse 6. Let's read a little bit this. For when we were still without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. Look at verse 8. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, look at verse 9. Much more than having now been justified by his blood. We shall be saved from wrath through him, for if when we were enemies, here's what we were before we were saved, we were without strength. We were sinners. We were enemies of God. Now, this is difficult to get people to understand because there is that false religion. There is the illusion that mankind is born with a good heart. And if you only took a baby and put them in the perfect environment. Then everything would be okay. Have you ever heard that argument? Well, if they just had the right education, or if they just had the right, you know, economic level. Or if we just had better social programs, then then we could just elevate up this whole strata of of level of people in America to the place where we wouldn't have the kind of violence. And problems that we have. Now, it is possible. Am I saying education is worthless? No. Am I saying that all social programs are worthless? No. Am I saying they have no effect on humanity? No. But when it comes to our position and heart attitude toward God, they change nothing. Every time a child is born into this world, think of this. Every time a child is born into this world, God has one more enemy to deal with. That is what the scriptures teach us. You might say, well, they're babies. Okay, well, they're still enemies that are in baby form. What does this mean? This means that as we grow, our lifestyle and our posture is going to be in the idolatry. In the desire, and in that world that has made itself an enemy of God. The things that we love as we grow up are different. Than the things God loves. For example, did you know that God loves, loves, loves, loves, loves, loves the truth? He cannot lie. And yet there's something in all of us that when we're backed into a corner, And our comfort is on the line. I mean, we we're being accused of something, or we have to own up to something, or or we could potentially lose something. We want to shift. The blame right off of ourselves. Adam and Eve in the garden is the very first example of that because God looks at Adam and says, What have you done? And what does Adam do? The woman that you gave me. Now, what does Eve do? The snake. Of course it was. The devil is the author of sin and of lying, so there's truth to that. But there was this no, look No, look, there was this blame shifting that just came right along. God does not, that is not God. He is truth in the inward parts. He is truth every word he has ever said. He is light. And he will never lie to his creatures, the things, the people that he has made. And yet, you and I, from the moment we're born, we have an innate desire of self-preservation, and we are willing to shift the blame to others. And we have to, once we're saved, And we have a new nature within us. We desire to fight that desire. We don't want to be liars. We want to put off the old man, which does that, and put on the new. What happens when you have a lot of unregenerate people in a group and they have no motivation to be truthful? Well, someone might say, well, you have American politics. Well, there's a lot of truth to that, isn't there? Do you ever wonder what the truth is? I mean, even lost people wonder what the truth is because you turn on CNN or Fox News and they have truth truth test or truth tracker or what do they call it on there? Any other alright, here was the speech we just heard. Now let's do a fact check and let's see what was true in this and what wasn't true in this. And this is the way we are. And when we as unregenerate people desire to preserve ourselves at any cost, even the cost of truth, we are setting ourselves in opposition to God. Because how can two walk together, Amos said, the prophet Amos in the book of Amos in the Old Testament? How can two people walk together except they be agreed? And if we are in our nature desiring something that God does not, suddenly we are apart. And when God turns to us and wants the truth, Have you ever had this happen to you? Have you ever had someone you love demand that you tell the truth and you don't want to? What did that do to your relationship with that person? Did it help it? When you saw them walk in the door and you still hadn't told them the truth, did that make you want to go up and give them a hug and just pour out your heart to them? What if you let that go on for years? What does that do to a relationship? If every time you see an individual, that individual Has this, you need to tell me the truth. You kind of get tired of that accusation, probably. When I was a child, and I if I lied to my parents and my parents were around, I would go the other direction. And there's that break. And in biblical terms, it's called reconciliation. We are irreconciled. We are in enity with God. That's what it's called. So why am I saying all this? What does it feel like when that's all gone? Now the peace Of God. We sang a lovely song this morning called Like a River Glorious Is God's Perfect Peace. And that entire song is about a different kind of peace, a subjective peace, feeling peaceful. This is different. This is the objective peace when a warring party puts down their weapons and the war is over. Now, in this case, it is not that God must be reconciled to us. Let me get you to turn to a passage. Turn to Colossians 1. Look at Colossians one, verses twenty one and twenty two. It says, and you who once were alienated And enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now has he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. The one who is being reconciled in this passage and in every passage in the New Testament. Is not God reconciled to us? It is us in this state. Alienated, verse 21, enemies in our mind, and we're working these wicked works. And we are making ourselves by choice his enemy. But when we are reconciled to God, we cease in our animosity and in our hatred. We've been changed. We have peace. It's objective. It's true. It hasn't, of course, how we feel. Is affected by what we know as truth, but even if you don't feel it, it doesn't change the fact that it is so. You have peace with God. There is no animosity now in your hearts. And there is no reason why God cannot put you in this favored status of grace in which we stand. It's completely changed. And it goes from enemy to sons of God. To God's desire is to help you all the way through. Through life, every detail, all the things that go right in your life, and all the things that go wrong are for your good. God's going to manage all of that. There's this there's a cessation of hostilities. If I could put it this way. There's a cessation of opposition between God's agenda and ours, and there's a cancellation of expected wrath and judgment. Judgment Day has been canceled for you. No hell to pay, no lake of fire, no intense wrath from him, you are now free from that condemnation We, because of who we are, and I'll turn back to Romans quickly, Romans 5. Because of what he has done for us in Christ, in giving us hit Christ's righteousness, imputing it to us, crediting it to our account, there is no there is no need for anger, and there is no need for us to be his enemies. It's difficult to find a good illustration for this in modern life because I think you and I have almost forgotten how how good it feels to be to have peace. We live in a country where the divorce rate is high and people are constantly in conflict. It seems that way. Families are battling and torn, and we we've kind of lost, perhaps we have lost touch with the joy of the psalm that says how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together. in unity. And to think that we can have that unity with God, it's an amazing thing. You get up in the morning and God is your father, and he loves you. And you go through your day and you feel horrible. But it doesn't change the fact that God is your father and he loves you and you have peace with him And you do something you shouldn't do, and I, ah, I sinned. And instead of running into the garden to hide from him, you run right up to him And he's not going to clobber you over the head and say, That's it. Hell, an extra room for you down there. No, it's all over. You run up to him and say, I blew it. Help. And he scoops you up in his arms and says, all right, now this is what you need to do next time. Here's the answer: the spirit and illumination and the word of God. I mean, it's a totally different kind of thing. And when we start dwelling on it and letting this kind of truth saturate our minds, it just changes our outlook on everything in life, doesn't it? Shouldn't it? The first result of justification, we're back in Romans 5. We have peace with God. The second in verse 2 is we now have access in this standing of grace Verse 2 says, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand. The contrast of the standing in grace would be the standing in condemnation. Now this also is an amazing thing. In the first three chapters of Romans, it is that we're all under sin. We're all sinners, Jew, Gentile, the judge. And we all deserve the condemnation of God. We are accused and condemned, justly so. After salvation, are you still accused of sin? How many of you think you're still accused of sin, that something still in you accuses you of sin? Well, you probably should raise your hand because you still have your conscience Right? You still have your conscience. You still have, but we would probably use a different word. We might use the word conviction of sin. Perhaps in English we'd use that word. Your conscience convicts you of sin, but who else has come to live inside of you? The Spirit of God, and He has access to all that you are. He is God the Spirit. Do you think the Spirit of God Convicts us of even more sin after we're a Christian than before you were a Christian? What do you think? From my experience, it sure seems like he does. I mean, I now know when I am hoping for something that's sinful. Or I have my, I look at a motivation and I go, whoa, my motivations are all off. This is total pride. And if I pray about something long enough, I begin to think, Who man, I'm really evil. I'm sinful. I need the grace of God. And that's the point. Here's a contrast. Try to follow this. Before you're a Christian, The law of God, it accuses you, justly so, and the result is condemnation. That's all. You sin, you deserve judgment After you're a Christian, you still have the accusation. We might call it conviction. And it even seems to be at a deeper level because the Spirit is now in us. But what has been removed? The condemnation is gone. What is in its place? Grace. Grace Grace. So as before it was accusation, woe, condemnation. Now it's accusation, conviction. Grace. Get the grace you need to overcome the sin problem. Get the grace you need to do right. Walk in the Spirit, and you won't fulfill the lust of the flesh. Romans 6, you're united with Christ. It's totally different. And we have access into this. We have our very introduction into this new standing because we are now justified, declared righteous before the Father. That's an amazing thing. It's like, I don't know, you could put it this way, it's like the lenses through which we see life. Peace and grace. Peace and grace. And so we must quickly here's how we respond. The first way we respond is we know where we're going. We have this hope of the glory of God. And in the context here, the word hope being used. Current faith about a promise that has to do with the future. It's probably a reference to find we have this current hope and expectation, confident expectation that one day It's all going to be done. We're going to experience the full glory of God. Just like it says in Ephesians, when all things are summed up in Christ, we know where we're going. And you know what? Here's where it is: we're headed to glory. Think about that. We're headed to glory. We have peace with God. We have a standing in grace. We're going to see the glory of God. Whether we die tomorrow or whether the rapture occurs, the end is assured. We also, secondly, we have a completely different view on the present. We know what life's about right now, and that look at look at what you see there in verse 3. And not only this, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing some things about tribulation. Now the person out there, they look at what life is and they are scared. A lost person, their tire blows up and they have to scrape to get the money to replace the tires on their car, or they have a child with cancer. And all these bad things happen and they have no context. They know nothing about what's going on. Life is luck and the sort of this capricious all these circumstances and I I just don't know. You know, fate, destiny, uh You know, maybe I could have improved this, but you and I, as justified sinners, we know that our tribulations are not to destroy us and that they won't destroy us. What do they do? They work for us. Look right there. Look at your Bible again at verse 3. It says, knowing that tribulation produces. Now think of that. To a lost person, a sinner who is dying and going to hell, all their tribulations are subtractions. They take away, they lose. But for the Christian, it's a plus. It produces something, it adds to the Christian's life. That is totally different. What does it produce? Well, it says here, perseverance and perseverance, character, and character, more hope. We look at the future and the glory of God and we have hope. We look at our tribulations and they produce in us eventually more hope. It's amazing. Amazing what God has given us. And hope, verse 5, is not going to disappoint because the Spirit of God helps us. Look at what it says. Because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. The Holy Spirit who is within us, there is some effect he has within our hearts, our inner man, by pouring out this concept of love. And then the the ver if you look down at verses six all the way through to verse. 10, there is the facts that stimulate that love. We were enemies, we were weak, we were ungodly, Christ died for us. Wow, that's a demonstration. of the love of God. How much did he love us? Well, verse 8. God demonstrates his own love for us in that while we were still sinners, he died for us. Wow. You dwell on that objective reality, and the Spirit of God pours the love of God in your heart, and you experience the subjective feeling of that love, if I could put it that way. So, how do we respond? We have hope in the glory of God. We have a different perspective on our present, on the tribulations that we're going through. And we we just, I love this expression in verse 11, and not only that, but we rejoice in God Himself. Imagine being someone's enemy and you hate him. You hate his ways of truth and righteousness. You are not reconciled to him. And now you are so changed, and your attitude toward him is so changed that you rejoice In him, thoughts of his character, his righteousness, his love, his mercy, his holiness. You love God, and you there's just this There's this fellowship that you have in the things that He is, if we could put it that way, His qualities, His perfections, His attributes, because verse 11. We do it through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received. Now in the King James Version it translates that Greek term Atonement, but it is reconciliation through whom we have now received the reconciliation. The emphasis here is I can now get really, really, really close to God. Because we are reconciled, and I can just glory in him. I can just rejoice in him, and there is no impediment. All my sins have been laid on Christ. I have a justified status. I've been accounted righteous because of my faith, because I have faith in the cross. I can just rejoice in him. Wow, what a difference. I remind you of that huddled group of people. looking at the glory of God at the beginning. They knew God. They saw nature. They saw God's divine nature and his ability But they weren't thankful and they rejected him. And I remind you of the idolatry. I remind you of the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. I remind you of that image. Of Earth hung in space with the moral filth and smog around that dark planet. And now someone in that mess His sins have been so removed from him, his position so radically changed that in the middle of that mess, he can look up to his father, and there's this relationship. This living thing, and he just glories in it. And all that filth has been taken away and all that sin has been forgiven And can you not understand why David said, Blessed are those whose lawless thieves are forgiven and whose sins are covered? Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. Can you not enter into the emotion of that to feel, wow, what I have in Christ What else could I ever need? And when we think this way, doesn't it put the flat tires in the proper perspective And the diseases that we get and the troubles with our jobs, and does it not put it all in the proper perspective Yes, we have tribulations. But if you're here today as a believer in Christ, you are justified. You have been given salvation.