I want to read to you a passage, you don't have to turn there, but this is 2 Corinthians chapter 10. I'm just going to read it to you and think about what Paul is writing to these Corinthians. He says, I beg you that when I am present, I may not be bold with that confidence by which I intend to be bold against some who think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal But mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments And every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. And being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled You know, one of the striking things about Christianity is that it doesn't matter when you get saved, whether it's when you're 10 or when you're 50, you're handed a sword. Think of that. A newly born Christian and here is the sword in his hand. It's a striking image, a child and a sword. And yet it is so because in the Christian life we are in the business of warfare. We are not like the Muslims who take that literally and would go out and harm someone. But we have the warfare metaphor in the New Testament for a reason. Folks, it's true. The devil tries to take us out. He has teeth and the mane of a lion, and he will devour us. He has darts and he dips them in tar and lights them on fire and shoots them at us. There are casualties in the Christian war. And we all know this. We know because we've observed it in our culture, we've seen the fall of great leaders But we also know it because we feel in our own hearts, isn't it so, folks? You feel in your own spirit that you are prone to wander, as the songwriter said. But God has not left us defenseless. He hasn't left us wandering in the wilderness, wondering what to do In this passage, 2 Corinthians chapter 10, we have some amazing effects of our weaponry, what they can accomplish. They're striking. Just listen again. Pulling down strongholds. A stronghold is a defensive position that has existed for some time and is very hard to assail and vanquish. It's been there. It's something that you can't just pull down overnight. It's not just one man standing in a field with a rifle. It's artillery, it's an embankment, it's something that is you'd have to really think twice about approaching. And yet Paul is writing that our weapons are mighty for pulling those things down. for going after the strongholds. Not only this, the strongholds that are mentioned here, arguments That is logical, seemingly good-sounding, well-written arguments. They can be pulled down. And anything, the verse goes on to say, that exalts itself against The knowledge of God. How many of these things exist in our culture today and in our in America? Many, many of these things. Our weapons are able, in fact, to bring every thought. Every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. Now that is amazing. When you think about what's happening in the world today, when you think about the confusion. That surrounds the most basic things in our culture. The revolution of the 60s that resulted in where we are today. The fact that families and relationships and the definition of masculinity and femininity are all turned upside down and inside out. The divorce rate, the fact that people just cohabit because that's just the thing to do. The corruption in government and in the business world Things that are just taken for granted as standard operating procedures. And there, would you not agree with me that there are many strongholds in our lives today that we can see? Everywhere. Not to mention blatant materialism and commercialism, being overwhelmed by covetousness in the American culture. And yet, folks, I have to start the sermon this way. Do you really believe that you hold such powerful, powerful weapons? That you yourself could do this, that you could pull down a stronghold, that you could dismantle a wise argument, and that you could bring into captivity every thought. It's an amazing thing. And you know, there are times when even children can do it. I'm reminded of a story I read about a family who lived in the USSR during the days of the communist regime, which still exists today, let's face it. But that was back when it was official in the USSR. And the man was a believer. And he didn't have homeschooling as an option or Christian school as an option. His kids were in the communist-run propaganda machine that was an elementary school. And every day his daughter would go in there and she would just be blatantly bombarded with evolution and the value of communism. And the teacher had discerned that this particular child was not for the things that he was teaching. And so this child was ostracized and pushed out and persecuted because of what she believed. A child in that situation. And yet, in this story, the child was able, think about this. I mean, really think about this: a little child able to stand up against the communist Teacher who was trying to indoctrinate her with lies. And she was able to, with very simple faith, Stand firm and not give up on her Christianity. It's an amazing thing. Now look, I know that whole you know, Christian school, homeschooling, our parenting as Christians, we're all working hard at this kind of thing, and even as grandparents and great grandparents trying to be an influence. But today we're looking at this whole issue of the sword of the spirit. You're in Ephesians 6, right? Let's just pick up in verse 13. Okay? We're supposed to stand having girded our waist with truth. Putting on the breastplate of righteousness. And we're supposed to have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. We're supposed to take the shield of faith And the helmet of salvation. And verse 17 says, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Now you have a picture on the front of your bulletin of a sword. It's not a very well illustrated one, but it is an okay rendition of what an old Roman sword would have looked like. It's a shorter. There's a scabbard there. It can be pulled out and used. Obviously, it is the only defensive weapon and offensive, although The shield, if you look at that sort of bump on the front of the shield, that could be used to crack skulls. So arguably your shield could be used as an offensive weapon. But the sword definitely is an offensive weapon. You can parry a blow defensive, or you can thrust and cut and harm the other person You can take ground with the sword, whereas with the shield, you're just sort of standing your ground and avoiding those fiery darts. You can get your weapon out, your sword, and move forward with it. And this really is what's necessary for the gospel to go out, right? Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. So we as Christians are always on the move, and we are trying to take ground. We're not just trying to keep it. We want to take it with the gospel of Christ. I want you to notice first, if you look at the phrase, it is the Spirit's sword. Alright, the sword of the Spirit. Now, what does that mean? Well, I want to just point out a couple things about the Spirit and then attach that to the idea of the sword. First, we know that the Spirit is God, right? God the Spirit, how do we know that? You might want to write this down. Because the Trinity is one of those forgotten doctrines that are so important to us as Christians that we don't talk a whole lot about. First, what we see in the Bible is the Spirit has the same types of attributes that only God has. He is described as having those attributes and abilities. If I could get you to, oh let me just give you a simple one. Where can I flee from your spirit? Where can I go from your presence? If I take the wings of the dawn and fly to the undermost parts of the sea, If I'm in heaven, you're there. If I'm in hell, you're there. This is a doctrine on the omnipresence of God, the fact that He is everywhere at all times. And yet there is, where can I flee from your spirit? We have passages like that where the Spirit of God Is said to do the things that only God can do. It begins all the way back in Genesis, where the Spirit of God hovered over creation. And so we I don't know how many of these passages I should give you because we're going to quickly run out of time. Let me just give you some to write down. Alright? You've got Acts 5, 3, and 4. This is where the Spirit is equated with God by Peter You have the eternality of God equated with the Spirit in Hebrews 9:14. You have omnipresence. That was what I just quoted from Psalm 139. You have omniscience in 1 Corinthians 2. 10. Alright? I can give you lots more references afterwards if you want them, but basically, what you have is the Spirit of God, and he creates He does things that only God can do. So you don't find in the Bible Peter creating or Moses creating You don't see Paul going out and he's here, but I can't run from Paul because even if I go to the othermost parts of the sea, Paul is there. You don't see those kind of statements. So that is the first thing we have with the Spirit of God, as God, doing what only God can do. Now, we have way more than that Because the Spirit is a capital S. He's a capital S because he's a person, a personality. He's not like the force on Star Wars where you take the Spirit of God and you manipulate and use him to your own ends. Uh-uh. The Spirit of God is an individual, a person. And so he also does actions that only a person will do. And he has He has responses that only a person would have. For example, we know this, he can be saddened, grieved. Forces are not grieved. Elemental principles, things that float around, and they're not grieved. But the Spirit can be grieved. Ephesians 4:30. Grieve not the Spirit of God. He can be vexed. Isaiah 63, 10. And you can resist his will. I mean, he has a will, he has a purpose, he has a plan. He wants to glorify Christ, John 16, 14, and he testifies of Christ, John 15, 26. He teaches, he guides, he sanctifies, he reproves. All of these things are the activities of a personality and the emotions of a personality So you put these two things together, and this is how you build the fact that the Spirit of God is God, capital G. He does what only God can do. And he is an individual, a person, who in fact shares in the character of God. Then you look at Trinitarian formulas in your New Testament and you see that we're supposed to baptize everyone in the name of The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And what you find throughout your New Testament is these three are mentioned together in a way that no one else has mentioned. It's not the Father, the Son, and Moses. It's the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Now there's much more that we could go into But I want to just sort of begin to introduce and establish what you already know that the Spirit is God. It's not an it. He's a person who is omnipotent, omnipresent, and omniscient. What kind of a sword would someone like that make? Now I have watched different shows on sword making, and one of my favorites that I've ever watched is how they make samurai swords. Has anyone ever watched a st that is alright, a couple of you have seen that. The one I watched, it was showing how And I can't remember all the details, but there was the the the heating of the metal and they showed how they went and got the the ore and refined it. And then they hammered it over and over again and folded it and hammered it and folded it and hammered it. And they had a special form, they had all these methods And by the time it was done, there was this exquisite blade that had been, you know, and they described how a cheaper blade would have these qualities, but a really good blade has these qualities And then they they showed a master, samurai sword maker, and he's out there making the very best one. And and uh, you know, as a grown man even, I would love to have one of those swords. It's just cool to have a sword, you know. Guys love swords. I don't know what it is. So that that man could really make a pretty good one. But you know there are limitations to what he could make. A human sword, it'll cut, it'll kill, but it can't give life, can it? It could maybe someone behind whose life is in danger can cut and defend that person and preserve that person's life. But the Spirit, the one who creates and gives life, Job 33, the one who directs and speaks and reproves and comforts. The one who strives with sinners and convicts them of sin, the one who created all things, he has a sword. And you and I are going to definitely want that sword because it's not just that he has the sword way out there. The word of God is Across the sea, it's in outer space. It's not this beautiful sword, and he's preserved it in heaven forever. It's an available sword. A master craftsman, the capital M, Master Craftsman, has created this exquisite and powerful weapon, and he wants to hand it to you. And so we should value what he has to give us. Well, what is the sword? Well, you look at your Bible, and it's very obvious. It's the word of God. And take the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. What is the Word of God? Well, before we get into this, let's talk for just a second about, well The Word of God, Scripture. Let's look at how the Spirit gave the sword. Would you turn to Acts 1? Turn to Acts 1, 15 to 17. Now, if the Spirit of God had just shouted from heaven, Here, I am going to give you this, and just Given it, that would have been pretty amazing, right? That would have been wow. I mean, if if the word of God had just come down out of heaven perfectly written, that would have been miraculous. That's too easy. You know, God likes to show how amazing He is by doing hard things, by exalting the weak. so that the strong are humbled, and by humbling the proud, by exalting the humble. And so he chose Acts 1. 15 Let's see. And in those days, Peter stood up, so he's standing up to give a speech, all right, and he's going to talk about choosing a new apostle. And he says in verse 16: Men and brethren. This scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David. David. The word of God is synonymous in the Bible with Scripture. That's the Greek word grafe, and it's used repeatedly in the New Testament, and it always only refers to to the Old Testament scriptures. It never refers to any extra biblical writing. However, there are two or perhaps three times in the New Testament when the scripture writers quote from someone else, but they don't call it Scripture. Here we have God the Spirit, and He is going to speak, and there's going to be the result of the Word of God, and He does it through a sinner, David. Now, if I were going to make a weapon, I don't think I would have chosen to make it through men. And yet that is exactly what God has done. Peter echoes this in 2 Peter 1. If you turn there quickly, 2 Peter 1 verse 19. The context here is Peter's writing and said, look, we didn't follow cunningly devised fables. When we made known to you God and Christ, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. And we even have a more sure word, a prophetic word confirmed. And we know this, verse 20. No prophecy of Scripture is of, and if the idea is that of any private interpretation. For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit worked through men. He spoke through David. And so we have, and you're aware of this, the Psalms of the Old Testament. And we have Isaiah and Jeremiah. We have the Spirit of God working through his creation to create the Word of God. Now This is not really too complicated, but it will require faith to believe. If you were to come, and and sometimes this happens, and I'm really sorry, you a lady will come and say, give this to your wife. And in 45 minutes I've already forgotten. And I feel terrible about that. And I go back and there it is. I'm like, oh, I forgot to give that to my wife. Have you ever had someone give you a recipe to tell your wife verbally? You guys ever had that happen? You may as well forget it. I mean, okay, you need to have, remember, tell her two eggs, crack them, like Okay, eggs. Paula eggs. Flour? And I think I think chocolate. That sounds good, yeah. Cookies, yeah. I I I'll forget that. Have you ever played the game telephone where where you tell one person a story and then they're supposed to call the next person next to them. And by the time it gets to the end, it's very difficult to know what the story is. The problem with men and women is that we are so imperfect. We make mistakes all the time Now, I want to be careful here. Do we always make a mistake? Could someone write a book that is historically accurate? Could that happen? Yeah, I think it could happen. Could someone write a mathematic equation that no one ever breaks because they discover something that's just true forever? That could happen. It's not that humanity is always a bunch of bungling idiots that can't get anything right, which is often portrayed by liberal theologians, but Because God spoke through men and used their personalities, we immediately think there must be mistakes in the Bible. Because we make mistakes. How do we know, as Christians, that there aren't any mistakes in the Bible? Let me give you two reasons and you should write these down. First, God cannot lie. He can't even do that. If God speaks, God the Spirit speaks through a man, he will not lie. This is so true that in the Old Testament, if a prophet made one mistake, what were I you you don't have to answer this, but you know, they would take him out and stone him. He's a false prophet. So if you got 99 things right and one thing wrong, then he's not of God. Because God doesn't lie. We also have the tests of a prophet, which is where I'm getting that from, from the law of Moses. The second reason, and there are more than this, I'm just giving you two of the top ones. is because Jesus himself believed in the complete inerrancy of the Old Testament scriptures. We are Christians, little Christs. We are followers of Jesus, disciples of Jesus, and so we believe the same things he believed. Here are some things that Jesus did. First, this would be point two a. He believed that all the stories of the Old Testament were historically accurate. For example, that Jonah was really in the belly of a fish for three days and three nights. And so the Son of Man will be that way in the grave. He believed in the historical accuracy of Adam and Eve. What God is joined together, let not man break bare asunder. And he talked about Adam and Eve. As in the days of Noah, so it will be when the Son of Man returns. He believed in Noah, and thus the cataclysmic worldwide flood. Now there are other references, but I bring up those three because all three of those, the historical, the historical uh authenticity of Adam and Eve. The global flood in Noah and Jonah being in the fish are all mocked by liberal theologians and by our culture at large. How can that happen? Jonah and a whale, that's so stupid. Adam and Eve. But evidently Jesus believed those were real people. And so when people question the inerrancy of the Old Testament, they always go to things that appear to be fantastical. It's really not. And it's a discussion for another day to point out that the Bible is not mythic literature. But those are three things that are often gone to. Jesus believed they were accurate. Then there are the statements that Jesus made directly about the Old Testament. He said that heaven and earth are going to pass away, but the law, the Old Testament, it's never going to pass away. And do you remember the jot and title expression where he talked about the smallest little strokes of the Hebrew alphabet that they won't pass away from the law? So what you have is Jesus Completely confident that every detail of the Old Testament is going to come to pass. Heaven and earth are going to pass away before that passes away. And we have him completely confident in the historical reality of some of those characters of the Old Testament that are hard for some people to believe in. What we have, folks, in the Gospels is Jesus over and over again. He's quoting the Old Testament, relying on the Old Testament, believing in the Old Testament. He he is that's what he does. He acts as if it's completely inerrant, flawless, perfect, without mistake. Where should you go as a Christian when it comes to the scriptures? I suggest you do the same. Are you going to be a disciple of Carl Barth, who is a liberal theologian who did not believe in the inerrancy of the Bible? Or even, folks, C. S. Lewis, who had a skewed view of Scripture? Or are you going to go with Jesus? It's God, the Spirit's sword, the Scripture. Holy men of God were moved along by the Spirit of God, born along. David spoke by the Holy Spirit and wrote the scripture. And then that lands us in the classic text where we'll try to tie this together and go back to the warfare theme, 2 Timothy chapter 3. Go there quickly. More could be said about inerrancy, but that's where we must leave it for now. 2 Timothy 3 So Paul is writing to Timothy and telling him, Hey, value the scriptures from a child, you've known these, and they're able to make you wise unto salvation. And he he puts together a statement that it goes, okay, because Scripture is this, it's profitable for this. It's like if I said to you, because chocolate is yummy, it's profitable for eating, but not every day. Three times a day. Or here's a 5-8 open-end wrench. This is a wrench that can be used on these bolts. It's profitable for taking your engine block off. I don't know if there are any 5-8 bolts on your engine block. And here's how it works. Look, you know this. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. That word that's translated inspiration is God breathed it. It's God breathed because it is God, the inerrant one, the one who cannot lie. Who produced the scripture, God the Spirit, holy men of old, borne along by the Spirit of God, it is profitable, it is worthwhile. And it's profitable for four things. It's profitable for doctrine, for reproof or rebuke, correction, and for instruction. Now, we've kind of traveled a road this morning on purpose. If I wrote you a book, you wouldn't value it very much if someone, you know, it's just another book, but God wrote this. And so it's a worthy weapon. And here's how it works. The scriptures are produced by the Spirit of God. They are inerrant. But they are still given to us for our use. The sword is handed to us. So there's the part that God did. He produced it. inspired it, it's inerrant, and he even preserved it. Now there's the part that we must do, and that's 2 Timothy 3, 16. We must use it so that it becomes profitable in our lives. A soldier would be a fool to be in the field of battle and to let his sword lying there on the ground, lay there on the ground. So, what do these words mean? Well, the word doctrine there has to do with teaching, probably a reference to the basic doctrines of the Christian faith. Jude 1. Jude says, I wanted to write to you previously about our common faith, but now I think it's more important for me to Exhort you to earnestly contend for the faith. The idea of the faith as opposed to a faith, it's referring to a body of doctrine. It's why we're told to preach the whole council of God. And so when Paul planted a church, he would try to disciple those people in the big picture, in all the doctrines. And so the scriptures are able to help us with the big picture and all those doctrines that we need so that when a Jehovah's Witness Knocks on your door, they don't believe in the Trinity, you can say, uh-uh, I know the Bible teaches the Trinity because I remember what the scriptures say. The second word, reproof or rebuke, has to do with declaring something a sin or having to approach a situation, an idea, a person, and say, this is wrong. This is morally wrong before the eyes of God. And it could be the scripture used to rebuke someone for what they're doing. Or it could be something as simple as you reading it and realizing that you are doing something wrong and that you need to stop doing it and you feel rebuked and convicted because of that. It's sort of a a negative word, sort of, hey, stop. That's wrong. The word correction has to do more with the idea of showing the positive aspect of things. The rebuke says this is wrong, whereas correction says, here's what's right. It's not enough to tell a child you're teaching your teenager how to drive. It's not enough to tell them that running a red light is wrong. You then have to instruct them on how to use the lights. And that leads us to the fourth word, and that is instruction, and this has to do with training over time. I mean, what we have here is sort of the whole breadth of discipleship. You've got the doctrine. You've got telling people what is wrong and then building them up on what is right, and then you've got this longer view, this child training almost kind of a view where you're doing it over time. It's not just Hit or miss once or twice, but it's sort of an intentional thing over time. And the scriptures, because they are given by God, can be used for all of it. And let me remind you in verse 16, how much of it can be used for it? All scripture can be used for it. Now, there are passages in your Old Testament that you probably have not enjoyed reading as much as other passages. Whether it's a genealogy or a long list of names from the book of numbers, but there is always something that can be learned. Where does that lead us? All right. Timothy had battles. He had to make decisions. Look at your Bible a few pages back, trying to keep this in 1 Timothy. So that you can see, go all the way back to 1 Timothy chapter 1. Let's pick out some battles that Timothy had, and if we have time, Titus, and then we'll go to your battles and what you're battling with. Alright, first battle number one. First Timothy chapter one, verse three. No, I urged you to go when I went into Macedonia. I wanted you to remain at Ephesus. Paul is saying, I wanted you, Timothy, to stay in Ephesus so that you could command, charge some that they teach no other doctrine. What are they doing? Verse 4. There's this endless fascination with fables, genealogies, and they're causing all these arguments. So here's a new pastor, and he's stepping into a situation of doctrinal chaos. Where the people are arguing about stuff that's not even real. Does that sound like a battle to you? Oh yeah, that's definitely a battle. Have you ever tried to tell a Sunday school teacher what they shouldn't teach? Or should teach. If someone does that to me, I get upset. So there's sort of this natural, hey, whoa, but imagine that the Sunday school teacher is truly conceited, not a true dis Not a true humble disciple of Christ. They really want to be looked up to and they're proud. And so Timothy is coming into this, and he is going to have to use the sword of the Spirit to cut that down. To stop that. And he does that by verse 8, listening to what Paul says about the law. We know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. And then he talks about how to rightfully use the law. So, folks, it's like this. Timothy goes to Ephesus, he has to dive into the teaching ministry. He says, Look, no more, I rebuke you. No more endless genealogies and fables. I correct you. Here's the proper use of the law of God. And I'll train you. Let's go through this for the next year and get this established in the right way. And it's the sword of the Spirit that he's using every single way, all the way. Quickly, Titus. Look at Titus. Now you are familiar with the famous King James Version translation of slow bellies. Titus chapter 1 verse 12. Evil beasts, the slow belly, or the lazy glutton. See, is it slow belly? What is it in the King James? I think it's slow belly. So here are these cretons, and they are out of control. They're ruled by their appetites. All they care about is what they eat and the pleasures that they have in their life. And they're the church people. They're the people in the church. Not good. Um, Titus, there's some things you need to do. And so he gives him instructions on what to do. And it's interesting because there's a the commands that Paul writes to Titus are very Strong kind of rebuking types of things that Titus has to do. Can you imagine going up to someone and saying, look, you are just a lazy glutton? You need to repent. I don't think I've ever done that, but wow. You know what? Your mouth, look at verse 11, whose mouths must be stopped because they're they're carrying away whole households, they're subverting households. So you've got to go to a household that's been carried away with false doctrine and say, look, you need to come back to the faith. You need to come back to what is true and right. Titus had a really hard job. So did Timothy. I mean it's incredible. And it only gets more, and you can see how battles would quickly develop. Folks, in 1 Timothy, this is what really shocks me, and I don't I would really struggle over this. Paul says to Timothy If you have a widow that's over the age of 60 and they have not cared for strangers and a list of characteristics, things, qualities of the widow, you don't put them on the list. Folks, you know what the list was? That was where they would help the widows if they couldn't care for themselves, they would they would supply their needs. Remember in Acts there was that dissension between the two groups of people because their widows weren't being cared for? Imagine having to go and say to a widow, I'm sorry, but we're not going to pay for your bills. We're not going to help you because you were unfaithful. What kind of a battle would that create in that person's family? What we have in the pastoral epistles is Paul giving Timothy and Titus hard tasks. And yet, if you remember 2 Timothy 3, 16, look at verse 17. Go to 2 Timothy 3. 17 and look on it with your own eyes. And we'll try to wrap this up. The man of God might be that the man of God may be perfect or complete. thruly furnished unto every good work, or it could be translated, thoroughly equipped for every good work. Paul was telling Timothy to be confident in the word of God. It's all you need, Timothy. You can use it and you can put your complete confidence in the next battle. Take the sword with you, if we could use Ephesians language to the Ephesians and the Thessalonians. Let's see. Not the Testimonies, just the Ephesians. Take the sword with you. So, what battles do you have? We talked a little bit about Timothy's battles and Titus's battles. What battles do you have? Seriously, in your family, the family you live with and your extended family, start there. Are there any areas of conflict Seems like life is sometimes full of conflict. How are you going to resolve that? Now maybe the metaphor of the sword coming in and cutting someone is not the best metaphor for that. But nonetheless, the armor, being able to go in and get something done, what about at work? What about with yourself? The things that I should do, I don't do, and the things that I do, I shouldn't do. What kind of battles are you fighting? facing. I leave you with this, folks. You have an amazing weapon that you can use. It is What superlative can we use? We would exhaust the English language and every other language you know in describing the value of this book. Are you using it? Are you trying to read it and understand it?