Luke chapter 9, 21. Let's start there. This is what Jesus said after Peter, if you recall, after Peter answered the question, but who do you say who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said, The Christ of God. Verse 22. The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests. And scribes and be killed and be raised the third day. Then he said to them all: If anyone desires to come after me, Let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it But whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what advantage is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed, when he comes in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels. I realized, and I realized this the first year I was here in this area, that this is Baltimore Ravens country. It is everywhere, the color purple. I kind of like personally the mascot of the Raven. I'm not a big fan of Edgar Allan Poe, but it is distinctly from Baltimore since he, for a portion of his life, lived here. But what would you think of me if I told you I was a Baltimore Ravens fan and I never went to a Baltimore Ravens football game? And what would you think of my testimony about my love for the Baltimore Ravens if I told you that I never watched any of their football games on television either? And frankly, I'm not even sure who's playing on their team. What would you think of my estimation of the Baltimore Ravens if I, and don't get mad at me now, this is a sermon illustration. If I told you that, you know, I I really don't know who the starting players are, I don't even know at this very moment who the quarterback is, what would you think if I said, but I love the Baltimore Ravens, they're the best. Don't own one piece of clothing that's purple, never been to a game, never watch it on television, don't know who their players are. And what would you think if I went on to say, you know, I really don't even know how to play football. When I watch a game like that on television, the few and rare times I've ever seen it, I'm not really sure what they're doing on the field when they run back and forth wearing those helmets and pads. Well, I think you know what you would think. You would you would look at what my words about my love of the Baltimore Ravens and you would say they don't match what I do in reference to to the Baltimore Ravens. I'm sort of You would say something like this. You're kind of deluding yourself. You're a fan in your own mind, but not in the real world. You're not really a fan of the Baltimore Ravens. Come on, Dan. Much do you? Because nothing in your life shows that you like the Baltimore Ravens. And I think if you said that about me or someone else, you would be right. Because when someone says they love something or someone, and when someone says I'm a fan or I'm a follower, or we could even say when someone says I'm a disciple of someone, There has to be something in their life that shows the reality of their love and in context of the passage this morning of their discipleship. This is a turning point in the Gospel of Luke where our Lord throws down the gauntlet, as it were. He does not Dance around with his words, trying to be sensitive to the sensibilities of those around him. He is, in fact, offensive in what he says. He speaks in terms of death. He speaks in terms of across death Which would have been highly offensive to the Hebrew of that day as they existed under the tyranny of Rome and the oppressive executions that they used. These words are stark and startling, offensive and clear. And this is the way our Lord spoke. What does it take to be a disciple of Jesus Christ? I mean, what kind of instructions can we get out of this passage? If it really is, if you look at it, folks, at verse 23. If anyone desires to come after me. So what he's saying is in reference for people who want to follow Jesus. They have a desire, they have an intention. So this sermon today is kind of for people who would follow Jesus. And it really is instructions for these kinds of people. And we could put it loosely into three main points here. The first would be something about an instruction about a view of your life. Look at verse. 23 again. He says, Come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. Look at verse 24. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life. So the first instruction here has something to do with a new view of life itself. And of self-preservation, the preservation of yourself. A different view. The second instruction If you look down a little further, it has to do with the world and the things that are in the world. Look at verse 25. For what advantage is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? Now, and one, you could view these instructions almost like a telescope where you open it up and you kind of have this main point and then this other point kind of clicks out of it, and then you have this other point that clicks out of that. They're definitely like that. But if you kind of separate them out a little bit, the second instruction for people who would follow Christ has something to do with verse 25 with this desire to gain. These material things. You could have the whole world, but that's not going to profit you because you'll lose yourself And the third instruction, verse 26, has to do with a change in our attitude toward the person of Christ and his words. For whoever, look at verse 26, whoever is ashamed of me in my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes. These are instructions for people who would follow Christ, and they are, as I said, clear, startling, and offensive, but they are what we need to internalize into our lives. So, what's the first instruction? Well, you look at it again, as I mentioned in verse 23. We'll start there and we'll look at this instruction about About our lives. It's a different view of life. Self-preservation is no longer the ultimate goal for the follower of Jesus Christ. And if you think of it this way, only people who are willing, this would be the first instruction for us this morning, only people who are willing to lose their lives for his sake can really follow Jesus. Again, if you'll note, as we read, there is the word cross. They have to take up their cross and follow. There is in verse 24 those who will lose their lives for his sake. Now, in thinking of that word cross, you and I are so used to it. We have one right here. It's a good reminder to us every day of the cross of Christ. People wear them around their necks and we see them everywhere. I mean from going into Hobby Lobby to going out to out in town and just seeing it as jewelry to It's just everywhere, and it's almost, in some cases, lost the effectiveness of what the intent is. Folks, a cross is an implement of death, a torturous kind of death. You don't get up on one of those things and say, well, I've done my hour of cardio. I think I'm going to get down now and go home. It doesn't happen. You get up on one of those things, and there's only one final outcome, death If we were to search in our modern world for parallels to the ancient custom of crucifixion that the Romans employed, we would find parallels in taking up an electric chair, in taking up a guillotine. These are gross kinds of things to even talk about. But the end of the electric chair, death. The end of the guillotine, death. And again, for Jesus to suddenly and with power say this to his disciples must have really shocked them. There is a point in the proximity of Peter's affirmation of Jesus as the Christ. Hallelujah! And now Self-denial, a cross. It's a flow of thought here that is meant to take us aback, to take the reader aback. And the reader is supposed to go, whoa, he is the Christ. What? A cross? And I have to take mine up to follow him. We have in the Bible all kinds of examples, both good and bad, of people who were willing to take up their cross for Jesus. And people who were not willing to take up their cross for Jesus. One of the clearest examples in the Bible of someone who is not willing to die and have a new view of death, at least at the time, was Peter. They might say, well, wait a minute, he was a disciple of Christ, and I would say that he was. And I am not saying that when he denied Christ three times because he was afraid that he would lose his physical life, I'm not saying that he lost his salvation because we see through his actions afterwards the mourning, the weeping, and there's repentance there. And then we see the restoration of Peter later to his work as an apostle. So Peter was a disciple, but when he denied Christ because he loved his life more. He was not following Christ at that moment. We see another example in John Mark, who after going out with Paul and Barnabas at the beginning of their journey, they have this persecution and all this activity, and he says, I'm going home. This is too dangerous. My life preserving it is more important than that. But we also have in the New Testament examples of men Who did not love their own life, who in fact were willing to pour out their life like a drink offering These men were willing to reorder their priorities so that when rather than seeking their own things, they sought the care of the church folks. Matter of fact, these people were willing to come close to death itself for the sake of gospel ministry. Can I get you to turn to Philippians chapter 2 to see these positive examples? of people who were willing to have a new attitude about their lives. Philippians chapter 2 In Philippians chapter 2, verses 17 and 18, we have the example of the Apostle Paul. In verses 19 to 24, we have the example of Timothy, and in verses 25 to 30, we have the example of Epaphroditus. In all three of these examples, we can see an element of this disciple attitude toward Christ. They Were followers of the instruction that they were willing to lose their lives for the sake of Jesus and his ministry. Look first at verse 17. Paul says, Yes, and if I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you. For the same reason you also be glad and rejoice with me. Now, when you pour out a drink offering, it is a voluntary offering in the Old Testament, And it is, it symbolizes sort of this movement of the water out of a vessel until it stops moving. You pour it out and it's gone. Just as you and I would take a glass of water, we could pour it on this stage and it's gone. So what he's talking about here is this pouring out of his very life in an act of sacrifice, and he is using the service of your faith as almost like the object or the altar where his life is being poured out. And he has this attitude that I'm being, I'm in this process of being poured out on your service of faith in this action I have toward you, in my ministry toward you. And he's not complaining. He is a follower of Christ who says, look at verse 17, I am glad. And rejoice. Verse 18, for the same reason you also be glad and rejoice. Folks, this is sort of, this is Paul telling these people, you know, I am suffering here. some extent. This burden that I have, it's a pouring out of my very life. And I'm glad, and I want you to be glad too. Have you ever been around someone who's really suffering, and you feel like you should be sad, and you should show them that you are sad because of the suffering they're going through? And you know what the Bible says to weep with those who weep, to laugh with those who laugh, so that empathy is appropriate, that desire to comfort. But in this case, Paul is saying, because I'm being poured out for service of your faith, rejoice. Don't be sad. Be happy because of what I'm saying. What's happening here? What we have in the Apostle Paul in this passage is a completely different attitude about life itself. The man is saying, and if I die, be happy, because my death has purpose and meaning. Now, this is not Paul running to the jaws of death because he has a suicide wish, but this is a suicide completely different attitude about death and life itself. You and I probably understand this a little bit when we think about the missionaries j like Jim Elliott, who died, who gave his life. To do what? To reach an unreached people group in the jungles, to get them the gospel. And when we see a young man like that who's giving his all to do evangelism and plant churches, and they lose their life in that context, I mean they're willing to do that, we are sad that they're gone, but we rejoice because God's work is going forward, then there's someone who's willing to do that. That's the attitude of a disciple about life and death. And Timothy shared this attitude. Look, if you look at verse 19, I guess we'll just read all the verses to verse 24. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged when I know your state. For I have no one like-minded who will sincerely care for your state. For all seek their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus. But you know his that's Timothy You know Timothy's proven character, that as a son with his father he served with me in the gospel. Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it goes with me But I trust in the Lord that I myself shall also come shortly. Now look just look at the text and let some of the words kind of bubble up to the surface here. So Paul is saying about Timothy verse 20, I don't have anyone else like-minded who will sincerely care for your state. He's using negative statements. Because the positive statement, the reverse of it, is true about Timothy. Timothy is like-minded with Paul, verse 20. Timothy since is willing to sincerely, that is, from his heart with authenticity. It's real Care for your state, verse 20. Timothy is not seeking his own. He is seeking the things that are of Christ Jesus. You know his proven character. So here we have a man, and he's a young man who is not out there going after the latest and greatest whatever. Building up himself materially at the cost of the kingdom of God. He is willing to put others before himself. And there's a loss here. He is not seeking his own. Others are, but Timothy isn't. And Paul can send Timothy because this is the kind of man that he is. Now, if this life is all we have, folks, if this is all we have, then you better save your money and stop giving anything to this church Matter of fact, you better make sure that you put all your time and energy into your retirement investments. If this is all life, if this is it, then you better do that. You better stop reading your Bible. Why waste time doing that? Try to figure out something you can do for yourself. I mean, go out there and make sure your money is right where you want it. Watch it like a hawk. Forget about the kingdom of God. If this is all there is to life, Paul said, we are of all men most miserable. Timothy is demonstrating through his character and his decisions as a follower of Jesus Christ a willingness to put others before himself. And sometimes that can have an effect upon your life. Or your death. Now please understand, I'm not saying you should be careless with your money. I'm not saying you shouldn't invest it. I'm not saying you shouldn't save for retirement. But if you're replacing your discipleship to Jesus Christ with that, That's a problem. That's a problem. And then Epaphroditus' example is more clear here. Because he actually talks about coming. Paul writes of him about becoming close to death. We'll just start at verse 28 here. Look at your Bible at Philippians 2, 28. Therefore I sent him, that's Epaphroditus, the more eagerly, that when you see him again you may rejoice, and I may be less sorrowful. Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such men in esteem, because for the work of Christ he came close to death, not regarding his life, to supply what was lacking in your service toward. Him. Here's a man who was working so hard and so involved that he almost died. This is not a figurative death, this is a literal death, but the Lord preserved his life. And so Paul is sending in. When we look at examples like this, when we consider somebody like Jim Elliott, we realize that a disciple of Jesus Christ. He kind of holds his life with an open hand. And so much so that in the book of Revelation We have sort of this undertone to the first few chapters there, this undertone in the message that Paul gives, Paul, that the Spirit gives to the churches there. Let me get you to turn to Revelation 2 and just hear the undertone to disciples of Jesus Christ as the Spirit writes to the church at Smyrna and Pergamos. Look at Revelation 2, verse 8. Listen to the way the standard life of a church and how the Spirit addresses them. Revelation 2, 8-11. And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write, These things says the first and the last, who was dead and came to life. I know your works, tribulation, and poverty, but you are rich. And I know the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews and are not, but are synagogue of Satan. Do not fear any of those things which you are about to suffer. Indeed, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and you will have tribulation ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall not be hurt by the second death. Now, there's just this expectation from the Spirit of God, and the Bible never apologizes for this, folks. The Bible never said, the Word of God never comes out and says, I'm so sorry that this might cost you your life. And I know God sometimes is just too hard on his people. Now, God suffers with us, God empathizes with our suffering. He's the great high priest, Jesus, who's touched. with a feeling of our infirmities, but there is always this clarity in the Bible for disciples of Jesus Christ. You could die Are you willing to? Because you can't follow him if you're not. It's just that clear. Folks, when I was in Egypt uh last year and I was with those folks in South Sudan. And this Egyptian couple is ministering to me uh food. And uh we get up one day in in the morning and we go to eat breakfast and the one and the the the husband says, I'm sorry, my wife can't come and help this morning. Uh We'll have to kind of fend for ourselves. She's very sick this morning. She she has malaria. And I said, Well, don't they have a medication so that you can get rid of malaria and she said uh he said yes but we've taken it so many times it's completely ineffective now so we have chronic all of us even our kids and their boy is what four All of us have chronic cases of malaria now. It'll be with us the rest of our lives. She has a fever, she's vomiting, she's sick. The rest of our lives, malaria. area and they don't leave the South Sudan. They're not packing up our bags. Well, this could cost us our lives. It's time to go home. They stay Not only malaria, but there's also a local fever, some sort of fever they got get from the mosquitoes, they have that as well. I went over, I got a shot, so I wouldn't get one of those things. And they said, hey, you better take some of this malaria medicine right now. So I took some of the malaria medicine. I didn't brought any You know what that does to your heart? You're talking to a couple, a young couple with children, and they have malaria forever, and you're just taking your malaria pill, heading on home Those are followers of Jesus Christ. They're willing to take up their cross and follow him. Convicting, isn't it, when you think of modern-day examples of this? And here it is, the spirit to the church. Pergamus, if you look at verse 12, it's the same, and to the angel of the church and Pergamus write. These things say, says he who has the sharp two-edged sword, I know your works and where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. And you hold fast to my name and did not deny my faith, even in the days in which Anaphas was my faithful martyr, who was killed among you where Satan dwells. It's just part of the Christian life. I was reading this week that North Korea is still refusing to admit that they have prison camps. But you can see on satellite images on the web and watch groups who watch human rights all over the world are saying it's very true. And so many Christians in North Korea are in those. those places because they're not going to deny their Savior, Jesus Christ. What does this mean? Well, if you go back to Luke chapter 9 quickly, For those who would follow Jesus, the first instruction is: self-preservation is not the ultimate goal. Now, please understand, we're not saying go jump off of the top of the temple. But as we serve the Lord, as we make disciples, as we advance the kingdom, it could cost our lives. We're willing to make a voluntary, sacrificial kind of a decision In order to accomplish the work of ministry, we have a willingness to replace seeking our own things with an earnest seeking of Christ's things. We even have a willingness to come close to death. The Gentiles are preoccupied with clothing, with money. They seek all these things first. The Gentiles lord it over those under their charge, but followers of Christ. We want to seek first the kingdom of God. So that's the first instruction. Where do you stand there this morning? What's the second? Well, if you're back in Luke chapter 9, we're looking now at a different view of money. You and I, as followers of Jesus Christ, we know, if you look here at verse 25, what advantage For what advantage is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? Because we believe in eternal life, the fact that when we die, that is not the end Because we are followers of Christ, we know that if we were kings on earth, it would be completely irrelevant if we step into hell the day after we die, or the moment we die, I should say. We understand that a follower of Christ has to be willing to lose the world in order to follow Christ if necessary Now, this does not mean that it's a sin to be rich or it's a sin to have material possessions, but it's a sin to love. Your material possessions and your wealth more than Jesus. That's called idolatry. And so a follower of Jesus Christ, the second instruction is for those who would follow Christ. Only people who are willing to lose the world can follow Jesus. And the world, the world, the tran the uh The phrase there, gaining the world, you're going to have reference to acquiring treasure, houses, lands, health, wealth, everything that you and I need. Now, when you look at your Bible, there are just everywhere you could go to, but let me give you a few gospel examples of men who became followers of Christ, and it changed their outlook on money. Think about Zacchaeus, you know, the wee little man who climbed up into the tree. He was a tax collector and a crook. And Jesus went to his house, and he became a disciple of Jesus, and suddenly all the people he had defrauded came to mind. All that extra money he had stolen because of his position as tax collector. And rather than holding on to that and gaining all that and keeping it, In his repentance, he said, I'm going to give it all back, and I'm going to give it back X number of times over, more than is required, because I'm a follower of Christ now. My attitude toward ill-gotten gain has changed. Think about Levi, who in the book of Luke is called right there in the midst of his job as a tax collector, a lucrative job. Come and follow me. And he gets up and he leaves behind a lucrative profession in order to follow Jesus with all his heart. That's quite a change, isn't it? I uh look turn to Acts chapter two and just remind yourself of this passage. What happens when you get a lot of people together who are disciples of Christ and really follow this instruction of having a new attitude toward their money? What happens when you put them in a church? What is their attitude toward one another? You know this passage. Luke, I'm sorry, Acts 2, verse 45. Well, it says, now all who believed were together and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all as anyone had need. Now, I'm not telling us to all live in one giant house together. I'm just saying there's a principle here. There are those, verse 45, the end of the verse, who had need in the church. And there were those who had more than they needed. And they were generous and willing to give to other brothers and sisters who had a need, not a want. We're not talking about giant screen televisions here or whatever, but we're talking about food and clothing and so on. And probably out of this grew the whole widow ministry and helping widows who had no means of sustenance. Generosity, a new attitude toward money. Negative examples of this Well, they're everywhere. And I'm going to get you to turn to Acts chapter 16. And while you're turning to Acts chapter 16, I'm going to tell you about another one. because it's short. In 2 Timothy 4 10, Demas loved this present evil world. And so he forsook Paul. He forsook the ministry and everything that would have been involved in it because he loved this present world. We have multiple examples in the books of Acts, negative examples of people who Loved money more than Jesus and did not become followers of Jesus. And the context is telling Because we're going to look at Acts 16 and Acts 20, just two passages, but listen to me for a second. The context in both the passages is powerful gospel ministry enters on the scene. The name of Jesus is proclaimed. Miracles take place. And the breadth of the ministry begins to infringe upon The trade, the money, the local network of businesses And it kind of, there's a clash. It becomes this, well, if the gospel's going to continue on, then this false worship is going to have to diminish. If the gospel is going to continue on, then we should have different priorities. And this clash results in open persecution. But first, we have here in Acts 16, in verse 16, this poor woman, this young girl who had a spirit of divination. And I want you to notice the reaction of those who see her. Brought to freedom by Paul. First, this is Acts 16:16. It says, Now it happened as we went to prayer that a certain slave girl possessed with a spirit of divination met us Who brought her masters much profit by fortune telling. This girl followed Paul and us and cried out, saying, These men are the servants of the Most High God who proclaimed to us the way of salvation. And this she did for many days. But Paul, greatly annoyed, turned and said to the Spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out that very hour But when her master saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to the authorities. Verse 19: The masters saw that their hope of prophet was gone. Paul was interested in removing a demonic witness. Jesus did not accept even true witness from the mouth of a demon as to his identity. Paul followed suit. He didn't want to have the demons tell the truth about him, didn't accept it. So he casts the demon out, and so we go from this poor girl who was enslaved. She was served these men at their will. She went to freedom, and rather than rejoicing over the emancipation of this poor woman, These guys are looking and saying, Well, there goes all our money out the window. And it really shows their heart on this. There's instead of the rejoicing, instead of this movement toward Paul and his message. There's this movement away because there's this love of money. And a follower of Christ can't do that. You can't take a step toward Jesus and a step toward the bank at the same time, as it were, in this context. You and I as believers, there are going to be those moments when your Christianity will cost you money There will be those moments. And I'm not just talking about giving money to the church so we can have all this or whatever. I'm talking about because you're taking a stand for integrity, because you don't believe in certain things. Because you witness somewhere and someone gets upset and you might lose your job. I mean, your Christianity and mine will at times cost us money And here they weren't willing for it to cost them a thing. Acts 20, if you turn a few pages over. How deep-seated is this? Well, before we had we used Zacchaeus and Levi as having a different attitude toward money, and then you put all people like that together in the church. And you have this spirit of generosity where you have richer folks giving to the poor folks who need money or need material goods. Conversely, what if you took a lot of people who are slave owners like that, who were upset, and what if you put all of them together in a network? What's their response going to be, their Antichrist kind of a response? Acts 20, verse 23. Oh, let's see, this is actually the wrong one. Let's see here. Bear with me. Twenty-nine, twenty-nine, acts twenty, twenty-nine. I'm sorry, Acts 19, 29. I'll get it right, don't worry. Acts 19, 29. So this is an Ephesus, and this is in the the the idol. I mean look at verse 28. Great is Diana of the Ephesians. I'm just reminding you of a story that you know so well. So again, Paul comes in with a powerful gospel message. The city is turned upside down. They're upset. Verse 29. The whole city was filled with confusion and rust and rushed into the theater with one accord, having seized Gaius. And Aristarchus, Macedonians, Paul's travel companions. And when Paul wanted to go into the people, the disciples would not allow him. Then some of the officials of Asia, who were his friends, sent to him, pleading that he would not venture into the theater. Some therefore cried one thing, and some another, for the assembly was confused. And they and and most of them did not know why they had come together. So we're entering into this mob scene and mob mentality when they're upset. Why are they upset? Well you go all the way back up. At verse twenty-four, at the words of Demetrius, a silversmith, who had made silver shrines of Diana, brought no small profit to the craftsman He called them together with the workers of similar occupation, and said, Men, you know that we have our prosperity by this trade. Moreover, you see and hear that not only at Ephesus, but throughout almost all Asia, This Paul has persuaded and turned away many people, saying that they ought not, that they are not gods which are made with hands. What's the problem? We're about to lose our prosperity and our trade. And folks, what would happen to one of those craftsmen who comes to Christ? And his father and grandfather before him were idol makers. They were artists and artisans and metalworkers and woodwork. And that trade was handed to him for the third generation. And he hears Paul's message and he repents and he accepts that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. What will that do to his business? If you want to follow Christ, if you have this desire to follow Him, the second instruction is: you have to be willing to lose the world. What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world but loses his own soul? Third point. The third instruction here, if you go back to Luke chapter 9 again, Luke chapter 9 has to do, it's probably the I would say the most foundational or in some ways most important. Is in verse 26. Whoever, this is Luke 9, 26, whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him, the Son of Man, will be ashamed of when he comes in his own Glory. Only, this is instruction number three, only people who take Jesus and his words seriously can follow him. Can be followers of Jesus. You know this. Preaching to the choir this morning, but it has to be stated. Christianity, at the heart of Christianity, is not a philosophical system, it's a person. Jesus and what he said. If you take Jesus and what he said out of Christianity, you are taking Christ out of Christianity. you no longer have Christianity. And that is why we we speak about cults in the sense of You have another group who claim the name of Christ, but deny his person, that's his deity or his humanity. Or they deny his words, his teachings. So even though they name the name, they don't follow him or his words, they're not real Christians. And so we use we we name them the Mormons, the Jehovah's False Witnesses. As we call them. Those are people who name the name of Christ, but are not true Christians in their doctrine. And one of the reasons we say that is because of this. You cannot be a follower of Christ. And be ashamed of him or his words. And he really ties up his words with who he is, doesn't he? If you think just through what you know of the gospels, And if you have a red letter Bible, which I'm using one this morning with red letters, you just look at all the times Jesus spoke, there are there are a couple of Of themes that kind of rise to the surface about what Jesus spoke of. He talked about the kingdom of God a lot. The kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God. He talked about the fact that it's present with us. He talked about the Father and he talked about what was necessary to get into the kingdom. He used parables often to talk about the kingdom of God. But then he also made statements about himself, his identity. And sometimes those statements were so clearly about him being God. That people wanted to kill him. So there was his message about the kingdom and the presence of the kingdom. The kingdom is at hand. There were words about his identity, which he said. There were predictions about the future and what is about to happen. He said a lot, folks. As a matter of fact, one of my favorite passages in the Bible is in Luke. If you turn all the way to the end of Luke, just to give you one example, just a small taste. Staying in Luke, you go all the way to the road to Emmaus in Luke chapter 23. Well, Luke 24. Luke 24. Got a writing problem this morning. And you have Jesus walking with these men, you know the story. And they don't know who he is, and he starts to talk to them. In verse 19, he says, What things? He's responding to their depression over what had happened. And they said, The things, this is verse 19, this is Luke 24, 19. The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified in. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all these things, today is the third day since these things happened Yes, and a certain woman, and certain women of our company who arrived at the tomb early astonished us when they did not find his body. They came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. So how does Jesus respond? Verse 25, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And here's our key key verse, verse twenty-seven. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things Concerning himself. How long was the conversation? Well, you can sort of guess that how long it would take to walk on that road to that town and You can kind of say, well, it took this amount of time. But the point is, this is comprehensive. This is comprehensive. Jesus talking about himself from the Old Testament. And do you remember the phrases from the Gospels? Verily, verily, I say unto you, or once another translation would translate assuredly, or. Truly, truly, I say, I mean, Jesus was a man of many words. And so what would it be like to be ashamed of those words right now at this very moment? What is it like? What would that be like? Well, you're probably familiar with Thomas Jefferson's Bible. He took the gospels and he cut out, literally with a pair of scissors, all of the miracles that Jesus did. Did. He tried to end up with just the words without the miracles, to try to condense it down into ethical teachings that we can follow. Now, that's wrong because without the miracles, you don't have the identity of Jesus as the God man, and his ethical teachings are so extreme. It doesn't work. But nowadays, would you say this is accurate? Nowadays, we often have politicians who won't even do that. They not only want to throw out the miracles of the Lord, but all the ethical teachings too. And that is why we have in All over America, the Ten Commandments being taken down from courtrooms, people who are being prosecuted for praying in Jesus' name in the military. People don't want to talk about Jesus, his name, his words, who he is. And what do you think about that? How do you respond? You ought to be willing to say the name of Jesus when the time is right. When his name needs to be said, don't be ashamed of his name. Don't be ashamed of it. Don't be ashamed of his words. You know what? What Jesus said is extreme. When somebody calls you a fanatic, say, yeah, you're right. I'm a fanatic. I really believe in Jesus and his words. You're sitting there in class and there's a discussion going on and you might even have some homosexual people sitting over there in your college class and they are Just railing on it. Don't be afraid to be the one person who stands up and says if you feel led of the Lord and you know the Spirit of God is moving in your heart, don't be afraid to be that one person who in love tells the truth. I'm not ashamed of Jesus. And you could say, He does love you, folks, but some things are right and wrong. And there's this whole problem called sin, and we're all in this together, and we need a Savior, all of us, you and me. I love Jesus. Don't be the one who, over a period of time, gradually, gradually, gradually, you get to the place where you're just Fearful of even bringing up your faith. You just don't want to do it at work, in a break room, anywhere, because you're ashamed of him and his names. When it comes to Jesus, folks, I'm almost done. Hang in there now. When it comes to being a follower, do you want to be a follower of him? You can't be ashamed of him or his name. Now let me wrap it up this way, okay? I have to get to this point because this message has been kind of No, I wouldn't say negative, but it's been it's it's a convicting message, but we have to end up at a happy point in this, okay? So I'm gonna have to get you to turn to at least two passages to wrap this up so that we're not left sort of feeling like we were yelled at with any Any conclusion. Turn to John, let's see. Turn to John fifteen. What can we? There are many advantages to being a follower of Christ. Right? When you're a disciple of Christ. If you put your faith and trust in him for eternal salvation, you're saved forever. You're not going to go to hell. You're you're gonna you will You'll get to see God. There's going to be a new heavens and a new earth. So there are a lot of advantages to it, but I want to point out one that maybe you haven't thought of. In John 15, verses 1 to 11, we're not going to read all this, but this is the passage where Jesus is talking about his relationship. to his people. He talks about himself, for example, in verse 1 of being the truth vine and the father of the vine dresser. And you and I. And I are like branches, and so the Lord prunes us to help us to grow. Verse 5, he says, I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. Then he talks about in verse 7, his words remaining in us. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. And so he talks about bearing fruit in verse 8 and the fact that the Father loves us. Us like he loves him. As the Father loved me, I also have loved you and abide in you abide in my love. That is a Jesus Loves us. But the thing I want to point out is in verse 11. Why are you telling me all these things, Lord? These things I have spoken to you that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. Now you and I, as we follow Christ, as we let the mind of Christ be in us, we have a Fellowship with him, a spiritual fellowship that is supernatural And it has to do with his spirit being in us, his words being in us. And even though we have to do hard things, Make hard decisions. On the other side of it, a true Christian, a born-again person, we experience joy that others do not know. And it's a joy that the Lord is so important. The Lord is saying in with these particular facts in John 15, he's saying, Look, I'm telling you this because I want you to have my joy and look at verse 11 again what kind of joy a full joy I want you to have this So even though it's hard being a follower of Christ, there is this fellowship that we have with Him, this joy that we can have. It and it's not just Jesus because Paul and John pick up on this. If you go a few more pages and just to first John, go to go to First John. And you look there at 1 John chapter 1, and you see what he says as one of the reasons he's writing the epistle. In 1 John chapter 1, the first three verses, you have the things that we have seen and heard. He's going back and reminding the reader of their experience with the word of life, Jesus. And in verse 4, he says, he writes, and these things we write to you that your joy may be full. And then, if you turn to the well-known passage in Philippians, you go there and you see Paul putting it all together. You go to Philippians and you look at chapter three, and Paul kind of takes on the one hand the hard parts of being a disciple of Jesus. Suffering, death. And he kind of walks through the call to discipleship and out the other side, and even to the point of encouraging us. So he kind of takes the things Jesus taught in Luke 9, as it were, and he brings it out in sort of an application to encourage us. And he says in verse 10. No, actually, let's go all the way back up to verse 7. And I know that it's late. Just try to read this and let it soak in. He says, But what things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. But indeed, I count also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith That I might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already attained or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. Now Followers of Christ are drawn to Him. Is your heart drawn to Christ? In the same way, those disciples on the road to Emmaus, when they heard Jesus speak, they said, Did not our hearts burn within us when we heard him talk about that? Do you find what the Puritans used to call religious affections for Christ, a spiritual desire to be close to your God? A fellowship with him. I mean, Paul describes it this way: He says, Look, I haven't already attained, but I press on that I may lay hold of it. I mean there's this strong forward movement in Paul's mind that he he describes here. So much so that In verse 13, he says, one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. I mean he is just on the move toward God and Christ and his things and this fellowship that he wants to have with Christ. Yes, leave behind the world. Yes, my goal is not to have all the money and lose my life. Yes, I'm willing to hold my life with an open hand. If God calls me to die, I will as I serve Him. But now I get to have this fellowship and ministry and life with Jesus. And that's what I'm all about. Give me Jesus. You can keep the world. Give me Jesus. And you'll notice in verse 13: therefore let us, as many as are mature, have this mind. This is your goal. The same that he has. Nevertheless, verse 16: to the degree that we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us So we have him just working his way through. I mean, there is suffering, there's resurrection, there's fellowship. There's forgetting what's behind. There's pressing forward to what is ahead. I mean, there is Christianity is tough, right, folks? But we do get to be disciples of Jesus. We get Him. No, in the Old Testament, God said to Abraham, I am your inheritance and your exceedingly great reward. I am God said. And at the end of the day, it would be better to sit at Jesus' feet and see him and talk to him. Than to have anything else. To finally see him face to face. It's all about him. Let's pray. Can you pray with me? Let's pray together.