Alright, let's open our Bibles to Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 6. How I already asked you how you were doing. What kind of week you had, whether you are generally depressed or generally excited to be a Christian this morning. Busy, isn't it, this time of year? Lots of thoughts go through our minds, lots of things that need to be accomplished. So before we get into God's word together this morning, let's pray together. Okay? Let's pray. Father, truly, we ask for you to open our eyes and our ears. We know that when Peter proclaimed the identity of your son You said, Flesh and blood has not revealed this unto you, Peter, but my Father. Surely, Lord, we need you. To reveal to us. Even as we have revelation in our hands and we read it in our own language, we still need spiritual illumination. Apprehension, comprehension, this thing that goes on in our hearts where the Spirit of God helps us to understand. The natural man doesn't receive the things of the Spirit of God, the spiritual man, Father, we need your Spirit this morning. To understand and apply it to our hearts and lives. Lord, has your church ever lived in a time when they have been so bombarded? So entrenched behind enemy lines. The world, the devil, the traitor within us that responds so quickly to temptation. We need the gospel armor. We need this passage. Every young man, every young woman in this room, every everyone, everyone. Who knows Christ? Help us, Father. Help us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians chapter 6 verse 11. Put on the whole armor of God. And in the original language, this idea of putting on the whole armor is the idea of putting it on and really not taking it off. It's sort of the Christian's battle apparel. It's something that we should make a regular part of our lives. It's not just something we put on on the day that we think we will have a battle. It is something we put on every day because we know we're going to have a battle. In the same way you put on your socks and shoes and clothes, that you would never go outside without them. Except on a hot summer day when you want to walk in the grass, but you know what I'm getting at. In the same way, we have to put on this whole armor of God. It's a part of our Christian experience. It is the whole armor, and that is every last piece of it. We don't want to leave behind Truth, the breastplate of righteousness. We don't want to leave behind the helmet of salvation or all these different things, the shield of faith. With the sword of the spirit, we don't want to be someone running around a battlefield and all you have on is a helmet. Or your feet, you don't have on the proper footwear, so you get bogged down, but you have a sword. What good's the sword if if your feet are entrenched in the mud? No, it's supposed to be the whole armor of God. The promise in this verse is that look at it, Ephesians 6 verse 11, this lifestyle of putting on this armor, of making it a part of who you are as a Christian, it will enable you to stand. against the wiles of the devil. The Greek word that's translated wiles there. It has to do with cleverness. These craftiness, the ability to deceive others, and the devil, of course, He is our opponent, our enemy. He is the Christian's nemesis. He wants our spiritual defeat, our physical death. He wants to be able to point at us as he attempted to do at Job and accuse us. He wants to be able to point at us as he did at David and impugn the very character of God. You and I are the only Christians. We're the only revelation, as it were, of who the true God is that some people will ever see. There are some people in this life that will never open a Bible, but they will talk to a Christian, to talk to a defeated, carnal Christian. We could deface the very image of God, and we could inadvertently teach someone what God is not like. Let me start here with this idea of the wiles of the devil. Now, you and I know something about Because we're Americans, we know something about this idea of scheming crafty cleverness because we live in such a political nation. My wife majored in college in political science, and one of her textbooks that I ran off with, but she said I could take it, was called The Art of Political Manipulation. And in this textbook, on the front cover, it has a, I think it has a uh, what do you call those guys, a puppeteer that have they have strings coming down and attached to someone? What are those? Mar marionette Yeah, one of those pictures on the front. And in that book, it lays out this idea of how to manipulate politics in any given area. And it does this by it talks about creating an issue. That everyone cares about, and trying to argue it in such a way that the opponent is seen to be an opposition of your created issue The issue is lifted up, not so much so that you can fight for right, but so that you can use that issue to put your opponent down Manipulating the population into your talking points, into your way of thinking. You're leading the conversation with the issues you create. And that is what ends up on the evening news. Not so much reality, but what you want so that you can be elected. That's sort of clever, isn't it? That's cunning, that's crafty. That is the way the devil operates. Let's start here. You all realize that evil, according to the devil, is not always ugly. If temptation was a marauding giant, a smelly marauding ogre knocking on your front door, a man dressed in a red suit with a little pointy tail, you would never ever let him in. You wouldn't say to the devil, hey, uh, oh, the devil. Hey, honey, it's the devil. He's got this red suit thing going on. You got an extra you got some extra soup for dinner? Come on in. Come on in, devil. How you doing? You want to see here? We got some real good crab soup tonight for dinner. We never do that. We would never knowingly allow the devil to come in per se. So he uses means to get at God's people. He uses particular methods. He tricks us. Peter wrote that he's like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. Lions have certain methods that they use to capture their prey. He is also the accuser. He is someone who endeavors to make us look bad. So this morning, for a few minutes, before we go any further with this, I want us to look at Some of the methods that the devil uses on us. And let's unmask the schemes of the devil. And having done that, let's be convinced of the value of the armor. If you look, if you turn first to 1 Timothy, we'll start here. Look at 1 Timothy chapter 4. 1 Timothy 4. How does the devil exhibit his cleverness and his craftiness? The first thing I want you to see is that the devil is a master teacher. He is erudite, sophisticated. scholarly. He knows how to teach us. And in 1 Timothy chapter 4, it's the section where Paul is writing to Timothy about the nature of the latter times, the last days. In verse 1, he says, The Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of demons or devils. Notice here the connection between doctrine and demons, spirits. What they say, you can give heed to them and their teaching. What's the result? Verse 2. There is this hypocrisy that these kind of men exhibit This two-faced quality to their lifestyle, their ministry, their doctrine. They have a conscience, verse 2, that's seared with the hot iron. And this is what they say. They say, look, there are certain things that you are forbidden to do. You cannot, verse 3, marry. I'm forbidding you to marry. And I'm also forbidding you, I want you to abstain from certain types of food. Now, this idea, this is part of their teaching and their doctrine. The context here is on the one hand, you want to be spiritual, you don't marry, you eat this food and not that food. On the other hand, there is God's perspective, verse 3. God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth. Every creature, verse 4 of God. is good, and nothing is to be ref refused if it be received with thanksgiving, for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. So there is this enticing doctrine of demons that sets up artificial prohibitions and rules as an artificial or substitute spirituality. And God's people fall for it. But all I want to point out from this passage is that one of the main methods of the devil is he seeks to teach us. What has he taught you this week? Is there been anything that you've seen out there in the world via The web, television, a movie, a book, a newspaper that you've read, that you've identified and said, whoa, that is a teaching right out of the mouth of Satan himself. I know that that is not true. And if I swallow that hook, if I swallow that bait, I'll be hooked. This is something that is elsewhere in the Bible, this false spirituality. If you turn to Colossians, you see it again. And I think I made mention of this last week. Turn to Colossians. There is this thing called the elemental principles of the world, the way the world thinks about spirituality. And so there are those, if you look at Colossians chapter two. Who would beguile us, verse 18, out of our reward. That is Christ and the salvation he offers as a free gift. They do this through voluntary humility and worshiping of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, is vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind. It's interesting because these people who teach, who are like this, these heady, high-minded individuals who are beguiling, and the word there is similar to what the devil is said to do, scheming. They say this. Look at verse 21. Actually, look at verse 20. Let's read it there first. Wherefore, if you be dead with Christ from the rudiments, that's the word for elementary principles of the world, it's a worldly way of thinking. when it comes to spirituality, why, as though living in the world, are you subject to ordinances? Touch not, taste not, handle not, which are all are to perish with the using, after the commandments and doctrines of men. Which things have indeed a show of wisdom in all and will worship and humility, but and neglecting of the body, but they're not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh. Now that translation is difficult. It's unfortunate. Let me just read to you the New King James translation of that. That really clears it up. And if you have another translation, it's probably a little clearer in your translation. Colossians three, verse twenty-three, it says I can get to it quickly here. I'm sorry, two verse twenty three These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom in self-imposed religion, false humility, and neglect of the body, but are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. Is that a little clearer? Maybe if you have an ESV or a new American standard, you can see what it's saying there. Here's the deal. As Christians, we still have the flesh within us. It has evil desires. The devil teaches us, here's how you'll deal with your flesh. Have a certain diet. Certain foods will, if you abstain from them, will give you victory over your flesh. Here's what the devil says: celebrate a religious holiday. And you will be able to vanquish the evil desires of your flesh. Here's what the devil says: don't get married. Don't ever get married. Be celibate your whole life, and you will conquer the indulgences. Folks, is that not some of the tenets of the major false religions of the world? Catholic priests are not allowed to Muslims celebrate a whole month of. Is this not the devil's doctrines woven into the fabrics of other major religions? And he does not walk up to these people dressed in his red outfit, but he schemes and he's clever and he puts it in here and there over the centuries and builds a masterpiece. How does the devil scheme? He teaches us. And he would teach you. Folks, make no mistake, the devil is after, I'm not trying to be a sensationalist here, but the devil is after our kids. True or false? Absolutely. He wants to destroy our kids. He wants to spiritually defeat them. He wants to nullify any work of God Is there a future Daniel in this room, a future Joseph? Before they get out of the starting gates, the devil would just knock them over before they have any chance of making a difference in this world. He wants to teach our kids. Turn now to Matthew chapter 4. What else does he do? Next, in his scheming and teaching and ways, I want us to look at the way the devil approached our Lord. And how he tempted our Lord. There's a certain method to it. Jesus was God incarnated in human flesh. He was bones and skin and he had desires. He ate fish after he was resurrected, but before that he ate as well. He sweated. He got tired. One time he was so tired he slept in the boat, remember? And guess what? It's okay to have a pillow. He rested his head on one He was so exhausted that the boat was rocking and reeling, and he didn't wake up. Our Lord was God, but he was also a man. And in Matthew chapter 4, he's led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. Now, I have to stop there for a second. It's going to be hard to take, but the Lord has left us in a world of temptation, right? There are times when in God's permissive will, He allows us to be tempted. No person here lives in an ivory tower. Here is Jesus himself, and he is being led directly and explicitly. Look at the chapter 4, verse 1 again He's led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted. It is the intent of the Spirit for our Lord to be tempted. He passes with flying colors. We know that. So, folks, there's no temptation taking you but what is common to man. We know that. We live in a world of temptation. Accept it. We can't get out of it. Put on the armor. First thing I want you to see is that when the devil attacks us, it is sometimes when we are physically weak. And tired. Look at verse 2. And when he had fasted forty days and 40 nights, he was afterwards unhungered. And that is when the tempter came to him. Now, my understanding is that in a number of ministries that try to train people to overcome major addictions, or I would call life-dominating sinful habits, sin-dominating habits. Life-dominating sin habits. Something like that. For example, someone who's come out of a background of alcoholism or who's been into a major drug or a minor one. I have heard people like that say that it's ex it's it's particularly difficult To resist the temptation of sliding back into that when they are hungry and tired and physically run down. The lion who is the devil, when he sees the herd, who does he go after? That weak wildebeest, the baby who's just been born yesterday, the one who has run and run and run and is getting weaker physically I don't think it's a mistake that the devil came to Jesus after he had fasted for 40 days and 40 nights. The Lord existed at this very moment in a state of heightened hunger, weariness. The devil comes after us when we're like that. The whole armor of God will give us a defense so that when we are weak physically, we can be strong. Let's just read down through some more here. Verse 3. When the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the son of God, command that these stones be made into bread. And look down a little bit further at verse 6. If thou be the Son of God. And then look again. And you see, well, let's stop there for a second. What what would when someone comes to you and questions you in that way, what is he trying to do? For example, if I came to you and I handed you a tennis racket and I said, Alright, if you really were number one in your high school varsity tennis team, Let's play. What am I doing? I'm questioning the reality of what I just said. In that case, I'm challenging you to a tennis match Or someone approaches you and says, if this really is so, it's casting doubt. It's creating questions. It's it's It's trying to put into Christ's mind, if this really is so, it's almost like, have you ever had someone double dog bear you? Anybody? In the South, they'll double dog bear you. I don't know. Has anybody ever heard of that? Or is it just me and I'm weird? Okay, good. So you have a buddy and there's this big, big hole in the ground, and he says, You think you can jump that? And you say, Yeah, I can jump that. He says, All right, double dog dairy to jump that hole with your with your BNX bike. Do it, dude. And so you get on your bike and you're like, wait a minute, why am I doing this? I'm about to kill myself. I don't even have a helmet on, but I know I can do this. I know it because it just creates that in you, this doubt. And it kind of rises within us this desire to better that doubt. So when it comes to the devil's schemes, would you not agree that in the Garden of Eden And here in this wilderness with Jesus, one of the things the devil's good at is creating doubt, questioning the truth. Are you sure you really heard right, Eve? Are you positive? Jesus, if if this really is true about you, have you ever had the devil do that to you? Question the goodness of God for example. Here's an easy one. Wow, you're really sick. You're in the hospital. And there's these thoughts. If God really loved you, would he let you lie in that hospital bed and languish? If God really loved you, would this happen to you? That's an attack of the enemy. Or this, if if God is really in control of things, how did He let those planes fly into those towers in 911? I mean, if God is really God, why did He let that happen? Or what about this one? You fall to a temptation and afterwards these thoughts If you really are a Christian, that should not have happened. Are you sure you're a Christian? And man, you're pathetic. See, it's raising doubts. And the devil, how good is the devil at this? Well, in the Garden of Eden he did it. How long ago was Genesis from Matthew 4? Adam and Eve he did it. Jesus he did it. In the book of Acts, did he resist the apostles and their message? Did he do it in the life of Paul? Was Paul ever tempted with this? Really, it's all through the scriptures. Doubt is one of the schemes of the devils. He attacks us through our physical weakness. And he attacks us through our doubt, through doubting us. What else does he do? Well, you look at it again And you'll notice, of course, right away that he's using something in his attacks on Jesus. What does he do? Well, you look again and In verse 3, if thou be the Son of God, command these stones to be made bread. And Jesus responds with what? Scripture. It is written, he says in verse 4. And so then the devil picks up on that in verse 6, and he starts quoting Scripture. Look at verse 6. If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. This is what is so difficult, folks. Look, false teachers use scripture. The devil uses the book. He attempts to use it against us. Is that not true? A man says, I know Jesus is coming back on June 23rd. Never mind that I made this prediction a couple years ago and it didn't come true. I'm making it again, and here's how I'll show you from the Bible. That Jesus is coming back on June 23rd. And people sell their stuff. All their stuff. And they like do reorganize their entire lives to follow a man who claims that Jesus is coming back on June 23rd. Here's another man. You know what? And he quotes lots of gospel verses from the gospels, and he says, Jesus wants your best life now. This is what Christianity is about. Your success, your health, and your bank account. And this is what Jesus taught. And then he proceeds to take verses. Out of context and quote Jesus to make his point. That is devilish. False teachers don't usually approach us and say, let me quote you from the Quran. Oh yeah, I have uh the book of Satan before me, uh the book of the satanic church. What's that called? Satanic Bible, some horrible thing Let me quote to you from that. No, it's scripture. It's always scripture that the devil tries to use. He casts doubt on the word of God, but then he turns around and tries to use it. Now, the greater master of the word. Is Jesus, right? Do you think that you could know Scripture well enough to use it against the devil? Now seriously, think about this for a second. Try not to fall asleep on me. Alright, I'm coming down here. Think about this. Can you, little Christian, little flannel board Christian, grew up in church, little flannel things they stick on, listen to preachers all the time? Is that enough? Read your Bible every day, pray. Is that enough for you to be able to use this book against the devil himself? Is it? Can you? Absolutely. That's the whole point. Now I'm about to say an opinion. It's a pastoral opinion, it's an educated opinion. It's not just a shot in the dark. But I personally believe that one of the reasons why Christians fall for there's a demon under every bush power type of prayers, sort of this charismatic Pentecostal thing where where they're trying to resist the devil through praying really loud or or having a healing service is because they're not convinced. That they're adequate enough with the Word of God to use Ephesians 6, the sword of the Spirit, against It's the word of God. Let me ask you something. In Matthew 4, when you read that the first time, and now that you you're you all are older Christians, do you understand how Jesus used the devil those scriptures against the devil? Do his arguments make sense to you? Yes, they're very simple. It's not rocket science. The bottom line is the devil uses scripture superficially and self-centeredly. If I could put it that way. And you folks have the Spirit of God within you. You have the Spirit of God. And you're students of the word. And you should have confidence that you can beat the devil. And it's not because you command the devil to come out of someone, but it's because you can say, it is written. It is written. It is written. It's this simple. You're tempted to do something and you say, no, God told me in his word not to do that. It's that simple. Or it's like this: I am in Christ, Romans 6. I am united to him. I don't have to give in to this temptation. You see, the devil uses our weakness, our physical weakness against us. He attacks us with doubt. He attacks us with the word. But we know the word. This is faith, Bible, church. How many of you have heard an entire book of the Bible preached through in your lifetime? Alright, an entire book of the Bible. Everybody in here should raise their hand who's been in this church because you've heard Acts and Colossians. And Mark, since I've been here. How many of you heard a book of the Bible preached through more than once? All right. How many of you, well, I won't ask you how many of you read your Bible every week? Every day? Do you know the word? Could you resist the devil when he attacks us in this way? All right, there's just two other things. Hang on, there are two other things I want to show you about this that's very common with the way the devil works. He attacks us through the sins of the flesh. And the sins of the spirit. That's sometimes how they are organized. The sin of the flesh would be a hunger of our bodies, of our bodily desires. And where do you think that's demonstrated? The first temptation, look at your Bible. First thing he says is: command these stones, verse 3, to be made into bread. He tempts with a physical appetite kind of thing. For us, it would be sex, food, sleep, those kinds of things. When it came to David, David was tempted with the sins of the flesh when he committed adultery. But then there's also the more subtle and often more dangerous sins of the spirit. Pride. Pride is a sin of the spirit. And we see the devil taking a whack at Jesus when he talks about in verse 8 Look at verse 8. The devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world. Wow, I'd like to see that. And the glory of them. And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Jesus is given this supernatural vision of all humanity. That's his world. It's rightfully belong it rightfully belongs to Jesus. And there's this moment when this choice is put before him. Forget the cross, bow now, receive it now. All that, what does it say in verse 8? Look at it again: the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. All that glory for you, Jesus. This is kind of the sin of the Spirit. David was tempted in this way when he numbered Israel. Do you remember? God gave him three choices as to his punishment. David's the king of one of the greatest nations on the face of the earth. He wants to know how much glory is in his kingdom. How many people does he have? How big are his armies? I want to know it all. How big is this great nation of mine? Herod is, I mean, in the book of Acts, he's got this shimmering clothing on, and people are looking at him and saying, This is not a man, this is God. And he just drinks it in. Pride. And this seems to be a common thing for Christians. If if if the devil is not attacking the church through our physical appetites, he'll attack the church through our mind and through our thoughts and through our values and through our priorities. So there'll be those moments when when you'll think to yourself, I deserve this. I'm number one. I should have this thing or that thing. My life is about me. And the devil can move in. And attack us that way. Turn back to Ephesians now. Ephesians 6. Wrap it up quickly now. All right, think this through. You're tired and hungry. The devil schemes and he comes after you with some crafty method. He tries to teach your kids and your family something that's not true, a false spirituality or a false gospel. We didn't even do Galatians. The devil really starts working on your kids to get them to doubt the word of God. Your children start being influenced by some sort of superficial false teacher that's out there. But really, Ephesians 6 is about you. Look at it again. Verse 11. You must make it this habit of putting on the armor, the whole armor, so that you can stand against the wiles of the the devil. Here it is. You're tired and hungry, but you have the breastplate of righteousness And the shield of faith. And when those fiery darts come at you, you receive strength through the Spirit of God to just hold that shield up and they bounce off and hit the ground and you stand. Your mind is filled with doubts in this multicultural universe in which we live, all these messages everywhere, and you have on this helmet, helmet of salvation. And although you're aware of all these different voices, you're aware of your salvation and your position in Christ, and you are unaffected, and you stand. You are under attack viciously through all the temptations at work or something, and you get out this sword and it's The Spirit's sword, and he aids you as you cut your way through all these temptations, and you get to the other side, and you find out that you endure a temptation and you're still standing. All of these concepts that Paul uses here in his illustration of Roman armor Is to really teach us that we can live the Christian life in victory if we take the armor seriously. So, do you? Do you take it seriously? Are you willing to put on the whole armor of God?